I have another very interesting topic: inflammation. Inflammation is a normal process of healing and recovery, but the problem is that chronic inflammation can lead to a variety of destruction. In addition, when an infection is caused by a virus, bacteria, or another pathogen, the damage is caused by the body's reaction to this pathogen. It is the inflammation caused by the immune system that leads to associated damage. This is what requires attention and a deep understanding to prevent damage. Take, for example, cytokines and storm, a hyperinflammatory immune response in the lungs. Doctors give prednisone, a synthetic cortisol, to calm this reaction, but these associated damages are caused by excessive inflammation. There is also an autoimmune disease, Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, even alopecia, when hair falls out in fists. All of these are autoimmune diseases, and a common feature of autoimmune diseases is inflammation. If you get rid of inflammation, you can get rid of complications, symptoms, and problems of an autoimmune disease. In addition, there are old injuries when the body creates inflammation that becomes chronic and persists for years, and scar tissue and stiffness appear. I know about this firsthand, I had serious injuries.  Elbows, backs, ankles, of all the best-selling drugs, the best-selling drug in the world is idol. Why is it a cure for inflammation? That is, a huge number of people in the world suffer from excessive inflammation. So, before moving on to the causes of inflammation, I want to talk about a new term that you may have never heard of. It is inflammatory. It is a taxis term. What is it? This is a phenomenon that consists in the fact that cancer spreads to those areas of the body where there were mechanical injuries. This is the site of old injuries where there is inflammation, and the cause of this can be very many. It can be irritation of the colon by food, which causes a recurring inflammatory reaction, and cancer spreads to this area. Cancer can get into the lungs where a smoker has inflammation. It can get into the blood vessels due to high glucose levels due to a high-carbohydrate diet, or it can get into the breast tissue because there was some kind of injury to these tissues. This is important information because it allows us to predict where cancer can occur, and we can do something about it before cancer occurs. So, number one, the first cause of inflammation is a lack of cortisol, the main anti-inflammatory hormone in the body. Cortisol is due to what?  A lack of cortisol can also occur. Guess, it's due to excess cortisol. Its excess, as in the case of insulin, causes cortisol resistance, and a situation arises in which a lot of cortisol circulates in the blood due to a large amount of stress, but this cortisol is ineffective; it does n't work. Let's take Cushing's syndrome, which is characterized by elevated cortisol. All the symptoms actually indicate a lack of cortisol because the receptors begin to resist excess cortisol in the blood. The same thing happens with diabetes. This is when insulin is elevated because glucose levels are elevated, but it doesn't work, so the sugar level rises because nothing lowers it, and insulin should lower it. But if it is ineffective, it doesn't lower it. Any disease ending in it, whether it be bursitis, arthritis, tendonitis, is usually accompanied by a lack of cortisol because there is too much cortisol and this leads to resistance. Excess cortisol, like insulin, is very toxic. This is simply one of the body's ways to protect itself from excess cortisol, but at the same time, many other symptoms arise. For your information, the best remedy for everything related to Inflammation is vitamin D. I'll talk about some remedies when I'm done with the causes, but you should know that for any condition in which you need prednisone or more cortisol because you have inflammation, they can be replaced with vitamin D. You need doses of at least ten thousand e or 20, 30, or even 40 thousand e to have an effect. Because vitamin D is the best anti-inflammatory and it's not even a vitamin but a hormone and in its own way it acts very similar to the map of evil and so the next cause of inflammation is allergies. There are obvious food allergies, say to dairy products, this can be due to the protein in milk. At the same time, because of dairy products, the digestive system is constantly inflamed. What about gluten, a protein in wheat? There are a lot of people with gluten allergies. Even if you don't have an allergy to gluten, you may have a sensitivity to it or maybe lactose intolerance. Someone can't tolerate milk sugar. All this can cause inflammation and there are environmental allergies. Let's say you have an allergy to ragweed or something like that.  In this case, an environmental allergen affects the sinuses, throat, or lungs and this causes irritation and inflammation. What about poison ivy? If I get within, I don’t know, 100 meters of poison ivy, I start itching. I have a terrible allergy to poison ivy and this allergy gets worse every year and now I take nothing for it, nothing helps. There is another type of allergy, an allergy to one’s own tissues. This is an autoimmune allergy. You may not consider this an allergy, but it is an allergy to one’s own tissues. The immune system attacks its own tissues, antibodies appear against its own tissues, and these can be any tissues. For example, Hashimoto’s disease is an allergy to one’s own thyroid hormones, and lupus is an allergy to a certain connective tissue, and multiple sclerosis is an allergy to one’s own myelin sheath in the brain. The myelin sheath covers the nerves. If you think about it, what is the main remedy for autoimmune diseases? Idol is one of the medications, but also uses prednisone, because cortisol is a powerful anti-inflammatory. Cortisol suppresses It essentially turns off the immune system, flips the switch, and all reactions stop. It's a double- edged sword. Without an immune system, you're more susceptible to viral invasion, and a lot happens. You kind of lose your immune troops, and at this time, without inflammation, without immune responses, many other problems can arise. So, number three, let's discuss this: infections can be acute and chronic. So, it's pretty easy to understand. You encounter a virus or bacteria, the immune system turns on, inflammation occurs, and the disease goes away. But what happens with a chronic infection? The virus enters the body and becomes dormant, and it constantly comes out of its dormancy and goes back into dormancy, like the Epstein-Barr virus, like Lyme disease. There are many dormant infections, they wait for favorable conditions to attack when you're defenseless. So, these dormant viruses usually come out of dormancy during stress, so stress is an activator of infection, which then causes inflammation. This means that we need to strengthen the immune system to protect ourselves and prevent these viruses from getting out. We need to be super healthy, then we're protected.  Number four, intestinal inflammation. If someone has an ulcer or gastritis or irritable bowel syndrome or an autoimmune disease, this inflammation can burn, no matter what, there can be several causes. Basically, this food can be the cause, a food allergy or simply foods that cause inflammation, for example, those with a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. For example, soybean oil, canola oil, cottonseed oil. These oils are found in many foods. They cause a tendency to ulcers, intestinal inflammation, and even to the appearance of a weakened area where cancer can rush. What about constipation? What is it like? Intoxication of digested food does not move and everything gets clogged. This can also cause inflammation. What about antibiotics? Antibiotics destroy your beneficial bacteria that protect you and reduce inflammation. If you somehow lost your intestinal flora, this may be why you have an inflamed intestine. In the presence of inflammation, scar tissue develops in the colon. This can impair the absorption of nutrients, leading to leaky gut syndrome, and this leads to new allergies.  Autoimmune diseases and many other problems. By the way, for any intestinal inflammation, the best product is actually cabbage. It contains unique substances that are excellent for intestinal inflammation, and cabbage seems to be easily digested, especially in fermented form, for example, sauerkraut, kimchi, and so on. Even cabbage salad or raw cabbage seems to be very, very useful for gastritis, ulcers, and intestinal inflammation. Another excellent product is wheatgrass juice or wheatgrass powder. The chlorophyll and other phytonutrients it contains have a very healing effect on the skin from the inside, whether in the throat, stomach, small intestine, or colon. These phytonutrients have a wonderful effect on all of this. Wheat contains gluten, but it is not in wheatgrass juice. Because wheatgrass is removed before the grain is formed, there is no gluten in it, so it is very healing. But if you eat wheat, it destroys the intestines. One excellent remedy for intestinal problems is zinc el carnosine. Remember this because it is a good remedy for ulcers and gastritis. It is a good form of zinc and is very, very healing. The next and probably most common cause of inflammation is glucose and sugar, as well as foods like empty carbohydrates from which sugar is formed. They increase blood glucose levels, and this very thin layer of cells in the vessels, one cell thick, is severely damaged, and inflammatory conditions arise. Then the body heals this damage by creating a clot or plaque from a combination of cholesterol, protein, or calcium. Calcium is deposited there. Then heart problems arise, heart attacks and strokes, and otherwise everything is in order. When blood flow through the vessels is disrupted, even through the capillaries, the eyes are damaged. Various eye problems arise, such as retinopathy, cataracts, and macular degeneration. If the capillaries do not supply blood to the nerves, peripheral neuropathy occurs. A tingling sensation and a strange sensation in the feet appears. High glucose levels also cause inflammation in the kidneys and in the brain, and other problems are caused by this.  In general, it doesn't create, although in fact it does. This was sarcasm. When glucose levels are high, insulin rises, and then, as in the case of cortisol, insulin resistance develops. Prince Lin, resistance increases insulin and inflammation increases. So, a standard high-carbohydrate diet creates a constant inflammatory state in many parts of the body. However, not only glucose leads to insulin resistance, but also frequent meals such as snacks. Every meal stimulates insulin. So, if you eat so-called healthy foods but eat frequently throughout the day, the result will be the same. You need a low-carbohydrate diet and intermittent fasting is very important. We will discuss this soon. Number six: your own fat cells can cause inflammation because there are inflammatory particles, such as cytokines, which can increase inflammation, and inflammation itself can lead to insulin resistance. It's interesting that this relationship occurs: inflammation causes insulin resistance and vice versa, so this is a never-ending nightmare. Number 7: and old injuries, I already touched on this. Old injuries can cause a chronic state of stiffness. inflammation, so it is very, very important if you have old injuries and joint pain not to consume a lot of glucose, or rather, no glucose at all, you need a low-carb diet to minimize inflammation and not only that, if you have arthritis and inflammation due to old injuries and at the same time you eat carbohydrates, it does not matter how much turmeric, vitamin D, or other supplements you take, it will not work. Sometimes I see people with very severe arthritis and they just take fish oil pills, thinking that this will solve the problem, but all these pills are like a pellet to an elephant. That's why I cover this topic in detail because it is very important. The next problem is very interesting: this problem with the bile ducts. The bile ducts are tubes that go from the liver to the gallbladder and the face of the small intestine. If there is too much sediment in these tubes or if you have a gallstone, this can cause severe inflammation. Usually, on the right side of the body, you should suspect a problem with the gallbladder or usually in the bile ducts just above and there may also be sediment. This is not even a stone, but a thickened sediment. formed due to a lack of bile salts and I can't count how many patients came to my clinic with this problem when I worked, it happens very often, but not many people know about it, people undergo restorative treatment, drink 1000 vitamins, but it does not help, here is a very simple remedy for this, start taking purified bile salts and purified bile salts, there is a lot of information about this, below is a link, another excellent remedy for solving this problem, taura ursodeoxycholic acid, you can buy it online and take it on an empty stomach, it thins the bile, due to which the sediment is washed out and all this pain magically goes away, number nine is low levels of vitamin D, vitamin D is a very powerful anti- inflammatory if you have low vitamin D, and most people have low levels, you are more susceptible to inflammation and pain, especially in the lower back, but pain can be everywhere in the bones, joints, knees, and neck, so do not forget that vitamin D deficiency is one of the causes of inflammation, which is why vitamin D can help prevent cancer because it eliminates inflammation, if a person had cancer and now  remission has occurred cancer can reactivate due to inflammation remember this your goal should be to get rid of inflammation in the whole body this is a great you chew goal number 10 high levels of omega-6 fatty acids and low levels of omega-3 fatty acids any foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids fish cod liver oil cod liver oil fatty fish such as salmon or sardines are great at minimizing inflammation some people who start fasting can develop inflammation because they do not get omega-3 fatty acids at all so always during a long fast I advise getting electrolytes b vitamins and omega-3 fatty acids I have seen people get arthritis when they fast and they think it is because of fasting but it is because of a lack of omega-3 fatty acids omega 3 fatty acids are essential fatty acids meaning they are needed by the body but the body cannot create them and must get them from food and without them problems arise and problems are aggravated by the fact that we consume too much  a lot of omega-6 fatty acids and these are all vegetable oils in fact this is oil from seeds grain oil is very very bad they are in food products they are definitely in dishes in all fast food eateries and in many regular restaurants they add a lot of soybean oil corn oil to dishes be it eggs something deep fried or anything else when I come to a restaurant I always ask the cook what kind of oil he uses and I am horrified to learn that he uses something like soybean oil I do not eat food cooked in soybean oil and besides start reading the composition of products for example labels on seasonings if there is soybean oil canola oil cottonseed oil then I do not eat it even if it is an organic product greens but dress with olive oil and vinegar something like that or avocado oil then toxins from the environment for example plastic in the environment silicone breast implants can cause inflammation and thousands of other chemicals in which we literally bathe I will say about number 12 again because it is very important inflammation is provoked not only glucose, but also frequent meals due to elevated insulin, and so one of the most important actions, among other things, if you have inflammation, is to demolish carbohydrates, but stick to a healthy version of ketogenic diet because this way you get more nutrients. Not only do you reduce carbohydrates, but also focus on high-quality, healthier foods. For example, wonderful cruciferous vegetables and large portions of greens contain phytonutrients with powerful anti-inflammatory effects and a lot of antioxidants. With inflammation, there is a lot of damage from free radicals and you need antioxidants from food, as well as antioxidants produced by the body itself. The body creates endogenous antioxidants. I'm now talking about antioxidant networks, and one of the powerful stimulators of antioxidants is fasting. One of the factors that simply destroys antioxidants is frequent meals. Fasting is the main remedy for inflammation. Number 13 is excess iron. Iron is a mineral, a microelement that we don't need in large quantities, and our body does not have a mechanism for removing iron. When you have an infection, both beneficial bacteria and pathogens fight for iron. Apparently, they eat iron, and  The body has this interesting mechanism that allows it to bind iron during an infection, so people often develop anemia when they have an infection. If you have an iron deficiency and an infection occurs, and then the infection goes away and you feel tired and anemic, then you may need more iron. This is just a quick aside, but some people have a post-operative period and fatigue. Sometimes they need iron, but you shouldn't overdo it with iron. Excess iron in the liver can cause cirrhosis, severe inflammation, a lot of scar tissue and fibrosis in the liver can appear. So, in general, iron in large quantities can cause inflammation. Now you know all the causes of inflammation. Let's talk about what you need to do number one. The main thing is to get enough vitamin D, at least 10,000 ohm IU for a chronic problem, more than 20-30, even 40,000 ohm IU. In my vitamin D course, there is a video about its supposed toxicity. In fact, you need to take vitamin K2 along with vitamin D3, especially if you take it regularly because vitamin K2 helps prevent calcium deposits in blood vessels. Vitamin K2 directs calcium from the blood and joints.  Back to the bones. If anyone is concerned about the side effects of vitamin D, such as hypercalcemia due to calcium being deposited in the blood vessels, then vitamin K2 solves this problem by protecting against this excess calcium. They work together. The ratio should be as follows: for 10,000 international units of D3, you need 100 micrograms, not milligrams, of vitamin K2 in this proportion. That is, if you increase the dose to 3 to 20 thousand IU, then you need 200 micrograms of CO2. Number 2, avoid what causes allergies, both environmental allergies and food allergies. This is very important. But regarding allergies in general, it is very interesting that allergies can be cured with periodic long-term fasting. Indeed, fasting strengthens the immune system. There is excellent data. I have a video about this. Yes, you don't have to live with allergy number three. A chronic infection is the best way to eliminate it, especially if it is the Epstein-Barr virus or some other virus that has settled in the body. Regularly take vitamin D. It is good for the immune system and regularly take vitamin C, but  Not synthetic but natural, obtained from food, and you can use herbs that kill bacteria because they have no side effects, for example, garlic, thyme, oregano oil. I have a video about them, links below, if you have intestinal problems, don't forget about zinc. El carnosine is a very good form of zinc. And in case of heart problems, for the prevention of heart attacks and the like, one of the best vitamins is vitamin E. But no, about cafe rolls, and tocotrienols 300 milligrams is very important because only 30 and 50 times more powerful eliminate the damage from free radicals and inflammation in the heart. And you realize that at the same time you need to get rid of the cause of this problem, and this is the consumption of too much sugar. You need a low-carb diet to stop oxidation, but vitamin E can significantly reduce  Reduce inflammation inside the blood vessels and also inflammation in the liver. Sixth, this is the main thing. Low-carb diet. Intermittent fasting for beginners. There is a link below. This is a vital action. The most important thing. Seventh, intermittent fasting and periodic long-term fasting will reduce inflammation. Also, regularly take vitamin D and turmeric. It is a very good natural remedy for reducing inflammation. Just make sure that the turmeric comes from a very good place. I found a farmer who grows turmeric in a greenhouse. This is the best turmeric I have ever seen. He dries and grinds it. I buy it from him and I actually chew it. It feels like an explosion in my mouth. This is very good turmeric. There are many herbs for inflammation, for example, stinging nettle root. This is another favorite of mine. 8. For inflammation or pain, don't forget about purified bile salts. Taura and ursodeoxycholic acid are a type of bile salt. You also need to pay attention to the gallbladder. Of course, the diet. 9. More omega-3 fatty acids, as I said, and less omega-6.  fatty acids and 10, be careful with iron. I recommend not using iron cookware. I recommend not taking all those popular multivitamins with a high iron content. This is all a bad idea. I think twice before taking any vitamins with iron in the wrong form. You will be shocked to learn that some of the most popular multivitamins contain regular iron ore, elemental iron, and this is not the form of iron the body needs. Another problem with iron is that all grain products are enriched with iron. In one of my old videos, I showed this: take a strong magnet, pour a package of cereal onto a surface, and bring the magnet closer. The cereal is attracted to the magnet due to the added iron. These wheat products are fortified with iron, but those who watch my channel do not eat cereals, so they are completely safe. Now that you have an excellent understanding of inflammation, I will show you an excellent technique that helps get rid of pain. Look here.