I have identified 133 factors that can potentially slow down metabolism, let's look at them in order. Number one is age. Yes, with age, metabolism slows down. This is mainly due to a decrease in growth hormone levels. Fortunately, there are ways to increase growth hormone levels. The most effective of these methods is fasting. Fasting allows you to increase growth hormone levels times. The second most effective way to increase growth hormone levels is exercise, but exercise must be intense. One of the best types of exercise for increasing growth hormone levels is sprinting and. Perhaps these are the most painful workouts. Short, high- intensity loads with plenty of rest, like high-intensity interval training, are extremely effective in increasing growth hormone levels. Number two is menopause. If you are a woman and you are 50, 51, 52, you understand perfectly well what I mean. During menopause, something happens in the body. Something changes. The ovaries retire and the adrenal glands take over some of the functions of the ovaries and there is a surge in cortisol. In many women, during menopause, the body falls apart due to high cortisol levels, so it is very important to take care of adrenal glands right before menopause and also of course during and after it I have a lot of videos and there is a course on what to do during menopause I will leave the links below number three pregnancies in the past pregnancy not only greatly traumatizes the body but also increases estrogen And estrogen is fat that stores estrogen eat cruciferous vegetables there are products such as Dim is a concentrate obtained from cruciferous vegetables and you need to avoid what increases estrogen And this is for example dairy products and flax seeds these products can increase estrogen and of course soy greatly increases estrogen levels That was number T number 4 sitting on diets in the past the more you sat on diets the harder it is for you to lose weight in the future because the body adapts to a slowdown in metabolism So wrong diets especially if you cut calories and consume a lot of carbohydrates This is very, very bad with calories You should get a lot of nutrients just Eat less often this is intermittent fasting but do not cut calories this is not the best way to achieve the goal to prevent a slowdown in metabolism you need to get very  a lot of nutrients and do not eat often and in no case go on low-fat high-carbohydrate diets in the past The fact is that because of this, insulin resistance begins to develop and along with it, your insulin levels begin to rise and this completely blocks your ability to lose weight. To learn how to eliminate insulin resistance and lower insulin, you just need to watch my videos. I have hundreds of videos on this topic. I put a couple of links below. Number six is ​​chronic stress. You can consider that stress is equivalent to consuming sugar. This is actually true, because due to stress, different compounds in the body are converted into glucose. Yes, so stress is similar to consuming sugar. I made a lot of videos about what to do with chronic stress and how to fix it. Number seven is hypothyroidism. In 90% of cases, hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's disease. This is associated with the immune system. In fact, the problem here is not in the thyroid gland. But in the immune system, and this is usually caused by some problem in the intestines. So, if you have Hashimoto's disease, you definitely need probiotics. You need to take Selenium. This is very powerful antioxidant you also need to take vitamin D to reduce inflammation other forms of hypothyroidism are associated with the problem of excess estrogen because with the increase of estrogen there is dysfunction of the thyroid gland also 80% of the thyroid hormone T4 is converted into the active form T3 in the liver with the help of bile if you do not have a gallbladder if you have fatty liver or not enough bile you need to take bile salts this will help you convert T4 to T3 number eight fatty liver I just said that the liver helps convert T4 to T3 but fatty liver can certainly slow down weight loss in many different ways because if the liver is fatty the body cannot regulate the levels of cortisol estrogen insulin and growth hormone so because of fatty liver you can get stuck I advise taking Haline and also following a healthy ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting you can get rid of liver fat number de obesity The problem is that the more fat you have the more estrogen is produced and estrogen can hinder weight loss over time As you lose more fat it will be easier for you  Lose weight Because you will no longer have estrogen, which prevents you from losing weight. There are three hormones: cortisol, estrogen, and insulin. They can block seven fat-burning hormones, so it is very important to focus on these hormones. Number 10: Snacking. Frequent meals are the main killer of metabolism, because every meal stimulates insulin. People who go on a diet and eat small portions often have a lot of problems with metabolism. Number 11: Regular alcohol consumption. I know this is a very unpopular point. But if you drink a little wine from time to time, you know that, unfortunately, wine not only contains carbohydrates but can also block the liver's ability to help you burn fat and produce ketones. So, let's say you drank a glass of wine in the evening, you will not burn fat for two days, and if you drink more, then for three days. So, if you drink wine every two or three days, maybe that's why you don't lose weight. 12: Infections in early childhood. This applies to people who say that they have always been overweight. But if you ask such a person, and in 2  years he will answer I was thin And at what age did you start gaining weight He can say at four What happened right before this and often the person answers that he had an infection be it a sinus infection asthma or some problem for which he took some drug steroid antibiotic inhaler or some other drug that somehow affected the metabolism and since then always put on fat I say this because the person could have had a change in metabolism at a very early period of life and often people do not see this relationship this can be a problem And lastly and this is very important very many people take medications I do not urge you to give them up but it may be worth talking to a doctor to somehow slightly reduce the dependence on drugs Prison steroids Uspoka ra antidepressants antibiotics they all accelerate weight gain and can slow down metabolism Are you sure that everything is ok with your gallbladder And if there are stones in it, should it be removed And if the gallbladder was removed how to eat properly to avoid complications How to deal with constipation colic bloating and nausea I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder bubble sign up using the link below See you there