Lately I have been studying autoimmune diseases, specifically rheumatoid arthritis, and I have found natural remedies whose effectiveness has been confirmed by serious research. I want to expand my list of remedies for rheumatoid arthritis because in the last video I already talked about these remedies: intermittent fasting, vitamin D, potassium, ozone, zinc, oregano, and a healthy version of kita. These are excellent remedies. But there are others, and they are worth considering. If you have rheumatoid arthritis, it is simply a terrible disease, and you need to do everything possible to reduce pain and inflammation. Borage oil shows excellent results in rheumatoid arthritis. It is an omega-6 fatty acid. It is GLC fat. Borage oil helps with eczema, dermatitis, and acute respiratory syndrome. Uncaria or Cat's Claw is a very effective remedy for rheumatoid arthritis, but it also helps well against diverticulitis. It is also good against ulcers and colitis, an inflammation of the colon. By the way, diverticula are a kind of hernia in the wall of the colon, and also  Mkaria helps with allergies. As you can see, it helps with various inflammations. 10 cod liver oil is very useful for rheumatoid arthritis and heart problems. Then there is hydrotherapy. This is therapy with water of different temperatures. There are versions of this therapy with steam and even with cold water. This therapy can help with rheumatoid arthritis and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). It would seem that the lungs have nothing to do with it. But lactobacilli are friendly bacteria that help produce lactic acid. They help with rheumatoid arthritis. And they also do not help with diarrhea. They improve the absorption of iron, reduce the incidence of colds and flu, help with constipation, can help with abdominal pain in children and adults, and also reduce the risk of hay fever. If you have a stomach ache, then you probably need more lactobacilli. They also help with SIBR ( small bacterial overgrowth syndrome). It would seem that adding new bacteria only does harm, but somehow these bacteria help. 13 Vine of the Thunder God has an interesting name. It can help with It can also help with rheumatoid arthritis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which is also an autoimmune disease, as well as multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease. That is, it works very well against inflammation. If you haven't watched my first video about rheumatoid arthritis, here it is.