Today we'll talk about 14 bad habits that can ruin your heart. First, believe everything they write on the package. Take this corn oil. It says it's good for the heart. What exactly is beneficial here? This oil is from seeds, it's industrially produced and completely refined. But it has a very long shelf life. Did you know that the average American consumes eight of these bottles a year, which is about 25-30 of the total calories in about 5 liters of supposedly heart-healthy oil? But instant oatmeal is also supposedly healthy, there's a ton of sugar here, but it says it's good for the heart. And this is Rios with honey and nuts, the same ingredients with sugar, but in a different combination. Just look at the NMA, that is, grandma makes my heart happy. Good marketing, but seed oils and whole grains contain a lot of omega-6, and omega-6 fatty acids cause inflammation, and on top of everything else, they add sugar and refined starch here. I highly doubt that this can lower cholesterol, on the contrary, it will increase it. You can actually eat it and then measure your cholesterol. You'll see everything for yourself. Second, avoid the sun and use sunscreen, because the sun causes cancer and it should be avoided correctly No, the sun gives vitamin D Without the sun and vitamin D, the risk of a heart attack is 32% higher, as shown by the study below, one of the best remedies for hypertension is vitamin D So avoiding the sun is a bad idea Third, long sitting or a sedentary lifestyle There is an amazing study that shows that a sedentary lifestyle increases the risk of a heart attack by 2.5 times And not only a heart attack but also a stroke If you compare a person with a sedentary lifestyle and a person who exercises, the first has A-50% higher risk of dying from a heart attack Exercise improves physical fitness, this creates a reserve of strength and helps cope with stress and live longer Fourth, drug abuse Pills have become something common for us Sitting on pills after a bird has become the norm, we stopped paying attention to side effects After all, everyone is on pills now And the doctor says to take them So Apparently this is normal, but even over-the-counter drugs increase the risk of a heart attack by 50% and many drugs put a strain on the heart Chemotherapy definitely increases the risk Heart attack and hormone replacement therapy also increases this risk by 29%. Find a doctor who is not against using alternative medicine to treat diseases. Fifth, snacks are usually at night and especially carbohydrate ones. I used to constantly snack at night, which deprives the body of the ability to burn fat during sleep. The body burns most fat at night. If you haven't eaten anything, fat won't be burned if you eat at night, especially carbohydrates. By the way, growth hormone rises mainly at night. Growth hormone slows down aging. It helps burn fat, but it won't work if you eat carbohydrates at night, unfortunately. So, don't snack between meals. And especially after dinner. Sixth, drink too much water and at the same time sit on low-grade sodium in the blood. Hyponatremia can cause a heart attack, cerebral edema, and other side effects. Water will put pressure on the kidneys and heart because the body needs to remove it, and dehydration will occur because the body will not have salt, which retains water. If you are sensitive to salt, you should not limit your salt intake, but increase your potassium intake. Potassium protects against all the dangers of sodium. Seventh  Don't take care of your dental health, believe it or not, but in a study where vascular plaques were studied, dental bacteria were found in these plaques. That bacteria from the oral cavity forgot in the vessels. There is gum disease. When infections can develop in the gums and under the teeth, especially in the root canals. There is a lot of lymphotropic. Eighth, breathing through the mouth is a matter of habit. I'm mainly talking about breathing during sleep. You need to learn to breathe through your nose. Why is this so important? There is a physical phenomenon called the Bohr phenomenon. When you inhale oxygen, it clings to red blood cells and cannot detach without carbon dioxide during hyperventilation. When you have a lot of oxygen and a panic attack begins, they advise breathing into a bag. Why? So that you have more carbon dioxide and oxygen can get to the tissues. When you breathe through your nose, you get more carbon dioxide. It may seem that you are getting less oxygen, but in fact, you are getting more of it. Because more carbon dioxide is involved here, you can seal your mouth with special tape to breathe through your nose at night. Breathing through your nose can improve your sleep. It can help with  Sleep apnea and snoring. Ninth, microplastics can be exposed to microplastics in many places, for example, water from plastic bottles, especially hot water, plastic- coated cans. It has recently been discovered that people often have many small particles of plastic in their blood. Where does this plastic come from? It gets to us through water because a lot of plastic is found in the soil in the sea, and most of it is not. Tenth, rapid shortness of breath during exercise. Let's say you exercise, you make an effort, and very quickly you begin to feel short of breath. Exercise intolerance is a typical sign of congestive heart failure. Something is wrong with your heart. Get examined, don't ignore this. Eleventh, jet lag syndrome. This greatly affects sleep cycles in many people. During flight, your legs begin to fill with fluid, it lingers there, and severe swelling occurs. If you fly often, you should take niacin. Niacin helps the functioning of the mitochondria. This is a very important nutrient. Vitamin B3, I recommend taking at least 250 mg every day. Take the one that causes redness. You need to start.  With small doses and gradually increase. Also, with this syndrome, you need to take high doses of vitamin D3, approximately 20,000 international units. Take vitamin D3 before the flight and the syndrome will be much less severe because vitamin D3 helps reset circadian rhythms. Twelfth, excessive cardio without sufficient rest. The most exhausting workouts for the body are those that constantly increase the heart rate; they make the heart beat faster for a period of time; they additionally burden the heart. There are marathon runners who look slim and healthy, but they have vascular problems. If you are a runner, then get tested for coronary artery calcification; it is inexpensive and it predicts mortality risk very well. Thirteenth, passive smoking; passive smoking is also a problem. After all, you do n’t have a filter in your mouth; you inhale the risk. Information: 25-30%; this is probably due to the fact that smoke reduces the amount of oxygen in the body. Not to mention the chemicals in tobacco smoke; there are more than 7,000 chemicals, 70 of which are carcinogenic, so avoid passive smoking. Yes.  and active too fourteenth processed food of all the nutrients very important for the heart magnesium is in first place because most people do not get it in enough from the diet and they eat what deprives the body of magnesium and it is impossible to measure its exact amount in the body it is not found in the blood because 99% of magnesium is not in the blood most is in the cells magnesium is part of 300 enzymes it helps sleep reduces the risk of seizures and also reduces the risk of arrhythmia and prevents the accumulation of calcium in the heart a good way to lower blood pressure is to take not only vitamin D3 but also magnesium you should instill healthy habits for yourself for example cold showers or even hardening This is very beneficial for the body watch comedies laugh more this is very important to reduce stress levels and sleep better Since we touched on the topic of the cardiovascular system if you haven't watched this video about heart health watch it here and