There are cells in our body that get it badly, they do most of the detoxification, and these cells are called hepatocytes. Hepatocytes are liver cells. The liver is the main organ of detoxification in the whole body. The kidneys help with detoxification to a lesser extent, the intestines also help, the skin helps with detoxification, even fat cells help with detoxification to some extent, but it is the liver that gets it the most. So today we will discuss how to make the liver do its job. I will tell you about the solutions. These are simple easy changes that will protect you, but you must be aware of how many different chemicals are constantly surrounding us. After all, they affect us negatively, but it is difficult to single out any one of them. There are so many chemicals and variable factors that they are very difficult to identify. Just think about it. Over 12 billion tons of chemicals are produced in the United States or imported from other countries to the United States. Every year, that is 33.5 million tons. Every day, that is more than 100 kilograms of chemicals per person. We are exposed to many chemicals. You can say I  I live in a fairly clean environment. I don't come into contact with chemicals. My calculations don't include fuel, pesticides, or even chemicals in food. These chemicals accumulate. The half-life of some chemicals can be weeks, years, or decades. The half-life of a substance is the time it takes for its effects to decrease by 50 percent. Its activity decreases, and often the half-life of chemicals is measured in a book on toxicology. As you can see, there are several toxins in the environment, and there is some information about them. The half-life of chemicals is usually measured by their levels in the blood, not in tissues, not in cells that are not in the blood. These are completely different things. In general, we need to know about chemicals. We need to reduce their exposure, and we definitely need to increase our ability to remove chemicals, and the main support should be provided to hepatocytes. Many chemicals in the environment act like estrogen, they are called estrogen disruptors, or even hormone disruptors, because they can act like hormones, they can mimic them, and they greatly disrupt the functioning of the thyroid gland and adrenal glands. the pituitary gland and all these different hormones and damage to DNA distortion is undoubtedly directly related to the action of these chemicals they cause mutations changes in DNA many diseases a lot of oxidation and damage from free radicals and damage from free radicals causes a series of problems and antioxidants help to counteract this the body produces antioxidants and we also get them from food Here's what's also interesting substances in food that help us remove toxins in our body already has this mechanism we already have enzymes We have certain enzymes that convert poisons into harmless particles but some substances in food can activate them sometimes we think that only antioxidants resist oxidation but they also activate something that is already inside us we just need to turn on these genes for them to work better I checked my DNA and It seems I also have some detoxification genes that do not work as they should So it's harder for me to get them to work So there is a group of enzymes they are called enzymes of the cytochrome p450 family there are a series of biochemical reactions that cover phase one phase two phase 3 and helps convert poisons into harmless  substances, most of this occurs in the hepatocycle, but it also occurs in other places in the body. So I'll tell you what you can do to minimize contact with poisons. How to activate these enzymes and I'll tell you about the main product that activates these enzymes that we already have. We just need to turn them on. Toxins and pollutants are in the air, in water, in food, in cosmetics, creams, shampoos, hair gels, conditioners, hair dyes, and so on and so forth. We need to ensure their maximum frequency. We'll list everything in order. Pollution in the air. I highly recommend purchasing a filter, for example, a good one. This is very important if your area is polluted. An air filter is especially needed in the city to minimize the amount of chemicals. This can greatly reduce your contact with poisons. Number two, growing certain plants that absorb chemicals such as benzene, formaldehyde, and many other chemicals in the air doesn't require a lot of money to grow more plants in the house. Below is a link to a video about which plants I recommend. It's very, very useful to be in nature more, at least thanks to the healthy air. What about water filters? Do you have a water filter in the shower in the kitchen? They'll definitely help you.  There's so much nasty stuff in our water, even chlorine. Yes, chlorine kills pathogens. But on the other hand, it can increase the risk of cancer. So, there's chlorine, fluoride, and a ton of other chemicals in the water. So, you need a water filter, and it doesn't have to be an expensive one. There are very simple, inexpensive water filters. There are different types of shower filters, under-sink jugs, and above-sink filters. Visit the website at the link below. I'm not advertising them, but they have good systems. Chemicals are removed in three ways: a carbon filter, a filter for binding heavy metals, another filter that reduces chlorine content, flora, and so on. Another important point is related to fish. Eat only commercial fish. Spheres are full of polychlorinated biphenyls, even more so than airplanes. Eat commercial fish, but don't eat smaller fish. Don't eat big fish. Don't eat swordfish, sharks, or tuna. A lot of mercury accumulates in these fish species. After all, they eat smaller fish, and smaller fish eat even smaller fish, so the concentration of mercury in big fish is much higher, sometimes a thousand times higher. It can accumulate in us, but in small fish there is much less mercury, and Selenium binds mercury in fish and makes it non-toxic, eliminating this problem. Should you eat organic vegetables? And if organic vegetables are not affordable, you can remove most of the organs of asphalt using apple cider vinegar with water. Dilute one and a half tablespoons of apple cider vinegar in a liter of water and wash the vegetables with this solution. This simple method allows you to remove many chemicals in organic products; there are no pesticides in them. Well, I already talked about chemical-free cosmetics; many people apply deodorants and hand creams to their bodies. Looking at their composition, these chemicals accumulate and end up in the liver. I would also carefully avoid canned foods; canned food greatly increases the level of so-called bisphenol A, and I will not go into technical details. But if you read this book on toxicology and look at the section on BPA, you will learn that there are many problems in the endocrine system due to BPA. These are hormonal disruptors, and you get a lot of them if you constantly go Canned food, especially soup. So, I advise you to avoid canned foods, or at least not eat them often. So, let's talk about the main product that helps strengthen and activate detoxification enzymes in liver cell deposits. Multicolored vegetables do this too, and many other products, for example, garlic, onions, oregano, but the cruciferous vegetable family. These are powerful activators of cytochrome p450 enzymes. There is a lot of work on this, this is reliable data. If you consume these products regularly, they not only help remove chemicals but also bring many other benefits, counteract inflammation and cancer. When it comes to toxins, free radicals, antioxidants, people always think about plants. That's right, because we all know that these antioxidants are not found in meat, which is actually not true. I recently took part in a study. I sent beef from my farm for study. This study is called the study of nutrients in beef. I'll show you the program. See this green bar, this one, and next to it is a blue bar, and next to it is a bar of a different color, it seems pink. Here it says Dr. Berg's beef. Here is the average value for grass-fed beef from other countries.  farms And this is grain-fed, so here is the content of phytonutrients reflected, these are plant substances, plant substances in beef, the healthier the beef, the more you get these plant substances that act as antioxidants and bring many other benefits. As you can see, there is clearly more here if you compare grain-fed and grass-fed, clearly more, but the healthier the beef. And mine is completely grass-fed. I really care about my cattle, you see how many phytonutrients there are. This meat would be an excellent replacement for vegetables in the case of intestinal problems. And more and more people are switching to a root diet because of intestinal problems and we are told it is impossible to get all the nutrients from beef and offal. It turns out it is possible, but I think it's all about quality, and this proves that it's all about the quality of the meat. You can't just go to your local supermarket and buy cold meats there and think that you will get these phytonutrients. You will have to go to the Farmer's Market or buy completely grass-fed meat to really get all the benefits from these products. Are these animals fed? grain or they are fed grass and weeds grown in healthy soil. So, cruciferous vegetables such as kale, broccoli, arugula, radishes, they are all very important, but in general, all plants can greatly help you. Products containing B vitamins also help detoxification. I made a video about this, it’s actually very interesting, link below. Minerals such as Selenium also help detoxification. It’s found in Brazil nuts. Selenium is very important for increasing the level of glutathione needed for enzymes that break down poisons. Intestinal flora is extremely important for the detoxification process. If you don’t have a full variety of microflora in the intestines, you won’t be able to properly remove poisons. So, eat foods with microorganisms, sauerkraut, kimchi, kefir. This is very important. Then fasting. Fasting, especially intermittent long-term fasting, increases your body’s own antioxidant network. It strengthens and turns on genes that promote detoxification. At the same time, the liver’s ability to get rid of poisons begins to increase. You begin to autoimmune, friends, this means that the body processes old damaged proteins and gets rid of them.  from pathogens autophadia helps the body stay clean I had one very strange thought I would really like to go to a nursing home and change their food just to see how the health of these elderly people changes I think that their need for drugs would decrease very much Perhaps this would be a miracle, but unfortunately I just found out about something What is depressing there are directives that people in nursing homes and I think even in hospitals must eat every 14 hours and they must eat certain foods that I do not consider very healthy I think it would be very difficult Unfortunately, transferring them to intermittent fasting And this is exactly what they need and feeding them food grown on a farm that would be great If you can fast literally fast this will help you The last point about toxins is exercise and sweating is very important exercise stimulates genes that promote detoxification but excessive exercise turns off the systems that remove toxins because exercise is accompanied by a lot of damage from free radicals and oxidation simply due to metabolism under stress, so you need a strong antioxidant system  There are certain foods such as grapefruit and grapefruit juice, as well as St. John's wort, that block the detoxification system in hepatocytes. Therefore, if someone takes a medication and drinks grapefruit juice, the chemicals from the drug will remain in the body, and I'm not telling you not to use them. I'm simply saying that they slow down the elimination of toxins. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.