I've updated my list of top tips for super health for you.  Many of these tips are based on my mistakes.  By following these tips, you will solve many health problems.  Tip number one: eat only when you are hungry.  And don't eat when you're not hungry.  It would seem that it couldn’t be simpler.  For many years, I always had a snack right after dinner.  I was never embarrassed by the fact that I was not hungry. I just liked the food.  I ate and ate. If you don't eat until you're hungry, you'll feel much better.   Do n't eat unless you're hungry.  Number two. Drink when you are thirsty and don't drink if you are not thirsty.  This idea that we should drink so much fluid is based on false data.  This dilutes the electrolytes, especially sodium.  This can lead to dehydration, even if you drink more fluids.  The next tip is related to the previous one.  I feel like carbonated water fills me up better.  For some reason, regular water saturates me less. I also often add a naturally decaffeinated tea bag to my liquid to avoid dehydration .  For some reason, tea fills me up much better.  This way I can drink more fluids and feel better.  Plus, tea contains phytonutrients.  I take a three-liter jar, pour water into it, put in a couple of tea bags, and put it in the sun for 1-2 hours.  Infrared light from the sun makes water structured, and such water is very useful.  I've been doing this for a while now and my body loves it. Number four.  If you don't know what diet to follow or what food to eat, don't know where the truth is, try one diet.  Assess your health.  Try a different diet.  Assess how you feel and you will find out what is right for you.  I'm not pushing any specific diet or food, but I do encourage you to try something to see if it works for you. Number five.  Intermittent fasting.  You may think that meal frequency is unimportant, but it is just as important as what you eat.  After all, a lot of amazing positive things happen when you follow intermittent fasting.   The human body is not designed to eat every hour and a half.  If you eat as rarely as our ancestors did, your health can improve significantly.  After all, damaged proteins are processed into new tissues.  At the same time, we also clean out pathogens, get rid of bacteria, viruses, fungi, and mold. This happens when we don't eat.  The following advice is related to this.  One of the most harmful habits is the habit of snacking, eating between meals. After all, this causes a surge in insulin, especially if you snack on junk food.  Simply cutting out snacks can make a huge difference in your health, even without changing your diet.  Tip seven. Excess carbohydrates.  When reading a food label, the most important thing to look at is carbohydrates.  And it's not just sugar.  After all, many products do not contain sugar.  But they contain a lot of carbohydrates due to the addition of starch, maltodextrin, and flour.  It's all hidden sugar.  Cut carbohydrates to a minimum.  Do not consume more than 30 grams of carbohydrates per day.  And hence the next piece of advice.  When you get your blood tested, I think it's really important to check your fasting insulin levels.  After all, 10-15 and even 20 years before the development of diabetes, fasting insulin levels become high, but doctors never check them.  If you check your fasting insulin levels , you can avoid diabetes.  Because if it's high, you can do something about it.  And this brings us to the next tip.  Perhaps one of the most important blood tests is the vitamin D blood test. We need at least 10,000-20,000 IU of vitamin D every day. Vitamin D influences 10% of all our genes.  But in cases of autoimmune diseases, chronic inflammation, and weak immunity, much more vitamin D is needed to achieve an effect.   It's very important to check your vitamin D levels. You can do this at home, see the link below.   The second most important nutrient that requires attention is magnesium.  Most people get little magnesium from their diet.  They have a deficiency of it.  Magnesium helps vitamin D work. Magnesium controls calcium. Calcium causes muscle contractions, muscle spasms, and cramps.  If you have them , it means you have excess calcium. Magnesium can help solve this problem because it controls calcium.  The next tip is potassium.  Potassium is the only nutrient we need in very, very large quantities.  We need 4,700 mg of potassium every day.  Potassium is a physiological tranquilizer. It calms the nervous system, lowers blood pressure, and increases energy levels.  It is an important electrolyte.  It is good for the heart.  The next tip is related to vitamins.  The most profitable multivitamins, and we're talking billions, I won't name the manufacturers, contain the worst ingredients in the world .  They are not obtained from food, they are synthetic.  Find quality vitamins.  Even vitamin C is made from corn starch and sulfuric acid. If you take vitamins yourself, give them to your child or expectant mother, make sure they are of high quality.  And our food also lacks microelements.  Many foods lack trace elements, even though they were present in them a long time ago.  We grow food in soil that is free of microorganisms because it is sterilized.  If we eat food that is grown in something that is low in nutrients, say hydroponics, which is water with 15 minerals, we will not get all the micronutrients.  I recommend taking BA with microelements, because many people have a deficiency.  We need zinc, iodine, manganese, selenium and so on. Next tip.  Of all the types of protein we can eat, red meat is among the most nutrient-rich.  Whether you want to feel great, have more energy, or raise low blood sugar, red meat will give you a quick pick- me-up.  And it’s not about iron, but about protein.  After all, the body needs enough protein, and grass-fed red meat contains the highest quality protein. Next tip.  If you have taken a lot of antibiotics like I have, many of your current problems may be related to the antibiotics.  We are told that after antibiotics, bacteria will recover, and many strains do recover, but not to the required level.  And here is one of the most powerful remedies for this.  You can make probiotics at home.  It is a yogurt-like substance that produces amazing effects.  After watching the video at the link below, read the comments, they are amazing.  People get a lot of wonderful results.  We are simply returning to the intestines the bacteria that we had before taking antibiotics. Next tip.  Peritrene kills testosterone.  If you overtrain and don't recover, you'll not only damage your hormones, you won't make the improvements you could have. You will have less and less energy.  And there can be a lot of problems, especially with inflammation.  Next, if you've slipped up and eaten too many carbohydrates, you need to take vitamin B1.  After all, you just lost B1.  This will increase anxiety and stress, which may lead you to eat unhealthy foods.  Take more B1 to help counteract some of the damage and side effects caused by carbohydrates.  Next tip.  Be careful with any iron supplements.  Iron is a nutrient that is not excreted by the body.  I would recommend taking iron supplements perhaps only in case of menstruation and blood loss.  But even in this case, I would advise getting iron from food, from beef liver or in the form of liver tablets, but not from dietary supplements with iron. Next tip.  If you are over 50 and have arm fat, excess body fat, or cellulite, then you likely have some atrophy.  It's not necessarily fat.  If you don't see a difference, you may be on a diet for a long time.  And it seems like you are losing a little weight, but there are no significant changes, because this is age-related muscle atrophy.  The best remedy for this is regular strength training, as well as magnesium.  Next tip.  If you have to have surgery for any reason, always take plenty of vitamin D right before surgery. I would take at least 50,000 IU of D3, possibly up to 100,000 IU 3 days before surgery.  After all, the outcome of any surgery will definitely be much better if you have enough vitamin D. And it's very important to take vitamin D during pregnancy and breastfeeding.  This is extremely important for both you and your child. After all, a vitamin D deficiency can cause postpartum depression, and your baby may have various developmental disorders.  And lastly, I think this is extremely important.  Buy a good water filter. Tap water contains everlasting chemicals. I recently tested my water, and I have two filters, and it had a chemical in it that was 78,000 times higher than normal.  The point is that you need to buy a filter.  Do not drink tap water.  Many of these tips are based on my experience.  Don't repeat my mistakes.   Please use this information and see you again. Sugar steals your energy and health. It's time to break free.  8 weeks, 100% support, and you won't recognize yourself in the mirror.  Join Dr. Berg's Sugar-Free program.