Let's talk about the two main causes of gastritis. The first is vitamin D deficiency. I have a video about how vitamin D affects muscles. The link is below, but it does affect them. Usually, people think of vitamin D as something that affects calcium and immunity, but that's not all. It also largely controls muscle function, and in the case of the stomach, we're dealing with smooth muscles, both sphincters, the upper and lower, as well as the muscular lining of the stomach. These are smooth muscles. Vitamin D increases calcium absorption. And this affects contraction. With vitamin D deficiency, this upper valve does not close completely. Gastritis stands for gastroesophageal reflux disease. The acid from the stomach rises to this valve and enters the esophagus. It can damage the cells of the esophagus, cause inflammation, and even increase the risk of cancer. Vitamin D deficiency is one of the reasons. There are receptors for vitamin D in both the esophagus and the stomach, and in these valves. So, vitamin D works in many places. The second important reason why gastritis can develop is a lack of hydrochloric acid in the stomach itself, which is very  It often happens that with age, the amount of hydrochloric acid decreases. Taking antacids also reduces its amount, but as soon as you stop taking them, digestion resumes, because antacids deprived you of acid in the stomach. When there is not enough hydrochloric acid in the stomach, this valve does not close completely. There is a small sensor in it. This makes sense. When you eat, you need the food to pass here so that it can be digested there, and the valve closes. Do not let the slot go back out. When there is not enough acid for the valve to close, the acid begins to splash out and this is what happens. If there is not enough acid, food is not completely digested, especially proteins. The main symptom of this gas formation is that gas bubbles appear here, and this gas, with its pressure, forces the valve to open. If you have this situation, take 30 thousand IU of vitamin D3 per day. In case of acid deficiency, take betaine hydrochloride and also apple cider vinegar. This combination works great and I suggest you watch this video about other gastrointestinal problems. Thank you for watching.