As a child, I had a ton of dental problems. They were all filled with fillings, and I literally lived in the dentist's office. The only good thing about it was that they didn't always give me candy. It's a shame I didn't know everything I know now. I would have avoided a lot of dental problems. I want to tell you about the two most beneficial foods for your teeth. You can skip straight to where I talk about them, but first, I'd like to explain why you need these foods. First, vitamin A and its connection with your teeth and gums. Vitamin A has many different functions, but its role is especially important in the linings of organs and mucous membranes of your body, especially in the gums. Vitamin A increases resistance to infections from the mucous membranes. Therefore, with a deficiency of vitamin A, you will be susceptible to infections, especially in the gums. There is a disease called periodontitis, which is essentially a gum disease that occurs when a person lacks vitamin A. There are several stages of problems associated with the gums. It all starts with inflammation, the so-called gendivitis, which can later develop into a more serious problem. Periodontitis, which causes more complications in the gums, redness, chronic halitosis, bad breath, plaque infections, and so on. Here's what you need to know about plaque or tartar: it's not just bacteria, but also fungi like Candida, which also grow. Friendly bacteria and friendly yeasts or fungi live in your mouth and keep them under control, and only when the balance is disturbed do bacteria, yeasts, and fungi begin to grow excessively, which causes plaque and tartar. A byproduct of these organisms is acids, which cause tooth decay. Of course, all these processes begin with the fuel that you feed all these pathogens, and that is sugar. Therefore, people who eat a lot of sugar or carbohydrates have many more unfriendly bacteria in their mouths that destroy teeth, but the fact that sugar destroys teeth was deliberately hidden from people in the early 70s. There is interesting information on this subject (link below). Instead, people's attention was diverted to saturated fats, distracting them from sugar. But of all the foods that are harmful to teeth and gums, it is in first place. Sugar, therefore, vitamin A is very important for gum health. If you have atlantis, but you consume enough vitamin C, you will most likely keep your teeth, you will not lose them, and your gums will not bleed much. But if you also have a vitamin C deficiency, your teeth will probably become loose or even fall out, and your gums will bleed. If a person has scurvy, which is a serious vitamin C deficiency, one of the symptoms of such a deficiency is bleeding gums because vitamin C prevents blood from leaking through the capillary walls. So, vitamin C plays an important role in making connective tissue, especially in the gums, dense and strong. In addition, it increases resistance to infections, which makes it very important for the immune system. Next, we have vitamin B1, and here's why. The fact is that if you have a toothache, this means that some nerve is affected, some form of neuritis, and vitamin B1 is the best remedy for any ailments ending in IT, including inflammation of the nerves. So, B1 can help with a toothache, of course, you need to eliminate the cause of the pain.  tooth, but at least B1 will give relief. There is also another remedy for toothache: chew cloves. Cloves act on the tooth as a painkiller. You can also try them. In addition to all of the above, there is also vitamin F. What kind of vitamin is this? It is a combination of various Omega fatty acids. Vitamin F works with calcium. One of its functions is to help the body absorb calcium. If we look at vitamin D, vitamin K, and vitamin F, we will see that they work together to solve a common, specific problem: facilitating the absorption of calcium, transporting calcium, and unloading it in the right places in the body. Vitamin D is vital for the absorption of calcium from the intestines into the blood. Vitamin K2 redirects calcium to the right places in the body, such as bones and teeth, and ensures that it does not go where it is not needed. The role of vitamin F is to help unload the calcium delivered to the right place and bring it into the tissues. Now that we know all this, let's see. What foods have the most of these vitamins? Butter and cod liver oil. Organic grass-fed butter is also suitable. This butter contains a lot of vitamins D and F. Vitamin K2 is especially abundant in vitamin F.  And these are all fat-soluble nutrients and vitamins. So butter is very good for teeth and gums. When I was a child, and I had a lot of dental problems back then, I just loved butter. I could eat a whole stick of butter at once so much. I loved it now. I understand that I just didn't have enough of these nutrients. Unfortunately, at the same time, I was consuming a huge amount of sugar and empty carbohydrates. An interesting point is that vitamin C and sugar are very similar in their chemical structure. Therefore, if you eat a lot of sugar, you won't be able to absorb vitamin C at the same time. This is exactly the problem I had with my second product, cod liver oil. Why is this oil so good for teeth and gums? What makes it unique and how does it differ from regular fish oil? Well, cod liver oil contains not only omega-3 fatty acids, which are found in regular fish oil, but also vitamin D and vitamin A, while fish oil usually doesn't have these vitamins, so it also contains these very useful components, vitamin  D is very difficult to get from food But there is quite a lot of it in cod liver oil So cod liver oil contains these fat-soluble vitamins and also the substance called vitamin F, it is simply a combination of essential fatty acids You can also buy canned cod liver itself, it is a very fatty and quite tasty product, I recommend If you have not tried it, try it, I will leave a link below, it is a really excellent product in a can, the liver is in its own fat and I do not recommend eating a whole can at a time, it is too fatty It is better to eat half today and half tomorrow, but you need to fit it into two days Because if you store it longer, it can spoil There are also a lot of these fat-soluble nutrients in eggs and also in greens I mean leafy greens This is vitamin C, there is also a lot of it in my favorite sauerkraut or even in kimchi, it is an excellent source of vitamin C, probiotics and also vitamin K2, then sauerkraut is very useful for both teeth and gums As for B vitamins, nutritional yeast is an excellent source, but you don’t need Remember that the intestines also synthesize many B vitamins. Therefore, if you have poor intestinal microflora or have taken antibiotics, this may be the cause of a B vitamin deficiency. Remember that the bacteria in your intestines also produce these vitamins. You are on the ketogenic diet ahead of the holiday. Prepare delicious and healthy dishes with Ted's holiday recipe book: hot and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and breads, as well as a calorie count, protein, fat, and carbohydrates. Order the holiday keto menu book using the link below.