This is a very, very important topic for those who have GERD, acid reflux, heartburn or bloating and gas, any symptoms of digestive problems. This is a very important video. Usually, with acid reflux, people first go to the doctor and undergo an examination. They are prescribed medications, usually a proton pump inhibitor or some kind of antacid. They reduce acidity. At first glance, this is logical. There is acid in the stomach and we need to get rid of it. That's right. But here's the question. What causes acid reflux? We can read that acid reflux is caused by incomplete closure of the valve in the upper part of the stomach. Okay, let's say. But why this valve can't close? In fact, this is unknown. Here's another question. You prescribed me medication. How long should I take it? Will it solve my problem? What happens if I start taking medication and then stop? Will there be withdrawal symptoms? Is it safe for some people? Long-term side effects are very bad: osteoporosis, increased risk of gallstone cancer, increased risk of SIBRS, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, increased risk of anemia.  increased risk of allergies and much more always ask How long should I take this medication indefinitely what will be the long-term problems and what is the root cause of my problem many people do not ask these questions and do not find out all this I recently spoke with a lady she is very young she is in her 30s she takes 8 medications and she does not feel well How do you even know what is causing why you have certain symptoms I am not against poisons I apologize for the medications But if you take so many medications it will definitely cause a lot of problems and you will feel bad but Let's go back to the checkpoint Think twice before taking any drug that reduces acidity But of course Talk to your doctor before following any of my advice So why do doctors not recommend apple cider vinegar that the effect of apple cider vinegar on acid reflux or garp has been little studied this is the main reason who will invest money in this research because sales of apple cider vinegar do not bring much profit it is a very cheap product glad And yes apple cider vinegar no personally I have seen thousands of patients with acid reflux over 30 years of practice who  We tried apple cider vinegar and the results were excellent. Of course, this is not a study, but from my personal observations, it really helps. So, apple cider vinegar contains an acid called acetic acid. These small bacteria, acetic acid bacteria, live on grapes, on various products, especially on ripe grapes. And when wine is made, these bacteria convert grape sugar into alcohol. But this fermentation occurs without oxygen, because acetic acid bacteria cannot live in the presence of oxygen, and so they die. But if you carry out this fermentation, converting grape sugar into alcohol in the presence of oxygen, you get vinegar. So, there is something very, very important that you need to know about the stomach. If you get distracted, come back here. This is very important number one. The normal pH value in the stomach is from one to 3, this is an extremely acidic environment, and this is normal. Therefore, if they tell you that you have excess acid in the stomach, what are they even talking about? The norm for the stomach is almost the maximum possible acidity from one to 3. What is this excess acid with acid reflux or garp, acid reflux, heartburn, and Gard, in fact, is not It means that you have too much acid, the acid is simply not where it should be, the acid is in the esophagus, but should be in the stomach. Okay, so the real problem is in the valve. Well, it's like a secondary problem, a deeper one. The problem is that the pH in the stomach is not in the range from one to 3, and higher it is more alkaline, it is not as acidic. What kind of special sensor should there be? Measuring the pH in the stomach controls the valve in its upper part. They are in communication with each other. If you think about it, it's logical. When we eat meat or something like that, we need all this acid and we don't need acid reflux into the esophagus. Therefore, this valve closes tightly. If the acid reaches a certain pH, if the environment in the stomach is very acidic, the valve will close. So, the real root cause of acid reflux, as well as, as a rule, bloating and heartburn, is that the strength of the acid. The pH of the acid is not in the range from one to 3, it can be higher than 45-6 or even 7. There is not only acid in the stomach, there are other substances in it. There is an enzyme, usually the enzyme is inactive and then becomes active.  Pepsin is an active enzyme, it is activated by acid, it is a very powerful enzyme that breaks down proteins, one of the purposes of the stomach is to digest protein, this enzyme should not enter the esophagus. Why? Because the esophagus is also a protein, and this enzyme will begin to dissolve the esophagus, we do not need this, and this enzyme is activated when the pH becomes acidic, very acidic, if the environment is too alkaline, this enzyme is not activated, it remains inactive. Another question is this: What acid stimulates the active form of this enzyme, pepsin, only hydrochloric acid, which is found in the stomach. In fact, there is no acid, there may be another, it could be apple cider vinegar, acetic acid. After all, this acid has a very high pH. This is consistent with some other data about the stomach. When the acidity of the stomach is from one to three, it helps the secretion of bile. If bile is not secreted from the liver and gallbladder, then there is a tendency to form gallstones. Therefore, one of the serious side effects of IPPs and antacids is gallstones. The acid activates pepsin, but there are other enzymes secreted by the pancreas, these enzymes help digest carbohydrates. digest fats, therefore, when there is insufficient acid in the stomach, the pancreas secretes fewer enzymes and digestion is impaired. In addition, strong acid is needed in the stomach so that we can absorb not only minerals but also trace elements and vitamins. Therefore, if there is no strong acid in the stomach, a severe nutrient deficiency occurs. Another purpose of this acid is to kill pathogens that enter the body and also to kill bacteria so that they do not enter the small intestine and cause the so- called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, this is when microbes live in your small intestine and steal nutrients from your food, creating a lot of problems for you, such as bloating, etc. Another problem due to a lack of acid in the stomach is possible anemia. After all, you do not absorb iron and vitamin B. There is another enzyme that is activated by strong stomach acid, it is called intrinsic factor. I do not want to delve into the wilds. Just know that if there is not enough acid in the stomach, B12 is not absorbed. And this causes a lot of problems. Not only anemia, but also many neurological problems.  which in some cases are irreversible. In addition, a lack of stomach acid can increase the risk of problems with Helicobacter pylori. This bacteria is present in the stomach of 80 percent of people, but it does not bother them, but without acid in the stomach, this bacteria can become pathogenic and create problems. So, we do not even necessarily need hydrochloric acid to solve many of these problems, you can use very cheap apple cider vinegar. Apple cider vinegar UK, which I recommend, is not produced by Break. The Breg company was sold to another company. I recently found out that they dilute apple cider vinegar. The label says that it contains water. That is, it is not strong enough. I recommend Fair Childs. This is an excellent company. I buy all my apple cider vinegar from them. I also buy apple cider vinegar for the animals that I raise on the farm. They love it. I dilute it with water and they are very, very healthy. So, this is a very simple remedy. Find organic apple cider vinegar. You only need 2 tablespoons per glass of water. This can be 230 milliliters or 340. Just drink it before meals. The recipe couldn't be simpler. This will help lower the pH.  Digestion will begin to improve, just do not drink apple cider vinegar undiluted. Usually, problems with apple cider vinegar are associated with the fact that someone does not dilute it with water, perhaps drinks a lot of it, keeps it in the mouth, this can harm the teeth, just drink through a straw so that it does not get on your teeth and everything will be fine. I recommend other remedies. If you want more, I recommend observing the amat one meal a day. Why do you give the body the opportunity to reboot and heal, because constant food, frequent meals, all these snacks greatly destroy the digestive system and This is probably one of the root causes of the problem with garp and my last recommendation is cabbage. Cabbage is a very, very important vegetable for any problems with acid reflux. Even with an ulcer, it really helps the stomach. I will not explain why, but you will see that you digest cabbage better than greens and it will help you. Just know that you will probably have to do this for several weeks or even months to completely correct the situation, but you will feel much better and of course I recommend  a certain diet plan If you have this problem, it's called healthy chum salmon, there are several links below about this, including a course and something else. Does it happen? So the stomach secretes too much gastric acid? Yes, it happens. But this doesn't happen very often. Most often, there is so- called hypochlorhydria, which is a lack of gastric acid, and one of the main reasons for this is that many people are in their sixth, seventh, eighth, or ninth decades, and less acid is secreted, and they develop the problems I'm talking about. Excess acid is less common. So, it really does happen. But usually, in the following three situations, number one, Solenger-Ellison syndrome, is essentially a benign tumor in the stomach or small intestine, because of which the cells essentially secrete too much acid. Another situation is autoimmune gastritis, which happens even less often. In this case, the parietal cells that secrete acid are attacked by antibodies. And to compensate for this, the body produces more acid, as a result, these cells burn out and begin to secrete little acid, and now the acid. No, that is, increased acidity is replaced by decreased acidity, but the difference is between a sour stomach or excessive secretion.  Acids are problems. What I already said. If you have Helicobacter pylori, and this is generally a pathogenic situation, you need mastic resin, garlic to try to kill the bacteria, broccoli sprouts. Daily, sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts is a powerful tool that allows you to kill Helicobacter pylori or bring it into an inactive state. There is one very, very important point. If you drink apple cider vinegar and you get worse. Zhenya is getting stronger, this may mean that you have inflammation of the gastric mucosa or an ulcer. In this case, you should not drink apple cider vinegar until you cure this inflammation or ulcer, and for this you need chlorophyll. I recommend high-quality concentrate of wheatgrass juice in powder form. Take it. It takes several weeks to heal this area. I also recommend intermittent fasting, a healthy version of Keto, as well as zinc carnassine, this is very, very important. After a few weeks, when everything has healed, start drinking apple cider vinegar. Another popular remedy is betaine hydrochloride, also an excellent remedy, but everything is on  In fact, it's elementary. Anyone who has gargling, indigestion, bloating, acid reflux, heartburn should definitely try apple cider vinegar. It's very effective. Since we're talking about digestion, there's a lot of data on this. I have a really awesome video on digestion. You should watch it. The link to it is here.