I want to tell you about two natural remedies for nighttime teeth grinding. This is called nocturnal bruxism. It is a very common problem. Many people have it, of course, and little is known about bruxism. Its causes are ambiguous, but we will figure out what is what. If you do not know how to deal with it, your teeth may wear down excessively, you may have pain, a headache in the morning, or a spasm. As a result, you have to sleep all night in your mouth. It is a piece of plastic. I want to introduce you to a new concept: rhythmic activity of the masticatory muscles. This is what medicine calls what happens when you grind your teeth. The masticatory muscles are the muscles that work when we eat and, of course, the word rhythmic means evenly alternating, whether it is movement or something else. A couple of factors are related to the autonomic nervous system. Right before grinding your teeth at night, during this transitional stage, the autonomic nervous system is activated, which affects the heart. It seems that this affects the heart, the pulse begins to quicken. What is interesting is why both of these phenomena are associated with the autonomic nervous system. This system works automatically and  controls a lot of things in the body in less than a second. More precisely, in eight-tenths of a second. Yes, grinding occurs by stimulating or increasing the tone of the desired muscles and this is associated with grinding. Apparently, this problem is somehow connected with this transitional stage and with this dysfunction of the nervous system that controls the muscular system and muscles. Jaws, if you don’t know, there are sleep cycles from light to deep sleep and some phases of sleep are violent. You can have wild dreams as if you are almost awake, but in fact you are sleeping. It would seem that grinding will not wake you up and of course this phenomenon occurs in the phase. When the brain is excited, when it is active, in contrast to the sleep phase when all the muscles are essentially paralyzed and you just sleep in a dead sleep or delta-wave sleep. Grinding teeth more often during light sleep. What else do we know that can help us? We know that the risk of developing bruxism is high in smokers. If you smoke, your risk of developing bruxism is twice as high. This risk is also higher in  Those who consume alcohol have a higher level than those who take selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. These are drugs that affect serotonin, that is, anxiety and depression. This is a small hint. There is even so-called bruxism associated with taking these drugs. This is their side effect. We also know that serotonin is associated with sleep. And these drugs affect serotonin. Whether you take them due to a serotonin deficiency or the drug itself causes this deficiency is unknown, but there is a connection with serotonin, as well as a connection with dopamine. It turned out that when someone takes Eldof, it is a precursor of dopamine. Bruxism is less common, and serotonin and dopamine are associated with the autonomic nervous system. After all, you remember that neurotransmitters are like hormones for the nervous system, that is, neurotransmitters transmit messages through nerves like hormones through the blood. We also know that bruxism can be triggered by stress, injury, excessive caffeine consumption. There is another connection that I want to talk about: a connection with a problem called  SNiP What is SNiP? I mean a new concept and I will explain it in very simple language. This is an abbreviation, its meaning is deciphered as Single nucleotide polymorphism, in very simple terms. This is a tiny change in the gene sequence that can change the functioning of the body if you do a DNA analysis, which I talked about in other videos. We are interested in SNiP and based on this, we can draw a conclusion about susceptibility to certain problems, how is this related to teeth grinding? Apparently, there is a variation or changes in genes that can significantly increase the risk of nighttime teeth grinding and this Gene A that r2a is the serotonin receptor gene. What a coincidence. And serotonin also helps with stress. Dopamine also helps reduce stress. So if you have this SNiP variation in the serotonin receptor, then you may have a serotonin deficiency. And you essentially just need to increase the amount of precursors of this hormone to fix this and there is nothing to worry about even if you have a problem with this gene. If you take everything you need or do everything you need to  I just wanted to mention this serotonin receptor because people think that if they have a problem with their genes, then nothing can be done about it and problems cannot be avoided. This is not true for some people. The problem will be if, say, they eat poorly or have a bad environment, especially if there is a lot of stress and poor nutrition. So, what can be done? The first nutrient that I recommend is vitamin B1 thiamine. Why? Because if you think about what causes deficiency 21, it is definitely due to the fact that a person drinks a lot of alcohol, a lot of caffeinated drinks and a lot of chicken, being exposed to nicotine. All these factors can cause a deficiency of vitamin B1. This leads to a particularly severe deficiency of serotonin and dopamine. The situation is aggravated by genetics, stress, and boom, we get a perfect storm. So, you need B1 thiamine to create serotonin and to create dopamine. And this is another interesting connection. This is also a possible explanation for the fact that when someone takes Eldoff in the form of a dietary supplement, bruxism usually recedes at first. But if you take Eldoff for a long time, it may return.  The person did not take vitamin B1, but he is at the cursor of these hormones. So, all the links in this chain are needed to understand what needs to be done. B1 should be obtained from nutritional yeast. I recommend buying unenriched ones so that they do not contain added synthetic B vitamins. Or find natural B1. So, this is the first thing I also recommend vitamin D3 because vitamin D3 is a powerful modulator or regulator of dopamine. In addition, vitamin D3 activates serotonin. So, D3 is very important for these two neurotransmitters, and with a deficiency of vitamin D3, depression and anxiety usually occur, symptoms of dopamine and serotonin deficiency occur. So, it has been established that vitamins B1 and D3 directly reduce the risk of bruxism. And now we know why. So, it's very simple: here's what you need to do: start taking vitamins B1 and D3, and then write in the comments below whether you have gotten rid of teeth grinding. I have made a lot of videos. Although mini B1, but if you haven't seen this video about natural B1, be sure to watch this excellent video. Here it is.