What will happen to your body if you give up sugar for just 2 weeks? Yes, many people may say that sugar is no longer as fashionable as it used to be, and how can this explain so many health problems? Well, now you will find out. Let's start with a list of positive changes after just 2 weeks without sugar. The first thing you will notice is that your face will no longer be so round and puffy. The body is round and moon-shaped. It is round and not as thin as it is now, so the shape of your face will change. Some of the fat will go away from there. Second, your eyelids will become less swollen. It is easy to understand how much sugar a person eats by looking at how swollen their eyelids are. My eyelids were swollen for many years, I didn't know why, but when I eliminated sugar, everything went away. Third, the amount of fat in the belly will decrease. Excess sugar becomes excess fat in the liver, which flows into the abdominal area, spreads between the organs, and the belly grows. Belly fat indicates an excess of carbohydrates in the diet. Fourth, your craving for carbohydrates will drop to zero.  You won't want them, but if you eat even a little bit of sugar, the craving will remain and it will be difficult to get rid of it. Fifth, your feeling of hunger will greatly decrease. You won't want to eat all the time. You will feel full, which is very important on any diet. It's torture to try to lose weight while feeling hungry all the time. Sugar increases insulin, and insulin makes you hungry. Sixth, your mood will greatly improve. If you were depressed or anxious, you will become calmer and more cheerful. I remember one gentleman who was depressed and thought about suicide. He wanted to commit suicide. So he locked himself in and stopped eating altogether, that is, he was actually starving. Of course, when you starve, you don't eat sugar either. And the body enters into a state of ketosis, and on the third day he felt great. Depression evaporated. Intermittent fasting and reducing carbohydrates create a similar effect. Seventh, your attention will improve significantly. When I ate a lot of carbohydrates, my attention was foggy. I didn't understand that it was the sugar that was causing the problem. I didn't see this connection. Until one day I decided to give it up, and as if someone had removed the helmet that was creating the fog, I was finally able to  Eighth, you will stop retaining fluid. I had this happen. I could press my finger on my foot and it would leave an indentation. I had such swelling in my feet. I had no idea that this was all because of the sugar I was eating. Sugar retains fluid, and this is related to the next point: the condition of your eyes, kidneys, blood vessels, and nerves will improve. These are the four tissues in the body that are affected by excess sugar. If you take the eyes, excess fluid gets there. What increases the risk of glaucoma? The cause is high blood sugar. When you have concentrated sugar in the blood, it penetrates into other fluids, for example, in the eyes, also in the lens of the eye, which can lead to cataracts. Ninth, pain and inflammation will decrease significantly until you remove sugar. You don't realize how much it affects arthritis, inflammation, and pain in your body. And when you remove sugar, you will be surprised how much inflammation has decreased. Tenth, bloating and abdominal pain become less. I had bloating for many years, had problems with my gallbladder, and abdominal pain because I ate a lot of sugar.  Eleventh, you will sleep better. I remember when I ate a lot of carbohydrates, I had big problems with sleep, and what I did was eat even more carbohydrates. I ate, and this is no joke, almost half a kilo of ice cream before bed to fall into a sugar coma and eventually just pass out, but this only made restless leg syndrome worse. I got up in the middle of the night, I had to run to use up all this energy. It was lactic acid from accumulated sugar that was not burned. How it is needed in the mitochondria, the energy stations of the cell. Twelfth, you will become very calm. Adrenal stress will noticeably decrease. And if you have children, you will notice that their behavior has improved. They will become more assiduous. Children are hooked on sugar and they are very restless. One of the reasons is that sugar deprives the body of vitamin B1, and this creates nervous tension. If you want to see a significant change in a person’s nervous tension or stress, just give him B1 and see how he calms down after 3 minutes. Thirteenth, you will notice that your skin has become much better, not only does it go away.  acne but also improves dry or too oily skin the color will improve and the skin will look healthier This was a list of advantages But there is one thing you probably didn't know about it there is something in the diet of most of the world's population that creates an effect similar to sugar it is not sugar in itself but acts like sugar and not just acts like sugar And even worse than sugar I mean Rai hma In some foods, if you can call it that, they are classified as ultra-processed foods That is, junk food Let's look here is my favorite example let's look at the list of ingredients dried potatoes vegetable oil can be cottonseed corn soybean or sunflower And also corn flour corn starch rice flour and maltodextrin all these are refined starches in other words maltodextrin modified corn starch modified food starch dextrin all these are not sugars but they have a huge effect on blood sugar glycemic index maltodextrin from 110 to 136 while Glucose has it exactly  100 and table sugar has 65 That is, it is much worse than sugar, although it is not sugar. We look at the total amount of carbohydrates 16 16 G, while the total amount of sugars is zero, zero sugar here, someone will say Great, there is no sugar, only carbohydrates. But they will turn into sugar very quickly and raise blood sugar. So these 16 G are four teaspoons of sugar and this is only a fifth of a package of a stack of chips, approximately this height, four teaspoons of sugar. Imagine. If you eat a whole package. And I ate it without any hesitation, you throw a lot of sugar into your body, although the package does not say anything about it. And when I talk about eliminating sugar for 2 weeks, I mean starches too. I will show you something else. This cereal was once one of my favorites. I want to show you how much sugar is in this box. Let's start with the sugar itself, which is in the composition and which is written on the package. In 40 grams of food, there are 4 and a half teaspoons of sugar. But if you add starches that turn into sugar.  Bringing much more harm is another four teaspoons, or more precisely five teaspoons. As a result, we get nine teaspoons of sugar per 40 g of cereal. As you can see, this is quite a lot of sugar per 40 g. But who eats only 40 g, a child or an adult, eats on average four times more in one breakfast, it turns out 36 teaspoons of sugar. This is not yet 36, but I think you understand that this is a lot of sugar for breakfast. Here is what I found. The manufacturer of the granola is Bakery, it is called with cinnamon and pecans. Let's look at the ingredients: pecans, dried almonds, coconut, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, chicory root fiber, erythritol, coconut cream, coconut oil, cinnamon, monk fruit juice concentrate. By the way, there is a little sugar, vanilla extract and sea salt. Only 1 g of sugar. There are still 8 g of carbohydrates, but at the same time, 5 g of fiber. Subtract it, you get 3 g of digestible carbohydrates and 1 g of sugar. This is not an ultra- processed product that quickly turns into sugar. If you compare it with this box.  There are approximately 150 kilocalories per serving and 36 grams of what turns into sugar. Here, there is only 1 gram. So, 36 grams. Which one should you choose? If you need a simple and precise description of the diet, follow the link below, download the materials, and experience a ton of positive changes after eliminating sugar from your diet.