Since many people have problems with blood sugar in diabetes, insulin resistance, I decided to make this important video about apple cider vinegar. If you don’t use it, you should definitely consider starting even if you’re not on ketogenic diets with intermittent fasting. There are other ways to improve blood sugar besides reducing carbohydrate intake and fasting. Apparently, the acetic acid in vinegar has a very strong antiglycemic effect, even if you don’t follow it. It acts as a buffer for the glycemic index, lowering the glycemic index of what you eat and helps stabilize both blood sugar and insulin. Watch and all the links will be under the video. There are quite a lot of them. When you add vinegar to rice, let’s say you eat sushi, I highly recommend eating rice. But if you do eat it, then with vinegar, the glycemic index of rice will decrease by 35 percent. It’s amazing that if you add vinegar to boiled potatoes while they are cooling for a salad or something else, its glycemic index will decrease by 43 percent. If you add vinegar to bread, let’s say you eat white bread.  bread you will provide a significant reduction in sugar and insulin in the blood, I repeat, I do not recommend this. But this is amazing if you take vinegar with a cereal bar, of course, you do not need to pour vinegar on the bar itself. Let's say you take vinegar in tablets, you can drink them with food or with orange juice, you will lower blood sugar and insulin. There are interesting studies in one, vinegar was used in sandwiches, I think it was in capsules, capsules with vinegar, the glycemic index decreased by 30 percent. And if you eat a leafy salad, not with us, with balsamic or apple cider vinegar as a dressing, the glycemic index can be reduced by 31 percent. Very interesting information. This is another tool in addition to reducing carbohydrates and fasting. Each time glucose decreases, insulin decreases, which automatically reduces fat in the liver. You will lose a little weight, maybe not so noticeably, but by lowering blood sugar, you will help lose weight, and your hunger will also decrease. Why? Because there will be less insulin and you will not be drawn to anything. I have a lot of videos about vinegar, moreover, the most  I own a popular video about apple cider vinegar all over YouTube. It seems to have 14 million views. I also want to say which apple cider vinegar is better to take. I recommend organic apple cider vinegar from the FairChilds brand. I am not affiliated with them in any way. I am not responsible for this. Hello everyone, most people take organic vinegar from Breck, but they don’t know that at some point Breck started diluting their vinegar. If you read the label, it says apple cider vinegar with water, but FairChilds is not only organic, but also without added water, and they were the main supplier of vinegar for Breck. I don’t know if this is true now. Are you following ketosis or not? Add apple cider vinegar to your diet. If you have long-standing insulin resistance, you have the dawn phenomenon, in which blood sugar is high. Despite the fact that you did not eat carbohydrates the previous day, this is because the liver produces a lot of sugar, this is called gluconeogenesis. People are constantly interested in how to lower blood sugar. Especially in the morning, it’s very simple. Take 2 tablespoons of your own vinegar before bed, but you don’t need to drink just vinegar. Dilute it in water for about 250-300 ml of water, 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar, that's 10 grams. You need to take it before bed, then when you wake up in the morning, your sugar will start to drop lower and lower. Another thing I would advise is to start taking apple cider vinegar before meals in exactly the same proportion as before bed. Of course, you are drinking a very acidic solution, so even diluted with water, you should drink it through a straw so that the vinegar does not come into contact with your teeth. There are other products that can act as a buffer for foods, namely, reduce the effect of increasing blood sugar. We discussed vinegar, but you can also add fats and fiber to reduce the spike in blood sugar. Learn more about these additional buffers. Watch this video.