Today I will tell you about how these two things are connected and about the two most powerful products for the prevention of many problems of the liver and the inner surface of blood vessels. Let's say we have some kind of stress: smoking, alcohol, drugs, toxins, viruses, bacteria, junk food, sugar, oils and seeds, refined carbohydrates. These are all so- called stressors; they can affect the liver or blood vessels. When you inhale, it goes straight into the bloodstream; when you eat something, it is absorbed into the intestines, enters the bloodstream, and the first thing it encounters is the liver. That is, all this garbage that is in the blood gets into the liver, and one of the functions of the liver is to cleanse the blood of all the toxins that are in it. Its enzymes convert these poisons into harmless particles. Thus, both the liver and blood vessels work hard to keep you healthy. You, being on Earth, are exposed to bad food and various pollutants. This is how it works. It all starts with one of these factors: oxidation or oxidative stress. If you lack antioxidants, damage occurs, something like rust. So, some kind of stressor appears, after which the body tries to heal itself using the immune system.  So how does the body heal itself through the immune system? It activates inflammation, then scar tissue forms. This is a crust. If this continues for too long, fibrosis develops into so- called cirrhosis. The same thing happens in the vessels. First, inflammation occurs, then fibrosis, that is, scar tissue. If this continues, plaques grow. The process can go deeper into the vessels, causing chronic inflammation. But we must understand that cholesterol's function is not only the vessels. Cholesterol is mostly produced by the liver, because we need it to build cell membranes, as well as to synthesize hormones such as testosterone, progesterone, estrogen, and even cortisol, a stress hormone. It is also part of the membranes. This is a model of a cell, so it looks like this. A quarter of the membrane consists of cholesterol. It is needed for the membrane to work. There is a lot of it in the nerve tissues in the brain. Cholesterol floats in the blood not on its own, but on a kind of shuttle of special proteins. Let's look at this process from the outside. What our immune cells do is try to heal, heal, or put something like a patch on the wall of a vessel. However, too large a patch blocks blood flow, which can lead to  A heart attack or a vessel can rupture and a stroke will occur. The organ itself can also be damaged. For example, if a vessel is damaged, there is no nitric oxide, which signals the vessel muscles to relax, the vessel narrows. This leads to increased blood pressure, increased lipids, and this is precisely cholesterol, increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease. As for the liver, its ability to rid the body of toxins decreases. Detoxification does not work; the liver does not produce antioxidants to protect against all this. And how does the body get rid of excess cholesterol? The bile ducts. If you produce little bile, cholesterol accumulates in the blood, digestion worsens, gallstones may appear. Another fairly common problem is insulin resistance, which begins in the liver. insulin resistance precedes diabetes. And then diabetes develops with insulin resistance. Blood sugar is already poorly regulated, and insulin resistance also howls in the walls of blood vessels. Then something else happens: your liver begins to produce sugar itself, and an unpleasant situation arises when blood sugar is high due to the fact that the liver produces it. So, these were the basic data.  about these two problems, now let's talk about how garlic and onions can help in this situation. Two products that can counteract this process are garlic and onions. They reduce body stress by reducing damage from free radicals by receiving antioxidants from these products. You essentially borrow electrons from there. What helps get rid of free radicals reduces oxidation, inflammation, fibrosis, and calcification. Both of these products contain a lot of sulfur. Why is sulfur so important? It participates in this amazing two-phase detoxification using an enzyme system. Each enzyme is capable of breaking down various chemicals and getting rid of them. It seems like a miracle, no matter what has entered your body. Nicotine, caffeine, or some drug. This system allows you to deal with all this. It doesn't matter whether the poisons enter through the lungs or through the digestive system. They end up in the liver. This system works with them, however, if the liver is bad. If it is damaged, the system does not work, but these two products provide the necessary enzymes for detoxification to occur. Sulfur is also needed to eliminate inflammation. If you look at the anti-inflammatory drugs that are available for sale, they usually contain sulfur. I wonder why garlic and onions also  Natural antimicrobials So if you are sick and have a viral or bacterial infection, eat garlic and onions, they will help you. Both are natural antibiotics. But without side effects, they do not harm beneficial bacteria. They are harmful only to pathogens. Plants have their own healing mechanisms and medicines for treatment and protection, and we can take advantage of them by eating these plants themselves. Both products have another beneficial effect: blood thinning. We are not talking about blood thinning or excessive bleeding. But if you have a problem with increased blood clotting, and this is not good, they can bring everything back to normal. In addition, this is a gentle remedy. Without side effects, another beneficial property of both products is to increase insulin sensitivity. This is very good because many people have insulin resistance. Although onions become sweet when fried and contain carbohydrates, you should not worry about this. They will not increase blood sugar or the risk of diabetes. Its glycemic index is low and it contains many different substances that protect against problems with insulin and diabetes. When you get rid of problems with oxidation and inflammation, it decreases and  fibrosis and the balance between lipids in the body becomes optimal NOC can also help the liver produce more bile to get rid of excess cholesterol It protects against sediment in this area, which can sometimes cause pain in the right shoulder Onions can also increase the amount of nitric oxide and lower blood pressure These are the benefits these products bring to the liver and blood vessels Now about how you can include them in your diet I have compiled a list of different ways to use garlic and onions in food You can fry vegetables or meat with them, beef or chicken You can add them to hummus Garlic is usually already there, so add onion to any soup you cook Add garlic and onions One important point The strongest effect is given by fresh onions and garlic You can crush the garlic and chop the onion I like to cook an egg omelet with onions and then sprinkle it with garlic A few more ideas for an omelet I can add olives there fermented garlic cloves and chopped stewed onions Delicious, isn't it I also add onions and garlic to cauliflower puree with sea salt  and the pepper comes out great You can also make a dressing from olive oil with garlic and onion when making beef horns, don't skimp on onions and garlic When I fry steak, I always put stewed garlic and onions on top. Steak with garlic and onions are natural antibacterial You can also add rosemary and oregano, all of this is useful When I make salsa or guacamoli, I always add onions and garlic there I have a whole book and videos with different recipes, even pizza, and you can also add onions to it, because the cauliflower base turns out great And since we were talking about the liver, I want to remember that I have a course about it There this topic is covered in much more detail I invite you to my course If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you, it will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training, sign up for the course at the link below See you there