Today I'll tell you about 20 signs of too much stress. First, I want to say that in the clinic I had a device that measured the state of the autonomic nervous system, in particular the fight or flight response, and it is associated with stress. This is heart rate variability. It's an excellent diagnostic tool. You can measure the internal response of the fight or flight mechanism and the recovery process under the control of the parasympathetic nervous system. Some people came in extremely stressed, but judging by the test results, you couldn't say that they were under severe stress, but they were clearly in stress mode. Other people showed signs of strong stress reactions, such as fight or flight, but they were calm and could cope with stress. What I want to emphasize is that there is your body and there is you. You may have an incredible ability to tolerate stress and cope with it, and no matter what happens to your body, you may not feel severe stress, while other people have a low ability to cope with stress. So, not everything is clear-cut here, and this complicates everything a little. Because it doesn't always come down to what's happening with the adrenal glands. If a saliva test revealed that you are stressed, but you  You don't feel it, it means that you're coping with stress very well. I'm not discounting it, but I want to say that I'll teach you a number of ways to better cope with stress and increase your body's ability to cope with stress. Let's start with how stress affects the brain. I'm talking primarily about the card room. Our body is still not adapted to cope with chronic stress. Yes, with acute stress, but not with chronic stress. Today, the average person's stress level is too high, especially because this stress is chronic. In fact, people live in a state of continuous stress, and this is how it affects the brain. You're constantly in problem-solving mode 24/7, you simply can't help but solve problems. You're fixated on solving certain problems, and it's very difficult for you to fixate. Maybe you had a great day, but you come home and constantly think about one problem. Maybe 98 percent of your life is fine, but your attention is focused on what's wrong. One of the things with the adrenal glands and cortisol is that you can't do anything except continuously solve problems. Another aspect of this is stress resilience, your ability to cope with it when stress starts to accumulate and from  Renal Avaya system weakens, you can no longer tolerate stress, this can manifest itself in the form of a complete breakdown when you just start crying or in the form of strong irritability or anger when something happens that is too much stress. If you look at the adrenal glands as survival glands, then everything that interferes with survival is stress, for example, anything that is illogical if melodic, incompetent, crazy people are next to you, God, this really inflates your adrenal glands, but if mentally healthy, logical people, competent people who strive to help, are next to you, then things are going much better for you. A very typical example is slow drivers. I think this is incompetence. If the driver in front of you is driving at a speed of 3 kilometers per hour, this simply jumps up your blood pressure. I think it’s best to write this as how patient or impatient you are. This is a good indicator of the work of the adrenal glands and stress resistance. The adrenal glands also turn on the fight or flight mode in which a person thinks very quickly, so sometimes when you are talking to someone who speaks very slowly  it's annoying you already know what he's going to say and sometimes you finish his sentence for him this can create problems and focusing on one thing can be very difficult with adrenal problems you can be a little absent-minded thinking about one thing and doing another this is multitasking the problem is that you don't feel productive because you have a lot of unfinished business and uncompleted projects and this increases stress the next sign you are a night owl I used to be a night owl and woke up at about 11 am now I'm definitely a lark mornings are the best time for me when I work and am more creative when I am most alert in the mornings I record videos like now but with adrenal problems and severe stress mornings are a difficult time you have a hard time getting out of bed you may even have to drink coffee and a lot of it and here's what's interesting about caffeine it does n't necessarily increase your energy level as such it eliminates what makes you tired it eliminates those factors that help you sleep if you remove them you will feel very alert but ultimately excess coffee caffeine burns out the adrenal glands as it did for me in  In college, I drank coffee by the bucketful, and not just any coffee, but Cuban coffee. I burned out my adrenal glands pretty early. The next sign is pretty bad sleep cycles. You don't sleep well. A very good sign is a surge in cortisol at 2 or 2:30 in the middle of the night. You're very alert, and you're more alert at that time than during the day. Your head is foggy, but at 2 a.m. you're very, very alert. And that's been the case with me for many years. I think the best way to test your adrenal glands is to measure your heart rate variability. You need to find someone who can do this. A blood test won't show anything until your adrenal glands shut down. 90 percent of the time, you can do a 24-hour saliva test, but that's hard. You have to get up at night, spit into tubes, and then send them off for analysis. Well, that's also a good way to measure cortisol. Heart rate variability measures the fight-or-flight response rather than cortisol. This is another way to test your adrenal glands. There are many phone apps that measure heart rate variability so you can  assess your stress level unfortunately, the device that I used many years ago is no longer sold with it, it was easy to check the adrenal glands under severe stress, sleep is terrible and lack of sleep adds stress and affects blood sugar, the next sign is actually blood sugar, the adrenal hormone cortisol is a glucocorticoid, this hormone releases sugar into the blood from the muscles and liver and converts non-carbohydrates such as protein and fat into sugar, not so that when you are stressed, you essentially go for candy, although you do not eat them with your mouth, this can increase blood sugar and you can even become diabetic due to high cortisol levels or even due to taking cortisol in the form of prednisone, and I know several people who became diabetics precisely because of this, and excess glucose in the blood leads to high cholesterol, increases fat stores, which I will talk about soon, and also makes the liver fatty, the next thing is that more visceral fat appears, this is fat on the stomach, a saggy belly appears, this is due to high cortisol levels, this is what cortisol really does with insulin levels because it increases sugar  in the blood and this is followed by a surge of insulin, so due to increased cortisol, fat appears on the stomach, at the same time the body dissolves or eats this catabolic effect your muscles, so the body robs the muscles on the legs, thighs and muscles on the buttocks, and so due to chronic stress, the body shape becomes such a saggy belly, legs like matches and flat buttocks. The next sign of excess stress is heaviness in the legs when climbing a hill or up the stairs and quickly developing shortness of breath is a sign that the body cannot cope with stress when climbing a hill if you are sitting or lying down and then get up and immediately begin to feel very dizzy, this also means that the body cannot cope with stress. There is an excellent test called the Raglan test. If you measure your blood pressure while lying down and then while standing, then normally the pressure should increase by about 6 points. If it has increased by 20 points or decreased, then you can understand what is happening with the adrenal glands. The reaction to stress is excessive or insufficient and the body cannot cope. Some people, having stood up too quickly, lose consciousness, this is a sign.  serious problem with the adrenal glands, the seventh point is related to inflammation, cortisol is a natural anti-inflammatory, with high levels of stress and cortisol, the cortisol receptors develop resistance, as with insulin resistance, they no longer work, and even high levels of cortisol no longer affect you and the protection from inflammation disappears, inflammatory processes occur and you get arthritis, bursitis, there are no stands, pain occurs, that's why prednisone is usually used to treat inflammation and pain, and this is a synthetic version of cortisol, but this is not good. I had more than 15 courses of strong steroids due to poison ivy when I was in my 20s and 30s and it really drove me crazy because they stopped working, so I can no longer take steroids. Another point in connection with excessive stress and adrenal overload is the loss of electrolytes, especially potassium. We lose potassium due to stress, this manifests itself in the form of high blood pressure, cardiac arrhythmia, this manifests itself in the inability to relax, because potassium is a physiological relaxant, it helps Calm down without potassium, the heart rate increases and much more, and also, but the legs cramp, while the sodium level rises relative to the potassium level and this leads to leg cramping, so with problems with the adrenal glands and under stress, it is useful to take a lot of potassium. For this, eat a lot of greens or take good electrolytes. Koli affects many things, including energy levels. The next symptom is a craving for salt. Why? Because the adrenal glands need salt to work. Often, after a hard day, you may want salt and you eat salt and sometimes sugar. Because of what happens to the adrenal glands and you feel it is easier for me to breathe. I have more energy after salt. With a salt deficiency, a person feels weaker. So, the more stress you have, the more salt you need. But add potassium too, because we need at least twice as much potassium as three. The next point is susceptibility to diseases or infections. The adrenal hormone cortisol is a hormone that suppresses the immune system. It suppresses it, so it is prescribed to people with an overactive immune system, allergies, autoimmune diseases accompanied by severe inflammation. They are prescribed  Prednisone is a type of cortisol. Prednisone suppresses the immune system, turning it off and this overreaction. Quote: A person is given prednisone to turn off the overreaction of the immune system when you are under severe stress or shock, say from the sudden loss of someone close. A lot can happen there. It essentially turns off and an autoimmune disease can develop. When I saw people with autoimmune diseases, I asked them when it began. I'm not kidding, and in 98 or perhaps 99 percent of them, the disease began after the loss of a loved one or a difficult divorce. Adrenal stress can turn off the immune system, which can cause a lot of things to happen. A viral infection can cause everything to go awry. I've already said about this. These diseases are associated with stress and problems with intestinal permeability. After all, the intestines are a barrier to the immune system. When problems with the intestines occur, something can invade, penetrate this barrier and cause these immune reactions. And along with stress, this terrible combination. Why is this because one of the adrenal hormones is androgen.  Excess androgen can enlarge the sebaceous glands and lead to excess sebum, which can cause a window, not to mention what cortisol does to insulin. It increases insulin, and excess insulin leads to increased androgen levels, especially in women. This is polycystic ovary syndrome. This can be caused by excess carbohydrates or increased stress. The next point is asthma. The asthma remedy is called Broncha Cortik, an asteroid inhaler. This is again cortisol, because cortisol is a vasodilator. It makes breathing easier and dilates the coronary arteries and bronchioles. Asthma is simply a kind of adrenal weakness. This is one of the wonderful features of vitamin D. Vitamin D is a kind of natural form of cortisol without side effects. It is actually a hormone. It acts almost like cortisol. Therefore, with asthma and any of these symptoms, you need to take more vitamin D. It can definitely help, especially with asthma. Next, allergies. I mentioned this when I talked about immunity. Many allergies can be a sign of adrenal weakness. Stress is often  It worsens allergies, so allergies are a sign of severe stress. I already talked about asthma, but I want to say something in this regard. Think about what happens with asthma, especially with your breathing. Your breathing is restless and you're constantly trying to inhale. There's a link to my videos about this below. Watch it if you have n't seen it yet. By inhaling too much oxygen, you disrupt the balance of oxygen and CO2. I won't go into it now, but the point is that with excessive breathing, the absorption of oxygen in the lungs stops. That's why, during a panic attack, you need to breathe into a bag to get more CO2 and oxygen. Then your breathing will improve. When you blow up a balloon or breathe hard, you two don't lose consciousness. In general, watch that video if you haven't watched it. It talks about panic attacks and asthma. Sinus problems are caused by the adrenal glands. Cortisol resistance affects the passages in the sinuses. Essentially, the sinuses swell. That's why sleep apnea and sinus problems are associated with elevated cortisol, which causes  Cortisol resistance is an excess of cortisol, chronic, trial, in a dream, the poster Barros already said after menopause, during menopause, the adrenal glands have to replace the ovaries that are retiring. If at the beginning of menopause the adrenal glands are weakened, this leads to a problem in the form of a surge in cortisol, and this surge can lead to the occurrence of not only hot flashes, but also osteoporosis. You need patience, because cortisol is a catabolic hormone that breaks down protein, and protein is part of bone tissue. That is, cortisol essentially thins bones. I remember a dentist once came to me; she was just going through menopause. She bent over patients every day, and during menopause, her weight and spine up to the neck began to collapse, and the spine shortened. Her body decreased, her back hunched over. This was caused by a surge in cortisol. This is very destructive, so it is so important to strengthen the adrenal glands even before menopause. Then there is acid reflux, gastritis, and stress can increase the amount of acid in  stomach and by the way, what's interesting is that you lose H plus and it's hydrogen. If you know chemistry, this affects pH. You lose it with high cortisol levels. So, with increased stress, you lose H plus, and this is actually acid. The acid becomes low. The body compensates for this with excess by producing more acid. Also, the valve at the top of the stomach stops closing and this leads to GERD. The solution is to add stomach acids, for example, betaine hydrochloride, and not take antacids, since antacids will worsen the situation. And lastly, gallstones. Cortisol can lead to a lack of bile, and due to a lack of bile and excess cholesterol, gallstones can form. These are all signs that you are experiencing too much stress. What can be done about this? Number one, you need to force yourself to switch your attention to solving less pressing problems. For example, do puzzles or you can play chess with someone or do some craft and work with your hands, as if pulling yourself out of your head, and your attention will switch from problems. For example, birdwatching is an excellent activity. Attention  switching from problems is very healing the next step spend time with those who support you there are two types of people some encourage you others upset even here on youtube there are always haters if you have a youtube channel reading comments from those who hate you can become very stressful and upsetting if your adrenal glands are normal and stress doesn't bother you you don't care but it ruins others personally I can delete comments from such people and block them which is great and they no longer leave me without peace because so many people support me these are the people who watch my channel I am very grateful to you I wonder what goal some people have to help people educate them about something or supposedly entertain someone with their rare criticism for me it doesn't make sense but the point is to keep company with those who support you and not keep company with those who don't support you number three again the same vitamin b1 natural vitamins b are found in nutritional yeast if you have never tried vitamin b1 in the form of nutritional yeast but yeast should be without artificial additives because they are made from oil and when they are added to Is nutritional yeast bad? If you take nutritional yeast in tablets or powder, after three or four minutes you will feel that the stress is gone, because stress depletes B1 reserves. Vitamin B1 removes stress from the body and you feel relaxed. Internal tension decreases. It's incredible. It almost always works. Next, you need to eat more foods rich in potassium, because potassium is lost with high stress levels. You can take potassium supplements. You need to get enough potassium, as well as sodium or sea salt. Regular exercise or physical labor is very, very important. The more you work physically, the less stress you have. You get a lot of oxygen and get rid of stress thanks to physical activity. The worst thing is to be under stress all day and then go straight to bed, because you haven't removed the stress. You must actively do something to get rid of stress, because any stress accumulates in our bodies. Number six, you need a detox from the news. The news causes extremely strong stress, so don't watch it for a long time and you will feel much better. And lastly, a low-carb diet. A high-carb diet increases stress. The fact is that a low-carb diet improves mood. Anxiety will go away if it  I had it and you will feel better if you start intermittent fasting. I have many videos on this topic in my course. They are about your adrenal gland and body type. In addition to other solutions in the course, I give acupressure techniques for various parts of the body with which you can relieve accumulated stress. I spent a lot of time developing these techniques. I will teach you how to use them. For some of the techniques, you need a second person. This is an excellent technique. The link to the course is under the video. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal gland body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package you will find a unique gift: a new course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.