Let's discuss 21 signs of nutrient deficiency in the body. Some people write in the comments that there is no need to take any supplements because everything we need is already in food. I assure you that these people have never looked at how many nutrients enter the body. Not to mention getting tested for nutrient deficiencies, otherwise they would have learned that the majority of the population has a severe deficiency of things like vitamin D, magnesium, zinc, vitamin B1, potassium, and so on down the list. More than half of the population consumes ultra-processed food, and it contains zero nutrients. We usually eat for pleasure, not health. Most of the food in the store is grown hydroponically in water where about 15 minerals have been added, and we need 160 minerals. So, let's start with number one: tingling in the toes. The main reason for this tingling is vitamin B1 deficiency. Vitamin B1 affects everything related to nerves, and the first to suffer are the ends of the longest nerves in the body, and they are in the toes. Then, gradually, a burning pain develops in the lower part of the feet, and it can become very strong, this is peripheral neuropathy. It is often found in diabetics because the main cause of B1 deficiency is excess sugar and carbohydrates in the diet, and for some reason, at night, the symptoms intensify, perhaps because you are lying down and blood circulation is worse. Oddly enough, in pork, you can also get it from the liver, from any meat or eggs, as well as sunflower seeds. But if you have such symptoms, I recommend B of a specific type, its fat- soluble through the fatty layer of the myelin sheath and gets into the tissue, helping it to restore well. Number two, cracks in the corners of the mouth, I had this. This is a deficiency of vitamin B2. It can be obtained from the liver of red meat or eggs. Number three, thinning hair. This usually occurs due to a deficiency of biotin, which is also a vitamin from group B. Vitamin B7 is necessary for the synthesis of keratin, a protein needed for hair growth. Hair becomes thinner and begins to break less often, and the ends of the hair split. Biotin is needed not only for hair but also for nails and for the skin. It is found in eggs, nuts, seeds, meat by- products, and even dairy products.  In products number four, early graying, as you can see here or here, if gray hair appears prematurely, this is likely a deficiency of another B vitamin, B9 folate. B9 helps repair DNA and therefore protects against cancer, but it also has another function, namely, supporting melanin. Melanin is a pigment that gives color to the skin and hair. False folate supports it. The best source of B9 is leafy greens. The next point is mouth ulcers. The reason for this is B12 deficiency. It protects the mucous membranes, and when there is no such protection, they begin to deteriorate, including ulcers in the mouth. B12 has many functions. It is involved in the synthesis of red blood cells, protecting against anemia, and also supports the functioning of the nervous system, which is very important. With its deficiency, there will be many damaged nerves, even irreversible damage. Avoid B12 deficiency. Sources of B12 include liver, red meat, bivalves, and nome she. Deep pain in the pelvic bones. This pain can also reach the lower back and even the hips, and this is a typical symptom of vitamin D deficiency. Without vitamin D, bone mineralization is impaired.  They do not receive calcium, but it is needed for strength. 80% have a vitamin D deficiency. This is the most important vitamin because it is involved in the work of many genes, 2,500 different genes. When you drink it for preventive purposes, I strongly recommend a dose of at least 10,000 daily. If you are not in the sun, this dose is definitely not toxic because there are many factors that block vitamin D. We have a high resistance to it. We need to get enough vitamin D3 for a healthy person, 10,000 IU, and someone needs more. Point se. Heavy menstrual bleeding is the cause of high estrogen levels, but this situation can arise due to a deficiency of vitamin K1 because the role of vitamin K1 is to stop bleeding. A sufficient amount of K1 in the diet can help. Its typical source is dark leafy greens. Another good source of this vitamin is the liver. Severe cramps during menstruation occur due to a magnesium deficiency, and the immediate cause is an uncontrolled situation with calcium. Take magnesium, it also helps you relax.  Better sleep, normalizes blood pressure, and so on. Magnesium is found in everything green, in dark leafy greens. And also in pumpkin seeds and sesame seeds. Number nine is uterine fibroids. This can also be due to elevated estrogen levels. Fibroids are benign tumors that grow on the uterus. Vitamin D can stop this process, but doses are needed higher than you think, especially to reduce fibroids, namely 20 or even 30,000 international units daily. To reduce it, take this dose along with magnesium, zinc, and vitamin K2. These are cofactors. In addition, exclude dairy products; they contain growth hormone and therefore can increase insulin levels. So, excess carbohydrates can have the same effect. In general, take vitamin D. Number 10 is twitching under the eye or titania, this is one of the first symptoms of magnesium deficiency. I would take at least 400 mg per day. Correction will take time, but leafy greens and pumpkin seeds will eventually correct this. 11. You hear a heartbeat in your ears. your own pulse in your ears boom-boom boom-boom this is typical for potassium deficiency I had this and I didn’t know that it started after I ate a huge amount of carbohydrates and sugar in one sitting if there are refined carbohydrates or sugar it pulls potassium from certain places and blocks it aggravates the deficiency of Kali we need a lot of potassium 4700 mg if you get it from greens This is at least 10 glasses few people eat so much so eat a variety of foods and additionally drink electrolytes potassium helps well with pressure and also from ringing in the ears let’s go here chronic cough is calcium deficiency Usually I do not recommend taking calcium in supplement form Unless you have this symptom but still the best source of calcium is dairy products If you can’t have dairy then take supplements but not too much because the body does not excrete calcium well calcium lactate is a good option for those who need it But if you can eat for example Greek yogurt or kefir then you want to eat ice this means iron deficiency Sometimes people even eat earth or  This happens during pregnancy, they lack iron. The best sources of iron are not plant-based, such as red meat or liver. Iron helps carry oxygen in the blood. Our body cannot remove excess iron. So, don't rely on iron, take it only if necessary. Low libido is caused by zinc deficiency. All these hormones require zinc. In addition, zinc is involved in protecting the thymus, the main immune gland located above the heart, from atrophy. Shellfish, crustaceans, especially oysters, and red meat are rich in zinc. Further, hearing loss is caused by a B12 deficiency. B12 is important for supporting nerves, especially the auditory nerve. When it is deficient, this nerve suffers. Problems with high and low sound waves gradually arise and intensify. As a person ages, they should take B12. Eat red meat, a source of zinc. Further, fibrocystic breast disease is caused by excess estrogen due to the fact that there is not enough iodine in the body. In fact, this is an iodine deficiency. You need to eat kelp or seaweed, as well as shellfish and crustaceans. Further, dry, flaky skin.  Usually around the nose, here, and also in the eyebrow area, this is a typical deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids. A person consumes about 30 liters of seed oils per year. This is insane. The result will be severe peeling of the skin and many other problems. Eat cod liver oil or high-quality fish oil. Next comes muscle weakness. This is a typical deficiency of vitamin E. At the top of any high mountain, where there are a lot of people, empty jars of vitamin E are lying around because vitamin E helps to obtain oxygen at altitude. It also prevents muscle atrophy. The vitamin E that I recommend is tocotrienol. Next, fatty liver. It can become like this if you eat a lot of carbohydrates, junk food, and drink, and also if you have a deficiency of haline. Where can I get haline either from the liver or, even better, from egg yolks? The next point is herpes, which is a deficiency of lysine. But in general, it is a virus. However, it is lysine that makes this virus inactive. Sources of lysine: Parmesan, turkey, chicken, and fish. Lexine is also beneficial for immunity and is needed for collagen synthesis. The latter is necessary for regulating lipid levels. Elevated lipid levels are also associated with lipid regulation.  Enough niacin and vitamin B3. Not everyone knows that cholesterol can rise due to sugar and refined carbohydrates, and simply changing your diet can improve the situation. Now, in my opinion, it would be important for you to learn how to eat properly to get rid of these and other deficiencies. In general, what to eat to ensure everything is fine. Learn more about this in the deficiencies course. Sign up. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this. Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the nutrient deficiency course, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.