Today we will talk about the relationship between hepatitis C, iron, and cirrhosis. What are the symptoms of hepatitis C? By the way, hepatitis C is the most common type of hepatitis. We are talking about a specific virus. Its main symptoms are fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, abdominal pain, yellowing of the skin and eyes, and many other symptoms. What's interesting about hepatitis C is that many patients also have high iron levels, and with hepatitis C, it becomes much more difficult to get rid of iron. This iron creates oxidation and a bunch of free radicals, which leads to inflammation and cirrhosis. But in addition, iron is needed so that the virus that causes problems continues to reproduce. That is, the virus loves iron. I can recommend three things: lactoferrin. You can buy it at a health food store or online. It is found in breast milk. It is also found in colostrum, which is also found in breast milk. It can be extracted from colostrum in cow's milk and taken as a supplement. According to research, which I will leave a link to, you need to take at least three and six tenths grams for it to be effective because the fetus  Siren is a very powerful antimicrobial agent. It also inhibits the reproduction of the hepatitis C virus. It binds to the virus, helps reduce the amount of liver enzymes, helps reduce inflammation, and also promotes phagocytosis on the part of the immune system. This is a good support for the immune system, but what's more surprising is how it works. It makes iron unavailable to the virus, blocks access to it, that is, we deprive the virus of food, which, by the way, is not alive in itself, but simply steals food from your cells. Lactoferrin interacts with DNA and RNA and prevents the virus from using iron. This is also useful for people with HIV, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, and others. I'll leave a link in the description. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't return. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. The next thing I recommend for hepatitis C is vitamin D. There are a lot of people with hepatitis C who also have it.  There is a vitamin D deficiency. This could be due to a lack of sunlight, or resistance, or a defect in the vitamin D receptor. What I recommend is fasting. Why? Because fasting strengthens the immune system. If you engage in periodic long-term fasting for two or even three days, you stimulate stem cells, and this will help develop a new immune system. Fasting also triggers the process of autophagy, which cleanses the body of microorganisms, including viruses. If you haven't watched a video about vitamin D and its deficiency, here it is.