Today we'll talk about Excuse me for a second Okay, let's talk about mucus in the back of the throat Sorry, I couldn't resist, I made a video on this topic about six months ago, but I didn't talk about all the underlying causes of this problem. I understood it a little better and learned about remedies that don't create an even bigger problem, unfortunately. Mucus causes side effects, especially antibiotics for viral infections. After all, they don't help, but only weaken the immune system. In fact, most of our immune system is associated with friendly microbes that live in us everywhere, both outside and inside, and as soon as we start killing them, the immune system weakens, overgrowth and other problems occur. As for mucus in the upper respiratory tract, you need to understand that every time we kill bacteria, an overgrowth of fungi or Candida or yeast begins, because bacteria restrain all kinds of fungal microorganisms. That 's why people develop candida in the mouth and in intimate places. The same thing happens with the sinus after antibiotics. A person had a bacterial infection. And now a fungal person switches to a stronger medicine.  and resistance to such treatment develops, a stronger microbe appears and everything gets really bad, the ideal solution does not create an even bigger problem than the one they are trying to solve. So let's discuss the potential causes, let's start with the one I talked about in another video. GERD is a condition accompanied by very strong acid reflux. The valve of the upper part of the stomach does not close and acid enters the esophagus, it can rise up to the throat and cause irritation there, resulting in inflammation and mucus. Many people have this problem, but they do not see this relationship. And some do see this relationship. But they are prescribed antacids or something else that reduces the density, and because of this, the problem usually persists longer. Because the real underlying cause of GERD is usually a lack of acid in a person; there is not enough acid or it is not strong enough, and any treatment aimed at weakening the acid will increase its lack. Or watch the video about acid reflux and GERD at the link below, but the point is that if we tackle the right problem, we will eliminate the problem and symptoms. So, one quick way to understand whether GERD is acid reflux or something else is the cause of this mucus.  It's very simple, you don't have to pay a lot for an endoscopy. The doctor could see through the endoscope what's going on and do it. It's a very expensive test. But what about using a very cheap remedy like apple cider vinegar? Two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar with water several times a day before meals. If the symptoms disappear, then you can say almost for sure that's the problem. Betaine hydrochloride is also a good remedy. It helps produce hydrochloric acid in the stomach. You need to take about five before meals, and you can increase the dose by adding one tablet every day. Some people need a lot. Some need 7, 8, 9, 10 tablets before meals for changes to occur, but then they feel much better. Another sign of a possible connection between RB and mucus is gas formation, indigestion, bloating when eating. The next possible cause is mucus drainage from the nasopharynx. The resulting mucus simply flows down the back of the sinuses and gets into the throat, forcing a person to cough it up. The cause may be a bacterial infection, a viral infection, a fungal infection, including yeast and candida. Biofilms can also be the cause of infection for those who haven't watched my videos about this. Biofilm is a cluster of microbes that come together to survive better. They usually secrete mucus that forms a layer. This often happens in the sinuses. Sometimes these microbes even create a calcium shell. Examples of this are tartar and plaque in the vessels. But in the sinuses there may simply be a layer of mucus, and this biofilm makes microbes resistant to antibiotics and other forms of treatment. At the same time, it constantly irritates, so the sinuses are constantly blocked. You can't sleep because of snoring. And mucus appears on the back of the throat, and often, if this is caused to a greater extent by fungi, yeast, Candida, or biofilm, then the problem persists throughout the year and usually it begins due to taking antibiotics. If you took an antibiotic several months or several years ago and noticed that your sinus problems then got worse, you should suspect that you have an excessive growth of fungi or biofilms. We have biofilms.  in the sinuses, in the mouth, and so on, but we shouldn't have a serious problem in the form of excessive biofilm growth. This is what I'm talking about, but think about it: these microbes are just trying to survive. They need to protect themselves, and when they are being killed incorrectly, they survive and become stronger, especially after antibiotics. If the infection causing mucus drainage from the nasopharynx is most likely bacterial, the mucus will most likely be yellow or green. If it is viral, the mucus will be clear or white. But this is not necessarily the case. Mixed variants also occur. There are infections when there are viruses and bacteria. There are a couple of remedies for mucus drainage from the nasopharynx. It all depends on the severity of the problem. If the problem is mild, you can simply use salt water or saline. I recommend a sea salt solution. You can purchase a non-standard container for rinsing the nose. Let the solution flow in through one nostril and out through the other. The salt needs to be dissolved. There are many videos showing how to do this. It's very, very easy to rinse the sinuses this way. Apparently, salt kills microbes, especially bacteria. Fungi, yeast, and Candida can also partly help in the fight against viruses.  and reduce the ability of biofilms to attach to the surface of the mucous membrane inside. However, if the problem is serious, you need a stronger product, you need to dissolve Half a teaspoon is 2.5 mg of sea salt in some container you need a glass of water - this is 8 ounces or 240 ml. This is for those who are in Europe, my friend Denis. So, dissolve the salt in water and use it to rinse your nose. Perhaps this remedy alone will solve the problem. But if you need something stronger, then the following remedy is very effective. It is recommended and used by many doctors. You will need a small amount of baby shampoo. Yes, regular baby shampoo is not suitable. It is too strong and will cause mucous irritation. So, you need a very gentle product that does not sting your eyes. Moreover, NM should contain a minimum amount of chemicals. I will not name the brands. Just look for them yourself. Take two teaspoons of baby shampoo and dissolve them in four glasses of water and rinse your nose with this solution four times a day. This will dissolve the mucus because this is a detergent, it copes well with this and in a diluted form it will not irritate the mucous membrane inside. If you want to add here  A little of that salt water is also possible, this will be a very effective remedy. You can use other remedies if mucus forms in the throat or perhaps lower in the sinuses behind the sinuses right there in the back or even in the larynx or just on the back wall. This is also possible or may be an infection in the tonsils. Let's say it's somewhere in the back. What should you do? I recommend using povidone iodine. Buy it at the pharmacy. And dilute it. You need the one where it says 10% on the bottle. That is, it is actually absorbed. 1% dilute it with water by half, that is, take 15 ml of povidone iodine and add 15 ml of water. Take a cotton swab, dip it in this solution and rub it inside both nostrils. Iodine is a very powerful antimicrobial agent and it is so diluted that it will not irritate the mucous membrane. Iodine is like the cherry on the cake and it will directly kill germs in the sinuses. Gargle with the remaining solution to clean the back wall of the throat.  throat for 30 seconds, then spit it out. Do this twice a day. The time period between gargling is 12 hours. In this way, we treat the back of the throat with povidone iodine, a very powerful antimicrobial agent. That is, we apply something locally that can destroy this mucus. If this problem is associated with environmental allergies, then it is best to avoid certain places in your environment and also fast. Long-term fasting strengthens the immune system. And in fact, it can even help get rid of allergies. This is one point, and food allergies are most often to dairy products. So, I would simply exclude dairy products often. This allows you to get rid of mucus. One more thing about mucus and where it forms. It can form in the sinuses or in the throat, or it can rise from the stomach upward. Understanding this is the most important thing, and this is the whole purpose of this video. It is really to find out where the source of the problem is. I am writing another remedy. I used it in my practice and it works well. I made a video about it as a remedy for a sore throat, but it can also be used to solve this problem. So, if the problem occurs in the back wall.  throat, you can kind of press on a certain point, this is a kind of acupressure, you need to press on the back of the neck yourself, not there. Press, you need someone to do it. I made a video about this. Someone should press on the vertebra from behind with two fingers, and then you need to understand where you have irritation or where this mucus comes from. It could be here or below or somewhere in this area, and then draw a circle to the back of the neck. If you think this is strange, I understand, but it really works, you need to try. When you have found the exact opposite point on the back of the neck, have someone press on it, you will understand that you have found the right points, and sometimes this is difficult due to severe pain. Have the person press on the neck a little higher or lower until he finds a very sensitive spot, and then let him press for minutes. The fingers may get tired. It is not necessary to press hard, but you will begin to feel that something is liquefying or flowing, or that the congestion or irritation has decreased. I don’t know why, but it works and I did it.  Many, many times, in fact, people with this problem flew to me from different parts of the country. I worked with them for several days and it really helped them or even eliminated the problem altogether. This is just something else that can be done, so to speak, the Ninja technique. If someone can do this for you, great. I created a massager so that a person can do it himself. You can buy it. Those who buy it receive video instructions. This is a massager. You can put it under your neck so that it presses weights. You can press on different points of the spine to relieve the problem. On this side, there is some place in the throat where irritation occurs, whether it is inflammation in the throat or just a place where mucus forms. After all, some people have mucus formed in the larynx, and there is the vocal apparatus, and the voice becomes hoarse because of the mucus. This is an excellent technique. When I made a video about it, I received a lot of success stories from people who applied it. You can read if it works. Excellent. What do you have to lose? Don't do anything that weakens the immune system. It needs to be strengthened. Ultimately, it is the immune system that heals us, and not something else.  some remedy So we just help the immune system garlic is the champion in this matter Eat more garlic constantly garlic in food has a very powerful effect against everything in the world viruses bacteria yeast fungi mold biofilms garlic is first on this list number two no sugar these microbes feed on sugar especially fungi yeast and candida no sugar I always recommend three remedies for the immune system lots of vitamin D at least 20-30 000 IU every day vitamin C must be natural not synthetic and zinc - these are the three main nutrients for any immune problem I recommend them And lastly I recommend if you have a cough, let's say a child coughs at night because of mucus sometimes you can take calcium lactate and it just suppresses the cough this is a good remedy for cough which is associated or not associated with mucus but for coughing at night especially in children and in adults Use calcium if Look What is the volume of low calcium levels hypocalcemia you will see that this is a spasm of the larynx, that is, spasms occur  muscles, especially in this area of ​​the throat, this can cause irritation and coughing. You've swallowed a lot of knowledge, pardon the pun. Now you need to watch another video on how to get rid of phlegm and mucus. Here it is, watch it. L