You know, some people are so tired that they can't sleep and rest, no matter how exhausted they are. Their body simply won't allow them to fall into deep delta-wave sleep. Other people have too much energy and can't sleep because they have too much adrenaline or nervous energy in their blood. Therefore, the mitochondria, the energy stations of cells, need a healthy level of energy to fall into excellent sleep. So today we will discuss three ways that can improve not only sleep but also rest. The fact is that there is a clock in our brain called the suprachiosmatic nucleus. This clock tells us more precisely our body when to fall asleep and when to wake up. I will give some tips on how to make this clock work better. First, let's talk about energy. We will talk about mitochondria. I will mainly talk about improving or strengthening mitochondria in the brain. The organs that contain the most mitochondria are the heart and brain, so the heart and brain need a lot of oxygen. And when they do not receive oxygen, when their work is disrupted, problems arise. So, there are several ways to increase the supply of oxygen to mitochondria in the brain. To really sleep and fall asleep quickly, the first way is obvious - it's exercise. When we exercise, we get more oxygen. I like to do two types of exercise almost every day: high-intensity training and strength training. High-intensity training is very short, and I always take long walks, climb mountains and all that. I always take low-intensity walks. This is an excellent means for sleep. So, exercise is the first number two, vitamin B1, and B1 deficiency, that is, thiamine. There is another name for it - pseudohypoxia. That's right, hypoxia is a lack of oxygen. This can occur in the brain, in the very heart of the autonomic nervous system, the brain stem, which is closely related to breathing. With a B1 deficiency, breathing suffers. Good afternoon, oxygen and the so-called stress reflex is triggered. And under stress, it is impossible to fall asleep. So, it's all about increasing O2 oxygen in the mitochondria, and taking B1 before bed is an excellent way to achieve this. The next method is to simply sleep with the windows open. If possible, this way you will get more oxygen and you will not have to re-breathe stale air in the room. A plant in the room also increases the amount of oxygen Because they release oxygen and absorb CO2 The amount of oxygen increases and coenzyme Q10 is another excellent remedy called methylene blue This is the first drug that doctors began to use in the healthcare system methylene blue it has been used since the 19th century methylene blue colors urine green because blue and yellow gives a green color and it has many useful interesting properties if you take it in small doses diluted below is a link to a video about methylene blue so you can learn more about it methylene blue Can greatly increase the level of oxygen in the brain and other parts of the body now we will discuss the circadian rhythm controlled by the suprachiosmatic nucleus How to make it work correctly its work is controlled by the cyclical alternation of light and darkness When you spend the evening in your house with the lights on until bedtime, this is very, very harmful because it counteracts the circadian rhythm ideally you need to adapt to this cycle of light and darkness to this rhythm under nature This means that you need to start dimming the lights of the lamps at sunset so this is very difficult to do in winter when at half past four already  It's dark, isn't it, but in the summer it usually starts to get dark at 9. If you start using, say, dimmable lamps at home, this will be very helpful. Then the body will begin to get used to the decrease in brightness, and you can even replace some lamps in the house with incandescent lamps. They emit more infrared light, and it is very, very useful for sleep cycles. So, infrared light. You can also avoid blue light from screens. For some, this is difficult, but not for me, because I work on a computer not in the evening, but in the morning. The blue light emitted by electronic devices definitely reduces the level of melatonin, which improves our sleep, but let's go. You can buy red lamps, dim the color of the lamps, use incandescent lamps, and avoid the light of LED lamps. If the light from a fireplace or fire falls on you, this golden-yellow light contains a lot of infrared light and very little blue light, if there is any at all, then it is very useful for sleep. If you use glasses that block or filter out blue light, this is useful. If you are going to watch TV, turn off the lights in the room so that it is very dark, so that there is less light. This is very, very useful for circadian rhythms. I  I even put on an eye mask before bed. I need complete darkness. My wife can sleep in the light, but I can’t. Further, mealtimes, you will notice that if you do n’t eat too much, life will be better. It’s better if you can do this, say you have one meal a day and you go somewhere at three o’clock in the afternoon, this would be the ideal meal time to improve circadian rhythms. But this can interfere with your interaction with people. After all, few people eat at this time. You will have to eat in splendid isolation, or if you eat twice a day, you can eat the first time in the morning and the second time at three o’clock in the afternoon, this would be ideal. If you can’t do this, then do something similar. Just do n’t eat 5 hours before bed. That is, if you go to bed at 10. Eat at five, then your body will have at least 5 hours to say, so to speak. Prepare and start following circadian waves. Try eating a hearty meal before bed and see how you sleep. Sleep will be poor. Experiment with this and see. Does this help you? When you travel, even within the same time zone, the work of these is disrupted. clock in the brain and the work of the navigator in the brain that determines your location. A good way to cope with jet lag when traveling is to take much more vitamin D3. It seems that this is the main internal that helps to reconfigure these mechanisms and come to my senses much faster. I do this all the time. I take 30, 40, 50 thousand e of vitamin D if I go to another country. And what time should I go to bed? As a rule, the best time is 10 pm. I usually go to bed between half past 10 and a quarter to 10. Some people can't do that. There's too much going on. You definitely shouldn't go to bed before midnight because right after midnight the body suddenly starts to wake up. You miss that wave and now you have to wait an hour and a half until the body gets tired. I had this happen several times. I was extremely tired at half past nine. But I endured it and now I can't sleep a wink and I had to wait until I wanted to sleep again. So you need to adjust to the waves of your body, catch the wave and enter deep sleep. Find out by trial and error. What's best for you, but for most people  10 o'clock is the best time. I go to bed a little earlier and sleep 7 hours, sometimes seven and a half. Some people need 8 hours. 7 to 8 hours is the best duration of sleep. If you wake up in the middle of the night, say around two o'clock or even an hour, this is usually a sign of adrenal overload. And they need to be strengthened with genes and dietary supplements from animal adrenal gland extract. If you often get up to urinate, this means you need to work on insulin resistance. Watch my videos. If you wake up from muscle cramps, you may need more magnesium, potassium, or calcium. I think sleep is extremely important for many reasons. If you haven't watched my more detailed video about sleep, you should watch this video.