I want to talk about three types of belly. If you watch people, you will see that many have belly fat, but we will differentiate between the three types of belly fat. There are three different problems. I have a book about this. In it, I talked about four types of belly fat. But today, we will combine the two types into one and talk about the underlying causes. Because these two types of belly have the same shape, but different causes. It can be like a hanging belly. In this case, the problem is either an excess of insulin or an excess of cortisol. Cortisol is a stress hormone. The next type is a protruding belly. Usually, this type of belly can be seen on the beach in some guy in swimming trunks. He is skinny, but his belly looks like a basketball, as if he is pregnant. This is not fat. This is a liver problem. The liver is very badly damaged, and this person has fluid leaking from the liver, which gets into the cavity inside the abdomen. That is, it is filled with fluid in a sac. If you slap one side of the belly, the fat will start to sway on the other side. This was belly number two. Belly number three is more at the bottom. It often happens to women, but there are also  In men, it's more their superficial fat, it's called subcutaneous fat, it's not necessarily fat around the organs, it's just on the surface, and very often the cause is excess estrogen. Okay, let's discuss the sagging belly first. This is called visceral fat. This fat comes from the liver. The liver fills with fluid that has nowhere to go, and it spills around the organs, around the intestines, heart, pancreas. Fat often penetrates into the organs, but this fat is more dangerous because it interferes with the functioning of certain organs, especially in the pancreas. In addition, this fat secretes certain substances that increase inflammation, and this then creates problems in the heart. This creates problems with insulin resistance, which creates problems in other organs. So, this type of belly is usually a consequence of excess insulin, and insulin production is stimulated by excess carbohydrates. I know you're surprised, but excess carbohydrates increase insulin levels and fill the belly with fat. If someone doesn't have belly fat, this doesn't mean they don't have visceral fat. There's a term called taffy, which means thin on the outside, fat on the inside. If someone doesn't have a tummy, that's another thing.  It doesn't mean he doesn't have visceral fat, it's just for reference. I want to say a few words about the gym card. Cortisol is a stress hormone. Cortisol indirectly increases insulin levels. So, a sagging belly is a consequence of insulin. insulin increases either due to carbohydrates or stress due to cortisol. That is, cortisol leads to an increase in belly fat by activating insulin. Because cortisol increases the production of glucose from non-carbohydrate sources. In other words, cortisol takes your protein, it takes your fat and converts them into glucose, and then stimulates insulin. So, when you are stressed, your blood glucose levels increase due to other non- carbohydrate sources. That is, both stress and sugar lead to the same belly fat and a host of other problems. This is called gluconeogenesis. The creation of new sugar. If we talk about getting rid of this type of belly, do you think that exercise will be at all effective? The answer is no. Diet and exercise are ineffective here because exercise does not lead to a significant decrease in insulin levels. Results are achieved mainly due to low carbohydrates. Exercise will help reduce stress, but they do not play a key role. If the problem is stress, you can do it.  There are a lot of links to videos below for beginners, because many people experience stress and I have excellent advice for them, but I will note that probably the main source of stress is other people. There are certain types of people who constantly create stress. If you do not fix this, it will be very difficult to get rid of belly fat. Another factor is sleep. If you improve your sleep, stress will decrease significantly. Let's move on to the protruding belly. There is a problem with the liver, usually cirrhosis, an advanced liver disease, and the problem is that this situation has existed for a long time. If fluid begins to appear in the abdominal cavity, then things are very bad for the cause and the chance of reversing it is quite small. Unless you take action early on by completely changing your lifestyle, with this body type, the future and prognosis are not very bright. Think about it yourself. The liver works so poorly that fluid leaks out of it inside the abdomen and every two weeks you need to go to the hospital to have it pumped out. A bad situation. If I were in such a situation and someone gave me advice, I would definitely take action and begin to radically change my lifestyle. It all depends on the person and self-discipline. Unfortunately, many people have nipples associated with  It's hard for them to stop drinking alcohol. The first thing you need to do is find out what triggers this chain and get rid of the bad habit. Vitamin E is only available in three forms, but love is very, very useful for cirrhosis, and cirrhosis is fibrosis, which is scar tissue in the liver. If you start taking about 300 milligrams of tocotrienols two or three times a day, it will be very wise. It can reduce the development of fibrosis and perhaps even partially reverse it. Another type of food you need is liver foods. Cruciferous vegetables. You need moderate to small amounts of protein, not too little, but not too much either. Because the liver is damaged, it works poorly and cannot cope with this protein. By overloading the liver with excess protein, you do not improve the situation. Another important factor is intestinal flora. Bacteria in the intestines actually produce secondary bile salts, and thus they relieve the load on the liver and help it a lot. There is another remedy that I would recommend for cirrhosis or other liver disease in the late stages. Ursodeoxycholic acid is a bile salt that is very useful for  I would recommend it if I was trying to solve such a serious liver problem. Will exercise help? The effect of exercise is very, very minor. You need to focus on nutrition and abstain from certain things. Now let's talk about surface fat, subcutaneous fat. By the way, it's not very dangerous. Many people have it here. Exercise is very, very useful in addition to reducing carbohydrates and intermittent fasting. But it takes a long time to get rid of that last layer of fat on the belly. But if you fast longer and follow these tips, I think it can speed up estrogen dominance. It's very common. You don't need to raise estrogen levels too much because estrogen increases the amount of surface fat in the body, especially in the pelvic area, thighs, and buttocks. You need to lower estrogen levels. How to avoid soy products? Anything that contains pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, and eat more organic foods. Avoid dairy products. They can greatly increase estrogen levels. Avoid power to food. There is plastic in food. The average person in the US eats as much plastic as there is on a bank card. I made a video about this. The link is below. Watch the video. Most of the estrogen in the body actually  In fact, it is produced from testosterone, there is an enzyme called aromatase. This enzyme converts testosterone into estrogen. When this enzyme is in excess, excess estrogen is produced. You can take a natural aromatase inhibitor to reduce estrogen production. And guess what foods contain it? Cruciferous vegetables. There is a cruciferous vegetable concentrate called dim, which is also worth taking. Finally, omega-3 helps inhibit this enzyme and reduce excess estrogen levels. So, these are the three types of belly fat. Now you need an accurate diet. First, I suggest you take the test and determine your body type. Follow the link: adrenal, thyroid, ovarian, or hepatic. What body type you have depends on this. The cause of excess weight and your poor health depends on this. Take the free test to find out your body type and get recommendations on it.