Let's discuss three simple and easy steps that will rid you of sciatica. This is pain spreading from the lower back to the back of the leg. In 90 percent of cases, the cause is in the spinal discs. The sciatic nerve is the longest nerve in the body. The pain can even reach the sole of the foot. There is a simple way to understand if this is the case. Raise your straight leg. Lie on your back. Ask someone to raise your legs one at a time. When you raise them to a height of 30-70 degrees, you will begin to feel pain on the corresponding side. This test will not be necessary because people with sciatica feel it themselves. A very important point before I move on to the three steps is that you need to assess the intensity of your pain. Write down for yourself or in the comments under the video how strong your pain is. For 10, we will take very excruciating pain for 0. Write down the complete absence of pain because after using this technique, I will ask this again. What you will need for this three-step procedure is a foam roller, but it is not necessary to use exactly this one. You can just roll up a towel and also a tennis ball, but that's all. You won't need this if someone else helps you with this procedure. The procedure just needs to do 3 things. First, you need to restore the curve in the lumbar region. Normally, the lower back should arch, but with sciatica, this curve is lost and now a lot of pressure is put on the disc. This usually happens due to long periods of sitting. The average person sits 10-15 hours a day and this is a nightmare. Usually, he doesn't sit straight but lopsided, so he is very susceptible to pain in the sciatic nerve due to discs. So, you need to restore the curve of the lower spine. In other words, place a foam roller or a scotch on and towels in the lumbar region opposite the first lumbar vertebra. This is not the very bottom of the base of the back, but a little higher. Then lie on your back for a while. I will additionally show you a clip on how to perform this procedure. In general, take this thing and place it under the lower back, but not here below, it is the L1 vertebra. Lie down here, lean back like this on the floor with your knees raised. The roller pushes the spine and forms the desired curve. Lie like this for about 2  3 4 5 minutes and at the same time you need to raise your knees and allow the roller to press on the bend, but do not put it too low, lift it a little higher than the upper lumbar vertebra so that the normal bend returns, this will relieve the load from the nerve and the sciatica will go away, this should be done in the morning and in the evening for five minutes, return and move on to the second step in this procedure, you need to stimulate the opposite sciatic nerve on the opposite leg, if your right leg hurts, you should not stimulate the oil on the right side because it is already inflamed, swollen and hurts, you need to stimulate on the other side for this procedure I have another excerpt from another video, let's see how it is done, let's say that this person has it on the right side, you must understand that the sciatic nerve comes from this point, passes through the buttocks and goes down along the biceps femoris and reaches all the way here, if you have pain on the outside, here or in the front, this is a niche, the sciatic nerve is large, as thick as my thumb, it passes here  Here's what you need to do if you have a sciatic nerve on the right now, it comes from here, then you need to work from the other side, you need to press from the opposite side of this nerve, we start from yes, here is the sacrum, press directly on the nerve, this is called the sciatic fossa, press inward, straight there, go along the nerve, go along the nerve, and this is how you need to stimulate the nerve from the opposite side, this will remove the pain from this side because this is the only goal here, a frozen standing wave, you need to get rid of it by acting on this side, you don't have to take my word for it now, just do it and see for yourself, we press down, go down along the middle of the leg and go all the way down, you can do it slowly, we go all the way down, down, down, all the way to here, when you press from the opposite side, it will be very painful, it will probably be twice as painful as from this painful side, I won't go into detail why this is so, but you need to look for this soreness, you need to press hard, but at the same time bearably, and develop this nerve, you need to work on this side, then ask where it hurts on that side,  They can answer now it hurts lower then we work in a mirror image on the other side or there will be pain in the shin then we work with the shin of the other leg the main thing is never never work on the side where the sciatic nerve hurts work on the other side completely in a mirror image start from here go down and it will take a minute or two to work out all the points all the way to the foot if you don’t have anyone to ask to do this technique will help with a tennis ball you just need to lie on your back take a tennis ball and put it on the opposite side 2 at a time it’s good you can do this in a chair and on a sofa or on the floor and start going along the opposite sciatic nerve press on the nerve starting from the buttock and moving down through the biceps of the opposite thigh pressing until you find a hot spot this is where it hurts a lot you will feel that the nerve on the healthy opposite side will be twice as painful so you will find the right point just continue working go down along the biceps of the thigh if the pain goes down to the game again work with the opposite calf and so this is the second step step 3 is very simple with  No matter which side you have, you only need to stretch the quadriceps on the side where the pain is. If you have it on the right side, the back of the right leg needs to be stretched. As you can see, you need to grab your foot, pull it back, and stretch the quadriceps. Squeeze for a few seconds, then relax. Pull for a few seconds, relax, and stretch it. Now you know the three-step procedure for sciatica. I think the next video is worth watching, and what to eat to reduce inflammation.