I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  Healthy habits for the rest of your life. I'll tell you three steps that will help relieve constipation. For example, if you take a laxative for more than a year, damage to the nerves and muscles of the colon will begin to develop. Be sure to read the composition of the drug. If it contains mineral oil, do not take it, because mineral oil leaches fat and vitamins from the liver and other areas of the body. The most common type of constipation is called primary constipation, and there is no tumor that causes it. Zaku private intestines are the first-line drug used. For primary constipation, polyethylene glycol is obtained from petroleum products. Polyethylene glycol is also used to preserve wood. Polyethylene glycol, which has been in water, is a component of missile fuel. The US Navy believes that it is safe, but evidence is growing that it is becoming a problem. Studies conducted between Den and Denon VOM showed that more than 72% of people examined have antibodies to polyethylene glycol. That is, these people have developed a hypersensitivity to polyethylene glycol, which is found in many things, including medications, as I said. If they use other products where it is present, they develop hives.  dizziness is what we were told to do with constipation. Despite the fact that this is essentially not proven. Eat more fiber, drink more water and exercise. Ideally, the microflora should eat most of the fiber and there should be no undigested fiber. And it is this that clogs the colon. Let's see what we are dealing with. We are dealing with a hose, a tube, the length of which is somewhere between 6 and 8 meters. To the left of it is the gallbladder. When it contracts, it pushes out bile, which helps digest fats, and to the right is the gastric gland. It secretes enzymes so that food begins to break down. The small intestine also secretes enzymes, and they all work together so that food is digested and nutrients are absorbed. Look, if there is not enough acid in the stomach to break down proteins, then undigested protein enters the small intestine and spasms can occur. The pancreas has to secrete more enzymes. People are not able to digest the fiber in our body. Many things digest it. Ideally, most of the fiber is broken down and stool is formed. That is, what is left of all this is approximately 75% water, 25% bacteria, and it also contains dead cells. My digestion has never worked worse than when I was on a vegan diet. I ate beans, fruits, I ate whole grains, I ate soy. Oh my God, I had bloating, cramps, and I experienced severe discomfort. You need an incredibly healthy digestive system to be on a vegan diet. After all, if the intestines are leaky, these foods greatly irritate the existing inflammation on its surface. That's why some people do so well on a carnivore diet. After all, they don't eat fiber, but they eat a lot of meat, which is rich in glutamine. Fasting requires reducing the number of meals to two a day: the first meal is lunch, the second is dinner, and not eating anything between meals. Then the digestive system will at least get a chance to rest and recover. Step two: you need to adjust your diet. The more different foods you eat, the better.  The different ingredients you eat, the higher the likelihood of overloading your digestive system. Eat some meat, and then maybe a couple of cups of vegetables and greens. This will be easier to digest than broccoli or something like that, unless you fry it or steam it. One of the best vegetable dishes is sauerkraut. This is an excellent product for healing leaky gut. You don't need synthetically created fiber from varnishes. You need to give microorganisms something that they are familiar with, something they are used to digesting, say, polyphenols. Then they will get food, and by consuming, for example, corn fiber, you will not get polyphenols. It is also extremely important to exclude oils from seeds (soybean, corn, rapeseed) because they have undergone severe refining. So, change your diet. I recommend following a healthy tita-day diet. I will leave a link below. But you need to slightly adjust this diet. Don't eat a lot of greens and vegetables, and it is probably better to ferment at least at first. Step three: take betaine hydrochloride to have more in your stomach. hydrochloric acid How to understand that you lack hydrochloric acid constipation is one of the symptoms of a lack of bile. This means you need betaine hydrochloride. Take five small tablets before meals. This alone can relieve you of constipation because bile lubricates the colon. The next point is probiotics. But understand. If you adjust your diet, you may not need probiotics. There is something else very interesting about food. Plants grown in healthy soil contain a lot of microorganisms. This is how beneficial microorganisms get into the intestines of cows. They get there with the grass into which they got from the soil. You can use another excellent remedy, magnesium. But you need more than the recommended daily intake. You need 800 mg or even a little more. Another nutrient deficiency, which often occurs with constipation, is vitamin B1. Its deficiency is caused by an excess of sugars and other empty carbohydrates in the diet. Therefore, you need to take a good vitamin B1 to stimulate colon motility. You can also take some castor oil or senna.  This is a very common natural herbal laxative and it has very few side effects, if any, especially compared to drugs. In general, these three steps should eliminate most constipation problems, but there are always exceptions to the rule; there are other remedies. And now I think the most important thing is to start with the first step, that is, with intermittent fasting. If you haven't watched this video about intermittent fasting, watch it.