Why do a thirty-day sugar detox? Sugar is natural, it's food for the brain. What will happen to our brain after 30 days of sugar detox? Will it survive? We will research this question. I think you will like what I will tell you. The key concept in this topic is metabolic flexibility, which is the ability of cells to smoothly switch between carbohydrates and fats during fasting while you are not eating and then. When you have eaten and start fasting again, the ability to change fuel. Because when you eat, sometimes you feed on glucose, but then when you are fasting, sugar is not available. Can the body adapt to fat and ketones, which are like packaged particles of fat? How smooth and effective is this transition, as well as the ability of cells to use fats and carbohydrates, that is, sugar? When your metabolism is not flexible, this transition works very poorly. Your ability to burn fat when switching to fasting is very low. This explains why, in fact, it happens that people do not lose weight during fasting, as well as during training. Here you are doing an endurance exercise and at the same time you need glucose from time to time. It seems like in  During training, your body cannot consume fat fuel, which means you are flexible, and this metabolic inflexibility leads to diabetes, obesity, and muscle protein loss. This is called sarcopenia. Instead of burning fat, the body can begin to use muscle protein as fuel. The entire mechanism of fuel selection does not work correctly. Fuel enters the mitochondria but is not burned. It is not stored, but clogs the system. If you consider mitochondria as a way of processing food into energy, you can find many bottlenecks and blockages. This is the reason for many chronic diseases, including cancer. This describes well what happened to me in the area. I could not last any significant time without a snack. I became very irritable. Ask your wife. I remember once. We tried to start a healthy life. I decided to do something like a coma. This is Coleman's colon hydrotherapy and enemas. Bernard Jenson developed this colon cleansing program. You don't eat anything. You drink a mixture of psyllium with some vitamins and apple juice. I have never felt worse than in  That period and when I fasted for a whole week, I couldn't start burning my own fat. I ate that drop of sugar. I didn't switch to fat because otherwise my appetite would go away. I would feel much better, but I felt terrible. I was very irritable. It was terrible. If you lack metabolic flexibility, you will be grumpy, anxious, tired, and you won't be able to go without food for long. And when you try to fast, you will feel bad. You will be flexible. At the heart of this problem is insulin resistance. It is insulin that controls whether you burn fat or not. If a person has an inflexible metabolism, then in fact, he has insulin resistance and his insulin is quite high, even in a state of fasting. This often happens with diabetics, and also with obesity. Some obese people's insulin can be three times higher than that of people without obesity. All this excess insulin sends the body a command: don't burn fat, store fat. A person tries again and again, but simply cannot lose weight. But there is a way to change this order and create metabolic flexibility, that is, insulin sensitivity, and it will give many benefits. You will be able to lose weight longer.  You won't feel hungry, you won't be craving anything, you'll be able to burn fat, which is just great, and your sugar burning efficiency will also increase, sugar entering the mitochondria will also be burned. If you suddenly break ketosis and eat some carbohydrates, the body will burn this fuel. It will be ideal if you can bring the body into a state of insulin sensitivity and metabolic flexibility. I'll show you four ways to do this. You know, if you do this for 30 days, you'll most likely achieve serious changes. First, eat less often. This goes against what is usually advised. Eat more often so as not to feel hungry. As if hunger is something bad and you're dying. No, actually, being hungry sometimes is a very healthy thing. It's in our genes. We've been hungry for a very long time. And if we don't let the body get hungry and constantly eat, we lose metabolic flexibility. Second, reduce carbohydrates. Third, for you. Maybe this is new. Eat enough fat, but don't eat too much of it if you don't have Why is it that you not only can't burn glucose effectively, you can't burn fat either, and that's why you're not losing weight. So why add extra fat to your diet? It would be a mistake. I don't recommend low-fat intermittent fasting. He made fat bombs. Solid fats. Coconut oil, butter, MSI oil. A little more almond oil. He consumed all of this all day. It seems he gained two pounds in the first week. In the second week, he gained three and a half pounds. This isn't what you and I need. Eat the fat that's found in meat or other foods. Don't avoid fats if you eat cheese or something similar, but don't add fats so that the body starts using its own fat. This is the purpose of fat: to act as a fuel reserve when you're not eating. And when you start fasting and eliminate glucose, the body has no choice but to burn its own fat, and we'll only ruin everything. If our diet is high in fat, we don't give the body the opportunity to start using its own fat. Let's say you go twice a day and add glucose to your food.  MCT oil and other fats And even if you are fasting and how do you expect to lose weight? Here is what I wanted to emphasize next, the fourth training snacks. This is probably a new concept for you, it was invented by someone in the seventies, it seems, but this does not mean snacks during training. Training snacks are essentially short training breaks during the day. A high-intensity interval five-minute workout before eating and then walking after eating. It turned out to be interesting when such a scheme was compared with a normal eating regimen and a standard training schedule during the day. It turned out that such short workouts during the day are much more beneficial for blood sugar, insulin sensitivity, and increase metabolic flexibility better than the old scheme. I recently mentioned this. Instead of sitting at a desk all day, take breaks every hour or every 2 hours for short workouts. This will break up the continuous sitting sedentary lifestyle and it is very easy to implement. After all, you spend only 5 minutes on training. If you want to enhance the benefits, then instead of training, conduct so-called sits. Sprint interval training is the most high-intensity type. Exercises at the maximum possible intensity limit, sprint and you do this for only 10 seconds and then rest, then another 10 seconds and rest again and this gives a significant result. This is exactly how I am now experimenting. Moreover, I run up the slope. I sprint up the slope to add resistance, I hold for 15 seconds and then stop. If you combine this with intermittent fasting, do not rely on fats, then in 30 days the result will be huge and not only in terms of weight but also for health in general. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.