I want to discuss four typical mistakes that people make when drinking lemon water. I made a lot of videos about lemons, limes, and lemon water and their benefits, but I haven't talked about the mistakes involved. The main benefit of lemon juice is its effect on kidney stones and its ability to prevent them. Citrates prevent kidney stones. I'm talking about calcium oxalates. I recently made a video about how their formation is associated with a lack of citrates, and the way to get more citrates is to drink more lemon juice. In addition, the vitamin C contained in lemon water is beneficial. But remember that if lemon juice is pasteurized, vitamin C is destroyed when heated. The juice can be supplemented with vitamin C in the form of ascorbic acid, but that's not the whole story. If you want to get vitamin C from lemon or lime juice, simply squeeze the juice from a lemon or lime, add water, or blend them whole in a blender, and drink it, and it will be very good. If you add, say, electrolyte powder with stevia, you get an excellent drink. In addition,  You will get electrolytes, but pasteurized juice is likely low in vitamin C. One of the typical symptoms of vitamin C deficiency is bleeding gums; if your toothbrush turns pink when you brush your teeth, you may have a vitamin C deficiency. Another symptom is fatigue. In addition, lemon juice has an antihistamine effect, so it is useful for allergies. Histamines are produced by the body when it reacts to an allergen, which causes mucus to be secreted, causing fatigue. They are like a toxin that causes fatigue. In addition, lemon juice has antifungal properties, so it is excellent for candida, other fungi, and bacterial infections. It can be drunk with other remedies as a natural antibiotic. In addition, lemon juice helps prevent the formation of uric acid and is therefore useful for gout. There is also pseudogout, in which oxalates are deposited in the joints instead of uric acid, and citrates are excellent at counteracting this phenomenon. In addition, lemon juice helps increase the absorption of iron. Well, okay, let's discuss the mistakes. Firstly, you should not drink lemon water right before eating. Why? Because even though it is lemon juice,  An acid is an acid, but when it gets into the stomach, as a result of reactions, it becomes alkaline, that is, in fact, we alkalize the gastric juice. But we don’t need this; it makes digestion difficult, so drink lemon water at least half an hour or now before meals. I drink lemon juice in the morning when I’m fasting, so it can’t mix with food. The second mistake is that you simply drink undiluted lemon juice straight from a bottle or something else in one gulp, while you allow this very, very strong acid to affect your teeth. Think about the pH of lemon juice; its pH is from two to three, which is almost like hydrochloric acid. If lemon juice constantly gets on your teeth, it can damage their enamel, so I dilute lemon juice with water and drink it through a straw and it doesn’t get on my teeth. Mistake number three: if you have an ulcer or gastritis, and you will immediately understand this by the burning sensation when you drink lemon juice, then this is a contraindication; you should not consume anything sour if your stomach is inflamed or if you have an ulcer.  So you can't have lemon juice, but you'll probably quickly realize that you have this problem, a burning sensation in your stomach after drinking lemon juice, and the last mistake. If you have alkalosis, if you have alkalosis, that is, your blood is a little more alkaline than it should be, and it should be a little alkaline. But if it's too alkaline, then it's alkalosis, and lemon juice can worsen the pH, increase the alkalosis, so many problems or symptoms that the body is too alkaline will worsen. How to understand that you have alkalosis by general symptoms: dizziness, numbness and tingling in the extremities, fingertips, feet, tetany, that is, twitching, or anywhere in the body, fast, shallow breathing. This is a kind of hyperventilation. Think about what happens when you hyperventilate: you get too much oxygen and a carbon dioxide deficiency occurs. And without carbon dioxide, the acid needed to normalize pH is not produced. People think that oxygen is the best thing in the world, and carbon dioxide is a waste product, but we need a balance of light and the other. We don't need one of these if you have Excess oxygen, even with oxygen therapy, has serious side effects. Especially if it's pure oxygen, swelling is possible, including pulmonary edema. This can be very dangerous, because carbon dioxide is needed so that oxygen can enter the tissue cells. But the point is that with alkalosis, when the body is too alkaline, breathing is impaired. This is similar to hyperventilation, and the last symptom of alkalosis is a feeling of heart palpitations and this kind of thing. I have another video about lemon juice that has millions of views if you haven't watched it yet. Check it out here.