You know, of all the videos on YouTube about apple cider vinegar, my video has the most views, 14 million. This morning I tried to find it and couldn't. It's there, but it seems you can't find it with a search. If you're looking for interesting information about apple cider vinegar, you might not come across my videos, so I decided to make another one to briefly tell you what was in the previous one and also give new information because that video with 14 million views was released 6 years ago before the interesting study on apple cider vinegar came out about how useful it is against belly fat and today I'll also talk about this. Consuming apple cider vinegar brings a lot of benefits. I'll tell you how much to take per day. Let me first retell the study that didn't exist. 6 years ago, this study was conducted in Japan, but 175 participants were on people suffering from obesity. It was a double-blind study and at the end of three months, they found that there was a significant reduction in visceral fat, which is the fat between the organs, and a reduction in subcutaneous fat, which is the external fat just under the skin. A reduction in triglycerides, cholesterol, a reduction in body mass index, and a reduction in body fat. body fat and a decrease in waist-to-hip ratio. This is amazing because six years ago the only study I found was on mice and there was some interesting information about mice. If you have an obese house mouse, start giving it apple cider vinegar because it suppresses the expression of subterranean genes. These genes increase fat deposits, and apple cider vinegar suppresses their expression, and that's cool. Who would like to see obese mice running around the house? The acid in vinegar is called acetic acid. It is known that it suppresses fat deposits, probably because it does something with insulin. It is great for regulating blood sugar. This is mainly what I was talking about 6 years ago. You might think that consuming acid increases the acidity of the body, and since acid is not a healthy condition, you shouldn't drink apple cider vinegar. This is completely false information. There is no single pH in the body. Each organ has a different pH. The stomach is highly acidic, the gallbladder is slightly alkaline, the small intestine is slightly alkaline, the urine is slightly acidic, and the large intestine is slightly acidic. The page should be acidic, but not that much.  How different things are in the stomach? It's needed to activate different enzymes for many different purposes. Apple cider vinegar helps with stomach acid. It helps digestion at the stomach stage, because that's where the main digestion begins. It begins in the mouth when you live, but this is preparation for the stomach. The stomach contains very strong acids with a pH from one to three. It's like battery acid. Hydrochloric acid releases enzymes to begin breaking down proteins and thoroughly processing food. So, you shouldn't increase the alkalinity of the stomach. Therefore, apple cider vinegar is used for many digestive problems. You definitely need apple cider vinegar for weight loss, and in about 3 months you can lose one or two extra pounds. At first glance, this isn't much, but if you look at how much volume one or two kilograms of fat takes up, it's a decent amount, especially when it comes to the waist and subcutaneous fat, which is right under the skin. This is a great help with blood sugar in the fight against insulin resistance, which is the basis of a slow metabolism. In other words, here's what I recommend: take one ounce of apple cider vinegar, which is 2  tablespoons or 30 milliliters and dilute it in a glass of water, this is a quarter liter, if you want, you can add lemon juice. I take a whole lemon and mix it with water in a blender, add apple cider vinegar and also a measuring spoon of my electrolyte powder, which contains all the electrolytes and trace elements, and it also contains stevia and flavorings, so it tastes good. Sometimes, apple cider vinegar can be bitter. If you don’t want electrolytes, you can just add 10 drops of stevia for sweetness, and with lemon, the mixture will taste like lemonade. But you know that if you take store-bought lemon juice, there will be almost no vitamin C in it, but if you add lemon yourself, there will be a lot of vitamin C. I recommend taking a whole lemon, mix it all in a blender, and drink it all twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening, that is, in total, 4 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar per day, every day in two doses. I recommend doing this constantly. If you are afraid that the acid will damage your teeth, drink through a straw. The only time I don’t recommend it.  Apple cider vinegar is for long-term fasting because you'll be in deep ketosis and you'll have enough acid, so don't add it to your diet. I mean anything longer than two days. I'm not talking about regular daily intermittent fasting. There's also a situation where I don't recommend it if you have a stomach ulcer, but you'll understand right away because this drink will make your stomach hurt. But in other cases, if you need something that will help you lose a few extra pounds, try it. And since the video about apple cider vinegar with 14 million views is hard to find, I'll leave it here. Watch it.