There are at least four minerals, the deficiency of which can significantly affect your IQ, and we'll talk about this today. IQ is your intelligence, the ability to solve problems, the ability to learn and understand certain things, as well as memory and the ability to recall. Some people believe that intelligence cannot be changed; you were either born smart or not, but this is not true. You can learn, train, engage in self-improvement, and much more. Even a mother's diet during pregnancy affects a child's intelligence and ability to solve problems. I'll talk about this, but there are other factors. For example, at school, no one taught you how to study or how to understand anything. This is, of course, my sarcasm, but children there are not taught how to study and how to acquire some skill. It is expected that they already have this. You go to school, try to remember something, reread, rewrite, somehow pass an exam. But today I want to talk about how nutrients affect your intelligence. First on the list is one of the most important microelements. It is not required in large quantities, only a little, but if you don't have enough of it, you will be in big trouble. Because if you did n't have enough iodine as a child, your IQ can drop significantly by points.  13 And even if the deficiency has already arisen in adulthood, it has been shown that IQ can drop by 15 points, and this is a lot, but iodine is most needed during pregnancy and breastfeeding. This is vital for a child. Iodine is involved in the construction of certain parts of the brain, for example, the hippocampus, which affects the learning process, memory, and the ability to navigate when we solve problems. The hippocampus and frontal lobes are mainly involved in this process, but the question of to what extent these parts of the brain are involved in problem solving and affect IQ remains open. It is surprising that some people who have received serious brain injuries have suffered huge damage to their brains, but most of their brains have simply been destroyed. Nevertheless, they retained their cognitive abilities and IQ. I just wanted to draw attention to this. We do not know how much brain a person probably needs less than they have. The second most important mineral is zinc. Zinc, as part of enzymes, is involved in hundreds of different reactions. It is definitely needed for diabetes. While it is needed for the production of neurotransmitters, if there is little zinc, IQ will decrease. Zinc interacts with copper, so they must be in the correct proportion in children.  People with autism almost always have very low levels of both zinc and copper. High IQ is highly dependent on the correct ratio of zinc and copper. Very low copper levels are also observed in people with Alzheimer's disease in superconcentrations. And finally, here we have magnesium. Magnesium is necessary for the production of ATP. It is needed to supply the brain with energy. If there is not enough magnesium, it greatly lowers IQ. If you look at this list, we see that we need seafood and crustaceans, and sources of magnesium are salad vegetables and leafy greens. You can also get it from nuts and other products. Various Iraqi seafood is important as sources of the first three minerals. I want to add one more thing. Vitamin D deficiency is also associated with learning disabilities, decreased cognitive function, and IQ. And here is another very, very important element, especially during pregnancy. Iron also affects IQ levels, probably because its deficiency causes anemia. It is associated with red blood cells and the transport of oxygen to the brain. There are a couple more points related to cognitive functions that need to be discussed, and this has to do with a product called sugar. Sugar makes a person stupid.  definitely leads to a decrease in IQ and here's another thing to keep in mind: the fact that a person has a high IQ and that he is, so to speak, smart does not mean that he is sane. A person can be very smart, but at the same time completely crazy. And when I say crazy, I mean that his actions are destructive. Speaking about the harm of sugar, we mean high blood sugar or diabetes. If you have glycated hemoglobin above seven, your ability to remember will be reduced. The ability to find the necessary information in memory will significantly worsen in diabetics. IQ is on average 784 points lower when a person suffers from diabetes. That is, he has high blood sugar, this leads to compression of the hippocampus. In other words, the hippocampus decreases, because of this, the ability to remember and the ability to learn decreases, which directly affects IQ. If you examine the brain in which insulin resistance is present, and it is always present in people with high blood sugar, for example, in diabetics, you can find a lot of damaged neurons. When you give neurons too much sugar, it eventually destroys their synapses and Slava  God has an alternative fuel that does not create such problems, but at the same time provides neurons with the necessary energy, and intelligence increases. This alternative fuel is called ketones. An interesting feature of ketones is that the brain does not need to adapt when switching to ketones, unlike other parts of the body. In other words, it does not need 3 days to switch to ketones; it can use ketones immediately. As soon as they appear in the blood, there is very little, or rather no sugar at all, in the brain; the brain does not create glycogen reserves. There is simply no room for this to store glycogen; it needs to be stored, and there is no room for a lot of water in the brain. The brain is completely dependent on the blood, which supplies it with energy, and this energy comes mainly from the liver. That is, if the liver is damaged, this can affect the brain. Moreover, if the brain has a choice between glucose and ketones, it always chooses ketones as its main fuel. That is, even if the brain is damaged, brain cells can still receive energy. In other words, the brain is very sensitive to your diet. There are two main indicators that determine whether you have ketones in your blood.  or not, and this is the glucose level and insulin level when a person switches to a keto diet and begins to lower glucose levels and also notices that insulin is also decreasing. He may still have problems for quite a long time and he may not notice significant improvements from ketosis. The main reason for this is that a certain basic constant level of insulin remains in his blood. And in obese people, insulin can be three times higher than normal. This is not related to the diet, it's just that their basal insulin level is much higher than that of people without excess weight. So if you have a problem with excess weight, you need to understand that the more you lose weight, the more insulin will decrease and the more benefits you will get. But this may take some time. So, what conclusions can we draw? You need to eat seafood, crustaceans, lots of greens, and also cut out sugar and switch to a low-carb diet. There is a lot of other useful information about the brain. If you haven't watched my video about brain health, I think you will be interested in watching it here it is.