I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about body types. I'll tell you how one differs from another, what are the true reasons for their formation, and I'll give some advice on each of them. We'll start with the first body type, but the point type, as you can see, is characterized by a saggy belly. With this type, fat accumulates in the belly due to a hormone called cortisol. Cortisol levels are not necessarily related to nutrition, they are related to stress, so sometimes diets don't give any results until you understand the stress component. There are methods for relieving the body of stress. I just want to emphasize this. I'm devoted to the point type. People sleep poorly. They often have a hard time coping with stressful situations. They are unbalanced. They have memory problems. They are drawn to salted chocolate. The list of symptoms is very long, but the main sign is a saggy belly. If I can recommend anything, the most important advice would be to minimize stress and improve sleep. In terms of nutrition, people with this body type are not recommended to follow a low-protein diet, since the body breaks down more protein instead.  It's better to eat more protein with each meal and also eat vegetables to get the necessary dose of potassium, because stress leads to the depletion of potassium stores in the body, and since we simply need it, we cannot do without it. It is needed to nourish the adrenal glands. This was for the point type, let's move on. The second body type is thyroid. It is immediately obvious that fat deposits are distributed throughout the body, not in any specific part, but everywhere. This is what is important to remember. If you have problems with the thyroid gland and the doctor prescribes you the appropriate thyroid hormones, but often you do not see changes and the weight does not go away, then this is a secondary problem, not a primary one. Because again, if you have been diagnosed and prescribed treatment, then the problem should disappear. If this is a secondary problem, it is better for me that the primary problem could be the primary cause of thyroid problems. The primary causes of thyroid problems can be excess estrogen, heavy periods, including due to poor ecology, as well as a violation of the outflow of bile from the gallbladder. So, if you have a diseased liver and a lack of bile, bile is a digestive juice secreted by the liver, then the body  It can't process the T4 hormone into T3, that is, you don't have the conversion of one hormone, another, in other words, 80 percent of the thyroid function depends on the processing of the T4 hormone into the T3 hormone through the liver and gallbladder, and if there is a problem, the hormones are not converted if this problem is not solved, then the thyroid gland will not function properly, and so first, excess estrogen, the second problem with the conversion of hormones is associated with the liver and gallbladder, and third, stress, the main problem, is the renal type, which can worsen so much that autoimmune diseases will develop, Hashimoto's thyroiditis or Graves' disease, again, you need to ask your doctor about all this, because usually doctors limit themselves to diagnosing problems with hormones, so problems with the adrenal glands can lead to dysfunction of the thyroid gland, because almost always problems with the adrenal glands lead to an autoimmune disorder, and therefore they are all treated the same way, using the adrenal hormones cortisol and prednisone as strong anti-inflammatory drugs, they also directly interact with your Immune system in general I'm just listing the possible causes of thyroid problems this may be the primary problem but usually it's a consequence they are the cause and you need to look deeper thyroid problems don't arise out of nowhere they always have a reason further what to recommend in terms of food for thyroid type the main thing is to understand the cause if the problem is with the gallbladder then choose foods that support the liver if it's not the case in the country then you need foods that level it out so everything depends on the causes then the third body type is liver it is more common in men and is characterized by a very large protruding belly but it also happens in women with this body type it is not recommended to drink alcohol before bed because alcohol destroys liver cells they should also avoid high protein foods it is best for them to eat plant foods but include a small amount of protein and be sure to increase the consumption of vegetables as they help the liver but again we need to find out the cause of this condition and instead of treating the liver it is better to pay attention to nutrition will improve the diet and help the liver thus the next fourth body type is ovarian for this body type characterized by fat deposits on the hips and a little baked  The lower abdomen is almost always due to high estrogen levels, and in these cases, you need to try to balance it out. Cruciferous vegetables are a key product for normalizing estrogen levels. People with this body type should also avoid foods containing hormones and choose foods without them, especially dairy and meat products. Here are the basic nutritional tips for these body types. I hope the differences between them are clear to you. I have many videos specifically for each body type, but I decided to make a presentation on them all. See you later.