I want to talk about something interesting regarding vitamin C. The first question is, is ascorbic acid vitamin C? Well, reference books say yes, but there have been some interesting changes. It seems that in old reference books, and I have quite a lot of them, vitamin C is not ascorbic acid. Subsequently, the definitions have changed. If you take a reference book of a recent edition, you will read there that vitamin C is ascorbic acid, but is this the type of ascorbic acid that is sold today as a vitamin? Is this the same vitamin C that is produced in nature? What you need to know is that 80 percent of all ascorbic acid sold in the world is made in China, and the rest is produced mainly by two pharmaceutical companies. I do not produce it from glucose, from sugar and other chemicals. Sometimes they use sulfuric acid, and sugar is usually corn. So is it possible that this artificial substance is the same as what nature produces? My opinion is that it is not the same, but completely different things. Would I personally take synthetic ascorbic acid in any doses? Well, maybe for a detox for cleansing, but definitely not regularly. I am filming this video to give you information about that type.  vitamin C that you may be taking so that you have a complete picture when someone says that there is no difference between synthetic ascorbic acid and vitamin C, that they are the same thing, in fact, this is not 100 percent true. There is a link to the study under the video. You can read it yourself. It is a very interesting study about vitamin C. The general conclusion from many randomized studies is that there is no or almost no benefit from taking high doses of ascorbic acid. There are mixed results regarding the reduction of side effects in cancer, but there are many incorrect interpretations. I will repeat all the data in the description. Read the studies regarding colds, cancer, benefits for the heart, mortality, sports indicators. All showed that the benefit is either minimal or absent. I think in the case of colds, it can help because ascorbic acid is an acid. I know that taking acid puts phagocytes into an enhanced mode and they work faster, and phagocytes are part of the immune system, they carry out cleansing, but apple cider vinegar gives the same effect. Why drink ascorbic acid? Firstly, there is little or no benefit. Secondly, most of the vitamin C is in  The ones on sale aren't real, they're synthetic. This is just one part of the entire vitamin C complex. If you take the natural version, vitamin C exists in a complex. It has several components, including an antioxidant component called ascorbic acid. There are other components called bioflavonoids. There's factor J, which helps with oxygenation. There's vitamin K, which is part of the complex. It helps reduce bleeding. There's also copper in the form of a certain enzyme. Because most vitamin complexes include minerals, the point is that in nature, the vitamin C complex contains many components, not to mention phytonutrients and other plant substances that we haven't even discovered yet. New phytonutrients accompanying vitamins and minerals are constantly being discovered. If you look at the 10 best- selling vitamin C supplements on Amazon and read the ingredients on the label, you'll notice that it says ascorbic acid everywhere. Sometimes they add a little rosehip, but they all contain large amounts of ascorbic acid, from 500 milligrams to 1.2 grams per tablet. The recommended daily dose is about 70 or 80.  milligrams, and you get from 500 to more than 1,000 milligrams of a synthetic version of only part of the entire vitamin C complex. This type of vitamin C is very inexpensive, it is very cheap, so synthetic vitamin C can cost 5, 7, 10 dollars for a whole bottle. This is due to the composition, so when buying vitamins, it is very important to read the label to avoid synthetics. Of course, I am not going to praise my vitamin C, but I want to emphasize two points: is it obtained from real food, is the entire complex listed, is the source of each component, is it made from blueberries, Barbados cherries, and strawberries, and so on, and in what form is it freeze-dried, organic or regular. All this is very important because the peculiarity of vitamin C is that it is destroyed by heat and direct light. This is why pasteurized processed orange juice provides practically no vitamin C unless ascorbic acid is added to it later as a preservative. The best vitamin C is the one found in food or in food- based supplements. The foods containing the most vitamin C are leafy greens.  It's found in berries, it's also found in lemons and their peels, but vitamin C can also be obtained from organ meats, liver, kidneys, adrenal glands, and even brains. The problem is that many people don't like organ meats, but many don't particularly like vegetables either. There are several foods very rich in vitamin C, such as peppers and sauerkraut. But if you buy cheap vitamin C, you know what you're getting. You're only getting ascorbic acid, which is chemically made from corn and sulfuric acid. Another point I wanted to highlight about vitamin C is that it's poorly absorbed if you consume sugar with it. If your vitamin C is bad and contains sugar, such as fructose and glucose, glucose and fructose syrup, or maltodextrin. And by the way, ascorbic acid is often isolated in pharmaceutical factories using a sprayed agent, such as maltodextrin, that is, sugar, and this reduces the absorption of vitamin C. Why is that because the vitamin C molecule is very similar to the glucose molecule? If  The body has a choice; it will always prefer glucose over vitamin C. If you eat empty carbohydrates and sugar and take vitamin C, you won't absorb it. The next thing I wanted to tell you is that if someone uses mega-doses of ascorbic acid as an antioxidant, there is interesting data that this so-called antioxidant turns into a pro-oxidant and enhances oxidation. That is, oxidation. This is due to the fact that in nature, antioxidants always work as a group and not as individual antioxidants. As soon as an antioxidant gives up its electron, it itself becomes unstable, becoming a free radical. Ascorbic acid often causes diarrhea, bloating, and can even act as a pro-oxidant. They are antioxidants. In general, vitamin C is best obtained from food or food-based vitamins. They are a synthetic version of only one part of the vitamin C complex, unless you are doing a quick cleanse of the body, but in the long term, and it is not worth taking. If you haven't watched my video about what vitamin C does, I'll leave it here. Watch it.