Today's show Let's talk about iodine You probably already know how important iodine is for the thyroid gland and that if a pregnant woman has an iodine deficiency, the child may have a lower IQ. Not to mention the structural defects of the body, I have a video where I talk about the important antimicrobial properties of iodine. Iodine can be used topically to kill viruses that cause papillomas on the body. It is an antifungal agent that can be drunk. It helps with nail fungus. And if you are in an area with high radiation, you must urgently take iodine to protect the thyroid from damage. But iodine has many other important functions that you need to know about, and I'm talking about this. Because most likely, many of you are experiencing iodine deficiency. More than two billion people on our planet suffer from iodine deficiency. If you do not eat shellfish, 40 different types of seaweed or kelp, and do not consume vegetables grown near the sea, you are unlikely to get enough iodine because there is very little of it in our soil. Farmers usually do not fertilize the soil with iodine. They use potassium, phosphorus, and nitrogen fertilizers, but not fertilizer with iodine. So, the amount of iodine in your body depends on the amount in your food, as well as in the soil in which this food or animal feed was grown. Before moving on to other points, first about hypothyroidism. If you have an iodine deficiency, hypothyroidism can develop because of it. And you need to know its general symptoms: swelling in the lower neck, problems with losing weight, you have tried everything but there is no effect. Perhaps it is the thyroid gland. Other symptoms include thin or sparse hair and even constipation. These are the main symptoms associated with the thyroid gland. There are more, but I wanted to talk about these first. The first point I want to talk about is the relationship between iodine and estrogen. Iodine protects against excess estrogen by helping to regulate its levels. Iodine prevents the development of so- called estrogen dominance in a person. When there is too much estrogen, this can cause severe menstrual periods, cysts in the breast, fibrocystic mastopathy, ovarian cysts are possible.  Also, excess weight in the lower body if there is too much estrogen. This increases the risk of breast and ovarian cancer. And in men, the risk of prostate cancer increases. So, iodine deficiency can lead to increased estrogen. The highest estrogen can directly block the thyroid gland, causing hypothyroidism. And a lack of iodine itself leads to the same lack of thyroid hormones, which is again hypothyroidism. So, iodine helps the thyroid gland produce hormones and protects it from estrogen, which can harm it. Iodine is also important for the liver. It helps detoxification processes. Iodine is involved in a two-phase detoxification, namely, it is necessary for phase 2. Especially for the removal of toxins such as plastic, herbicides, fungicides, heavy metals, and so on. They mimic estrogen destroyers. Iodine is needed to disassemble them and remove them from the body. If there is not enough iodine, they accumulate in the liver and other parts of the body. If you have thyroiditis and your thyroid gland is working slowly, your The ability to break down cholesterol will be low. What does this mean? This means that cholesterol in your body will be elevated, firstly, and it will be difficult to use it where it is needed. Cholesterol is a raw material for the production of certain things, especially vitamin D, cell membranes, and bile. Bile, which is stored in the gallbladder and produced in the liver, is produced from cholesterol, and it also regulates cholesterol. So, if cholesterol is low due to poor thyroid function or you are taking statins, this can lead to a bile deficiency. And if you do not have enough bile, and cholesterol is elevated, the bile becomes too concentrated or saturated, which can lead to the formation of gallstones or bile sediment. If you have such problems with the gallbladder, you will have pain or discomfort in the right hypochondrium and pain in the stomach area, especially after eating, this pain can radiate to the right shoulder from behind in the shoulder blade area. So, if you do not have enough bile, you will not necessarily have stones. But there may be sediment, which has the same symptoms and is difficult to identify. A lack of bile can create serious discomfort. And by the way, one of the functions of bile is to help you get rid of cholesterol. And this is another reason. which it can accumulate in the body, bile also helps get rid of excess estrogen and other things, such as toxins in the liver, there are enzymes that depend on iodine and because of them, toxins can accumulate. And when there is not enough bile, toxins can accumulate and for this reason, bile also helps kill bacteria in the small intestine, it prevents cybor syndrome, a type of bacterial overgrowth, bile acts like a detergent. And if there is no bile or there is little of it, bacteria begin to multiply beyond the norm and bloating occurs, especially when you eat fiber, vegetables, salad and similar foods. Another situation in which iodine can help is excess cortisol production due to stress, cortisol levels become high, iodine can help lower it. Another beneficial property of iodine is help in protecting against the effects of excess estrogen. If you eat a lot of soy products, this is probably why some of the Asian population can eat a lot of soy without harmful consequences for themselves. After all, they also eat a lot of seaweed, which contains iodine. So, good sources of iodine are seaweed  Cabbage or kelp is the same as shellfish, crustaceans, and any ocean fish. It contains quite a lot of iodine, but the problem, as I already said, is that the soils are depleted. If you do not eat seafood, algae, or fish, it will be difficult for you to get iodine. Sea salt also contains a little iodine, but there is some amount. Someone may wonder what about Hashimoto's disease. Do you need to take iodine in case of such a disease? There is no exact answer to this question, but I believe that your body should have enough iodine for Ishimoto's disease and other types of hypothyroidism. But in the case of Hashimoto's disease, you do not need to take a lot of iodine. Get a normal amount from algae. You need another mineral in slow amounts: selenium. Selenium can be obtained from seaweed, Brazil nuts, mollusks, crustaceans, and seafood. Selenium plays an important role in the conversion of thyroid hormone T4 to T3, the active form of T3, and Selenium helps to obtain it. Zinc will also be useful. Vitamin D helps reduce inflammation in Hashimoto's. But I also recommend a remedy like Myo- Inazitol to all patients with this disease. Take it too. I wouldn't be afraid to even take a little iodine. Just don't get carried away. I really want you to understand this important relationship between iodine and the gallbladder, iodine and cholesterol, iodine and the thyroid gland, and how all this can lead to various problems. I have a detailed course on thyroid health. In it, we carefully analyze the use of iodine and other remedies. I invite you to my course. You have a thyroid body type, hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, an enlarged goiter, cysts and thyroid nodules, and excess weight evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.