Why is everyone so worried about diabetes? You might think you have high blood glucose levels. What does this mean for our body? Well, in fact, there are four types of tissue in the body that can be harmed by high sugar. If you eliminate these complications, you won't feel so bad. Even if you have diabetes, it's as if you had high glucose levels without serious symptoms. I'll show you how to eliminate these complications. With this, you can eliminate the main cause of this problem if you want. Today, I'll talk about five vitamins that can eliminate the complications of diabetes. So, you have high glucose levels. What four types of tissue does it affect? ​​What does it affect the eyes? It affects the vessels that lead to the heart and other organs. It affects the nervous system, including the brain, and does not affect the kidneys. Well, it doesn't affect anything else. How does it affect the eyes? What does it affect the retina? This is the main nervous tissue of the eye, which first receives information from the brain, it perceives information and transmits it to the brain. This is how we see if we don't eliminate the complications of diabetes associated with the eyes. You can go blind. Macular degeneration, cataracts, and even glaucoma are also possible. In general, there are many problems with the eyes. The following problem  It is connected with the vascular system. Inside the vessels there is the so- called endothelium, the inner layer of the vessel wall. It suffers greatly from high blood glucose. So, diabetes causes plaques and blood clots. They impede blood flow to the heart muscle and can impede blood flow to the brain. So, high levels of glucose entering the vessels to the brain can lead to dementia and even to Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and other degenerative diseases of the brain. Not only the nerves in the brain suffer, but also the nerves throughout the body. For example, the nerves in the soles of the feet can develop peripheral neuropathy, which is numbness, tingling, or burning in the soles of the feet or in the hands and fingertips. Digestion can be affected. The autonomic nervous system can have many problems, and the last tissue affected by high blood glucose is the kidneys. High blood glucose levels in diabetes are the main cause of end-stage renal failure. So, high glucose actually destroys the kidneys. What do the kidneys do? They filter the blood, and all this blood with sugar passes through the kidney filter and causes it.  corrosion when we talk about complications due to high sugar, what does this actually mean, for example, when excess sugar in the blood comes into contact with we have red blood cells. We have hemoglobin, a protein, when excess sugar comes into contact with it, so-called glycation occurs. Glycation is a combination of sugar and protein to form a sticky substance, after which this stone can no longer perform its functions. This is what the 1C analysis measures. This is essentially a number that reflects the amount of glycated hemoglobin, the degree of damage to hemoglobin in accordance with a certain scale. This allows us to judge the severity of diabetes. This number should be low. And if it is high, we can use it to judge the amount of sugar in the blood. I also like 1C because it reflects the average blood sugar level over the past three months. This is better than evaluating it at a particular moment. The average value shows the overall picture better. So, glycation is a combination of sugar or carbohydrates converted into sugar and protein. The same thing happens. When you eat food that contains sugar and protein and that has been heated. An example of such food is barbecue ribs or if you eat, I don’t know, a hamburger in a well- known establishment in it.  There is a BUN, and these are carbohydrates, sugar, protein, and you wash it down with cola, and then you eat French fries. But it has very little protein, it is mainly carbohydrates and fat, and glycation also occurs when you combine sugar with fat. For example, French fries or a deep- fried donut, and especially ice cream, because it has a lot of sugar, fat, and a little protein, and you experience severe glycation. When you eat this, its products accumulate in the form of so -called advanced glycation end products, and the more of them, so to speak, stuck in your tissues, the more complications you will have, because this is accompanied by a lot of damage from free radicals, a lot of inflammation, and so-called oxidative stress, this is simply strong oxidation, the body, so to speak, rusts, and you can no longer use these tissues in any way, and these four types of tissue: the eyes, nerves, and brain, blood vessels in the heart and other parts of the body, as well as the kidneys, are the tissues in which more advanced glycation end products can accumulate than in tissues. The English abbreviation for these products is Age.  S in English means aging, so you can consider that glycation is simply very rapid aging, because such tissues become aged and damaged, and here's what's interesting: there are natural remedies that block glycation. Let's say you don't even change your diet, but you want to eliminate the complications of diabetes. Here's what you need to do. You can take 5 vitamins that will help you. These vitamins act as antioxidants. Moreover, they are very strong. The first and most important form of vitamin B1, which is called benfathiamine, benfathiamine helps eliminate these complications, especially peripheral neuropathy, but also helps other tissues, for example, the eyes. I'm not saying that it will eliminate the damage that has already occurred, but it will definitely reduce complications and new damage due to high blood glucose. So, benfathiamine is type B1, the first vitamin, number two. Vitamin C is a very powerful antioxidant, as you probably know, it is very, very useful for the inner layer of the heart, as well as for other tissues. I strongly recommend taking vitamin C in the form of a complex obtained from food products. You don't need to take just ascorbic acid. Synthetic vitamin C makes a big difference. The next vitamin is vitamin D. Vitamin D is a very important vitamin.  Perhaps even the most important vitamin, it also has a powerful effect against glycation, and the fourth vitamin is vitamin E. Vitamin E in the form of only trienols. I recommend taking vitamin E only in the form of only tocopherols, not because tocopherols are bad, but only trienols work much better, and I would buy a mixture or complex of only trienols, but without tocopherols, because they interfere with each other. So, vitamin E is very important for reducing glycation, and the last vitamin is vitamin B6. B6 also reduces glycation, and there are 5 vitamins. There are other means that reduce glycation. For example, alpha-lipoic acid is a good means, for example, a phytonutrient in green tea called JCG and begalactose catechins. For example, ripe garlic is another good means, and bitter Chinese pumpkin and quercetin and curcumin, as well as many other means. If you eat a salad in which there are few nutrients, for example, with microgreens, you will get many excellent things from these plants that prevent glycation. But you need antioxidants, so fasting. How  Intermittent and intermittent long-term fasting greatly reduces glycation by stimulating a thing called autophagy. Although autophagy is not a thing, but a condition that occurs in the body. It is the process of recycling old damaged proteins. And this is what happens during glycation. Proteins are damaged. They can no longer be used. And during the process of autophagy, all these proteins caused by fasting are cleared out, so you feel much better. The condition of the nerves of the brain improves. The condition of the heart, the immune system, blood sugar levels, and so on. Training also reduces glycation. Hello, this is all about complications. If you want to eliminate a deeper problem, you need to correct your diet. For this, you need to switch to a healthy version of the keto diet, and together with intermittent fasting. If you don’t know how to do this, come on. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.