There are five things you should know about the Abshteinab virus. Why is it so important to know more about this virus? The reason is simple: the likelihood that you have this virus is quite high. And it can create problems in your life. So the more you know about it, the less negative impact it will have on you. About 95 percent of people have this virus, which is more than 9 times out of ten. So this definitely concerns you, and this knowledge can greatly help you avoid problems with this virus. The Abshteinab virus is called the kissing virus. Because it is often contracted in adolescence. But even children can become infected, although they usually do not have symptoms. This is probably because viruses attack mainly one immune cell, the B cell, the B lymphocyte. This is part of the acquired immune system. It appears with age. But I think that the reason may be different. This information is taken from a new book that I am currently reading, Latency Strategies for Herpes Viruses. I suggested that my wife read it, but she said, " First, she is not interested in reading this book at all, but she wants me to read it and briefly summarize this book for her." Dedicated to the strategies that herpes viruses use to evade detection. Survive and continue to live in the human body. The term latency means that the virus goes into a dormant state. It hides in our body and our immune system, making it very difficult to detect, and sometimes impossible. There are certain viruses that, if infected, remain in the human body and, in general, they can come out under certain conditions. Other viruses are destroyed and eliminated from the body. Latent viruses remain in the human body. So, here is the first point out of five. The Epstein-Barr virus is a herpes virus and is one of the viruses that can go into a latent state when infected with this virus. It creates many problems with the throat, bland, it can cause severe fatigue, joint pain. I was infected with this virus. I think it was in the tenth grade. It was terrible. I couldn't breathe because my throat was completely blocked. I just had to endure it, but it can be difficult. After some time, all this seems to completely pass, usually in 2-3-4 weeks. And you think everything is gone, I will never have this again. What  Well, from viruses it must be kept in remission. To do this, you need to understand the little tricks and strategies that this virus uses to survive, and you also need to understand how to help your immune system keep it in check. Once infected with this virus, you will no longer get rid of it. No, I lied. There is one way to remove it from the body. I learned about it from this book. To do this, you need to remove the entire bone bridge and instead transplant new bone marrow from someone who does not have this virus, but perhaps this is a little impractical. So, the first thing you need to know is that you cannot get rid of it, so the goal should be to keep this virus in remission. What is absolutely amazing about viruses, especially about this virus, is the sophistication of their strategies that they have developed over a long time to stay alive and cause harm, despite the fact that in fact, viruses are considered something inanimate. It is just genetic material in a package. It is completely incomprehensible how they can be dead but at the same time live at the expense of our cells and develop these incredible strategies. I am writing a couple of them. The second thing you need to know about viruses Steinbar is associated with an increased risk of certain types of cancer, autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis is associated with the Epstein-Barr virus, as well as chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia. The coronavirus is reactivating. You may not have all the pronounced symptoms that you may have had when you were infected. This may appear as fatigue, pain, lethargy, fogginess, joint pain and muscle pain, headaches, and slightly swollen tonsils. Number three, and this is very interesting. This sneaky virus blocks, through various mechanisms, the key nutrients for immunity that our cells need to function properly. The first vitamin they attack is vitamin D. This virus has the ability to reduce the activity of receptors for vitamin D. It's like putting earplugs in your ears so that they can already hear. This way, the virus affects the site of vitamin D intake. Because somehow this virus knows that vitamin D strengthens the immune system and is closely associated with all parts of the immune system. So, by blocking these receptors, the virus gains an advantage. It reduces the activity of receptors for vitamin D. It binds these  receptors clings to them blocks them it also interferes with the metabolism of vitamin D because of this we cannot convert inactive vitamin D into active and it prevents the intestines from absorbing vitamin D the second nutrient attacked by this virus is zinc it attacks zinc transporters hindering the transport of zinc to various parts of the immune system if the immune system is deficient in zinc it cannot secrete the weapons it needs to destroy viruses there is a lot of research on the use of the active form of vitamin A retinol to suppress the Epstein-Barr virus so this virus blocks the absorption of vitamin A this is very important to know vitamin A is essential for mucous membranes and the creation of a mucous barrier to prevent this virus from penetrating tissues this is another reason why getting enough vitamin A vitamin D and zinc from food is so important but there is something else remember I said that the Epstein-Barr virus has an important mechanism for attacking B lymphocytes so the main nutrient that B lymphocytes need is vitamin A retinol and in addition  There is something else that the Epstein-Barr virus does to survive. It has the ability to bypass the immune system mechanism that regulates temperature during a viral attack. That is, this virus does not allow the temperature to rise. If you think that this is good, then understand that the immune system increases the temperature to deactivate viruses. And now this virus has reactivated, you are tired, your head is cottony, but there is no fever and the virus does not die, so all this just drags on week after week, month after month. This is important information, because if you begin to feel some of these symptoms or something indicates an infection caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, then you need to go to a sauna, take hot baths, you need to try to induce something like heat in the body. You can wear a lot of clothes, go to bed so that you are very hot and you need to avoid the cold. This can help. The fifth factor that you need to know is emotional stress, and more specifically, the loss of a loved one, loss of money, loss of anything. In general, any emotional stress when I practiced, I noticed that almost 100 percent of people became immune diseases. Chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia have always been emotional stress. What does stress do? Stress activates cortisol. What does cortisol do? It suppresses the immune system. It allows viruses to come out and create a lot of problems. The importance of this is why you really need to focus more on fighting stress than on anything else. After all, if you somehow manage to get rid of stress, you will drive the virus into remission. Other factors can also activate this virus: certain toxins, pollution, chemicals, medications, birth control pills. Yes, they increase the risk of the virus coming out of remission. Other infections such as colds, flu, COVID, even vaccines, including those popular recently, can activate it due to their effect on the immune system. Also, steroids such as prednisone and some steroid-based medications can activate this virus. Why is cortisol a steroid and it suppresses the immune system? Yes, it relieves inflammation. You feel better for a while, and a little later, everything suddenly starts again. Action plan: First, focus more on a very, very important factor: fighting stress by any means necessary.  Eliminate stress, especially chronic stress, if you're stuck between a rock and a hard place. Perhaps this is the main thing that needs to be eliminated to keep this virus in remission. If there are other factors, say, birth control pills. You've noticed that the virus comes out every time after this pill, then you need to use something. TV number two: take enough vitamin D, zinc, and retinol. There is one product that has a perfectly balanced vitamin D and vitamin A, and this is cod liver oil. There are plants that help suppress viruses, especially the Epstein-Barr virus. Below is a link to a study of the specific plants that I will name. I am not advocating using them all. But one or two would be wise. So, these are elderberry, echinacea, olive leaf extract, and also anthrograffis, this plant has a significant effect on the Epstein-Barr virus, and astragalus, this Chinese plant that helps drive the Epstein-Barr virus into remission. I have many videos on how to reduce stress, since this is the most important factor associated with this topic. I strongly recommend paying attention to my course in which we analyze all possible aspects of stress and what to do with it. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be a cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, you will find a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give you a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.