Today we will answer the question of why some people are very vulnerable to infections, while others, on the contrary, are resistant to them. Last week I was flying somewhere. I was sitting on a plane, and the whole time the passenger behind me was coughing profusely, and the woman next to me had her mouth covered with a scarf, and so I sat there and tried not to breathe this air. It was disgusting. I had no symptoms, but in such cases, you wonder if I got sick. After all, I’m sitting in a confined space with a bunch of viruses and bacteria around me. We never know. Let’s first understand the word vulnerable. This means someone who is highly likely to be negatively affected by something. We are talking about viruses and bacteria, microbes, which primarily makes a person vulnerable to microbes. First, you need to understand the two main components of immunity. There is innate immunity and there is acquired immunity. We all have innate immunity from birth. This part is responsible for a quick response. It already has the necessary functions: neutrophils, monocytes, natural killers with acquired immunity. The story is completely different at birth, this system is not yet developed. and are made up of so-called T cells and B cells. For this immunity to work, it needs to be trained. As soon as a person is exposed to various viruses and bacteria in the environment, the body begins to respond, learn, and form memories. When faced with a pathogen again, the immune system knows exactly what to do. It constantly tries to determine where its own cells are and where foreign ones are, so as not to kill the body's cells but to focus only on sweat. In some people, at certain periods of life, the acquired immunity begins to malfunction. It attacks itself, attacking both its own and others, and this is how autoimmune diseases develop. There are five main factors that make us vulnerable to infections. This list is headed by stress. There is an interesting study on the effects of bereavement. They studied how severe losses, for example, of a loved one, affect people's health. It turned out that when the immune system is suppressed, neutrophils ( white blood cells) are suppressed, and when the immune system is suppressed, it is less able to stop microbes that enter the body and cause damage. Part of the process is controlled by the fight- or-flight response of the sympathetic nervous system; another part is controlled by cortisol. Cortisol is one of the main stress hormones, it is produced by the adrenal glands. It suppresses white blood cells, so when cortisol levels are elevated, a person is more vulnerable to infections. If you have chronic stress over a long period of time, then cortisol levels decrease, in this case, the goofer, the force that suppresses an excessive immune response, disappears. So, problems with the immune system can be with low carta zole, so-called Addison's disease, in which people constantly catch viruses. Problems also occur with high carta zole, for example, with Cushing's syndrome. In this case, high cortisol levels. Both extremes make a person vulnerable to germs. Very often, people begin to get sick constantly after some severe stress. The next factor is low levels of vitamin D. Vitamin D is one of the most important vitamins for protecting the immune system simply because it regulates both innate and acquired immunity. Therefore, if you have a vitamin D deficiency, both of these systems will not work. The body will deprive itself of its defense mechanisms. This is the main reason why people catch colds in the fall and get sick in the winter. Simply because of a lack of vitamin D. It's not the cold, it's not the rain, it's the low levels.  Vitamin D, that's why I always recommend taking vitamin D in the winter months and spending more time in the sun in the summer, then it goes into zinc, it's very important for the immune system, with a zinc deficiency you risk contracting strep, especially in the lungs, where its levels rise sharply and it's more difficult to fight bacteria, zinc is necessary for some white blood cells that do this work, by the way, there are a billion people on the planet who are deficient in zinc and 4 vitamin A, it is very important for the mucous membranes of the sinuses, throat, respiratory tract, vitamin A is involved in the formation of the inner protective layer, so with a deficiency of vitamin A, the risk of getting a lung infection greatly increases, I forgot to say something else with a deficiency of vitamin D, the risk of getting a viral infection in the lungs greatly increases with a deficiency of vitamin A, phagocytes, the cells that kill bacteria and remove their remains from the body, are suppressed, it just so happens that there is a product that has a lot of vitamins A and D, and in equal parts, that's right, this is cod liver oil, perhaps your grandmother gave it to you as a child, then vitamin C, it is absolutely necessary for the immune system and Vitamin C deficiency makes you very vulnerable to microbes, as phagocytes no longer function, bacteria accumulate, and antibody production slows. Here are five factors that determine vulnerability to infections. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.