Today, we'll talk about the mistakes people make when practicing long-term fasting. Long-term fasting is perhaps the most important thing you can do for your health: to prevent cancer, to slow down aging, to strengthen the immune system, to restore brain cells, to fight chronic inflammatory diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, celiac disease, and inflammatory bowel disease. In short, long-term fasting takes your health to a new level; it's much more effective than even regular intermittent fasting. Whether you practice two-day fasting, three-day fasting, or even seven-day fasting, in this video you'll learn about the problems associated with fasting that can be avoided with the right information. If you practice long-term fasting, you need to know two things: first, insulin sensitivity increases greatly. If you had insulin resistance, you will now have insulin sensitivity. insulin sensitivity will be very high. If you break your fast with carbohydrates, this will be a big mistake. Now, about the first mistake: interrupting your fast with carbohydrates, including fruits and berries. You shouldn't do this. Let's say you've produced stem cells that are ready and will turn into something that will help you restore something in the body, for example, immunity.  overeating carbohydrates, especially when you break fasting, guess what these cells will turn into fat cells, you need them like last year's snow, because these cells could go to repair and restore body tissues that need it, for example, joints or bone marrow or thymus, I recently noticed that my voice began to break, the timbre became a little lower, I immediately began fasting to provide my immunity with everything it needed to recover and it helped because something happened in my body, and after a day and a half everything returned to normal, so fasting has a very strong effect on the immune system, there are people sick with autoimmune diseases, serious diseases with extensive inflammation, with the help of fasting they force these diseases to go into remission, of course, it is not customary to say that they are cured, but you can say that remission has occurred, and this is essentially, but you understand, fasting is now being studied by people who will subsequently make long space flights, it turns out that fasting can potentially protect you from solar radiation when you fly to Mars, this is simply amazing, you can eat steamed vegetables, maybe fermented ones, which I highly recommend, I also recommend bone broth a little  Chihiro egg, but besides this, try not to eat a lot. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates after a long fast, there will also be a massive transfer of potassium in the cells from the blood into the blood, a severe potassium deficiency will occur and this can lead to serious hypokalemia, that is, a deficiency of potassium in the blood. This will cause the pulse to jump, nausea, and in general, this is quite dangerous. It is called Rife-ginga syndrome. When you break fasting too abruptly, especially with carbohydrates, it disrupts the electrolyte balance. Don't forget that insulin sensitivity has increased, it will take some of these nutrients. There is no more resistance. Now everything is different. Number two, intense training or a lot of physical work immediately after a long fast is not necessary. The body has just gone through autophagy, restoration, renewal, so you should not further strain it. Engaging in intense training during or immediately after a long fast is not at all useful. There are no problems during intermittent fasting, but not during a long fast. This can overload the heart. After all, who knows if you have enough electrolytes for the heart. Some people do not take supplements at all during fasting, which I do not agree with. In short, during a long fast, let the body  rests, recovers and renews mistake number three do not repeat my mistake do not overeat after coming out of a long fast the temptation is always there you have not eaten for several days and suddenly all this food and you can start eating thinking how you missed it and end up eating too much so you do not need to understand that the digestive system has fallen asleep it is sleeping you and you will and you need to slowly many enzymes will not be ready they should help digestion as well as acids bile salts maybe you will not even have some bacteria the point is that if the system is overloaded ate too much you can get swelling or diarrhea or very severe nausea and discomfort with me it happened I experienced it on myself no need to pass eat a little no matter how much you want then wait a few hours and eat a little again then wait another five hours and eat some more you can a little more and that's it for today for tomorrow eat a little more in general you need to return to food gradually so that everything goes easy for your body the next mistake is drinking apple cider vinegar immediately after a long fast in fact you should not drink apple cider vinegar during a long  fasting and immediately after because you are in very strong ketosis and ketones are acidic, your page will also be quite acidic. Apple cider vinegar can make the body even more acidic. Instead, you can take a little baking soda, which is an alkali, dilute a quarter teaspoon in a glass of water and drink it. This will help neutralize the acidity. You can also just eat vegetables, they also help alkalize the body. The fifth mistake is instead of eating real food, dilute protein powders. They are not natural and there is nothing good in them. Remember, they usually have no fat, practically none. This will seriously affect insulin. If you look at the insulin index, in my book it is at the very top. Protein powder is better to eat normal protein with fat, for example, an egg, but in very small quantities. I decided to make this video to give you important advice on what to avoid during long-term fasting. Long-term fasting has many advantages. You just need to know how to get out of it so that the body is safe. If you haven't watched my other video on this topic, then watch it here.