Fasting is undoubtedly the most powerful way to improve your health.  If you don't eat for 5 days, will you die of hunger or will you be healed and have your internal organs healthy?  We will discuss what exactly happens on the first, second, third, fourth and fifth days.  Isn't it food that gives the body health?  The problem is that you are so used to eating that you find it difficult to break the habit.  By starving, we essentially reproduce the conditions in which our body evolved genetically.  Did our ancestors in the Stone Age eat three times a day with two snacks?  Could they order pizza at any time?  No, in those days people didn't eat very often. Our genes are now completely confused by what's going on, especially if the calories are coming from junk food.  When you start fasting on this program, your brain will become smarter, and every cell in your body will become very, very resilient. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Let's look at day one.  On the first day you will lose what is called glycogen. Glycogen is several glucose molecules linked together in a chain.  And for every molecule of glucose there are three molecules of water.  So, in reality, glycogen is a kind of sugar packet filled with water. And within the first day you will use it up, get rid of it.  And along with glycogen, a lot of water weight will go away .  It can take from half a kilo to 300 kilos on the first day.  And some people need to lose this weight because they have excess fluid.  On the first day, your levels of the hormone insulin will also decrease.  And this is the switch that determines what exactly you burn: fat or sugar.  When insulin is low, you can use your fat.  The point is that when you fast, you don't eat food, but you eat something else, your fat.  This is why your appetite disappears completely and you are so full that you don’t want to eat at all .  After all, you eat, and you eat continuously. You are eating the most biologically amazing food .  whatever exists, and that is fat.  And by digesting our fat, we do not use or burden the digestive system.  Fat goes directly to the liver and is used as fuel.  The fact is that the body senses that no food is coming in, so it begins to turn off all growth processes and starts to launch repair mechanisms.  So, all this happens on the first day of fasting.  I strongly recommend taking sea salt, potassium, magnesium, calcium.  These are electrolytes.  It's also important to take micronutrients and B vitamins. The body simply doesn't store many of these nutrients for long periods. If you start fasting without these reserves, a deficiency and side effects such as fatigue, muscle spasms, and dizziness are possible. But if you take these nutrients, there will be no problems at all. What can you drink while fasting?  The best tea is the one from which caffeine has been removed using a natural method.  I drink a lot of tea, it has few calories.  So, tea.  You can have a little coffee in the morning, but don’t add cream to your coffee, and especially don’t add sugar or any artificial additives.  Drink black coffee, you can drink water with a little lemon.  This is not a problem.  Lemon is low in calories.  I wouldn't add apple cider vinegar because it's acidic and you may already have a lot of acidity, so you probably shouldn't do that.  Here's something else I like to add to my long fast.  I try to get lots of sun, take long walks in nature, and get heat therapy, whether it 's a sauna, jacuzzi, or hot bath.  I can alternate this with a cold bath or a cold shower.  High intensity interval training.  perhaps one in these 5 days.  Let it be very intense, because by doing so we add a couple of amazing stresses to enhance this effect.  I also take some other supplements.  This is not a problem, because they are low in calories.  But I do not recommend taking collagen during this fast. It's best to drink bone broth if you 're having trouble. Create a beautiful body, restore your health, and initiate natural detoxification with intermittent fasting.  This is not a diet, it is a regime of eating and not eating. And you don't starve yourself. When you fast, you burn stored fat without the need for grueling diets and exercise. Intermittent fasting is perhaps even more important than a low-carb diet. After all, it is the frequency of meals that leads to chronically elevated insulin levels, which destroys many body systems, including your ability to lose weight. Losing weight with health benefits. Intermittent fasting also addresses the problem of insulin resistance, which is the cause of a slow metabolism. By practicing fasting, you improve your metabolism.  Lasting results, not temporary weight loss. I think you will be impressed with the results once you try it for yourself. Magical changes occur, the feeling of hunger goes away, you finally burn fat, and strong cravings for food disappear.  The results are simply fantastic.  I can say that this is probably the best thing you can do for your health.  Learn how to practice intermittent fasting to improve your health and lose weight in my new course. Follow the link below. Day two.  On the second day, you begin to truly enter into kitosis.  What is kitosis?  Ketosis is the burning of your own fat for fuel.  Kitoz brings a lot of benefits.  First: mental abilities.  Concentration, ability to learn.  Kena can be considered a natural antidepressant. On the second day, ketosis intensifies and the feeling of hunger decreases.  And this amazing process begins for us, which I will now tell you about.  This is called autophagy.  What is autophagy?  The body takes all the unnecessary waste and processes it into energy, into new tissues that it needs.  That is, our body behaves very economically. If we stop eating, it takes these resources that we don't need at all and that are clogging everything up and cleans them out. We have tiny waste processing plants, lysosomes.  These factories take various damaged proteins, break them down and produce new raw materials from them to create new cells.  This is autophagy.  That's why fasting is a kind of rejuvenating tool that helps you become younger.  Day three.  You are entering a deeper cetiosis.  Now the brain is truly happy.  And now the body's main fuel is ketones.  Someone might tell you, "Well, ketones are a backup fuel in case you run out of glucose."  This is absolutely not true.  Ketons are the primary fuel.  This is why, if the body is damaged by excess refined sugar, titonu can help heal the damage.  So, on the third day, you enter a deeper state of tiosis, your brain works better, your mood improves, and you are kind of euphoric, very happy and feeling good.  And all because you stimulate BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. What is this?  It helps create new brain cells, improves learning ability and intellectual potential. When I film a video on the third day of fasting, I hardly have to do any video editing.  Everything works out right away, as it should.  One, two, one, two.  But then I eat, and my thoughts start to get confused.  BDNF can increase fivefold on the third day of fasting.  Not everyone. Sometimes it increases only by one and a half times. Next we have what is called deep autophagy.  Let me explain again, autophagy is the recycling of old damaged elements, but it is also much more than that. Mitochondria are the cell's power plants. Chronic diseases are most often caused by mitochondrial damage.  And one type of autophagy is the processing of damaged mitochondria, which lead to the development of cancer.  That is, this alone is a big plus.  Secondly, if you have a chronic disease, say, hereditary or it is still developing, because some chronic diseases do not manifest themselves for 15-20 years.  Autophagy starts cleaning it all out. Autophagy also helps to clean out old intracellular pathogens, viruses, certain bacteria, fungi, and mold, that are located inside cells. And all this is in our cells.  But autophady will clear all this out.  Now let's discuss how this will strengthen your immune system.   Do n't forget to press the bell. On the third day, after 72 hours, your immune system will literally reboot. Old damaged white blood cells will be recycled to such an extent that you will build a new immune system.   The thymus gland, which sits above the heart and serves as a training ground for cells, begins to grow when you start fasting.  But with age, the thymus atrophies and decreases in size.  The condition of the immune system's stem cells also improves.  Stem cells are essentially a blank slate, a blank.  They have n't turned into anything yet, but they can turn into anything.  These are like neutral cells.  They bide their time, but they divide and create new stem cells.  And they are waiting for you to need some new cells. So, the potential of your stem cells is starting to grow, but not yet to its maximum extent.  It will really start to grow when you resume feeding. You are enhancing this amazing potential to create a new immune system.  It's pretty much the same as with training.  Let's say you had a super-intense workout, gave it your all, literally went to failure. The benefits of such training will be much greater than from a light one.  But you will notice it only after a couple of days or even weeks.  And it's the same here.  We fast for 5 days so that the effect will be greater at the end of these 5 days when we resume feeding.   The immune system was discussed.  Let's discuss the intestinal mucosa.  The length of our intestines is more than 8 meters.  And the mucous membrane is a thin layer, one cell thick, throughout the entire gastrointestinal tract.  And every 3-5 days this layer is renewed. So, you did not put any food into this long tube during those 24 hours. And now you are finally, probably for the first time in your life, clearing out this system, and it is given the opportunity to truly heal and restore itself.  After all, there is no food in it now that makes the body constantly work.  Moreover, our food causes severe inflammation.  But when we are hungry, none of this is there.  And the mucous membrane has the opportunity to recover.  And on the third day there will be a powerful surge of growth hormone. Growth hormone protects against muscle loss, so you won't shrink during these 5 days. Growth hormone helps children grow and adults stay younger.  On the fourth day, fat burning is at its maximum, and there is no feeling of hunger.  You are not interested in food, you don’t care about food.  The question is : how can your appetite disappear if you don’t eat anything?  The thing is that the body actually eats.  You are constantly eating your fat.  This system is extremely economical.  Everything continues to work, but there is no feeling of hunger.  On the third day there was also no feeling of hunger, on the second, perhaps, there was a little .  The point is this.  The longer we fast, the less we feel hungry.   I want to say something else.  If you have a lot of stress, something happens that can activate cortisol.  It can release some sugar, which can make you feel hungry.  In this case, a quick solution is to simply drink bone broth.  And believe me, you will get enough amino acids and feel great.  This can be a game changer for those who find it difficult to fast intermittently for long periods of time .  This is also suitable for those who fast for even longer periods. So, the body is being repaired, and different genes are being turned on. The body tries to survive as long as possible.  Therefore, all longevity genes are activated, and the work of all protective genes is improved.  For example, antioxidant networks begin to increase. Antioxidants can be obtained from food, but the body also creates them.  In addition, your microflora becomes more diverse. After all, microorganisms' genes evolved in the same way as ours. Only in the soil there were winters and droughts.  And these microorganisms had to survive, almost like our body.  It begins to fight and uses fuel more economically, processing resources if it is not fed.  And the sensitivity of our hormonal system also increases.  Hormones work better. Sex hormone genes can be switched off.  Even the menstrual cycle can stop during prolonged fasting.  The body simply says: “It’s better not to reproduce now, it’s better to turn it off.”  this system.  It will come back when you start eating.  Thyroid hormone levels may also decrease slightly.  This is not a dysfunction, but simply an adaptation to the lack of food.  On the fourth day, autophagy is simply off the charts.  Your cells attack precancerous cells.  Microbes, damaged tissue, and plaques in the brain begin to clean all of this out.  The level of inflammation is reduced very significantly.  A lot of improvements occur due to deep autophagy.  Next, day five.  All the beneficial effects remain, but at some point during the day we resume feeding.   It is very important not to eat a lot at once, because the entire digestive system has been asleep for some time and needs to be awakened slowly.  You need to eat perhaps a quarter of the calories you usually eat.  An egg and some sauerkraut .  Wait a couple of hours, then eat some soup and avocado.  Wait a couple of hours, eat some berries and a couple of nuts.  Something like that.  Don't switch to heavy meals for a couple more days. Move on to them gradually.  After all, if you overload the digestive system, it will cause severe nausea.  And it is very important not to consume sugar and other carbohydrates at this time . But bone broth is great because it's easy to digest.  It contains amino acids, vitamins and minerals.  With the resumption of feeding at this point, a vast restructuring begins. This is why it is so important to eat quality foods such as 100% grass-fed beef or lamb.  Pastured organic eggs, quality organic food if possible.  And now the growth processes begin.  After these 5 days, the condition of your skin, muscles, joints, and brain will improve enormously.  And as I said at the beginning of this video, you're going to turn on genes that would never have turned on if you had n't done this. These genes are protective genes that prevent damage to DNA, mitochondria, and protect neurons.  But if you do n't starve, there will be no reason to turn on these genes.  I don't know of a better way to create more health than this long fast.  But to be able to fast for a long time, you need to start with regular intermittent fasting.  And to learn the details of how to use all of this , you should pay attention to this course. Dr. Berg's workshop course.  Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach.  More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a keto coach, help people and achieve huge success.  Work from home on your own schedule.  Do what you like.  Sign up for the course using the link below.