Today we will talk about the 5 best exercises for knee recovery. I already have a video about knee pain, but there is no video on how to strengthen the knees, especially after an injury or during recovery. These 5 exercises not only strengthen the knee muscles, but also ensure symmetry of the left and right knees, as well as symmetry of the muscles in the front and back of the knee, which is very, very important. Usually, one knee or one ankle joint is injured. Because of this, a person gets used to transferring weight to the other knee, and over time, an asymmetrical load can accumulate. Let's say 20 years ago you injured your right knee, and today your left knee hurts simply because of many years of compensatory load. So, I will show you very powerful balancing techniques to combat pain and balance the muscles. Let's look at these 5 exercises. I will briefly describe the structure of the knee. This is the longest and strongest bone in the body. It is called the femur. This is the upper part of the leg and the front muscles of the thigh, called the quadriceps, are covered, and behind are the muscles of the back of the thigh. The knee joint is the largest.  a good joint of the body, it bends, straightens and can make a small rotational movement, and this is the upper femur connected to the lower tibia, the second longest bone in the body, so David puts a lot of weight on this place, on this joint, and on the side of the tibia on the outside of the leg, now we are looking at the right knee, this is on the right, on the outside of the tibia, this lower bone, there is another bone, the fibula, the purpose of the fibula is to stabilize the ankle so that you can perform all these amazing movements, run and do everything else, and there is also the patella, this is the kneecap in the front of the knee, it slides up and down along the grooves of the femur and tibia along this tendon, and there are also four ligaments here, the ligament connects one bone to another, and the tendon connects the muscle to the bone, and the purpose of these ligaments is to prevent lateral displacement directed outward or inward, forward or backward displacement, or torsion, that is, they firmly bind the joint, also there is a very  The hard cartilage that connects to the bone at the top and bottom is called articular cartilage, and between the bones there is a small shock absorber called the meniscus. This is how the knee joint is structured. Let's move on to five exercises. The first exercise is called a quadriceps stretch. This exercise improves the condition of the hip flexors and the upper thigh, as well as the condition of the quadriceps itself. We will strive to ensure that the flexibility of the left and right quadriceps is the same. So, in essence, you stand leaning against a wall. You lean against the wall with one hand, and with the other hand, grab your foot or ankle and pull up to the muscles of the back of the thigh. This is how you stretch the quadriceps. Pay attention to the flexibility of the left quadriceps compared to the right, because usually one of them is much stiffer, so you need to work with it more. Just stretch and hold for 30 seconds on each side. Do this twice. This is a quadriceps stretch. The next stretch is a stretch from the heel to the ball. Lean your hands against the wall and take a step back with your toes pointing forward. The beds should be on the floor, knee slightly bent, bend over to achieve a stretch for 30 seconds, then repeat with the other leg. Do this exercise only twice for each leg. This exercise stretches the back of the leg, and stretching the quadriceps stretches the front of the leg. The next stretch is called a half squat. This is more of a strengthening exercise. You stretch the quadriceps, gluteal muscle, and hamstring muscles. So, from a standing position, squat slightly. Your feet should be shoulder-width apart. Squat about 25 centimeters. Do not squat halfway. Bend your body at a 45-degree angle. Pause for a few seconds. Then stand up and straighten up completely. This is a half squat or not a full squat. Do this exercise ten times and do 2 or 3 sets of 10 repetitions. Do not overdo it. Extra stress is on me, but I need to start developing my quadriceps, hamstring muscles, and gluteal muscles. Number four is leg curls for hamstrings. To perform this exercise, you need to stand next to a chair, your feet should be hip- width apart. Raise your legs. Bend one foot, knee and lift your heel toward the ceiling. Raise your upper body as high as possible, keeping your hips forward. Hold for 5-10 seconds. Do two to three sets of 10 reps. After doing leg curls, do the fifth exercise: straight leg raises. It 's important to know that the quadriceps and hip flexors help lift the leg, so this exercise helps strengthen both of these flexors. Bend your foot, pointing it upwards, to feel your calf muscles contract. When the muscles get stronger, add weights to your ankle. First, add a little over 2 kilograms, and then eventually 3, 3.5 kilograms, and even maybe 4.5 kilograms. Start without weights. I highly recommend using something like a fitness mat or a regular carpet. Lie on the floor with one leg bent and the other straight and extended in front of you. Contract the quadriceps of your straight, extended leg and slowly lift it up to the height of your bent knee. Hold it in this position for about five seconds.  then lower it onto the mat and repeat this ten times, do two or three approaches, and so these are 5 exercises that will make the tissues of your legs around your knees symmetrical, strong and flexible. I have another important video about knee pain that is worth watching, you will like it here is the link