Hello, today I will tell you about ways to fall asleep that you may not have heard of yet. With their help, you will be able to rest and will spore like babies, although babies usually do not sleep but cry all night with the expression has taken root, this should help. 1. You should lower the temperature in the room. I think this technique is very effective. If you fall asleep at an ambient temperature of 20 degrees, you are guaranteed a longer and deeper sleep than if you slept in a warm room. A very simple method, but it helps. 2. Acupressure. For this, you can use a massager like this or just your hands. I recommend pressing on the area of ​​the body that is most tense. Think about what is preventing your body from falling asleep. Something in the body just won't turn off and some parts of the body are tense, most often it is the back or stomach or even the chest. There are several acupressure techniques and stretches that can be performed to relieve stress and then it will be easier to turn off at night. The first point is in the middle of the back. Use the said towel or massage roller. Sit on a chair and lean back completely, that's where the sympathetic nerve ending is.  nervous system responsible for the reaction to stress, the technique shown will help quickly relax the entire upper body and especially the thoracic region, try it and then immediately lie down, you will see this will help you fall asleep, the next technique is aimed at the prize cheese points in the abdominal area, a link to a detailed description will be under the video, but in short, this is how you can relieve stress from the digestive organs by pressing on the points associated with certain organs, because stagnation or overload in the organ can cause movement in this area, if you perform these acupressure techniques every evening before bed, I assure you you will sleep much better, the third technique immediately before bed take a piece of paper remember all your pressing problems everything that causes doubt and indecision and you write it down throw them out of your head so as not to deprive them at night it helps a lot I do this all the time in the morning I have a ready list of what needs to be dealt with next, the fourth technique turn off the light, so many people try to fall asleep in bright light an hour before bed dim the lights do not need to expose your eyes to sky light is better than soft diffused because darkness stimulates the production  Melatonin activates serotonin, which helps you sleep, so turn off the lights about an hour before bed. For the fifth dose, eat celery. It's very simple and very effective. If you practice intermittent fasting, celery will almost take you out of ketosis. See, it's mostly fiber with a small percentage of carbohydrates. I wouldn't worry about it, but if that worries you, that is. Eat celery immediately after your last meal. From experience, I can tell you that if you eat it in the evening, it will really help you sleep. It contains a substance that lowers blood pressure and relaxes the nervous system. Try it yourself and decide if it's right for you. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, share it. It might be useful.