Today we will discuss very good natural remedies for myocarditis, including autoimmune myocarditis. There are plenty of videos on the Internet from which you can learn about the possible causes of this disease, including viruses, medications, vaccines, and some toxins. We will not dwell on this, but will talk about what natural remedies there are, what alternatives you can try, and why they are worth trying. The essence of myocarditis is that the heart muscle becomes inflamed, and this can then lead to fibrosis, which causes a whole bunch of problems: dizziness, shortness of breath, chest pain, exercise intolerance, chronic fatigue, arrhythmia, and so on. While studying this topic, I found a lot of research devoted to the remedies that I will talk about. I have arranged them in order of importance, and the first of them is called Japanese rhinothria, a plant that can literally fill everything around it, but it has very interesting properties. Firstly, this plant contains resveratrol, a well-known phytonutrient for rejuvenation, and it also contains the so- called M1, a natural anti-inflammatory substance and also an antiviral agent.  and this is the first thing I would recommend regarding dosage. Follow the instructions on the package and take it once a day. The next most important remedy is a type of vitamin E, but not only ferols. The so-called tocotrienols and not just tocopherols. There are several types of them. You can get a mixture of Alpha Beta Gamma and Delta tocotrienols and tocopherol-free tocopherols. Why exactly? Tocotrienols have very interesting properties. They help slow down the development of fibrosis. If you have inflammation of the heart muscle, then scar tissue is the worst outcome, and only tocotrienols can help avoid this. In addition, they have a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. So, reducing inflammation plus blocking the transition of inflammation to fibrosis is a very beneficial effect. The effect of tocotrienols inside blood vessels has also been studied, but in our situation, their effect on the heart muscle, the myocardium, is important to us. Only tocotrienols and tocopherols should not be mixed because they compete with each other. We don’t need this. We only need tocotrienols without tocopherols. Only tocotrienols are approximately  50 times more powerful when going with myocarditis, we make every effort to extinguish this fire. I recommend taking the indicated dosage, multiplying it by three and taking it three times a day, morning, afternoon and evening, if you take them with food or with a small amount of olive or coconut oil, they will be absorbed much better. The third remedy is vitamin D3, because vitamin D3 is the most powerful vitamin for inflammation. It’s not even a vitamin, it’s a natural hormone with very strong anti-inflammatory properties. We need to remove inflammation, and vitamin D3 is vital. It also helps very well with autoimmune disorders. I recommend taking 10 thousand IU 2 times a day, which makes 20 thousand international units per day, divided into two doses: 10 thousand IU in the morning and 10 thousand IU in the evening. The action of vitamin D is similar to the action of cortisol, only without side effects. One of the medications for this disease is steroids, because you need to remove inflammation, and taking vitamin D creates an effect like steroids, but without side effects. The next remedy is called olive leaf extract. You are familiar with olives and olive oil, but this substance is contained in the leaves and is called  it is lyonolic acid, a study on mice showed great benefit of this substance in autoimmune myocarditis, olive leaf extract has both anti-inflammatory and antiviral effects and is usually recommended as a remedy against viruses, but in our case, this is also an excellent option with minimal side effects. And the last remedy that I recommend is called cardiotropin pmg, take one tablet before bed. Why I recommend this remedy? The fact is that it contains an extract from real animal heart tissue when it gets into the stomach, the antibodies that you have and that attack your heart will chase this bait in the stomach, which will reduce the number of antibodies attacking the heart, this is a kind of strategy to redirect the antibodies attacking your tissues to another place to the bait. Is there scientific evidence that this works? There is none, but I believe that it can help you. If you want to try, you have nothing to lose and may benefit. I also do not recommend significant physical activity because the heart is inflamed and you should not aggravate this problem. Light walks are acceptable, but no intense exercise. The fact is that our heart does not rest at all, it works continuously, but at the same time it also  It's inflamed, and we need to remove the inflammation. That's why you also need to switch to a healthy version of the keto diet. You need foods with natural anti-inflammatory properties, plus regular intermittent fasting. That is, no snacks are needed here. Long-term fasting is not necessary. Only intermittent fasting can help reduce inflammation. But in my opinion, this is a very good plan for getting rid of myocarditis, including autoimmune myocarditis. We touched on the topic of healthy ketogenic diets with intermittent fasting. I have a large course in which I analyze how to start them correctly and how to practice. The link is below. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.