Do you ever get bloated? I suffered from it. For many years, it was very uncomfortable, it seemed literally after any meal. I felt like I was pregnant. It was very difficult to sleep. It was difficult to constantly pull in my stomach, trying to hide it so that no one would know. I was bloated. So here's what you need to know about bloating. It has many different causes, there is no single cause. I'll go over them all, but there is a very simple way to determine what caused it in the first place. Think about when this bloating started. Was it yesterday or today? What time did it start? And what did you eat right before it? Frankly unhealthy food or processed foods? Maybe sugar alcohols. Let's say you went on chum salmon and ate a little. Well, I don't know. Cleft, erythritol, mannitol, something like that. And this led to bloating because it was new to you, or you saw in my videos that I advised eating 7-10 glasses of greens a day and now you are bloated, or was it a cruciferous vegetable that you usually don't eat and you bloated from it, or some dairy product.  Is this a common cause of bloating or did you buy a Keto Snack Keto bar which contained, say, corn starch? You just need to avoid this product and the bloating will somehow no longer exist. Once a woman came to see me complaining that she was bloated like she was pregnant. And later it turned out that she really was pregnant, that is, the bloating may be pregnancy. In general, you need to understand when the bloating began, what unusual things you ate before this and just avoid it. But you have bloating. Is there any way to get rid of it? Yes, you can, this is the lower rib in front on the right. And this is on the left, that is, this place. You can simply massage the two main organs of the digestive system that are most often responsible for bloating. The first is the gallbladder, it is on the right, the second is the pancreas, and no later. You just need to start massaging immediately under the lower rib. I usually press on a point a couple of centimeters to the right of the center and another couple, maybe even 4-5 cm down from the ribs and pressing inward in this place, massaging a little to the left.  and to the right and so I hold in this place for about two minutes, the main thing is not to press with something sharp, you can use a massager or the blunt end of some kind of wood, but not a sharp object, then Repeat on the left, start massaging these two places and you will remove congestion in these two organs and bloating. For the most part, it will pass, it will help the release of gas or liquid. I want to make one remark. One of my patients noticed that constant bloating stopped bothering him after a trip to the beach in Florida. This was because this person was experiencing severe stress and every time he was in the sun, his cortisol stress decreased and his stomach decreased and completely disappeared. This is all because cortisol stress causes inflammation and swelling in the abdominal area. This is for your information if you notice that when experiencing a stressful event, your stomach swells, especially towards the evening, but Let's go through all the organs and discuss the possible causes of bloating. Let's start with the stomach. If there is not enough acid in the stomach, that is, the pH in it is too alkaline due to taking  antacids or something else, you may develop either acid reflux, also known as GERD, also known as heartburn or indigestion. Indigestion is a serious warning sign that you don't have enough acid in your stomach or bloating. If you have bloating, indigestion, or acid reflux, then most likely the cause is in your stomach and stomach. The fact is that this is one of the food pathways, and if you, like many others, don't have enough acid, then everything you eat will pass through the gastrointestinal tract and, being undercooked in the stomach, it will continue to do so, and other organs will have a hard time, so it is important that there is enough acid in the stomach to begin the process of breaking down proteins first with the right amount of acid. If you need more acid, you can take betaine hydrochloride, it is sold as Betaine hydrochloride, you need to drink 5-6 pieces during meals, this will greatly help the stomach restore acidity, or you can also take apple cider vinegar, either on an empty stomach or with food, dilute one or two tablespoons in water, and this will help you with digestion. The stomach is the next organ, the gallbladder, its purpose is to concentrate bile.  which, like a remedy, helps break down fats, bile becomes five times more concentrated in NM. And when you eat, it is secreted into the small intestine and mixes with enzymes from the stomach to break down various substances. If there is not enough bile in the gallbladder, you may not have a gallbladder or it is sluggish. You may develop belching or bloating, or you will feel nauseous. There will be many symptoms, but bloating can occur with a lack of bile salts, or you have bloating combined with belching, or you have a feeling of fullness on the right side under the ribs, or you have pain going through the right shoulder here or here to the back here or to the neck. Do you suspect the gallbladder? Then you need purified bile salts. A formula for the bladder to support the gallbladder. These are warning signs that it is time to take care of the gallbladder. You can also do this and this will help determine whether the gallbladder is the problem. Just press on the right side under the ribs and start massaging. If the discomfort on the right side goes away or the bloating subsides, then that is probably the cause.  It may be that you need support in the form of bile salts. So now the pancreas is on the left, but it goes into the center and can move slightly to the right. If your pancreas needs help, say you lack enzymes for various reasons. Maybe you have diabetes or you used to eat a lot of carbohydrates and you lose pancreatic function, and the pancreas produces enzymes. Diarrhea may appear. You may have floating stool, oily, not sinking in water. This means you lack the enzyme for breaking down fat, lipase, and imagine that you will have severe bloating. If this is the reason, then you need more enzymes. You will need to take supplements with a wide range of enzymes. You also need to be sure to consume foods with enzymes, say, raw lettuce leaves. So that you have more enzymes for digestion, and fermented foods, for example, sauerkraut, will help relieve the load on the pancreas. The pancreas also becomes easier when you reduce the amount of insulin needed, the harder the work of the pancreas is. This is the pancreas. So for the stomach, more acid is needed for bile. Bile for  pancreatic enzymes we go further along the gastrointestinal tract and here we have the small intestine, it is right in the center in the small intestine 90% of all digestion occurs food particles in the stomach are broken down into amino acids the gallbladder breaks down fats the pancreas helps break down food and there are enzymes in the small intestine too But there should not be bacteria in it a lot of beneficial bacteria should be in the large intestine it is located further the small intestine is a long tube through which food passes enzymes and other substances act on food break it down help it absorb so that all this goes to the liver and other parts of the body but many people have bloating in the small intestine they even have fermentation in the small intestine fermentation is the action of microorganisms on food on carbohydrates fiber and sugar an example of this process can be my chickens I have about 16 chickens we keep them for eggs and I enzymes for them feed for fermentation of feed it needs to be soaked in water for 3 days and bacteria present in the grain By the way this Organic grains affect carbohydrates, breaking them down, and it's much easier for chickens to digest such food. In addition, a lot of gas is released during the fermentation process, such as carbon dioxide. As you can see here, microorganisms produce a lot of carbon dioxide. It looks like boiling. But this is just gas escaping. Guess what, if excessive fermentation occurs in your small intestine, this gas will produce a bloating effect, that is, bloating. You may have an accumulation of either fluid or gas in your small intestine. After all, if you cannot digest some food in the small intestine, you will retain fluid, this is one of the causes of bloating, but there may also be fluid along with gas. So, this condition of the small intestine is called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. This is a situation when bacteria that should normally be in the large intestine are in the small intestine. They have no place for them, and incoming food is fermented in the wrong place, and you will have a large accumulation of gas and fluid. How can you recognize that you have small intestinal bacterial overgrowth? In this case, consuming probiotics will make things even worse for you.  Bloating will increase when consuming greens or fiber. You will feel worse. Bloating will increase. Why? Because these bacteria are an enzyme. At this stage, and consuming such food will make you worse. This is an indicator that you may have SIB. You can get tested. What to do in this case? You need to avoid probiotics and you need to avoid fiber. So, you will need to sit on a carnivore diet for a while, that is, do not consume vegetable fiber, no vegetables for a while, maybe a month or two. To reboot the gastrointestinal tract, you need to consume oregano and garlic as natural antibiotics. You can also consume cloves, thyme, and even sage. Everything in that spirit is also natural antibiotics. But oregano and garlic work best. Another very important measure is fasting, intermittent fasting. Fast for as long as possible. This will reboot and cleanse the gastrointestinal tract. This is through the small intestine. Well, we have reached Tolstoy in NM. Excessive fermentation can also occur, causing bloating and gas. If your problem is this, then the cause may be an imbalance of microorganisms. There may be too many of some microorganisms or  few In this case, increasing your vegetable intake may help, more fiber Many people I know with this problem eat almost no vegetables The average person consumes about one and a half cups of vegetables a day, this is very little Microbes feed on fiber But if they are not fed regularly, they may not grow to the required quantity or to the required variety In this situation, probiotics and klicha will be useful If you feel better when taking probiotics or fiber Or both in sauerkraut there are a lot of bacteria and fiber If you feel better, most likely the problem is in the large intestine If you feel worse from sauerkraut, most likely the problem is in your small intestine This is a good way to recognize these two problems In general, I wanted to go through the entire gastrointestinal tract to help you better understand the different organs of the gastrointestinal tract and the possible cause of your bloating so that you can eliminate it I also want to mention that if you are not on a healthy or intermittent fasting, then I would start solving the problem with them, deal with them before doing anything else Maybe it will be enough for you to adjust the diet and time meals to get everything going again. If you're interested, I have a very comprehensive course that will help you master this. The link is under the video. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that it doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.