This video will be about the 5 best health tips of all time. I was asked to make this video. I sat down and thought about which tips would be the most important and which ones to focus on. To do this, I first had to look at the worst advice of all time. Some of them are written here. So, by looking at the opposite side of the question, you can derive the best advice. The problem in most cases is that people search for information in an internet search engine and try to find the best advice, but they find either the worst advice or the most banal things. I want to focus on the most important things that are most beneficial for health. The mainstream says eat less fat, less salt, drink liters of water. There is nothing wrong with drinking water, but you can overdo it, especially if you have a lack of salt. You dissolve electrolytes when you drink a lot of water. Lean protein has been brainwashed into thinking that it is better than fatty protein, but you know that lean protein stimulates the hormone insulin. By the way, my first piece of advice is related to it. Most of my viewers already know about it, but if you don’t know, watch this: don’t let insulin levels rise, keep it low. This is probably  The most important health advice because it will prevent a lot of health problems from inflammation to fatty liver from metabolic syndrome Dodi Bertone Iraq and the list goes on for a long time to do this remove carbohydrates eat more fatty protein because fasting on protein according to the insulin index scale stimulates insulin more than fat for the same reason you need to eat the whole egg and not just the protein vegetable oils namely soybean corn rapeseed and cottonseed cause inflammation and provoke insulin resistance so if you were told that saturated fats should be replaced with vegetable oils then you were given very bad advice we need to get rid of vegetable oils and use more saturated oils coconut butter and the like other harmful advice lose weight to get healthy if you google any disease, no matter even heart disease, they will tell you that you need to lose weight lose weight because obesity is a risk factor what I have advice for better health first then weight loss and not the other way around it may sound just banal and idiotic obvious but it works because instead of losing weight  You need to focus on your health in the process, you will lose weight, this will be a bonus, and you will also get many other benefits. People who focus on losing weight choose the wrong steps and ultimately undermine their health, especially if they were advised to eat fewer calories. That's what they are told. It doesn't matter what diet is important to have few calories. How many times have you heard this bad advice? By limiting calories, you slow down your metabolism and deprive yourself of nutrients. By switching to a healthy diet, you will increase the amount of nutrients, change your body's fuel to what it needs, you will lose weight and look better. The next bad advice is to eat little by little 6 times a day to avoid overeating. This is the worst advice ever, because every time you eat, you stimulate insulin. It would be better to do intermittent fasting. This is very important. You need to skip breakfast. I used to recommend eating breakfast, but then I discovered that this is bad. I changed this advice in my book. You don't need to eat breakfast. You need to increase the time you fast. This will help you switch your metabolism to your own fat, and this will significantly improve your health. Instead of reducing calories, you need to reduce the number of meals, and most importantly, don't snacking because every snack stimulates insulin. These two tips could have been combined, but I decided to separate them. Training is good and it is. I would even add them here as a sixth health tip. Reduce the amount of added sugar. It's funny that they advise reducing it to 6 tablespoons of sugar a day. This is still too much to enter ketosis because insulin will rise, so you need to get rid of sugar completely. The advice is not bad, but far from the best in the world. Eat breakfast. We've already talked about this. How do you like this advice? There is no such thing as junk food. You need to eat a variety of foods. Food will give you fuel. You probably thought that fast food manufacturers and sellers were very bad advice. Junk food exists. It will temporarily give you fuel, but it will increase insulin, which will cause all sorts of problems. There are absolutely no advantages to eating certain foods. This also applies to the next tip. The main thing is to know when to stop. To enter ketosis, to force the body to burn fat, you need to lower insulin levels. To do this, you need to cut carbohydrates to a minimum, but with this advice, you can't achieve this. You need few carbohydrates, moderate protein, and here, it's moderate, and a lot of fat in this proportion, so don't  The main thing is to know when to stop, but they tell you to know when to stop. The main thing is fast food, sweets, and alcohol. Health has never improved from this. To be healthy, this advice is not suitable. There should be very little of something. The following statement is true. Not all diets are suitable for everyone. Each person is unique. What works for one may not work for another. This leaves you confused and you start trying one diet after another in the hope that one day you will find the right one. I disagree with this statement because our bodies are very similar in certain things, especially when it comes to hormones, especially insulin. Any diet that lowers insulin will help. Any diet that lowers insulin will improve health. A diet that lowers it more will bring more benefits. And those diets that increase insulin are bad diets. If you understand how fat is burned and which hormone is responsible for what, then you can predict which diet will be good and which will not. We talked about this too. Tip 4: When you are naked, that is, on a low-carb diet, it should be a healthy version. By this I mean that you need to improve two things: quality. The products should be organic, grass-fed, and the amount of nutrients is important here.  There are foods that should be rich in nutrients to replenish possible deficiencies, and this is what I call healthy ketone. You need to practice healthy ketone. Keto is a fat-burning product. This was the fourth tip, very good, and the fifth tip is exercise and sleep well. This will give you a lot of good things, including reducing stress. This was the fifth tip. When I looked at all these tips, I considered them the best. I couldn't find anything more important. If you suddenly remember something more important, please write in the comments. I invite you to my healthy ketone course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.