Let's talk about the best nutrients for removing plaque and vessels under the plaque. I mean three things. This is a combination of cholesterol, a certain protein that makes up scar tissue, and calcium. This patch is formed from these three components when there is inflammation or another problem inside the vessels. First of all, you need to know that there are two types of plaques. There are soft plaques, there are y plaques, or calcifying plaques. After analyzing the C coronary calcium index, you are told a number. This number is an indicator of how many plaques you have in your vessels. They are mostly calcifying. After analyzing the C coronary calcium index, you are told a number. This number is an indicator of how many plaques you have in your vessels. They are mostly calcifying. After excluding harmful foods from your diet, your health begins to improve. The result may improve, but this does not mean deterioration. More soft plaques simply turn into hard plaques, they become more stable. You can take other tests. I will talk about them at the end of the video. They mostly detect soft plaques. The fact is that analyzing the C is not the best test for detecting soft, dangerous, unstable plaques, and in a minute  I'll tell you what tests you need to take to evaluate this problem. Usually, this problem is associated with glycation. What is glycation? This is when sugar and protein are involved in one protein that sticks together and causes inflammatory problems. Soft plaques are usually associated with higher levels of oxidation, especially LDL oxidation. I don't mean LDL in general, but those LDLs that are more harmful. There are two types of LDL. There are much smaller LDLs, they are called small dense LDL particles, these are more dangerous, more harmful LDLs. There is another type of LDL, they are completely different, these are large floating LDL particles and LDL of this type. They are not harmful. Just don't forget that there are two types. I'll show you a very simple way to determine from the results of your blood test. What type of LDL you have. The first biomarker is a long term called MLA peroxidase, and the second biomarker is called LPD PL2. These two biomarkers help you understand if you have soft plaques. There is another examination method, and it is perhaps even better if it is available to you, it is relatively inexpensive.  A quick, non-invasive method is an ultrasound examination of the carotid arteries. It predicts the problem with a probability of 98.6%. You also need to look at other important indicators. One of them is PVP. You need them to be higher. PVP has the property of eliminating VNO. Another indicator that should be low is triglycerides. After all, if triglycerides are high, this is a sure sign of excess carbohydrates in the diet. There is another test. If you can pass it, you will get an excellent idea of ​​​​what is actually happening with lipids. This test is called lipoprotein insulin resistance. If you can do this test, you will get a very, very important result. After all, of all the existing factors, this factor is most associated with cardiovascular atherosclerosis. Now let's discuss how you can understand if you have small dense LDL particles or large floating LDL particles without taking this test. To do this, you need to divide your LDL level by an indicator called AB. This is part of the lipoprotein test, which indicates the number of particles. Ideally, this result should be greater than 1.  This indicates the presence of large floating LDL particles. This is a harmless type of LDL. All this is very interesting and a little complicated. Now I want to talk about what nutrients help remove plaque. Here are the first two nutrients. Number one is pycnogenol. Pine bark should be taken at 150 mg. Kno denol helps convert soft plaques into calcifying vitamin K2. This is the most powerful inhibitor of vascular calcification. It essentially prevents vascular calcification. I do not recommend taking vitamin K2 in micrograms. Max. I recommend taking it in milligrams. I looked for dietary supplements that contain milligrams of vitamin K2. There are few such dietary supplements that produce a similar product. I am not associated with companies that produce such dietary supplements, but I found one company that has such a product. This is Life extension and the product is called Mega K2. I will leave a link below. The next remedy is nattokinase. Nattokinase helps reduce the thickness of the walls of the carotid arteries. And the last remedy is niacin. Do not take it with a slow release.  and the one that makes the skin red. I know that not everyone likes it. But if we are talking about cholesterol, this is exactly what you need. I am not urging you to take a lot of nutrients. I named the most effective ones for you. Now I will name some other nutrients that have an amazing effect on plaques. I will name them because I want you to know about them. Tocotrienol helps reduce vascular inflammation. This is a form of vitamin E. Berberine is also an excellent remedy. Aged garlic. Magnesium and potassium help make blood vessels softer if they are hard. Vitamin D is a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent. It is very useful for blood vessels. This is an excellent vitamin for plaques. I will give you a lot of links below to what I talked about. Read it. And if you want to know which foods best protect against plaques, here is a video about it. Watch it. L