You can make six mistakes when trying to get rid of a viral infection, we will discuss them today. When you get sick, especially if it is a virus, it is best to deal with the problem at the very beginning so as not to end up with a full-blown infection. And if you are already sick, it is advisable to recover as soon as possible. You do not need a protracted illness, and this video is very important for you. So, the first mistake is bringing down the temperature too quickly. People often want to bring down the temperature as quickly as possible, especially in a child, but do you understand that by bringing down the temperature, you only increase the duration of the illness? It is very important to understand why the temperature rises. The point is to reduce the spread of the virus, for example, to prevent it from getting from the sinuses to the lungs or to prevent it from spreading from the lungs throughout the body. Temperature can slow down the reproduction of the virus, it interferes with the penetration of viruses into the cell, it reduces the amount of interleukin 6, which is necessary for the survival of the virus, and in addition to this, temperature increases the number of T-killer cells, which specialize in the destruction of viruses and cancer cells. Generally speaking, at a temperature, I recommend warming up as best as possible to help your body. Dress warmer while sleeping. Use more blankets. Take  a hot bath or shower keep your body warm viruses hate heat The second mistake is taking antibiotics for viruses it doesn't work antibiotics only kill bacteria not viruses not fungi not candida only bacteria And there is one tiny problem with antibiotics This is of course sarcasm After all they have a lot of side effects and the main one is this When you take antibiotics you don't kill all the bacteria that survive become stronger they become resistant to the antibiotic They learn from this stress and the next time you take this antibiotic it no longer works you start to get sick again and again over time this antibiotic works worse and worse plus it has a lot of side effects So antibiotics don't work for a viral infection But if you have to take an antibiotic take a probiotic at the same time so you can to some extent preserve your microflora The reason I am telling you all this is that literally half of all antibiotics are prescribed unjustifiably taking antibiotics also creates a serious deficiency of B1 Which leads to various problems The third mistake This is the idea of ​​​​excessive sanitation and this is due to the so-called  According to the hygiene hypothesis, if a child lives in an excessively clean environment, he is more likely to develop allergies and get sick more often. Because his immune system is not developed, you need to understand that when a person is sick, especially in childhood, his immune system is learning. Some people are too obsessed with cleanliness; everything must be sterile; this interferes with the development of immunity, especially if you constantly disinfect your hands or skin. This way, you remove all the good bacteria that live on the skin. This also includes cleansing creams for the face, scrubs, and all these products for cleansing the skin to remove acne and the like. You admire the skin for all the friendly bacteria. This leads to rashes and unhealthy skin in general. 4. Do a detox when you are exhausted or sick. You do not need to detox in this state or drink something with such an effect. This will weaken your body and you can get sick from this alone. Once, I did not have any symptoms. I was not sick. I decided to take one detoxifying remedy. As a result, I became very ill. Why did this happen? Sometimes, if you do a detox incorrectly, all sorts of nasty things come out into the body.  and the immune system reacts to it, this alone can make you sick, and the immune system can weaken, which activates dormant viruses in the body. In short, if you get sick, take care of yourself, you don’t need to do any detoxification. By the way, I have a video on how to properly detoxify, this should not lead to illness. So learn from other people’s mistakes, including mine. I spent two whole weeks in bed, which could have been avoided thanks to detox. And this brings us to mistake number five: you start pouring all your weapons on your immune system at once. Taking every single known remedy for your illness, swallowing tons of pills is so easy, you don’t need to overdo it. For example, you have a sinus infection and you start rinsing your nose with colloidal silver. Add hydrogen peroxide and other things to this, for example, garlic, you will get tissue irritation. So don’t overdo it. I have a video on what you need to do and the main remedies are natural vitamin C and vitamin D. Apple cider vinegar is also an excellent remedy because it stimulates phagocytes that rid the body of everything. harmful and unnecessary sixth mistake I observe quite often people interfere with the work of their immune system there are many medications that suppress cough or suppress sputum production cough sputum is needed to get rid of the virus When you suppress them the virus goes even deeper into the tissues and as a result you are sick longer, therefore anything that helps the separation and release of sputum including coughing When you cough something up it is good Another point is related to cortisol People sometimes even drink gneson during illness prednisone is a synthetic cortisol and stress cortisol greatly suppresses the immune system in fact it paralyzes it reduces the number of white blood cells what I mean anything that creates stress for you it does not matter whether you have a viral infection or bacterial and this is a big problem probably the biggest in all likelihood whenever you get sick it is preceded by some stressful event so it is very important to minimize possible stress rest take hot baths take care of your body in this video I just wanted to talk about these key factors there is a lot of important data on immunity if you haven't already Watched my video about this. Look at it here.