This video will be about the best natural painkillers in my opinion. I've made a lot of videos about pain, and this one will be about affordable natural remedies. I don't know if you know, but about six hundred and thirty-five billion dollars is spent on painkillers each year, leading to decreased productivity. The problem is that people take prescription drugs and end up addicted to them, side effects appear, and the problem ultimately isn't solved. All this is only a temporary solution. There are three categories of pain, they are different. The first category is tissue damage, this can be bruises, sprains, in general, pain from this kind of injury. The second category is pain from nerve damage, this can be from peripheral neuropathy. In the case of diabetes, from high blood sugar, nerves are destroyed. This is the second type of pain source. There is also referred pain, and it is often ignored and misunderstood. So many people have pain somewhere, and the source of this pain is in another place in the body. Most often, it is in the digestive system. If you have pain in your right shoulder, or the right side of your neck, or between your shoulder blades, or the right trapezius muscle, then Most likely, the pain comes from the gallbladder or liver, but if it hurts on the left, it could be the pancreas because you ate something you shouldn't have. If your lower back hurts, it could be because of a kidney stone. If you have pain in the lower right quadrant, it could be the appendix. In general, there are many types of pain that come from completely different places. Many headaches come from the gastrointestinal tract, and if you treat only the symptoms, they are the source of the pain, then you will never get rid of it. Here's an example. A long time ago, a woman came to my clinic and she had angina, chest pain, and she went to the doctor. She spent $40,000. I don't know whether it was from insurance or her own money. She spent $ 40,000 on all kinds of tests and tests. They did n't find any heart problems. She came to me and asked for help. I asked when it happened. She said I do n't remember, I think it was last week. I said, try to remember the day of the week. She answered, I think it was Tuesday. Excellent. And what time did she stop to think about it and said, at 5 o'clock.  I asked what happened right before that, did you eat something, did you do something, she thought, thought, thought, and then smiled and said yes, I jumped into the ice cream shop and ate a banana split, and I usually don't eat it, I said thank you, lie down on the table, I know that if you eat a banana split, too, and then the gallbladder can teach the FSB, I began to massage the area of ​​​​the gallbladder, it felt like a stone, I worked on them and all the pain in her chest and heart completely disappeared, the pain was related to what she ate with the body, there is a connection, and which people don't know, it could be chronic back pain, more trach pain, fibromyalgia, which by the way often happens on one side, most often on the right, so if you have this, pay attention to the gallbladder, headaches, again, gastrointestinal tract, especially if you ate something wrong, arthritis can be both systemic and local, pain after surgery, the body hurts because healing is underway, rheumatoid arthritis is when there is a lot of inflammation in the body and finally more  trauma and so here is my hit parade of painkillers. The first is voluntary medical insurance. It can be obtained in the form of an ointment. It is very well absorbed by the skin. It even penetrates the membrane into the cells without damaging them. It is best used to treat joints or inflammation in different parts of the body, whether muscles or not. It is very easy to obtain and has almost no side effects. The second is something called benfotiamine. You can also buy it at a health food store or online. Benfotiamine is a fat-soluble vitamin B1. It was originally created to better penetrate fatty tissue because it is fat- soluble. It can penetrate the myelin sheath and even penetrate the brain and help with peripheral neuropathy in diabetes. If you have tingling in your legs or pain or burning even in your hands, then you need benfotiamine. Benfotiamine is very good at minimizing the complications and side effects of diabetes. In general, it is very good. I have a lot of videos about it. Stinging nettle root is one of  The best anti-inflammatory herbal remedies if you use it in high doses, you will see that inflammation in the body will decrease and there are almost no side effects. Vitamin D is wonderful, about 20, 30, or 40 thousand international units. I would recommend it. It helps with lower back pain and inflammation. It acts as a natural cortisol, which is an anti-inflammatory hormone. In general, vitamin D helps with pain. We will have more soon and you. It contains a substance that turns into salicylic acid. This is essentially aspirin. A natural version of aspirin. If my memory serves me right, aspirin was obtained from willow bark and made more concentrated. After all, the bark cannot be patented, but willow bark has interesting properties. It relieves pain. And lastly, you can take fish oil. Cryolipolysis or cod liver oil. It helps with pain very well. It not only contains vitamin D & vitamin A, but also drink. The idea is that omega-3 fatty acids are anti-inflammatory. These were the top six natural painkillers. And if you haven't seen my videos about reflected  I'll give you a link, take a look.