Today we will discuss six products that can kill you. I will not talk about the obvious products that can kill you, such as refined sugar, other empty carbohydrates, grains, refined oils, for example, from seeds. No, I will tell you about other products that I have not talked about yet. I think it will be interesting. So, the first product that can kill you is fugu fish. This is a delicacy of Japanese cuisine, which is called fugu. Japanese chefs must undergo special training to obtain a special license and be able to properly prepare this dish. Because the lethal dose of fugu fish poison is very small. A drop the size of a pin can kill 30 people. If you cook this fish incorrectly, someone will die. After all, this toxin, tetrodotoxin, paralyzes the lungs. It accumulates in the ovaries, intestines, and liver of fugu fish, and it is 10,000 times stronger than cyanide. So, be careful when you eat fugu. Number two is the death cap. There are generally many deadly mushrooms, but the death cap is in first place. It is responsible for 90% of all deaths from mushrooms, and it does not matter.  How to eat it raw or cooked. Of the several poisons contained in this mushroom, the most deadly is Alpha ammaniti, it causes liver necrosis. And ultimately, the kidneys. The first symptom is jaundice, then seizures begin, then a coma and death occur. A person can survive if he receives a liver transplant, because the liver will be destroyed. Look what happens. The first stage begins 6-12 hours after consumption. Mushroom pickers often praise cooked mushrooms and there are no signs of problems for at least 6 hours. After the asymptomatic phase, nausea begins, abdominal cramps and profuse watery diarrhea. An examination may reveal dry mucous membranes, even tachycardia, that is, an increased pulse and low blood pressure. After the gastrointestinal phase, the second phase begins. It seems that the patient has temporarily improved. The gastrointestinal symptoms have gone away, but the liver continues to deteriorate. This phase can last 2-3 days, while the level of liver enzymes increases. Bele Rubin's liver enlarges. In the third stage, the function of both the liver and kidneys is impaired. There are more and more laboratory signs of liver damage.  Death occurs within 3-7 days. What's interesting is that there is an antidote that you need to know about. There are actually two of them. One is called one. You might be able to buy it without a prescription as a dietary supplement. This is possible at least in the US, because it eventually turns into glutathione. But honestly, it's not the best antidote. The best antidote is milk thistle. If you walk around my farm now, you'll see that milk thistle is everywhere. It has purple flowers, a prickly stem, and leaves. And at the top is a small white thing that looks like a parachute with small seeds, and these seeds contain an antidote. There is one doctor I'll give a link to below who has developed a treatment protocol in accordance with this protocol. He gives a person an injection of milk thistle extract to protect the liver. So, if you've eaten mushrooms somewhere but found out that they're not edible, you need to find milk thistle as soon as possible. And immediately start chewing the seeds. Number three is the Korean baby octopus. The Korean baby octopus has a sca, and some people eat them sometimes when they're already  They are cooked, they are still moving as if alive, well, their suckers are still active and can attach themselves, they can attach because they can't breathe. So, if you want to eat Korean BBQ octopus, keep this in mind. The next product is green potatoes. If you see green spots on the potato, don't eat it. It contains a toxic substance called solanine. By the way, it is colorless and this poison is not destroyed during the cooking of potatoes. 200-400 mg of this poison can kill an adult, and only 20-40 mg can kill a child. The next item is raw chicken from the store. If you bought and brought home chicken breasts, be careful because chicken often contains a lot of campylobacter and salmonella bacteria. Even if you wash this chicken, the bacteria can get on your hands and on the cutting board. You can become very ill and even die from salmonella poisoning. Salmonella kills more than 450 people a year. At first, abdominal cramps and diarrhea may occur.  nausea survive Not all of this depends on immunity I want to say a few words about these two microbes that can get into us at any time Campylobacter bacteria often lives in our body and does not bother us, like E. coli, it can live in our body and not bother us or irritate us Unless we anger it by eating something that irritates it and makes it multiply, our other microorganisms like lactobacilli help control these bacteria That's why we get so many side effects if we take antibiotics or eat meat from animals that were given antibiotics, and 80% of all antibiotics are given to animals, so buy only that food, that meat that does not have antibiotics, because The fact is that if you go to the Farmer's Market and buy a chicken there that lived in a wonderful environment, then it probably will not have as many pathogens as in chickens from industrial poultry farms kept in large rooms The bottom line is that if you buy very cheap chicken meat from a poultry farm, the quality will be low, as will the price There is a risk that some of these microbes will get into your body A  This is deadly. So if you eat such meat, wash your hands thoroughly, sterilize everything, and handle it well. This meat should not be cooked. Do not eat raw chicken. The last point is anything that contains cyanide. It is found in apple seeds, peach pits, pear seeds, apricot pits, bitter almonds, and even cassava contains cyanide. Most likely, you will not die if you eat any of these, but if you eat them regularly, cyanide can accumulate and create a problem. Smokers are also at risk, because tobacco contains cyanide. So if you constantly get cyanide and it begins to turn off the mitochondria, the body's power plant, here are a couple of symptoms that may occur. If you get a little cyanide or are chronically exposed to it through smoking, vision problems, hearing loss, poor muscle contraction, but there is an antidote, methylene blue, it is used in intensive care units to combat cyanide poisoning and also carbon monoxide poisoning because methylene blue absorbs  Some of the electrons are lost by the mitochondria, it acts like a sponge, improving the functioning of oxygen in the mitochondria. You are on chum salmon. A holiday is ahead. Prepare delicious and healthy dishes with a book of festive chum salmon recipes: hot and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and breads, as well as a calculation of calories, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Order the book of festive chum salmon menus using the link below.