I have a lot of videos and even a course on cortisol, especially in connection with the adrenal body type and the adrenal glands. But I don't have a video on how to lower its level with food, and that's our topic today. I won't talk about the benefits of lowering cortisol. I think you know that, otherwise, you wouldn't have watched this. Cortisol is the main stress hormone. There is a hormone-like substance called adrenaline. It's not exactly a hormone, it's a neurotransmitter. Adrenaline and cortisol work together. The adrenal glands have an internal part and an external part. The internal part secretes adrenaline, and the external part secretes cortisol. The functions of adrenaline and cortisol overlap, but in a nutshell, they adapt the body to stress. You need to know that the body doesn't see the difference between mental stress and physical stress. With the help of these two hormones and the accompanying adaptations, the body reacts to all stress, but this doesn't mean that the body distinguishes between mental stress and physical stress. Now, we're not being chased by tigers when we try to find food. We experience a lot of chronic mental stress, which has the same effect on  These two hormones Yes, you can take a blood or saliva test for Cortisol, but they are very labor-intensive, because such an analysis must be done every 4 hours, you need to get up in the middle of the night, collect saliva in a test tube, then send it to the lab. There is a much better indirect way to find out what your cortisol is by heart rate variability. This is an assessment of the state of the autonomic nervous system. Perhaps I know how you can buy such a device and measure it on yourself, but today we will discuss what you need to eat and what to avoid in order to optimize the level of stress hormones. The autonomic nervous system acts automatically and consists mainly of two parts: the sympathetic system (Bailey Begi) and the parasympathetic system. Rest and digestion are always important when the sympathetic system is activated by anything like mental stress, cortisol is also activated. Before delving into this, perhaps the most important thing, among other things, is to know about a condition called diabetic dysautonomia. This essentially means that the functioning of the autonomic nervous system is disrupted due to high blood sugar levels, and this creates many problems with various autonomic nerves. Especially with the peripheral  nerves, nerves in the feet and hands, and with other nerves, including the vagus nerve that goes to the gastrointestinal tract, these problems are described by many fancy terms such as gastroparesis, diabetic autonomic neuropathy, and VS. This means that the nerves are not working properly because there is a lot of sugar in the blood. Diabetes. So, the first thing you need to know is that sugar and starches greatly disrupt the functioning of the autonomic nervous system and they negatively affect cortisol and adrenaline. That is, sugar and starches keep you stressed. Of course, the opposite of a diet high in sugar and starch is the ketogenic diet. There is an interesting study, in my opinion, the only one that has studied a very low-calorie, low-carbohydrate diet. They combined low-calorie diets. It could be amat. One meal a day and low-carbohydrate diets. This brings great benefits to the autonomic nervous system. That is, if the sympathetic nervous system is too active, this will help balance it. There is also research on the benefits of fasting for the parasympathetic nervous system. Perhaps this is why people become very calm when they enter  A wonderful state of fasting, because the parasympathetic system is activated. So when you start the Keto diet, exclude carbohydrates and also fast, your mood changes, the state of irritation, anxiety can be replaced by a state of calm, because the balance of the parasympathetic and sympathetic systems shifts and the level of cortisol decreases. I used to have very, very high levels of cortisol, it was on Pita when I ate carbohydrates, when I ate a lot of carbohydrates, what improves the state of the autonomic nervous system, balance stress, B12 is absolutely necessary. And what foods are rich in B12 in all animal foods, in red meat, fish, offal, a deficiency of B12 can create a problem in this part of the autonomic nervous system. Now let's talk about the parasympathetic nervous system, this is the recovery system, it controls sleep, digestion brings us to a state of rest, the neurotransmitter of this system is called acetylcholine and the precursor illuminated by halina. Halina and Guess Which food has the most of it is correct in egg yolks. Eggs are an excellent food for reducing stress to reduce cortisol levels and  adrenaline, but Haline is also in two other nutrients that are important for acetylcholine: vitamin B1 and vitamin B5. They are both important. Their natural form is found in nutritional yeast, sunflower seeds, and many other foods. Therefore, when people eat nutritional yeast, they put it in greens along with dressing, be it olive oil and vinegar or rach sauce, or drink nutritional yeast tablets. After 4-5 minutes, they become calmer. So, for the parasympathetic system to have enough acetylcholine, B1 B5 and Haline are needed. There are two important minerals that improve the condition of the parasympathetic system and also calm the sympathetic system and reduce cortisol levels. These are potassium and magnesium. Both of these minerals are physiological relaxants. That is, they calm the body. When a person has a lot of stress, this stress deprives him of these two minerals and their deficiency occurs. Sugar does the same thing, but taking potassium and magnesium calms, helps to rest, reduces cortisol levels, and the food that contains the most potassium and magnesium is dark leafy greens. Large  Servings of greens is what I recommend on a healthy Keto diet. The next nutrient whose deficiency causes big problems in the autonomic nervous system is vitamin D3. Vitamin D3 can be obtained from the sun. It can also be obtained from fatty commercial fish such as salmon. But what's unique about vitamin D is its relationship with cortisol. Vitamin D is not actually a vitamin. It's more of a hormone, and the functions of vitamin D and cortisol are very similar. An increase in cortisol levels deprives us of vitamin D. People with high cortisol and severe stress usually have low vitamin D levels. To get an effect similar to the effect of cortisol in terms of stress, inflammation, and sleep, you can take vitamin D. So, vitamin D helps normalize and regulate cortisol. The vagus nerve is part of the parasympathetic nervous system, and the vagus nerve connects the brain with the digestive system and other internal organs. This can improve the condition of the vagus nerve by doing something for the intestines, strengthening it with probiotics, foods rich in probiotics, and I will leave a link to the study: sauerkraut, kefir, pickles.  Kimchi and probiotic supplements for the intestines are beneficial for the parasympathetic system. This is probably why some people sleep so well if they consume some kind of probiotic, kefir, before bed. These were six foods that reduce cortisol and adrenaline levels. To fully explore this topic, I'll add that stress reduction is also necessary using other methods. If you haven't seen this very popular video about reducing cortisol using other means besides food, watch it.