Today we will discuss six main foods, or rather food groups, that can potentially cause cancer. There are important things you need to know. Number one, whether something is a poison depends on the dose, so the key factor in the development of cancer is chronic exposure to something that can cause inflammation and or dysfunction of a certain part of the cell, and this part of the cell is called the mitochondria. The mitochondria is the power plant of our cells that uses oxygen to burn fuel. This mechanism is destroyed and then a backup system is used to maintain life. This system is called fermentation. This is a completely different pathway that is used as a plan B for survival. When this change occurs, cancer gets out of control. It loses the ability to die. It can live forever. In this video, I will not talk about what cancer can feed on. I will focus on herbicides, fungicides, and so on. If you take pesticides alone in the US, we release almost 600,000 tons of pesticides into our environment per year. If you work in the garden and are constantly in contact, you have more chronic damage. But I repeat, it's all about the dose. It's about Chronic exposure to this poison also contains the so-called Radon, a colorless and odorless gas that can leak to the surface of the earth and into the basement of a house. Therefore, when buying a house, it is tested for the presence of Radon, because it can cause lung cancer. There are also cleaning chemicals, even in old age. Age is a risk factor. Why? Because over time, we lose mitochondria, they are damaged over time, so we become vulnerable to this disease. Viruses such as the human papillomavirus, certain fungi, even parasites and certain types of bacteria can cause cancer, and of course, environmental pollution. Now let's move on to the list of what. It's not surprising that alcohol damages mitochondria, but I repeat, the point is in its chronic exposure. Number D is trans fats. Trans fats are partially hydrogenated fat. Why would hydrogenated fat, which is completely saturated with hydrogen, be less harmful than partially hydrogenated fat? I believe that hydrogenated fats, which are found in many junk foods, can harm mitochondria. Number three is under  or charred, this happens if the meat is fried, say, on a grill. To protect against this, you can add garlic, rosemary, and certain spices to the meat. This will help reduce the risk. There is something called advanced glycation end products. What is it? This means advanced glycation end products. This is when protein combines with sugar when heated, or when fat combines with sugar when heated. An example of this is barbecue ribs. When barbecue ribs are heated, advanced glycation end products are formed. This means that protein and sugar stick together and then cause all sorts of inflammatory processes, especially in the mitochondria. What happens if you heat fat with sugar? You get ice cream. Fat and sugar are heated and advanced glycation end products are formed. But many people regularly eat ice cream. Number P processed meat products contain nitrates, which can potentially cause cancer. People who eat processed meat usually eat a lot of other unhealthy foods, but researchers have lumped red meat and processed meat together. They have combined them into one category. And  Both cause cancer, which I strongly disagree with because this study is very unconvincing there is a big difference between completely grass-fed meat and grain-fed meat and also between processed meat and if I eat red meat without nitrates when you want to read about the causes of cancer every now and then You see a mention of red meat I don’t agree with this and especially because healthy red meat has not been studied at all in the course of any serious scientific studies that would show that it causes at least some harm in fact I know many people who have healed by eating red meat because it has a lot of beneficial things and number six Ultra obb tan products that is the same junk food junk food began to be called much better but the food itself has not become much better from this Remember I talked about chronic exposure so 50% of all our food is ultra processed food Ultra here means extremely processed means that something natural is turned into something that does not even resemble what it was originally This is something  undergoes a lot of changes using heat, pressure, deodorization, bleaching, and ultimately a final product that is completely purified, completely changed, completely dead, there's nothing living in it, they tell you, well, these are just empty calories. These aren't just empty calories. When we eat this, we have to use up our vitamin and mineral reserves so the body can absorb it. Just think about it. Inflammation occurs when you consume synthetic starches. We're not even talking about saturated fats. Let's take unsaturated fats, seed oils, they undergo industrial processing, strong purification, and are very unstable. I don't know of any more harmful food than ultra- processed food. It's simply worse than anything else. And here's what's very interesting. Let's start with maltodextrin. Maltodextrin is considered a starch, not a sugar. Although it acts much more powerfully than sugar itself, the glycemic index is much higher, and maltodextrin is an ultra-processed ingredient that is generally recognized as safe. The wording that something is generally recognized as safe can be used by companies; they can research something themselves and just report it.  The Ministry of Health says it's safe. The Ministry of Health doesn't test this, but people think it's been tested. But it's only tested by the manufacturer, and there could be a lot of dubious loopholes. Maltodextrin is generally recognized as safe. Modified starches are generally recognized as safe, even highly functional ones. In fact, I don't think it's very safe. If you haven't watched my detailed video about the world's most unhealthy foods, be sure to check it out.