Let's discuss the early signs of colon cancer that should never be ignored. But understand that these six signs are just signs. They cannot be used to make a diagnosis. Signs are symptoms of a certain situation, but they cannot be used to determine what the problem is. All information is needed. But keep in mind that in half of the cases, there are no early signs at all, so it is important not to ignore these signs. But understand them and pay attention to them. I want to say a few words about polyps. These are small mini tumors that can appear in the colon. People often think that if there are polyps, it means there is cancer. No, it could be a tiny benign tumor. It does not grow and does not turn into cancer. In fact, in 80% of cases, the risk of developing cancer is extremely small. The probability of this is from 0 to 2%. There are factors that make people burn, such as smoking, drinking alcohol, junk food, obesity, and Helicobacter pylori. This is a microbe. It lives in the stomach, but it can move to different places. You may have heard about red meat or processed meat products. Everyone talks about this. One group of researchers came to the conclusion that this is likely  carcinogen But their data and evidence are very unconvincing, especially in light of a new report in the Journal of the Medical Association, more data was studied on red meat and processed meat products and it was found that if you take into account carbohydrates, there is no connection between red meat or even processed meat products and cancer. The link will be below. I hope you read this, because a lot of effort is being made to blame meat. Although it may not be involved. There is a huge difference between different types of red meat. There is completely grass-fed meat, there is grain-fed meat. Both of these types have been studied. No, they all lumped it all together and it was an observational study based on questionnaires, while a lot of information was ignored. And that's my point of view, my opinion. I don't think that red meat creates a risk of developing cancer. And what about genes? Yes, genes also influence, but only 5%; epigenetics; lifestyle influences to a greater extent; what you do; what you eat; your environment; genes control, and this brings us to the topic of microflora imbalance; 80% of ours The immune system is the microorganisms in the intestines, and the immune system protects us from cancer. Another factor is antibiotics. There is evidence that they increase the risk of cancer by 45%. Anything that can worsen the state of the microflora is a risk factor, so you need to know what inflammation in the intestines can be. Gluten, certain foods, oils and seeds. All this can cause inflammation in the intestines, and inflammation can cause a cascade of reactions and change the intestinal flora. Microflora can restrain viruses. I'll talk about this later, but when we eat, we feed not only ourselves, we feed our cells and our microflora. So, what are the early signs that can indicate colon cancer? Number one, blood in the stool is number one, but if blood gets into the stool somewhere higher in the digestive tract, then when it comes out, it is no longer red but black. Number two, anemia in a person. Although there is no reason for anemia, this can be a sign. Number three, the stool is ribbon-shaped, changes. Number four, there is constipation that seems to be getting worse. Why? Because there is an obstruction in the colon. Number five, pain in  stomach Why Because there is some kind of growing mass in the colon and it is pressing on the nerve endings number six sudden weight loss or loss of appetite I repeat these six signs are just signs their presence does not mean that there is a problem You should not perceive them as a problem you need to find out what caused them you know the doctor comes and authoritatively declares that you have so much time left but I wonder how people usually live this time you are confused Everyone tells you to do this and that And what should you do especially if you look at one person who should have died 6 years ago because he had stage four cancer and with stage four cancer the prognosis for life is weeks or months He should have died 6 years ago He is alive and it is very important to study what he did but we will discuss how to avoid cancer What can be done regarding antibiotics avoid them if possible And if you need to take antibiotics be sure to take them with a good probiotic I think it is very important to fast intermittently And periodically for a long time Why Because this allows the colon to cleanse, recover and heal and not be constantly overloaded I think  That you need to eat cruciferous vegetables, not every day, but a couple of times a week. Kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts. If I eat broccoli, it tears my intestines apart. Don't eat cruciferous vegetables that make you bloated. But I can easily eat cabbage and arugula. Fermented vegetables also contain probiotics. Remember I talked about sedentary lifestyle, so exercise is probably one of the most effective ways to avoid cancer. Why? Because it strengthens mitochondria, and cancer always begins in dysfunctional mitochondria. And when we exercise, we get more mitochondria, and the mitochondria themselves become stronger. You need to add garlic, thyme, sage, various spices to meat or greens, and you need to avoid things that cause inflammation. And this includes gluten, grains, seed oils, junk food, and something else about inflammation. Cancer usually spreads in areas with inflammation. I think we still need to learn a lot about microflora. If you haven't watched it yet.  Here's this video I think you'll like it L