I want to share recipes for six very good and tasty salad dressings that are also very healthy and that's what prompted me to record this video Once I was at an event where a five-star chef cooked for us and we took part in it I got to prepare the dressings I asked him what I needed to do and he said Yes, just improvise over there spices EVERYTHING you can do but I don't have that kind of experience Usually I just took olive oil or balsamic vinegar So I just started mixing different things He came up and tried looked at me like what the hell are you doing here I say I don't know I'm just mixing this and that and he said Eric But it's all so elementary I replied No it's not that simple to make it tasty you need to mix the ingredients correctly But our task is more complicated the problem with dressings is that it's hard to find something you can eat without excess omega-6 fatty acids and also with really pure olive oil in dressings with olive oil there are other oils but what is the real benefit of adding olive oil to a salad in  Greens are full of phytonutrients, which are very important for health substances found in plants, especially in salads, and these are not only vitamins and minerals. The phytonutrients found in greens are fat-soluble, which means they need to be eaten with some kind of fat or oil. I recommend high-quality extra virgin olive oil. I'll tell you about six dressings that will provide additional health benefits in addition to the benefits of the salad itself. Leafy greens contain a lot of potassium, magnesium, folate, vitamin C, and all sorts of phytonutrients that can take these benefits to a new level. All the dressings I'll tell you about have the same base: extra virgin olive oil, lemon juice, and apple cider vinegar. You place this mixture in a half-liter glass jar and put it in the refrigerator. When you make the salad, you take this mixture out, pour 50-100 ml into a bowl, depending on the volume of the salad, add it, mix it, and add it to the salad. So, let's start with the base that you need to make: three ingredients. Here are the proportions: a third.  cups of extra virgin olive oil, a quarter cup of apple cider vinegar and two tablespoons of lemon juice. Now we move on to the first recipe. This is a vinaigrette dressing with apple cider vinegar. Add a tablespoon of mustard. Some people use one crushed clove of garlic, a pinch of sea salt and a little pepper. Stir and pour this over the salad. The next recipe is French dressing. Add a teaspoon of dried tarragon, half a teaspoon of dried thyme, a quarter spoon of dried lavender and a pinch of ground pepper. It's very tasty. Another Italian dressing is adding a teaspoon of dried oregano, a teaspoon of dried basil, a quarter teaspoon of ground garlic and a small pinch of ground red pepper. Personally, I really like this option. Next, a medium-grain dressing is based on one teaspoon of toasted sesame seeds, half a teaspoon of dried ginger.  a quarter teaspoon of ground black pepper and a little tamari soy sauce and let's not forget about the Indian dressing in honor of my friends from India in this version we add to the base a teaspoon of ground coriander Half a teaspoon of ground turmeric a quarter teaspoon of ground cinnamon and a pinch of dried cardamom I think these PTO will make your food more interesting and more varied If you haven't watched my video about how much salad you need to eat and that's 7-10 glasses, be sure to watch it here