What is the best thing to do with late stage liver disease? If you can cope with the worst, you will be in good shape. And for most people, liver disease is not in the terminal stage, but in some intermediate stage. Perhaps you know that liver disease has stages. First, there is the stage of inflammation, then there may be the stage of fatty liver, then the stage of cirrhosis, that is, scar tissue, or it can start with fatty liver. What increases inflammation and turns into cirrhosis. As a rule, it takes an average of 10 years to go all the way from fatty liver. Yes, cirrhosis, and very often this process does not manifest itself in any way. One day, this serious problem arises that nothing foreshadowed, perhaps you had fatigue, weakness, or something like that, but you did not see the connection. I include in this category all people with fatty liver. Just think about this: if you look at your toes when you stand and you cannot see them because of your stomach, then we know that you have fatty liver, because the fat around the organs in the abdominal cavity is fat that has leaked out of the liver because it is too fatty. Just think about how many  There are a lot of people with belly fat, so this video is for those who have belly fat. The fact is that the liver is a very resilient organ, only the liver is capable of fully recovering, but this takes time, and it can take three years. And more if there is a lot of scar tissue in the liver due to cirrhosis, you can pass the point of no return and have to queue for a new liver. And unfortunately, this queue is very long, and there is little research in this area. I will tell you what I would do if I had late-stage liver cirrhosis and I was waiting for a transplant. What would I do? I will talk about this because this is the worst. What can happen? The doctor says that this is forever, there is no turning back, but let's talk about this. I want to discuss six points. First of all, I would do this. I would bring my body into a state of autophagy. What is autophagy? This is a state in which the body utilizes damaged proteins in cells, it is the processing of what you do not need, damaged parts, including in the liver, as well as the creation of new proteins. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. Autophagy also brings many other benefits to the body, for example, cancer begins in There is scar tissue in the liver, and autophagy can reduce it. Autophagy can also help get rid of intracellular pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, and yeast. You've heard of a disease called hepatitis. This disease is associated with a virus. I repeat, autophagy is very important for improving liver health. How to activate autophagy? The most important factor in this is fasting, regular intermittent fasting. When you fast daily, you fast for 18 hours, and then go into a six-hour window. It's especially important to fast periodically for a long time. Once a week, fast for two days, once a month, perhaps fast for a week. Why is this so important? Long-term fasting can significantly reduce the severity of this problem of cirrhosis and scar tissue. It seems that autophagy can begin in as little as 4 hours, because the liver regularly replaces and renews its cells. So, intermittent and long-term fasting. Exercise can also stimulate autophagy. Sleep can activate autophagy. Ketones can activate autophagy, and for this, a low-carbohydrate diet is needed. Snacks must be eliminated. There are other types of therapy, such as cold therapy.  Taking a cold shower, sauna, infrared light therapy. There is one polyphenol in coffee that can help sautophagia, of course, its effect will not be significant. It cannot compare to soltophagia. So, if you just drink a cup of coffee a day, it will not help. Extra Virgin olive oil can partly help soltophagia, as well as more cruciferous vegetables in the diet. Number two, or rather, part of the first point, we are talking about fasting. Fasting helps, but it also brings other benefits to the liver. Let's discuss this. Number one, fasting significantly reduces inflammation. By getting rid of inflammation, you will definitely stop the deterioration of all this. Fasting also significantly increases antioxidant networks even without taking antioxidants. Another remarkable effect of fasting is that it reduces the amount of liver enzymes. Let's move on to number 3. Tutka Tutka. What is tutka? Tutka is a type of bile salt. It has also been used in Chinese medicine for over 3,000 years, so it has been known for a very long time. But if you look for information about tutka in connection with liver function, you will be amazed. Firstly, it thins bile, because one of the root causes of liver problems is associated with bile acts as a further remedy for blockage of the bile ducts. It can irritate the liver and leave scars. It also directly reduces fibrosis. It directly restores liver cell deportation. It also protects liver cells from things like oxidation and damage from free radicals. It also reduces the amount of liver enzymes. It is even used as a remedy for cirrhosis. So, when you take dudka, I will not name the manufacturers. Take two capsules in the morning on an empty stomach and two capsules in the afternoon on an empty stomach. After all, if you take it with food, it acts on food as a bile salt and not on the liver. Going further, you need to start the first and second phases of detoxification. This enzymatic process occurs in the liver, while poisons are converted into harmless particles. Fat-soluble substances are converted into harmless water-soluble substances that are excreted through the bile ducts and other ways. And when the liver is damaged, this process does not proceed at full capacity, and then something can accumulate, especially poisons, because the liver constantly breaks down poisons to protect us. For this, you need vegetables rich in sulfur, such as  Cruciferous vegetables, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, arugula, radishes, and so on. Green tea also triggers the first and second phases of detoxification, as does sulforaphane, a phytonutrient found in broccoli sprouts. So, adding broccoli sprouts to salads will greatly help your liver. The next item on the list is milk thistle. As you can see, we are really hitting this problem with all our might, because these are all powerful remedies for liver health. Milk thistle is a very interesting plant; it is a weed whose seeds can be eaten; it grows in many people's yards. You can take its seeds, grind them, and add them to a salad. Milk thistle protects the liver from poisons, even from snake and mushroom poisons. If you are constantly taking medications or someone you know is taking them, start taking milk thistle simply to reduce side effects. Milk thistle essentially protects the liver; it also prevents fibrosis, reduces inflammation, helps neutralize toxins, lowers liver enzyme levels, and restores hepatocyte cells. As you can see, milk thistle has many benefits. It helps protect the liver from medications, excess caffeine, alcohol, or a large number of medications. And lastly, only trinols, what is it? This is a type of vitamin E. If you have scar tissue or fibrosis, vitamin E, especially tocotrienols, is great for breaking down scar tissue. That's why it's on this list. Vitamin E is a powerful antioxidant. It protects against free radical damage, inflammation, and those factors that lead to fibrosis. So, only trinols, firstly, reduce inflammation and secondly, reduce the risk of fibrosis. If you buy only trinols, buy them as a separate complex without additional tocotrienols, since they reduce each other's effectiveness. High iron levels in the blood can cause inflammation and cirrhosis. Blockage of the bile ducts also occurs, because of this, bile accumulates in the liver and creates many liver problems, including gallstones, and there are problems with the immune system when antibodies attack your own liver. I told you about many ways to improve your liver health in the worst condition, and in more detail about how to help the liver.  Get healthy with my course. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.