Today we have a short video about six things that can potentially reduce a child's intelligence. This largely concerns what a woman comes into contact with and what she eats immediately before and during pregnancy. A lack of iodine can reduce IKEA by 12.4 points. Iodine is a trace element, and it is extremely important for a pregnant woman to receive trace elements from food. Then the growing fetus will have everything it needs for healthy growth. Second, refusing to breastfeed also affects cognitive function. When a child is given infant formula that is full of chemicals and sugar, this greatly affects the growing brain. A little later we will discuss high sugar content in food. Excess leads to insulin resistance, which can cause hypoglycemia and even lead to the fact that the brain will be smaller than normal. So, breastfeeding is very important for at least six months, but preferably up to 2 years or longer. Third, childhood type 1 diabetes has a strong impact on the development of the growing brain. How does it affect cognitive functions? I have already talked about insulin resistance and hypoglycemia, but diabetes as such definitely affects intelligence. The links under the video will tell you.  I believe that type 1 diabetes is caused by autoimmune diseases. You'll see later, but diabetes can affect intelligence. Fourth, a lack of B12. This vitamin is necessary for the development of the central nervous system and the nervous system as a whole, so a lack of this vitamin can affect cognitive functions. Sixth, contact with certain chemicals, especially vending machines, can greatly affect cognitive functions and the Achilles tendon. Phthalates are found in plastic food containers when hot food is placed in them. The plastic softens and phthalates get into food. They are also found in cosmetics, soap, shampoos, and skin moisturizers. You need to understand the impact our children are exposed to, and what else you yourself come into contact with. When pregnant, it's best to include trace elements in your diet. You need to get B vitamins. Stick to a healthy diet, eat less sugar, and eat more nutrient-rich foods. This way, you can achieve maximum development in your child's intelligence and cognitive functions.