There are six facts about vitamins that most people have no idea about today. I'll tell you about them. Firstly, most of the mega-companies that produce vitamins belong to large pharmaceutical, chemical or food companies. These companies own large brands. Bayer, for example, owns Ona Day. By the way, Bayer recently bought Mansanta. Pfizer owns Centrum and Mergins. By the way, I once took these vitamins. Lorex owns them, and the chocolate company Nestlé owns Gordon Flyfreeton. Sprite, Pierre Douglas Laboratories, Wobenzaim, Solgar, not through Bounty, and many others. You know, sometimes I get criticized for my own line of vitamins. And I ask in response: would you prefer to buy vitamins from Ufar, a chemical company, a food company, or from a private manufacturer? Most likely, they don't prioritize using ingredients from soil that is truly rich in nutrients. I flew to the farm where this incredible product is grown. It's a 400-hectare organic farm located on the ancient seabed where the soil is incredibly rich in microelements. Compare  Synthetics and food-based vitamins, although some of these companies use pure, standardized ingredients and competent production, the question is where these ingredients come from and it would be good to find out who is behind these huge brands to find out their point of view on key topics. Then second, 95 percent of all vitamins on the market are produced synthetically by chemical companies. This means that they are made from petroleum, from chemicals, coal tar, they are living plants, and let them say that there is no difference between synthetic and natural vitamins, they say the molecules are the same. Well, there is a huge difference between ascorbic acid from the pharmacy, supposedly it is vitamin C, and natural vitamin C with its complex form. The difference is huge. Synthetic vitamins are ascorbic acid, supposedly vitamin C, B1, vitamin E, beta-carotene, and the cursor of vitamin A, which can be obtained synthetically. Then number three, China is the largest exporter of vitamin C and B1 in the world. The only problem is their opacity. They do not disclose production processes, and certification standards are a bit vague. Number four, the Internet and the news cite vitamin research, saying vitamins increase the risk of cancer and  heart disease, but they use synthetics instead of food complexes. They don't use real natural vitamins. This is such an insignificant detail. But they keep silent about this, and in the minds of people, in the minds of doctors, vitamins are perceived as a useless thing. Again, what vitamins are we talking about? Synthetic vitamins, as I said, the difference is huge. I am not against using synthetic vitamins for a short term, for example, for detox. But they should not be taken for a long time for preventive purposes. 5. The goal of food concentrates. Let's say we take real beet leaves or some other plant and concentrate the substances they contain. This could be glandular tissue. The result is a whole- food concentrate. The amount of vitamins and nutrients in whole-food concentrates is much lower than synthetic ones. However, they are more complete, they contain all the factors, all the enzymes, all the trace elements, and not just a synthetically isolated fragment of a vitamin. Everything is here. Bioavailability is much higher. The effectiveness is much higher. Although the quantity is lower. If you look at the amount of useful substances in a vitamin-mineral complex, there can be 17 thousand percent of the daily value. Aesthetics. And if  If you read the ingredients, calcium carbonate is usually listed first. If you see it first in the ingredients, know that most of the product is calcium carbonate. That's why it's as heavy as a paperweight. Calcium carbonate is limestone. It's better to go gnaw on a brick in the wall of your house. It's the same as eating stones. It's very cheap and very difficult to digest. It takes about 12 processes before it's digested. So, number six, doctors aren't well-versed in vitamins. Nutrition issues are studied for about 25 hours on average. 25 hours. Is that really enough time to learn about vitamins? To give advice, have your own opinion? 25 hours, and you're an expert. No, they're experts on medications, but that's frankly not enough time to become even slightly competent in this matter. You also need to know which foods have the most nutrients. For this, watch this video.