Robert Kennedy Jr. may become the new US Secretary of Health and Human Services. His goals are to get rid of corruption, restore the scientific approach and eradicate chronic diseases. This is a serious task now. It's all over the news, including criticism from various sides by large food producers, drugs and chemicals. He's not really liked. I want to comment. An interesting counterargument that can be heard. There is still no clear evidence that processed foods can be the cause of diseases. It sounds simply ridiculous. This and this does not cause chronic diseases. What then and the answer to this we do not know. More research is needed. In the meantime, Bigfoot and Big Pharma will continue to get rich. The product of the healthcare system is a healthy body. But if you compare the US with the rest of the world in terms of health, we are literally scraping the bottom, given that our healthcare costs are 4 trillion dollars. 100 billion dollars annually. They say that Robert Kennedy is a charlatan and an anti-vaxxer and that under him, science will face dark times. This can simply be ignored. A lot needs to be changed. I want to add my two cents. What I consider the most important is the first meal in government institutions. They produce canned food for them and give it. residents of nursing homes, prisoners, schoolchildren, hospital patients, and this is the lowest food on earth. I had two operations and had to stay in the hospital. I asked for more protein, but they said we are not allowed to have meat. Here's a candy bar. I interviewed a man who owns a unique network of nursing homes. If you send old people somewhere, it's better there. They do everything completely differently. I asked, "What's stopping you from spreading this everywhere?" He said there are too many prohibitions and dietary regulations. To change the diet, you need a doctor's prescription. Usually, they have a lot of sweets and starches, and the food is heavily processed and overcooked. The first thing I would do is change the food in government institutions. This will affect the health of nursing home residents. It will improve quite quickly. It's enough to simply remove refined sugars and starches, as well as refined oils from seeds. The next point is very important. Many products that we see in the store are subsidized. In other words, taxpayers pay for them. This money goes to large farms to grow certain things, corn, soybeans, wheat, raw materials for sugar and rice. The amounts that some of them receive  They reach up to 600 billion. Corn is the one that is subsidized the most. You can buy a cubic meter of corn for about $175, and that's not even sugar, but edible. Dent-like subsidies began immediately after the Great Depression to somehow help farmers, but then it turned into law, and now small farmers are happy to make even a 13% profit. Growing healthy food is very hard work, and they don't get subsidies. I think it would be good to reconsider who to subsidize. Investing in small farms would be great. Paying farmers for completely grass-fed meat would be great, because now it's more profitable to grow raw materials for junk food. You pay for such food in stores, and then you also pay for your treatment. I want to ask you for a favor. A change in the management team is a chance for people in the healthcare sector to participate in reforms. You can vote for me too. I understand perfectly well what needs to be fixed. In this system, just follow the link below. Create your account and click subscribe when the account is created. Go to the America's Health section, click hot. Find my name on the list and click vote. Thanks in advance and we'll be back.  The next thing I would change to the video is the GRAS label, it means generally recognized as safe. Does this mean that the product has been tested by an independent third party and found to be safe? The answer is no. It's a loophole through which manufacturers certify their products themselves. But this is a conflict of interest. I can personally state that my products are safe. Many of the things that are banned now were previously considered safe, for example, lead, DDT, mercury, or filling material. Many ingredients in junk food are labeled as such. I would change the methods of fortifying products instead of adding synthetic folic acid, which creates big problems for people aged 30-40 due to their genetic characteristics. I would add fala, the type of iron used to fortify foods is disgusting. This creates a lot of problems. Our body doesn't have a good mechanism for getting rid of iron, and all this iron accumulates in the body. Excess iron can lead to its dysfunction. And this is a direct path to anemia. Then, 40 billion dollars of your taxes a year are spent on researching new drugs. Universities are allowed to patent such drugs, and they can grant exclusive rights. Pharmaceutical companies then universities and pharmaceutical companies negotiate royalties ranging from 1 to 10% of net profits, and these licensing agreements are confidential. Some university researchers personally receive a portion of this money. This brings us to the next point. The Ministry of Health and the Pharmaceutical giants are dividing their staff. A law is needed that if a person works for the Ministry of Health or another regulatory agency, he is prohibited from working for a manufacturer of drugs, chemicals, or food products. Of the 20 members who determine nutritional standards, there is a conflict of interest. There is an excellent website. The US has a right to know. With the help of the Freedom of Information Act, they collected 80,000 pages of correspondence between Coca-Cola and nutritionist organizations. It clearly shows the friendly relations between them. Nutritionists received from food manufacturers between 30 and 50 million dollars. The industry funds nutritionists. Speakers are paid, and training and conferences are paid. The next thing I would change is the so-called rounding rule: if an ingredient in the composition is less than half a degree, and for sodium, if it is less than 5 mg, you can write zero among all the ingredients. I would especially highlight three which make up 99% of all junk food refined sugars refined starches and refined oils seed oils I would put huge warnings on baby formula and pet food and force manufacturers to improve the quality of these products the very bottom is feeding a baby junk food This way you will ensure its deficiency and health problems in the future And the last very important change is related to the fear of the sun and the norms of vitamin D intake these norms are worthless 600 IU It may be enough to prevent bone problems but not for other systems in the body immunity muscles or organs the research results were interpreted incorrectly and the norm was set at 600 IU but the correct norm is more than 88,000 per day vitamin D deficiency creates a serious risk for a person to get sick with almost anything all this has already been studied cancer autoimmune problems insomnia all this depends on vitamin D if every American took 88,000 IU of vitamin D3 per day the number of diseases would drop dramatically and it is not that expensive in general here are my suggestions please write to me  What do you think needs to be changed in our country's healthcare system?