annahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannah I know and even listen to myself. I hope you will be able to listen to me. It will be a lot of many years. I don't know if I'm just a mosaic, I don't know. But in the past, I had serious crisis with my health. And although I understand many people, I had almost all my symptoms of my patients. I don't think it's something good, but what was, it was. But let's look at the seven of my huge mistakes. I'll tell you what I should do. Number one. Sotny different vitamins every day. A little time I took even more than 100 vitamins in a day. I'm not just taking vitamins, I took them all by bags. I was with a wife and said, «Dorogai, let's go to this store. Maybe they'll help me. I'll go there a lot of vitamins. I had a whole lot of vitamins. I had a syndrome of chronic pain. I had a lot of pain. I had a lot of pain. I had a lot of pain. I had a lot of problems. And I tried to find a vitamin, which gives me energy and helps me. So this was repeated again, again, again, again. I didn't want to take drugs. I wanted something natural. But when I didn't know,annahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannah that the protein needs to be removed from the body. We need to replace a lot of protein in the body. And part of the protein uses as an energy source. But in the most part, we receive energy from the nutrients and the nutrients. I recommend not to receive energy from the nutrients, but from the nutrients. If I could return to the past, I would eat, the most important thing, the meat is. Number two. There were very popular detoxes. There are also bacteria and bacteria and bacteria . And at the same time, you, in a way, . You had a cellulose, a problem . If I had a cellulose and I could have a keto and, . . . I was on detox diet with lemon juice, pepper and a little bit of a bad idea. Because the body can't be switched to the jigs, because it's not enough to eat sugar, so you're all hungry. I was very hungry on detox diet, while after they were a lot of problems with food. But besides the other! I did all the different detox detoxes. I can't remember how many times I got a lot of food, because I took a lot of natural substances. They were the toxins, they were the immune reaction, and I was the sickest in the bed for two weeks. I was able to clean the! I was drinking 350 ml olive oil extra virgin. I had a drink of sweet and sweet. I thought it would help them to be a good. I just put them in the mouth, I drank the milk, I drank the oil, and they were the food. I was like, I almost died. I was able to stay on the right side. I was able to try everything. So these detox detoxes were also a waste of time. But I had to move on to the right scheme of food. Maybe I could take some of the BADs, but the most important vegetables, vegetables, vegetables, vegetables, and I would have to be able to make a lot of problems. And now, subscribe to the channel and click on the bell, to be able to make all the notifications. choose all the notifications, YouTube may not forget about new videos. This simple action will help you to the future. And we continue. Number 3. I thought I would start eating здоровую food, when I finish college. In college I thought it was because of of the blood. I thought, a good after college. a good time. a good time. I thought it would be food, milk. It was very bad. The body of the body was and everything was a good to be able to get rid of the healthy version of my health. If I knew that it would be different. the pain in the right of the heart. I thought the pain was a good pain. It was a good pain. It was a good pain. The pain was a good pain. It was a good gonna gonna gonna gonna gonna gonna These people, especially on the night, are constantly eating. Our body is not prepared for something to eat. As soon as I stopped eating, my weight was reduced from 96 to 84, but also the pain in the eye. That was a problem with insulin, a loss of energy. I had a circle of skin. Many people, with a lot of skin or a circle of skin, or a lot of eyes, are too often eating or eat many foods. So, interval of eating. Yes, this in the beginning, all changed. I recommend it to everyone. I recommend it to people to eat only 2 times a day, and some only once a day. Because if you eat too often, insulin is constantly in the top. You think you have a real hunger? It's not hunger, it's not hunger, it's not hunger. You work on glucose. And you can eat, you can eat, you can eat, you can eat, you stay in the daily mode and you don't have to eat. You live on the sugar, you don't turn on the sugar, you don't turn on the sugar, you get to the ketosis. So, this system is in order to to be between the pre-movement of food, there was no feeling of hunger. Number 6.annahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannah andannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannah a day. Sometimes I switch to a croissant and a sour cream. Sometimes I drink kale shake, but not in a large amount. I drink a small portion, I just add a little green onion. I don't have any fruit, especially sweet onions. And especially I don't recommend eating kale shake. If you eat a little, do a little bit of a little, don't eat a little a little, a little, a little, a little, because then it causes hunger and hunger. Number seven. Diffin magni. One of the methods, which is preventing the form of a stone in почias, is magni. If you don't have a magni, you will have a lot of calcium, and it is connected with a xylitol. Our body is the same. They just produce a xylitol. . . . . . . . .! But no other problems were gonna happen. Magni gonnaannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannah a problem. I think that our ancestors got a lot of magnesium from the water. And then everything suddenly changed, and we didn't have magnesium, especially in the water. That's one of the main reasons of magnesium magnesium. We don't get it from the water, like in the past. Problems with health start when there are no vitamins and minerals. The deficiencies can be! The deficiencies can be found in the water. The deficiencies of the nutrients are not affected by the immune system. How to be safe? How to be the health? How to be the vitamin? How to take the vitamin? How and when? In the course of the deficit nutrients, Dr. Berg tells us about the lack of vitamins, how they are on health and how to heal them. More 100 lessons, the conspets and the списments. All the necessary to understand the question in this topic.annahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannahannah