Seven factors that cause headaches How a headache differs from a migraine With a migraine, the head hurts more and is often accompanied by related symptoms such as nausea, blurred vision, spots before the eyes, sensitivity to sources of bright light, sound, vomiting or some kind of aura 30 minutes before the headache, some sensation that makes it clear that a migraine is creeping up, a common headache is worse than a migraine So, number one, a headache can be caused by stress, stress can be of any kind, this is the main cause of a headache, and the muscles in the back of the neck tense number two, diet, you may have a food allergy And this happens very often, especially with delayed headaches and that's why, let's say, a food allergic reaction occurs lower in the gastrointestinal tract, food gets there hours later, once there, the food causes a reaction and various nerves in the intestines send signals to the brain through the vagus nerve, so the headache can be delayed. Typical food allergies are an allergy to peanuts, gluten, an allergy to the milk protein casein and thousands of other products, headaches can  cause excess caffeine artificial sweeteners alcohol this headache is called a hangover I don't know if you've had it but your friends or family may have had hangovers red and white wines contain sulfates and they can cause headaches chocolate has something that can cause headaches monosodium glutamate usually in the form of modified food starch can cause headaches I know this from myself if I have a headache before bed or I wake up with a headache I start remembering what I ate I know I was at a restaurant and there were hidden chemicals or monosodium glutamate and now I have a headache cured meats contain nitrates they can cause headaches aged cheeses pickled fermented foods contain a protein called theramine which is formed during the aging of foods and it can cause headaches theramine is in blue cheeses in syta in parmesan number three environment let's say you have allergies and it affects the sinuses it can cause headaches even a change in the weather can  cause a headache because the body has difficulty adapting. Some headaches occur right before rain due to changes in atmospheric pressure. Number four: hormones during critical days, a headache suddenly begins. This is an excess of estrogen. In this case, you need to take the so-called Dim or some product from concentrated cruciferous vegetables to reduce estrogen. You can also take kelp. I will provide links to many of the remedies I am talking about below so you can learn more. Number five: lack of sleep. This will definitely cause a headache. With lack of sleep, there is usually tension in the upper back, a pulsating sensation. Number six: and this happens very often. A problem with the gallbladder or a problem with the liver or a problem with the ducts coming from the liver. If these ducts are clogged with sediment due to the fact that you do not have enough bile salts, then pressure arises, which usually causes pain in the right side of the head. If the left side of the head hurts, perhaps the sediment is clogged. I will provide links on what to do in this case. The gallbladder is a very common cause. So, if you have a problem with the intestines, let's say the last section of the small intestine is inflamed. Because you've been taking antibiotics for years or for any other reason and you eat certain foods, this can happen, especially if you have leaky gut syndrome. When food reaches this part of the digestive tract, it can cause intestinal spasms. This can cause nausea and even headaches. This is similar to food allergies. Therefore, if a person has a headache, it is very important to ask them what they ate, not necessarily right before the headache started, but a couple of hours before. This way, you can determine the cause. Some foods irritate the intestines, and number seven, headaches can be caused by certain medications. Aspirin usually relieves headaches, but sometimes medications can cause headaches after they have passed. This is especially true for aspirin, acetaminophen, sleeping pills, and buprofen. If you drink any of these for headaches, wouldn't it be better to find and eliminate the real cause of the headache so you have to take much fewer pills? Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, share it with anyone who might find it useful.