I want to discuss 7 signs of liver cirrhosis. It has many other symptoms, but there are seven main ones you should know. Cirrhosis is a severe liver disease. It is the last stage before liver failure. With this disease, healthy cells are replaced by scar tissue. Scar tissue grows in an attempt to heal the area of ​​inflammation, but the problem is that along with the cells, the liver loses its function. What's amazing about the liver is that it contains incredible restorative cells. Normally, these cells seem to sleep until something damages the liver: alcohol, nicotine from smoking, drugs, medications, unhealthy foods, corn seed oil, soybeans that lead to inflammation, or refined sugars and carbohydrates, especially fructose, and viruses also cause damage. Some people bring themselves to a situation where either their liver inflammation has become chronic or they have fatty liver, which in turn causes inflammation. It is inflammation that triggers these interesting restorative cells. These cells, under chronic irritation, produce a very special type of cell called fibroblasts. What is it? These cells are a combination of plant tissues and collagen. This is  It 's interesting that cells repair themselves with the help of muscle-like contractile tissue, but the bad thing is that the function is lost. The likelihood of liver cancer increases significantly with cirrhosis. Since the liver produces about a liter of bile daily, you will not have enough bile, which will affect digestion, especially the absorption of omega-3 fats, soluble vitamins, and the removal of cholesterol and toxins. Because bile is also needed as a way to remove toxins from the body, there will also be less vitamin A, and the liver accumulates and stores a lot of vitamin A, and without normal liver function, there will be a lack of vitamin A, which will affect vision, skin, and immunity. With iron, there is the same problem because the liver stores it, and you will either have severe anemia or there will be excess iron in the body, which happens quite often and it will aggravate cirrhosis, but damage reduces the liver's ability to store iron. It can go either way. The liver stores glucose in the form of glycogen so that you can last without food until the morning from one meal to the next. Some organs also need glycogen; they cannot function fully on it.  The titans of the lens of the eye, partly the kidneys, partly the brain, need glucose. If you can't retain glucose in the liver, these tissues will suffer. By the way, the fact that the body needs some sugar doesn't mean that it needs to be eaten. The body can make it itself. The liver is also involved in the digestion of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats, and it will be disrupted. It will also not be able to completely remove toxins, and they will begin to accumulate in the body. This usually manifests itself on the skin, on other organs, on the endocrine system. The liver produces a lot of cholesterol, but it also removes cholesterol with the help of bile, and if it is damaged, cholesterol is not removed and begins to accumulate in the tissues. The liver also introduces pathogens. If it stops removing them, systemic infections can develop. The liver produces blood proteins. If there are not enough proteins in the blood, then intercellular fluid begins to accumulate in the tissues. For example, in the form of edema of the ankles, fluid begins to accumulate in the abdominal cavity between the organs. This is called ascites. If a person has a protruding belly similar to a beer belly, this is a diseased liver. fr. insulin-like growth factor is a hormone produced in the liver and is activated by growth hormone, to which it and  Similar in its action, if this hormone is lacking, many problems will arise, including with protein production. Problems with fuel mobilization in the body will also begin. Interestingly, the liver converts a significant portion of the thyroid hormone T4 into the T3 hormone, or more precisely, 80 percent of this hormone is converted in the liver. T4 is an inactive AT3, the active form of thyroid hormone. If the liver is damaged, whether it is fatty liver or cirrhosis, this significantly affects the thyroid gland, which is why a number of symptoms associated with the thyroid gland develop. The liver is needed to activate vitamin D, and the kidneys are also needed for this. By the way, if the liver and kidneys are damaged, your health will also decline. The liver suffers, and the kidneys also suffer because they work together. Vitamin D is needed by the liver. And since vitamin D is so important for immunity and pain relief and for lowering blood pressure, one can imagine all the different consequences of this point alone. The liver also softens the effects of some hormones, such as estrogen, cortisol, a stress hormone, and when it is damaged, the hormonal buffer does not work, resulting in a surge in cortisol and estrogen in many people.  In men, because of the liver, estrogen begins to dominate because nothing controls it. There is also the hormone testosterone, which, due to the liver, goes haywire. Because when the liver is damaged, there is much less free testosterone, an effective dysfunction develops. A person becomes addicted to Viagra without doing anything to solve the real problems of a diseased liver. The liver also has the function of blood clotting. Without it, bleeding easily occurs, bruises easily appear, red spots appear. You 2 hit you already in "don't put swear words" and now let's move on to seven signs of possible cirrhosis. 1. Dark urine. One of the functions of the liver is to process red blood cells and their metabolites, and when this does not happen, the urine becomes darker, this is one sign. 2. Changes in mood and personality. Why? Because when the liver is damaged, you cannot break down ammonium ions, they begin to accumulate in the brain, which affects all neurotransmitters. You can even fall into a coma because of the ammonium in the brain, inflammation can begin. The drug that doctors use in this case is lactulose, it helps convert ammonium into ca.  which is less toxic to the brain, third is ascites, I already talked about it, this is a bag of fluid in the abdomen, this is not fat, this fluid oozes from the liver into the abdominal cavity, this is a serious sign of liver cirrhosis, then 4 jaundice, the whites of the eyes turn yellow, the skin becomes yellowish-orange, jaundice occurs due to the accumulation of toxins in the blood and in the skin, since the liver is connected to the circulatory system and retains a lot of blood, you will probably also have high blood pressure, this feeling of fatigue no matter how much you sleep, sixth, chronic discomfort in the upper right abdomen, right here where the liver is, I had this problem for 12 years, I didn’t know what was wrong with me, it’s not that I had cirrhosis, but I had liver inflammation, I was almost 30 when I realized this and radically changed my diet, you may even have some discomfort radiating to the right, here, 7 itching and burning in the feet is another sign of possible cirrhosis, these are the seven signs, what to do about it, here is the next question, well, I have a plan for you, first, you need to stop what is causing the problem  Find out the underlying cause, whether it's due to diet, because you eat a lot of unhealthy foods, fried foods, fried in soy or corn oil (which is worse), or is it alcohol or drugs? Cirrhosis can be caused by an excess of medications. It might be worth going to a doctor and starting with natural remedies. For example, milk thistle has many beneficial properties. Milk thistle is perhaps one of the most powerful natural remedies for the liver. If you have arthritis or fluid retention, read up on milk thistle and you'll see how many diseases it helps with. It might replace some medications for you, but of course, consult a doctor. Many people have excess iron. A sign of excess iron is a deterioration in health after red meat, or if you feel better after donating blood, this is a suspicion of excess iron. I have a lot of information about this. Let 's say you have an autoimmune liver disease and it has led to cirrhosis. There are things you can do about it. Firstly, what's very interesting is that you can take a so- called fake. You can take preparations from real liver, for example, cow's liver, 1 capsule before bed, while antibodies  which attack your liver, switch to a trick in your stomach in a dream, this will reduce inflammation in the liver and give it a chance to reboot. If you do this for a month, you can deplete the reserves of natural antibodies and the liver will get better. This is the first second here to taura ursodeoxycholic acid, I have a video of them, this is a very special type of bile salts, very useful for the liver, there is a study showing its significant effectiveness in cirrhosis, as well as with fatty liver, as well as with excess enzymes in the liver. The link below needs to be taken in the course of 750 milligrams to one and a half grams, you can do it several times, but on an empty stomach. I think you will feel much better if you take it for cirrhosis because it opens the ducts and allows bile to flow through the liver, which gives a person significant relief of his symptoms. Can it completely heal the liver, I have no idea, but it will definitely get better. The following natural remedy is tocotrienols, a special group of substances included in vitamin E that work 50 times more powerfully than tocopherols and they break down fibrous scar tissue very well if  Google tocotrienols for cirrhosis and you'll find some interesting data. I recommend at least 300 milligrams per day. 4 cruciferous vegetables. Why? Because people with cirrhosis accumulate estrogen in the body; it's not excreted from them, so you need something that will help boost enzymes to neutralize excess estrogen, as well as other toxins. Cruciferous vegetables contain many phytonutrients, and the liver loves bitter vegetables such as radishes, broccoli, and hale. They are all very beneficial for the liver. 5. I strongly recommend starting a ghetto diet and not a simpleton, but a healthy version of it. I'll leave a link to the diet plan under the video. Follow the link, download it, and start. Finally, number six, add fasting to this diet. It will be very useful not only for intermittent fasting, but also for long-term fasting periodically for two or even three days. Why then? This will trigger out of a due. This is a condition when the body processes damaged proteins, namely, protein damage, and it occurs with cirrhosis. This should clean out some old proteins from the liver, which is very useful in general. The problem with the inflammatory process is that there are no drugs that can cure cirrhosis, because drugs are also toxins. People are put on a waiting list for a liver transplant in the US, about 50 thousand people are on this list waiting for a new liver, but what to do while you wait? Here's what to do: follow this plan, don't be idle, there are things you can do right now to at least prolong your life and reduce the complications that arise. I'm not saying that you will be completely cured, everything could have gone too far, but you can at least do better. This will allow you to live longer. If you have this problem or want to avoid it, I think it makes sense to pay attention to my course dedicated to liver health. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below, see you there.