Medicines are not designed to cure you.  This is the pure truth, and today I will prove it.  But we need to start from the age of 3.  It was then that one definition was changed , which allowed the pharmaceutical giants to literally gain a monopoly on your body.  And since then, healthcare has become one of the most profitable areas in existence.  The Federal Food , Drug, and Cosmetic Act changed the definition of the word drug.  In the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the word medicine is defined as anything intended to treat, prevent, or alleviate a disease.  Now what if you drink prune juice and you drink it because you have chronic constipation, then prune juice is a medicine.  The FDA thinks so. This follows from the definition given by the FDA to protect pharmaceutical companies from competition.  If any natural remedy, plant, herb, or even food somehow improves an abnormal condition of the body, then it is now classified as a medicine.  That is, if someone claims that garlic lowers cholesterol and the risk of heart attack, for example, and at the same time sells garlic, he will have problems.  And now that claims of healing properties have been made, garlic is no longer just a seasoning to enhance flavor, it is a medicine, even if it is something we eat every day.  Here we need to define the word disease.  Disease is any abnormal state of mind.  or organism.  In 1900 we had less than 200 diseases, today we have more than 17,000 diseases.  This definition is a real barrier to innovation and communicating accurate information to consumers. If it didn't exist, you could go to the store and read all about the nutrient content of foods.   The labels would say, "This has more vitamin C, and it reduces the risk of such-and-such diseases."  You would see this information and use it as a guide when making a purchase. Americans have been deprived of the truthful information they need to stay healthy. Even ordinary conditions, simple inattention, are attention deficit disorder .  Grief over the loss of a loved one is an adjustment disorder. Shyness is a social anxiety disorder.  Nervousness before speaking is another type of disorder.  I think I had it .  You don't even have to be sick to have a disease.  You may simply have a risk factor.  Let's say you have high cholesterol, it's not a disease, but it's being treated with medication.  Prediabetes is not even diabetes, but pre-betes, but it is considered a disease.  No other industry has such a long patent protection period as the pharmaceutical industry.   In no other industry does the federal government act as a patient protection policeman.  In general, the disease has become big business.  It boils down to convincing you of the existence of various diseases. make you believe in them and allow doctors to treat these diseases with drugs. Typically, if you have a patent, you have to defend it yourself. But pharmaceutical industry patents are protected by the FDA. This system is designed perfectly to keep this big pharma machine running.  And all of this is controlled by the FDA.  So the FDA is really doing its best to protect pharmaceutical companies.  When the Founding Fathers adopted the First Amendment to the Constitution, they intended for the federal government to have no power whatsoever over freedom of speech and the press.  And what we have now was even prohibited in Blackstone's writings, which preceded the American Constitution and in many ways became its foundation.  In fact, Blackstone's writings are built into the First Amendment, which prohibits prior injunction.   A prior restraining order is when the government says, "You can't talk about a certain topic without our approval." This is a preliminary injunction.  But that's exactly what they do with nutrients. They say, "Yes, you have evidence that this nutrient reduces the risk of disease, but you can't say that unless we, the US government, the FDA, say you can."  This is a prior injunction, and this is what the Founding Fathers prohibited. They said, "We will not allow the government to censor you and take away your right to speak."  That's why when I make videos about natural remedies that help with illnesses, I never sell anything, even if there is credible research.  I'll just read something.  You need to hear this. This is data on seven natural remedies that are not only comparable to drugs in terms of effectiveness. They are superior to them in randomized controlled trials.  St. John's wort helps better than CZS for depression. 251 patients with moderate to severe depression were tested for 6 weeks. St. John's wort is 70% effective, while the SZS is only 60%. However, the SZS had far more side effects than St. John's wort.  Of course, because it causes sexual dysfunction and a host of other problems.  Furthermore, red yeast rice was found to be more effective than statins. A meta-analysis of fifteen randomized controlled trials of cardiovascular risk reduction found that red yeast rice reduced risk by 45% in long-term studies, while statins reduced risk by only 30%.  And the side effects were half as many.  Clopagon racemosus is more effective than hormone replacement therapy.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Randomized controlled trials of 9 women 12 weeks postmenopausal.  Clopagon reduced symptoms by 80%, and HRT by 60%. Berberine is more effective than metformin in type 2 diabetes.  A randomized controlled trial of 116 patients with type 2 diabetes over 3 months found that berberine reduced A1c, the average blood sugar level over 3 months, by 12%, while metformin did so by 11%. However, berberine had fewer side effects.  Lavender oil is more effective than larosipam for anxiety.  A 10-week study of 221 patients with anxiety found that lavender oil reduced anxiety by 16 points, while larazipam reduced it by 14, and lavender oil had five times fewer side effects. Interestingly, saw palmetto extract is more effective than tamsulazin for lower urinary tract symptoms.  In a study of 140 patients over 48 weeks, the extract reduced symptoms by 5.8 points, while the drug reduced symptoms by 5.2.  And there were much fewer side effects.  Here the scores refer to the Genitourinary Symptom Assessment Scale .  The higher the reduction point, the better.  And the last thing.  Wormwood has been shown to be more effective than myslazin in Crohn's disease.  It is an inflammatory disease of the colon.  Remission was achieved in 80% of those receiving wormwood and only 65% ​​of those receiving medication.  But the big problem is this.  It doesn't matter that, according to very reliable studies, all these natural remedies are more effective than drugs or comparable to them.  It doesn't matter.  If you want to say that a certain nutrient reduces the risk of developing a disease or cures a disease, you can't say that.  This is prohibited.  If you really want to say it, you have to submit a request to us, provide evidence, and we will decide whether you can say it.  Why?  Because the law says that if something alleviates a disease, it is classified as a medicine.   Do n't forget to press the bell. From 40 to 70% of all medicines are obtained from natural sources, plants, microorganisms, and marine flora.  And ancient remedies, time-tested and effective for thousands of years, are now considered quackery, charlatanism, something unscientific and unconfirmed.  They just found out that some extract helps with some disease, but they denigrate the source from which it was obtained.  I'll explain what the medicines do.  In fact, most drugs, not all, but most, block some enzyme.  This huge diagram reflects the biochemical processes in our body.  These are different biochemical pathways where enzymes ensure the conversion of food into fuel, the conversion of food into raw materials for building body tissues. This is essentially what happens in our cells.  And this is what the medicine does.  It blocks one small enzyme in this biochemical factory. Let's say you're taking a medication that blocks an enzyme called 5 alpha reductase. This medicine helps to reduce the size of an enlarged prostate and restore hair.  This medicine is festirite.  So, normally, testosterone is converted into its more potent form, which is called DHT. But if there is too much DHT, the prostate enlarges and hair falls out.  So the whole goal is to block this enzyme.  In this way, we block this biochemical pathway. Sounds great, right?  But the question is this.   Does this solve the real problem?  No.   Does this fix anything?  No.  It only blocks one enzyme in one biochemical pathway.  This does not affect the root cause in any way.  The question is : why did DHT levels increase in the first place ?  And they never look at this at all. Therefore, if you start taking a medicine, you will continue to take it for the rest of your life, because it does not correct anything.  Ask your doctor how long you need to take this to get rid of the problem. But it doesn't solve the problem.  Medicines don't fix anything.  They just patch things up to reduce the symptoms and keep them under control.  That's basically all they do.  But here's the problem.  The drugs have a more powerful effect, so they block this enzyme very aggressively.  They block it completely, unlike the natural product on which they are based. The problem with medications is that they have more side effects than natural remedies.  That is why there is a widespread problem of post-finosterone syndrome. These are essentially all sorts of complications due to this drug. After all, complete blocking of this enzyme threatens penile atrophy, erectile dysfunction, and loss of pleasure from sex.  Every disease has a root cause, but it seems to have been pushed into the background.  After all, if people knew about this, the pharmaceutical giants would go broke .  The main reason for too high DHT is insulin resistance. Excess insulin increases androgen levels, especially the androgen DHT, a potent form of testosterone.  This is why men with insulin resistance often experience hair loss and an enlarged prostate.  And the cause of insulin resistance: excess carbohydrates, frequent meals, junk food.  Another cause of excess DHT is chronic stress, as it increases cortisol, as well as liver problems, as it increases free testosterone, which is converted into DHT.  One of the liver's purposes is to protect us from excess hormones.  And liver problems lead to their excess.  Another reason is zinc deficiency.  After all, zinc naturally regulates this enzyme and DHT levels, and many people have a zinc deficiency.  But the problem with medicine is that doctors treat the symptom and neglect lifestyle changes.  They don't address the root causes.  The question is this.  Why aren't people told about these amazing natural remedies to help them?  Because it is impossible.  This is prohibited.  If natural remedies help the body, they are classified as medicines.  They have to get FDA approval, which costs billions of dollars.  And it's just not going to happen. We'll try to get the FDA to admit that its rules violate the constitution. It will be a tough battle.  And we need all the help we can get.  If we win, the market will be flooded with information that has never been allowed to be communicated to the public before about how nutrients affect disease. This will save lives, add years of healthy life, and increase the overall life expectancy of Americans. Dr. Berg's workshop, intermittent fasting and keto diet coach. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience , which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a KetoCoach, help people and achieve great success.  Work from home on your own schedule.  Do what you like.  Sign up for the course using the link below.