There are 7 ingredients in many foods that are liver destructive. I want you to know about them because many are regularly exposed to them and don't know it. The body as a whole is healthy about as healthy as the liver. The skin reflects the condition of the liver. If the liver is in poor condition, the skin looks bad. The liver is a huge organ weighing about 300 pounds. It helps with digestion and blood clotting. Basically, it helps remove poisons from the body. It converts toxic substances into harmless substances. So, let's move straight to list number one. You need to avoid soy protein isolates. Here's an important question about soy protein isolates. You know how this protein is extracted from the soybean itself. This is done with the help of chemicals and deep technological processing. A whole series of transformations must be carried out to extract this concentrated protein. For this purpose, they use so-called hexane. This is a by-product of petroleum refining. A solvent is bad for the liver. In fact, it is a neurotoxin. When you look at diet shakes, diet powders, protein bars, or veggie burgers, always read the label. I don't recommend it. consume products containing soy protein isolate. That's how I became acquainted with soy protein isolates. People who were on the Ideal Protein diet began coming to my clinic. These isolates were the main ingredient in this so-called healthy keto diet. This diet was very low in carbohydrates, but at the same time it was also very, very low in fat, and the ingredients were of very low quality. There were n't many isolates of their own protein. I noticed that people who were losing weight on this program, but weren't losing weight, looked unhealthy, and many of them had serious liver inflammation, elevated liver enzymes, and many problems with digestion and gallbladder. And when they stopped, that is, their condition greatly improved. Number two, fructose is high-fructose corn syrup. Fructose is found in fruits. There is so- called agave nectar, this is a sweetener. It consists of 70 percent fructose, and even table sugar consists of half fructose and half glucose. Fructose is a very interesting type of sugar; not all cells metabolize it; only the liver metabolizes it when you  You eat fructose, your liver has to deal with this sugar, it is forced to break down and metabolize it, so those who consume a lot of fructose, the liver becomes much fatter than if they ate just glucose. People think that agave nectar is very useful, but this is not true because it contains fructose, and here's what's confusing: fructose has a fairly low glycemic index, somewhere around 19a, the glycemic index of glucose is 100, and for sugar, where there is equal amounts of glucose and fructose, this index is somewhere in the middle, somewhere around 74-55. But the point is that if you focus only on the glycemic index and act on the principle that this product has a low glycemic index and eating it, you must understand that the liver needs to metabolize this particular sugar and indirectly this creates a lot of problems, especially insulin resistance, then you will know that you need to avoid too much fructose. The point is that although fructose has a low glycemic index, it is a bad sugar, especially for the liver, especially if you don't want  fatty liver and something else about high fructose corn syrup and all this GMO corn, it's even more toxic because it contains glyphosate, which is an herbicide that's harmful to the liver. It's better to use sugar alcohol and the like, and xylitol, use stevia, monk fruit number three, vegetable fats, vegetable fats, it sounds like something very healthy and they're plant-based, in fact, there's not that much fat in plants. If you look at leafy greens, the test profile shows that there's not that much oil and fat in plants, even though these oils are called vegetable oils, in fact, it's seminal or grain oils and this is legume oil, for example, soybean oil. I'm talking about corn oil, soybean oil, rapeseed oil, cottonseed oil. These oils undergo deep technological processing, they strongly oxidize our tissues, that is, they create severe inflammation. Severe inflammation, the molecule of such oils is very fragile, it's omega 6. The average person in the US consumes more than 30 kilograms of vegetable oils per year, and people switched to these oils about thirty or forty years ago. Saturated fats have been replaced with unsaturated fats, unfortunately, so now our cell membranes are built from unsaturated fats, and this creates a lot of problems with inflammation, and inflammation creates a lot of other problems, not to mention that all this GMO stuff is in these products, there is more glyphosate because of Roundup, you need to consume much more omega-3 fatty acids, they are found in sardines, cod liver oil, salmon, and other similar products, and just so you know, a meta-analysis was conducted that covered 72 studies and it showed that there is no benefit in switching from saturated fats to unsaturated fats, 0 benefit, in fact, this transition will cause a lot of harm, number four, whey protein powder, think about what it is, it is a milk protein that has been highly concentrated so that it has extremely little fat or no fat at all, consuming something in which the natural complex created by nature is disrupted does not pass without a trace, and whey protein causes inflammation, it is slightly toxic to the liver, it increases inflammation markers, I remember a long time ago when I knew nothing about health, I wanted to gain weight, this was in my senior years  classes and what did I do? I started eating protein powders. I started consuming these powders and I got very sick because there was not only whey protein but also the substance that is next on the list, maltodextrin, so protein must be eaten with the fat that nature provided it with. Maltodextrin is number five, it is in so many products, it is just awful, it is in all protein powders and sometimes it is the first component. That is the problem with maltodextrin. For us, it is synthetic, that is, artificial sugar, its glycemic index is higher than that of glucose, it is between 110 and it seems 119 is prohibitively high, that is, you are eating something that is much worse than sugar for your blood sugar, pancreas, liver weight, and maltodextrin is added to many vitamins and supplements. It is used as a filler, as an oil dryer, it is hidden in many so- called compatible products, which I will talk a lot about, but in fact, maltodextrin makes the liver more fatty, and before I forget, maltodextrin is obtained  from corn, wheat, potatoes, tapioca, so sometimes it's obtained from home ingredients, avoid it, it's even added to post-workout gels, it's in the sweetener from captivity to puddings, protein bars, in general, a lot of where number six is aflatoxin and you need to stop using aflatoxin and what is aflatoxin and it's a toxin of certain fungi that is carcinogenic to the liver, your liver doesn't like it, aflatoxin is mainly found in peanuts and corn, especially if they are in a humid environment. If you eat peanuts or peanut butter, the best way to avoid aflatoxin is to buy Valencia brand peanuts. Valencia peanuts are much drier and usually don't contain aflatoxin, especially in organic Valencia pasta. Of course, if you watch my video, you don't eat corn, but corn is in many products, so you need to watch this too. And number seven is monosodium glutamate and 621, it has a lot of forums, including modified food starch, be sure to read the ingredients because pork rinds add it, it's in many  in foods as a flavor enhancer, all fast food establishments use it to enhance the flavor because without it you wouldn't eat all that MSG encourages you to eat more, it's definitely in Chinese cuisine, it has a lot of hidden sodium, it's not actually salty, but it still leads to fluid retention, but the big problem is not that but its toxicity to the liver, it's even in products like cottage cheese, if it's from a regular store, I advise you to just start reading the list of ingredients, many of my patients when I was practicing complained about not feeling well, I asked when you felt bad, what you ate right before that, and usually it was because of some ingredient from that list, that the person ate something he didn't know about and he didn't connect the dots, what about red meat, is red meat bad for the liver, the answer is, grass- fed red meat is harmless for the liver, except in cases where you have an iron problem, the thing is, our bodies can't easily remove iron, and excess iron can be very toxic to the liver and even cause cirrhosis, and in Red meat is high in iron, so if you have excess iron, you should probably avoid red meat. But most people don't have iron problems, and high- quality red meat won't be a problem for their liver. Of all the foods that are good for the liver, cruciferous vegetables are the healthiest, including vegetables like broccoli and Brussels sprouts. Be sure to eat them regularly. As a next step, I suggest taking my course for the liver. It contains a lot of unique data on what to do to restore the liver. The link will be below. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos about the St. Petersburg fatty diet and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.