There are a lot of potentially available dietary supplements on the market. Today I will talk about seven remedies that, as I see it, work in most cases. You can get a more complete list of such remedies, I will leave a link below. But today we will discuss seven remedies for specific ailments and they work in almost all cases. I say this based on personal observations, and I myself have taken some of them and I want to say that I am not selling any of these products. So, I am not trying to sell you anything. This is just what I see works. So, let's get started. Number one, AHC, I will not decipher this abbreviation and pronounce complex terms. All this can be found in the link below. And HCC is an extract of shiitake mushrooms, which has very special properties. This extract strengthens our natural killer cells. These cells are part of the immune system, they attack cancer cells and viruses. More than 100 randomized controlled trials of this compound have been conducted. It has a very interesting effect on many pathogens, including HPV, the human papillomavirus, and this virus, by the way, has very evil intent; it weakens our natural cells.  Killers, that is, in essence, it turns off the forces that protect us, it weakens our natural killer cells to survive, but shiitake mushroom extract counteracts this and strengthens our natural killer cells so much so that you can completely remove HPV from your body. This is an excellent remedy for everything associated with HPV, including congenital and other warts. And these are benign tumors and for many problems due to weak immunity. Some people on chemotherapy take this Bat to strengthen the immune system. It is also used as an excellent remedy for inflammation. It helps against other viruses that are on YouTube. A powerful tool for strengthening the autonomic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system ensures our adaptation to stress, and studies of this remedy have shown that it improves our adaptation to stress and helps recover from stress. This is a function of the parasympathetic system. That is, it helps you calm down and sleep, but it also helps you adapt to stress. These are just a few of the wonderful properties of HCC number two. Tutka. What is Tutka? Tutka is an artificial compound. This is probably one of the. In fact, I recommend two artificial remedies. which have no side effects first benfotiamine for peripheral neuropathy I did not include it here and second - tutka this remedy is obtained synthetically because tutka is bear bile and in the past there was a problem people killed too many bears and extracted this bile remedy this is an old remedy it has very interesting very powerful properties I will mention only a couple of properties I already have a video from a duck the main property is that it liquefies bile in the bile ducts many people develop stones in the gallbladder because bile in the ducts thickens due to the fact that it is deprived of some factors a sediment is formed that clogs the bile ducts and leads to stagnation in the liver because of this jaundice and many other problems including even stones in the gallbladder as well as all kinds of pain in the abdomen bloating pancreatitis and various digestive problems in fact when someone undergoes detoxification with natural remedies to destroy certain microbes and even biofilms it can cause various side effects  One of the effects is blockage of the bile ducts. This leads to stagnation in the liver, which causes a lot of terrible complications because the liver can no longer remove toxins. Blockage of the bile ducts leads to severe stagnation in the liver, which can cause various inflammations in the liver and terrible side effects. Tutka helps here. It liquefies the contents of the bile ducts and bile flows through them freely, which brings great relief in many conditions, including pain in the right shoulder and pain that reaches the neck or even the head. I had this for 12 years because I knew about the connection between this area under the ribs, where the bile ducts are, and pain in the right shoulder and headaches. So, Tutka is a very good remedy for any problems with the liver, gallbladder, and many other problems. I always recommend. If you have tried everything but nothing has helped, give the person two capsules during the day on an empty stomach. You should not take it with food because then it will break down the fat you just ate, so you need to take it on an empty stomach. That was number two, number three, nattokinase is a soy extract.  and Although I am strongly against soy, this extract has an amazingly powerful property of breaking down scar tissue. Tissue is an enzyme that breaks down thrombus in the body and fibrin. And fibrin is in blood clots and in clogged vessels. That is, for those who have a clogged vessel, a remedy that can help break down a clot or at least the protein part of a clot. Because a clot consists of protein from fibrous protein that breaks down nattokinase, as well as cholesterol and calcium. Calcium and, by the way, vitamin K2 is a good remedy for excess calcium that is deposited in the vessels. Nattokinase is my favorite remedy for everything related to clogged vessels. The next remedy is called nag N acetyl carnosine. This is an excellent remedy for cataracts. It must be used in the form of drops. That is, you need drops. Nag NAC is excellent for cataracts. Especially if it is a new cataract, and I remind you that I have a list of all the dietary supplements that I think really work and that you need to know about at the link below. I advise you to download this complete list when you finish watching this video. So, number five is Halin Choline -  This is one of the best remedies for fatty liver. If you see your protruding belly down, so you can no longer see your feet, then you have fatty liver. In this case, among other things, you need to take Halin. And you need to know that the richest food in choline is egg yolk. Eating eggs helps get rid of fat in the liver. Halin helps remove fat from the liver and Halin, by the way, is part of bile salts. So, this was Halin. Next, colostrum. Colostrum can be bought in the form of badalin. There may be fewer allergens. Colostrum is a substance secreted into milk when milk first appears. There is a lot of everything needed for immunity in colostrum. There are probiotics. Colostrum promotes the formation of the immune system, so colostrum is useful for those who have taken too many non-steroidal antibiotics for some time and for those who have chronic inflammation, they need to take colostrum. I highly recommend taking just a little at the beginning to stimulate an immune response. Although it may not be there. I would start with a quarter of the recommended dose, take it before bed. And gradually increase the dose.  I only know one contraindication, an allergy to Kazin, which is milk protein. This could be a problem. So, it was colostrum, and number se is demon Noza. Daily it helps bind E. coli in the bladder, which is very good. UTIs. People with UTIs should take demon Nozuki. I'll leave a link below for natural remedies that really work. Come to the course if you or your friends need this information. You know what superfoods are. These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short, succinct videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.