Hi, let's talk about seven healthy eating tips, not about meals, about tips, methods, here's the first one: if you deviate from your diet, get back to it quickly, because what happens is, let's say a holiday comes, like Thanksgiving or Christmas or something else, and you break your diet. Here you need to decide to return to it the very next day, because the longer you wait, the harder it is to get back to the diet, because your blood sugar levels change. Get back to it quickly to eliminate fewer consequences. This was the first tip. 2. Keep diet desserts on hand, especially during the holidays, when there are a lot of temptations around. You can look for them on the Internet and order delivery or make them yourself. By the way, I have a lot of recipes in the description, there will be a link so you don't have to deprive yourself of something delicious. Number 3: Plan in advance what you will eat. On my website, there is a wonderful program in which you can plan meals for the whole week. You can use it or create a menu yourself, but you need to plan the whole week. Prepare in advance so you don't have to worry about it and just follow the already marked program. This works well, provided that you don't take too complicated recipes. If you don't have a menu for the week,  You might be left with a refrigerator, you might be confused, what should I eat today? You'll go to a restaurant and eat something unhealthy. Fourth, let's say you've encountered a problem in some area. Maybe you have a problem with some food. Maybe you're craving salty chips or something like that. Maybe you dream of French fries or just don't care about anything. Study this issue. I have videos about literally everything related to food. Just watch them or rewatch them. You'll get more information on this topic. This is very important. Number five, avoid circumstances that can throw you off your diet. Don't go to restaurants with buffets on weekends. Don't go to places where the smell of food is in the air. For example, you went to a shopping center. You know that there's a food court downstairs. The smells there will tempt you. Avoid places that are full of temptations. Number six, cooking food for parties or events yourself. The worst thing is when you know for sure that there won't be low-carb food there. What should you do then? Maybe you choose drostanolone where everyone will eat. Maybe you invite friends to your place.  In this case, the menu will depend on you. I think the one who knows the most about nutrition and understands what's what should be responsible for the food, and not the one who knows nothing about it, he will only harm you. And number 7, and you realize the fact that sticking to a healthy diet is a thousand times easier than getting rid of an illness. Almost every day I receive letters from one or two, even three people who are sick with something, even cancers. Today, a man was diagnosed with cancer and he asks, "Doctor Berg, what should I do?" Help. People don't know who to turn to and what to do. They write to me. I should have started taking care of my health a long time ago. As soon as I get better, I'll go on a proper diet. The problem is that it's extremely difficult to find a doctor who understands the causes. Medicine is used to treating symptoms. What it lacks is the ability to understand the situation and find the root cause of the problem. Doctors only care about eliminating symptoms, but how difficult it is to recover. Get back your health when everything is already very advanced. You don't know how long ago everything started, maybe many years ago, but only now it has become a problem. The disease is usually caused by something, usually nutrition, that's my opinion, and also certain foods. What you eat today can prevent illness. Your health is determined by what you're looking for. You need to learn from others' mistakes and avoid illness. To summarize, you need to build your health every single day, and then problems can be completely avoided. I hope this will inspire some people who, especially during the holidays, tend to deviate from their diet for too long. Maybe this will motivate you to stick to your diet more carefully. See you there. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.