Today we will talk about fluid retention and the Seven most powerful plant diuretics. Diuretics are what remove fluid from the body. There are synthetic and natural diuretics, but probably the most common cause of fluid retention is a large amount of glucose in the diet. I don’t know if you know this or not, but for every gram of glucose, the body retains 2.7 grams of water. So if there are a lot of carbohydrates in the body, there will be a swamp. I see this constantly at various events and so on. I meet people with puffy eyes or domestic ankles. This is fluid. Such people usually eat a lot of carbohydrates and this is very easy to fix. And if you eat enough foods with potassium, for example, vegetables, you will usually not have fluid retention. The average American eats too much sodium but not enough potassium and his body is full of water. The first on our list is dandelion, a weed that has taken over the entire lawn and it is super beneficial for your liver. The substance in dandelion that has diuretic properties is concentrated in its leaves, not in the roots. So add them to a salad. You can buy them or pick them near your home in the leaves.  Dandelion has a lot of potassium, which helps remove fluid from the body. These leaves are useful in many ways. The next item is bearberry, it directly affects the kidneys, helping to remove fluid, it is useful for urinary tract and bladder infections. Horsetail. People usually think of it as a remedy for nails and hair because it has a lot of silicon, it also removes aluminum, it is also able to free the body from fluid. The only problem is that horsetail uses up vitamin B1. If you take a supplement that includes horsetail, also take B-complex or nutritional yeast. It is also recommended for children with urinary incontinence. Next on the list is garlic. It is a powerful diuretic, a very strong antimicrobial, antifungal, anti-yeast, anti-cancer, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and also an anti-cancer agent. Next, we have black tea, it will rid you of excess sodium, it removes sodium from the body, but not potassium, this normalizes their proportions, it inhibits the adrenal hormone aldosterone, the main task of this hormone is to retain sodium by lowering the level.  You 'll maintain lower sodium levels and get rid of fluid. Parsley is very beneficial for blood pressure and also reduces potassium excretion, meaning it helps retain potassium. In Germany, it's officially approved as a diuretic. Lastly, if you buy stinging nettle root, buy the root, not the leaves. It's a very powerful anti-inflammatory. It also removes excess fluid. Some men take it for an enlarged prostate; it helps with that. Well, friends, those were 7 herbal diuretics. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.