Let's discuss seven surprising actions you can take to speed up fat burning There are things you know and things you may not know But what you need to know The goal of this video is to give you all the knowledge so that you can actually overcome the barrier that is preventing you from not only losing weight but also getting into fat burning mode and staying in that mode It's surprising that so many people are unable to get into fat burning mode and stay in it Long enough to make good changes I'll tell you about ways to speed up Progress that you may not have heard of So What are we talking about anyway? We're talking about moving from the state you're in now to the ideal situation For most people, the body runs on blood sugar They burn sugar stored in the liver and their energy levels jump up and down They don't burn fat But it is in fat that all the energy is stored. A thin person has an average reserve of over 100,000 kilocalories in the form of fat and if you can use these reserves all the time, your energy levels will be consistently good So we're going to talk about how to be fat adapted and it's not just about switching the body to Burning ketones is not the same as full fat adaptation and unfortunately it takes more time. Full fat adaptation takes from one to 3 months. But I will teach you an important way to speed up progress that may surprise you greatly, but before we begin, I think it is important for us to understand. How to know that fat adaptation has been achieved, you need to look at several factors. Number one: You can go longer without food. You no longer experience strong hunger. Your appetite disappears. This is the first. Second: You are no longer drawn to carbohydrates. And if you don’t have cravings, it’s very easy for you to follow the program. If you have cravings, I don’t know how it’s even possible to follow any kind of diet plan. Life will turn into torture, and temptation will cross out any progress. And third: I already said this: energy. The energy level will not jump back and forth, but will be very stable and constant, and you will have more energy. Why? Because you get calories by burning fat, and fat is more than twice as high in energy content as proteins and carbohydrates. So, by burning fat, the body gets more energy and does it more efficiently. Understand. Our bodies are designed for  burning fat and not for the constant burning of glucose. Although some say that the brain needs glucose and all that stuff, all the glucose that the body needs can easily be produced by the body itself. This process is called gluconeogenesis and this word means the creation of new glucose, and from other sources such as proteins, fats, ketones. So, the glucose that the brain uses, by the way, is far from the entire brain does not necessarily need to be obtained in the form of food. Number four is improving mental activity, in other words, concentration improves, creativity increases. You can do more things, even the ability to learn improves. Although the fourth point is related to cognitive function, I should add something here. Specifically, your mood improves. Adaptation to fat improves mood, depression, anxiety decreases, and in general, your mood improves greatly. Number p is increasing endurance during training, the ability to generate energy and maintain a certain level of training increases. When you are adapted to fat. If you are not adapted to fat, then during training you quickly run out of glucose. After all, our glucose reserves are small and during training  Some people are exhausted, they are tired, they run out of glucose, and fat-burning adaptation allows you to exercise longer, and number six. Improving the quality of sleep actually does not reduce the need for sleep much, but you will see that you need to sleep a little less. This is how you can understand that fat adaptation has been achieved. There are many factors that influence metabolism and the ability to burn fat, but I want to know the following and ask you to write it in the comments. Which of the following fifteen factors? How do you feel? Is it the hardest to change? Which of the factors? How do you feel? You feel like you can't do anything about it? That's what I want to know. So let's move on to the list. Number one is genetics. Your genes. Number two is age. Number three is your environment. Number four is your food. Diet. Number five is your hormones. Number six is ​​your muscles. Your muscle mass. Number seven is exercise. Number seven is stress level. Number dev is nutrients. Number ten is your sleep. Number eleven is the time you walk and when you don't walk. Number two is medications you take. Number three is chemicals in your food. Number ten is metabolic rate. Number ten is your reserve. Number ten is your sleep. Number eleven is the time you walk and when you don't walk. Number two is medications you take. Number three is age. Number three is your environment. Number four is your food. Diet. Number five is your hormones. Number ten is your muscles. Number seven is exercise. Number seven is stress level. Number ten is nutrients. Number ten is your sleep. Number ten is the time you walk and when you don't walk. Number ten is medications you take. Number ten is chemicals in your food. Number ten is metabolic rate. Number ten is your reserve ...  health, what is your health reserve, health potential, so which of these factors do you feel is the most difficult for you to control? Please write about this in the comments. This is what you need to focus on and know that you have the ability to influence absolutely each of these points. The one you cannot influence is your weakness. Someone will say I cannot influence my genes. Have you heard of epigenetics? It is above your genetics. This is everything in the environment that you can control, such as your stress level. What can you do to change your environment to a more suitable one? Epigenetics can include your state of mind, a change in attitude, this could be a change in stress level. It definitely includes a change in diet. All of these factors can greatly help you control your genes and use them to improve your survival. Is it possible to do something about age? Yes, there are certain actions and foods that can prolong life, reduce the risk of death, look younger and be younger inside. From everything that accelerates aging, some people are not very successful in changing their environment, they are stuck between a rock and a hard place. But the better you control all of this, the better you control fat burning, your metabolism, and quality.  life and health level Now let's look at the list of what helps you make fat burning more permanent number one exercise You may already know that high-intensity interval training is the best workout for burning fat stimulating growth hormone and you may already know that sprinting is one of the best types of such training but most people with arthritis or at an older age should not overdo it with sprinting they need some other high-intensity and short-duration exercises but even more important to know Here's what you get the benefit not from doing the exercise exercise is actually stress for the body you get the benefit after the workout When you recover when I saw patients many of them were overtraining they did not understand that for someone at an older age even three workouts a week is too much here is an example one man trained three times a week and he did not burn fat at all I told him to train once a week and that's when he finally started burning fat one lady tried to train in the gym every day for a year and it seems she lost half a kilo or a kilo at most We just improved her sleep reduced the training, I think, to two a week and that's when she  started burning fat So it might be worth trying to train, maintain the intensity and give it your all But just once or twice a week the difference can be colossal The results are given by recovery and it is very important number two a little apple cider vinegar before bed and a little water you drink say 100-70 milliliters of water about an hour before bed with a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar why does this help to lose weight acetic acid in apple cider vinegar greatly reduces the liver's ability to produce sugar it slows down the so- called gluconeogenesis it helps to lower blood sugar And the basis of fat burning is reducing insulin resistance and apple cider vinegar It can help a lot many people took advantage of this little tip And after that they started burning fat try number three We all know that sleep is very, very important in fact a lot of fat is burned during sleep Perhaps you have already watched my video where I recommend taking vitamin D3 10,000 IU with vitamin K2 and vitamin B1 or nutritional yeast before bed vitamin D3 helps to normalize  circadian rhythms and vitamin B1 helps get rid of the constant swarm of thoughts in your head It is found in nutritional yeast and if you take it before bed, sleep will improve and perhaps you watched another video of mine about breathing techniques, you slow down your breathing, especially to fall asleep and in general to reduce stress, you breathe through your nose, it slows down. Breathing can help you fall asleep very quickly, it can also help cope with panic, reduce anxiety and cortisol levels, but I will give you one more little tip about sleep that can help you. If you want to burn more fat, you need to sleep a little more and you can try to sleep an extra half hour or an hour, but if you have the opportunity to nap during the day and you do it, it can greatly increase your ability to burn fat, even if only for half an hour. Try it and you might be very surprised. What exactly will significantly speed up progress? It is not always necessary to sleep during the same period of time. Sometimes, if you do not sleep at night, you need to take a nap during the day. Number four, stress is a very important factor because stress increases cortisol, because of cortisol, insulin, and insulin prevents You may know that long walks in nature are very useful. After all, they seem to get you out of your head, you feel more space and your stress level is reduced. You may know that nutritional yeast contains B1, which is especially helpful for nervous tension and anxiety and can reduce stress. You may know from my other videos that when you are outside in the sun, not even necessarily when the sun is at its zenith, but at sunrise or sunset, or even when you are just sitting. By the fireplace or by the fire, you are exposed to infrared light, which increases melatonin levels even during the day. And this is a very powerful antioxidant. And this will also improve sleep at night. It can also reduce stress. If you haven’t watched the video about this, watch it, but this is not the advice itself, but the advice in the next one. Physical work around the house in the yard, especially in the yard, is much more important than physical exercise and helps reduce stress. So if you have a choice between exercise and physical work, physical work is much better due to what it can do to pull you out of the state of constantly solving problems. Physical work is a great way to switch your attention from problems in life to something else, for example,  the physical work that you do, whether it's repairing something, cleaning, or tidying up, any such work will help you. Number five is very strict adherence to a low-carb diet. I do a Stream on the channel once a week and I find out that people who achieve great success sometimes get stuck, and very often. The whole point is simply this: People don't understand that a little carbohydrates or breaking the diet too often, even if you ate a little of something, can negate the results. You can do a very good test called A1c. I like this test not only because it allows you to assess the risk of diabetes, but also because it can show the average blood sugar level for 3 months. After all, you can check your sugar today and eat a few carbohydrates in the evening, and your sugar will rise. And in 2 days you can check your sugar again, and it will be normal. But if you have violated the diet, the A1c test will show this, because it reveals the average level for 3 months, including cheat days. So if you don't give yourself any indulgences and don't give in to the temptation to eat at least a little carbohydrates, this will help you tremendously. If you give in to temptation too often, perhaps that's why you  Fat is not burned So number six, this is related to intermittent fasting. This advice may help you at the beginning of fasting. I recommend always eating more fat, especially at the end of a meal. Will this help you lose weight more? No, because you eat a lot of fat, because the body needs to metabolize it. This works real magic. It’s not just a reduction in calories, not just an improvement in cognitive function, weight loss, and other improvements, but the elimination of your root cause of insulin resistance. So, the longer we fast, the less we stimulate insulin production, the better the condition of insulin receptors becomes, the better they work, the more sensitive they become, the faster we adapt to fat and the faster metabolism improves. So, at the beginning of this program, we add fats, but as you adapt to fat and signs of improvement appear, you can go longer without food, you no longer have cravings for food, you have more energy, and so on. That’s when you begin to reduce the amount of fat. And it’s not about being short, not eating a large handful of nuts after meals, not adding any desserts, for example, large ones.  fat bomb because in this case your body will have to burn more of its own fat reserves it already burns them but now it will be easier for it because it has already adapted so at the beginning of the program you eat more fat and closer to the middle of the program when you have adapted to fat 1-3 months later eat less fat and having reached your target weight you can eat more fat to maintain this weight but I don't want you to eat little fat and never eat less than 75 grams of fat per day and number se this is interesting I noticed at least in the US that when people come to Europe they eat even more very often they lose weight Why Because in some European countries food is much richer in nutrients than in America food rich in nutrients can improve health and can help you lose weight I know many Europeans who came to America and in general did not begin to consume more calories but they gain weight in fact sometimes their bodies are destroyed So welcome to America a country where food is empty and devoid of nutrients in our food There are no nutrients at all So  When someone advises you to follow a dirty ketogenic diet, they say quality doesn't matter, the main thing is to follow the BJU, just realize that this is not the best advice. So, follow a healthy version of the ketogenic diet. And this means adding high- quality, nutrient-rich foods to your diet. This, I think, is good advice. Now that you have received this new data, please write in the comments so I can read it. Which of the points you need to focus on? What do you think might work for you? I think those who are really interested in working with ketogenic diets and their health should take my basic course. The link is below the video. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.