I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  healthy habits for the rest of your life there are seven very surprising signs that you are eating too much sugar I think most people know the typical signs of this fatigue foggy thinking belly fat carbohydrate cravings caris but I need to clarify what is sugar and what is the difference between sugar and carbohydrates because there is a lot of confusion about what are complex carbohydrates simple carbohydrates simple sugars for many people this is a big blind spot carbohydrates include one of three compounds sugar fiber and starch starch is a hidden sugar that no one talks about of course there is starch for example in vegetables but there is also starch in this and this what is starch starch is sugar it is just a lot of sugar molecules that are linked together starches are called polysaccharides poly means a lot and saccharides means sugar when you eat starch you eat sugar when we talk about starch that is sold in the store we mean this is starch powder we are not talking about potatoes or other vegetables we are talking about calories in the form of ultra processed starch and from this  The blood sugar spike from starch will be much stronger than from sugar itself. The glycemic index of table sugar is 65, the glycemic index of glucose is 100, and the glycemic index of starches like maltodextrin reaches 185, which gives a powerful spike in sugar. The same is true for modified starches, such as food corn, and what's striking is that you can make starch from corn, you can make oil from corn seeds, and you can make sugar, glucose syrup, or corn syrup from corn. You can buy a metric ton of corn for $198. How many boxes of cornflakes can you make by buying corn for that amount, and cornflakes mainly contain corn. At Walmart, such a box costs about $4. Corn worth $200 turns into 3,636 boxes of cornflakes, and the profit will be $14,500. That is, the profit margin is $ 7,150. What other investments can give over $7,000? About the profitability during  Does the transformation of raw materials into the final product provide such a margin? Meat has a margin of about 30%, and for some reason, cornflakes and Rios flakes don't even attack the oils from the seeds. As unhealthy food, the Sun is considered good for the heart. But meat, for example, is denigrating [music]. You produce less collagen, which manifests itself as loose skin, more wrinkled skin. Those who eat a lot of sugar age prematurely. Number six: chronic white tongue. There is a white coating on the tongue that doesn't go away. This is a type of Candida. After all, this fungus feeds on sugar and grows continuously. I don't think you can get rid of Candida unless you eliminate sugar from your diet, because Candida loves simple sugars. Number five: chronic sinus problems. Most chronic sinus problems are caused by the fungus Aspergillus, as a rule, and this microorganism actually also feeds on sugar. Again, I don't think you can get rid of a chronic sinus infection unless you eliminate sugar, because this infection feeds on the sugar you eat.  Number four: red or pink gums - you brush your teeth and see pink spots on your toothbrush. This is a very mild form of scurvy, which is a deficiency of vitamin C. When you eat sugar, you block vitamin C, and this manifests itself in particular in the gums. Number three: low testosterone. Yes, sugar lowers testosterone levels, which can lead to erectile dysfunction, decreased libido, and difficulty building muscle mass, because testosterone is needed for this. Number two: vulnerability to infection. Yes, excess sugar weakens the immune system so much that a person becomes more vulnerable to infection. A very unexpected sign number one: excess sugar in the diet is high levels of adrenaline. Excess sugar reduces the ability of mitochondria in cells to produce energy. The body compensates for this by increasing adrenaline levels, not only to obtain energy, but also to create glucose as fuel. This is called gluconeogenesis. Adrenaline increases not because of mental stress, but because of physical stress, that is, because of stress inside.  cells because not enough energy is produced, that's why when a person is tired, he can be very nervous and can't find a place for himself. This is a clear sign of mitochondrial damage and low levels of vitamin B1. After all, this engine has stalled, and vitamin B1 is a kind of spark plug in M. The more sugar or starch you eat, the more B you need, and because of its lack in the engine, there is no spark, nervousness appears, lactic acid accumulates, this leads to insomnia, restless leg syndrome, and also Adrenaline has a bad effect on digestion and increases blood clots, which is fraught with heart attacks and strokes. And since I mentioned ultra-food, if you haven't watched this video about maltodextrin, you need to watch it here it is.