There are seven unexpected benefits of using baking soda. Most of you probably have baking soda in your refrigerator to reduce odors. You may know that baking soda is good for removing stains from carpet and cleaning the sink in the kitchen, but it has other interesting properties that you may not know. What is baking soda? It is sodium bicarbonate. About 4 million years ago, in the place of modern Wyoming, there was a salt lake that dried up and deposits of trona formed there. These deposits are essentially sodium carbonate. Sodium bicarbonate is obtained from sodium carbonate. Most of the baking soda sold in the world is mined in this place in Wyoming. So, number one benefit of baking soda is that you can whiten your teeth. This is true, but you can also rinse your mouth with baking soda to reduce the number of bacteria in it, especially those that cause odor. In this regard, here's what's interesting: these microbes exist at a certain pH value. They cannot exist at other pH values. Therefore, when you rest what these oral cavities, you create an environment in which it is very difficult for bacteria that need an acidic environment to grow, including bacteria. It creates tartar and plaque, so baking soda is great for removing plaque. It can be used as a mild abrasive for brushing your teeth. Mix a tablespoon of baking soda with a tablespoon of water and brush your teeth. That was number one. Number two, soda is a natural deodorant. Normally, it has no odor. The odor comes from bacteria, and as I said, baking soda is alkaline, so it changes the pH and can create an environment in which these microbes cannot live. Take 4 tablespoons of baking soda and 4 tablespoons of olive or coconut oil. Mix this and you will get a natural deodorant. I would also add essential oil to give the mixture a scent. You can add lemon, cinnamon, or even lavender or sandalwood essential oil. Just a couple of drops. Put it in the refrigerator and use. Number three, baking soda can be used to remove pesticides on vegetables. In one study, baking soda was found to be the most effective remedy for removing some pesticides from vegetables. That's very interesting, and the link to that study is below. Of course, you need to buy organic vegetables, but when is that  It's impossible, and vegetables sprayed with pesticides or perhaps chemicals to kill worms. You can soak vegetables in baking soda for 12-15 minutes and rinse them. This will help remove some of the chemicals from the vegetables. Number four is skin itching. Let's say you've been stung by a bee or other insect. You can apply baking soda directly to the skin and the itching will be significantly reduced. It will also help with poison ivy. Number five is prolonged fasting. Let's say you fast for three days or longer. This puts you into a state of ketosis, which causes an overly acidic environment in the body. A little baking soda will help reduce this acidity, and you do n't need much. Perhaps one-eighth of a teaspoon with water will be enough. Drink it and the acidity will decrease. Why is acidity bad? It's not bad, but sometimes it can cause bad breath, and you or others may not like it. Number six is ​​toenail fungus. As I said in the first two points, changing the pH can create an environment in which some microorganisms cannot live. There's an amazing scientific article. The link is below.  It talks about changing the page about creating a more alkaline environment to suppress viruses and some gram-negative bacteria. I won't say the name of the virus here; you can look it up yourself, but I'll give you a hint. It's the virus that's scaring everyone right now. This is an amazing article; be sure to read it. But if you treat toenail fungus, such as dermatophytes, with baking soda, it can reduce the growth of this organism. Number seven, it can be used for mouth ulcers. Again, mouth ulcers are usually caused by a virus, and by changing the page, you can put this virus back into hibernation and get rid of the sores. If you haven't watched my video about apple cider vinegar, here it is, watch it.