I have already made a video about black cumin before, but I decided to make a video just about cumin, it is not the same thing, it is called common caraway. The fact is that cumin seeds are different from black cumin seeds, and here is the number one benefit in cumin. There are a lot of B vitamins. B vitamins are a cofactor for the creation of DNA and in many pros, there is also a lot of vitamin E in Mina. It has a very good effect on hormones, promotes healing on the skin, and generally prevents the formation of scar tissue. cumin does not have a lot of iron, it is needed to create blood that carries oxygen. cumin does not have a lot of magnesium, this is the basis for the chlorophyll molecule. Our body uses magnesium to create ATP, that is, energy, and magnesium also promotes muscle relaxation, muscle contraction, and magnesium is needed for their relaxation. cumin contains manganese, a trace element that is part of antioxidants, helps prevent flat feet, and performs many other useful functions. So, cumin is a very powerful antioxidant, it also has anti-inflammatory properties, the word from which the name cumin comes means that it helps digestion, we are talking about bloating.  Gas, nausea, irritable bowel syndrome, vomiting, intestinal cramps, and even diarrhea. Regarding antioxidant properties, it's apparently because of them that this spice is added to sausages, because it acts as preservative number five. It's an antifungal, antiparasitic, and antimicrobial agent. That is, it helps minimize pathogens in the body. Cumin normalizes blood sugar, helping with diabetes number six. Cumin has properties that can lower blood pressure. Finally, cumin is the number one spice in the world. Write in the comments what you think of the mini and whether you use it in your recipes. Don't know what to cook for chum salmon? The book "Chum salmon menu for 2 weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from affordable products. The basics of chum salmon and fasting. Follow the link below.