I want to talk about the Seven Signs of Leaky Gut Syndrome. The thing is that in the intestinal wall there is a very thin layer, one cell thick, which is a barrier between the inside of the intestine and the outside. This layer serves as protection and absorbs about 90% of nutrients. There is a mucous membrane there, there are many microorganisms. 80% of the immune system is there, and when the intestine becomes leaky, inflammation begins. But let's see what doctors say about inflammation in the intestine. To reduce inflammation in the intestine with the help of dietary measures, you need to increase your intake of soluble fiber. I'll tell you right away that the worst thing you can do if you have inflammation in the intestine is to consume more fiber. In fact, you need to do the opposite. You need a carnivore diet if your intestines are inflamed, especially if the inflammation is very severe. Because if you eat more fiber, the inflammation will intensify. That's not all. I want to read a couple more things here about the cause of this problem. First, although the causes of inflammation are still unknown, it is believed that the entire gut-brain axis is affected. Here we are talking about the connection between  In fact, nothing new is said here about the causes of inflammation, but risk factors are listed here, namely, old age, prolonged high fever, anxiety, depression, there may be a problem with genes. Here we are talking about changing the intestinal microflora, I agree with this, then we are talking about managing symptoms, not about healing, but about managing symptoms. A number of methods have proven effective: increasing fiber intake, no, you can’t do this, therapeutic talks. What happens in the intestines and this is closely related to what you eat, this is not mentioned in Wikipedia, this is missing information, the problem is that you do not notice the absence of this information, because it does not exist, and the average person trying to understand this most often will not see this connection. There are other factors besides food, as well as factors in the food itself that can create a problem, for example, broad-spectrum antibiotics. When you begin to harm your intestinal microflora, your health begins to go downhill, because we need microflora, it helps digest food, you do not need to anger it and spoil the relationship with it, otherwise it will become pathogenic. In addition, there are other things in food, for example, in homo products. There is a herbicide called glyphosate. In fact, it is patented as an antibiotic. We are convinced that glyphosate does not have a serious effect on humans. It does affect bacteria in the body. If too much glyphosate enters the body, it acts as an antibiotic. Then you are told that you need to eat whole grains. Yeah, if you eat whole grains and you have leaky gut syndrome, then particles pass through these holes in the intestines, which enter the immune system and cause a powerful immune reaction. Allergies to all sorts of things begin to develop, which you may not have had before. And not only to whole grains, but also to other foods, for example, proteins. If you give milk to a small child, because of the proteins in the milk, he may develop leaky gut syndrome. Because at an early age, a child cannot digest these proteins and irritation occurs, a bleeding hole appears, and this is one of the causes of anemia in young children who start drinking milk too early. This, of course, will not happen from breast milk. Let's consider the protein in Gluten in grains. Gluten is one of the few proteins that our body does not digest. I think the last thing that greatly destroys the intestinal mucosa is oils from seeds. So, if leaky gut syndrome begins to develop, this means that the intestine is injured, it is inflamed, for example, you cut your finger and now it is red and swollen. You can see it. You can put a bandage on the wound to protect it. But if this happens inside the colon, you do not see it, how do you know that it is inflamed? I will name the symptoms so that you can find out about this. Number one, of course, pain or cramps in the abdomen. They can happen anywhere in the lower abdomen. I lived with this for literally decades. I just endured it. I thought it was normal. We should not have pain, cramps, or any bloating in the digestive system. This means that there is some kind of inflammation. This was number one. Number two, constipation or diarrhea. Number three, fatigue, because food is not digested. And if it is not completely digested, a person does not have enough energy. Number Che, clouded fatigue is accompanied by a lack of clarity of consciousness. Number five, it affects mood. anxiety and this is actually related to digestion number six is ​​inflammation of the skin. What happens to the skin gives a very good idea of digestion and after practice I can say that if someone has skin problems, you just need to put the intestines in order and the skin problems will go away. A person with very good skin has good digestion. And the last number is autoimmune diseases. 80% of the immune system is in the intestines. When something invades the immune system bypassing standard immigration procedures without receiving an entry stamp, it enters the body and begins to produce antibodies against its own tissues and this can be any tissue. And in such tissue, inflammation occurs because it is constantly under attack. The body begins to consider that some normal tissues are foreign and pathogenic. If the body perceives the thyroid gland as something invading. From the outside, it begins to cause inflammation in the thyroid gland. This happens with Shimo disease. It starts in the intestines. It starts with inflammation and leaky gut syndrome. One of the best actions for any inflammation in the intestines is the elimination of many things that cause inflammation.  I recommend switching to a carnivore diet for a couple of months and your intestines will begin to heal. You've removed everything that causes inflammation. I recommend taking the amino acids glutamine and glycine. They can heal your intestines. On a carnivore diet, you'll be eating a lot of red meat and all that. It contains a lot of glutamine, so it will help you right away. But you need to learn something else on this topic, and to find out, watch this video.