Let's discuss the rule of intermittent fasting. I already have a lot of videos on this topic, but I want to collect all the most important things in one video. Let's start. Many people ask me what you can drink or eat during fasting. First, you can drink water without any problems. There is so-called dry fasting. This is a separate topic, but I still recommend drinking water. Tea is also possible. Certain types of tea can help you fast longer and reduce hunger because the herbs in tea support the liver and blood sugar levels. Coffee is also possible, the main thing is not to overdo it, but coffee will not knock you out of ketosis because there are practically no calories in water, tea, and coffee. It is calories that can get you out of fasting. Can you take supplements during fasting? Yes, I recommend them, especially vitamins, electrolytes, minerals, B vitamins in the form of nutritional yeast, trace elements, omega-3 fatty acids, especially maidenhair. If you take cod liver oil or fish oil, the calories in them are so insignificant that they will not interfere with fasting. Ideally, if you make a drink from greens without fiber, for example, hidden grass in powder, you will have something super  concentrated, and by volume 611 times less than if it were a regular product, because a small amount of juice takes a lot of greens, usually one serving before diluting with water is less than 1 gram, as a result, you get nutrients without breaking your fast. What you need to avoid is protein powders, especially whey and many others. I recommend avoiding all protein powders. Also, avoid amino acids with branched side chains, they quickly turn into sugar. As for bone broth, opinions differ. Some say that it is because of it that ketosis stops for a long time, and in other people it does not affect the ability to produce ketones. Reviews are mixed here, so try it yourself and see how it affects you, then notice your blood sugar. As for the oil network, which can sometimes be added to coffee to make blood, coffee or butter or coconut oil, or oil network, your ketone levels will not decrease because these fats will turn into ketones. The only thing that will happen if you overdo it with it is that the body will not use its own to produce ketones.  Fat and fat from oil is not that bad, especially in the beginning when you are just entering ketosis, but then if you find that you are not losing weight, keep in mind that this may be due to excess fat in your diet. I recommend nets to many people because it allows you to fast longer, which is actually very good because the body needs to adapt to oil. Nets can give you ketones for the brain, so it has other advantages. In general, it depends on the situation. Let's move on. Don't eat if you are not hungry. So, you start fasting, but you were planning on 6:00 PM and your goal is to lose weight and you find that you have no appetite at all. Keep fasting. Of course, in the beginning, you shouldn't fast for very long, but you caught the wave. The body has its own fat and does not die from hunger, so you can fast for longer, this will improve the result. But you don't need to overdo it and bring yourself to weakness and dizziness. You need to learn to distinguish when there is a slight ache in the pit of your stomach, when you are a little hungry but full of energy and there are no cognitive problems. This can be tolerated, especially at eight in the morning. When cortisol is released and the body can release more sugar, but most people tolerate it and the hunger goes away. But if you feel weak, dizzy, and irritable, then you've gone too far. Fourth, the longer you fast, the longer you need to resume eating, and slowly. If you fast for two days or longer, start eating very little and a glass or a little cabbage or a little peanut butter, but don't eat too much and too quickly. Because sometimes when you fast for a long time, especially three days or longer, if you eat a lot, the body will not be ready for it and you will have bloating and nausea. I don't recommend doing this. Eat a little, wait, and then a little more gradually. 5. A good indicator of how serious insulin resistance is is the amount of time you can go without the desire to eat something. If you can easily fast for some time, this means that insulin resistance is not so serious and it is no longer a problem for you. There are other good indicators, for example, blood sugar levels. Let's say you are fasting and the sugar rises, this means that insulin resistance is still present because the body produces sugar. This is called  Gluconeogenesis occurs due to the connection between insulin and the liver. If you can't fast for a long time, this means you have insulin resistance and you need to work on it further. You need to add more fat to your diet. Fat will give you satiety and you will be able to fast longer. Sixth, I recommend always combining this with intermittent fasting. Look, you get the benefits of fasting. Why not add the benefits of ketogenic diet to this? It will keep your blood sugar low when you eat. If you fast on a high-carb diet, you will increase insulin and blood sugar and minimize the benefits of intermittent fasting. Next, seventh, I recommend periodically practicing long-term fasting because it will bring additional benefits. Regular fasting has three very important advantages: short periods of 16 hours each: weight loss, improved cognitive functions, memory and concentration, and mood changes. Anxiety and depression are replaced by positive emotions. You will feel better and calmer. This is wonderful. But with periodic long-term fasting, you help your brain build new brain cells when the body is working on the titans of damage. Free radicals produce much less waste compared to when the body runs on glucose. Ketones are more efficient as fuel, they cause less stress, they produce less waste, more oxygen and less carbon dioxide, this is good nutrition for the brain, they also help the immune system, you will fight infections better, you will increase the resistance of cells to toxins, reduce the risk of cancer, because one of the functions of the immune system is to kill cancer cells. It is also good, and it slows down aging because old damaged tissues are processed, and definitely proteins, you clean out these non-functioning cells and renew them, so periodic long-term fasting is worth practicing to slow aging and for cell regeneration. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.