Magnesium is an amazing mineral, it is found in more than 350 enzymes. Perhaps this number is even higher, and enzymes are interesting because they speed up chemical reactions in the body about 100 million times faster than if you did not have these enzymes. They are catalysts, that is, substances that significantly speed up chemical reactions. And enzymes are also amazing in that they expend their energy during the reaction, and this is truly magic. After all, they seem to have their own inexhaustible source of energy, and in this video I will tell you something about magnesium that you probably have never heard of, something you definitely know. Magnesium helps with heart disease, with cramps in the calf muscles at night, it helps you fall asleep, reduces anxiety, allows you to relax better, magnesium makes blood vessels less rigid. And this helps lower blood pressure, and perhaps you know that magnesium works with calcium, it's like a seesaw, the more calcium you have, the less magnesium and vice versa, so calcium and magnesium are needed. In the right proportion, calcium and magnesium are especially needed for muscle contraction and relaxation. Calcium is needed for muscle contraction, and magnesium for  their relaxation That's why with magnesium deficiency all sorts of muscle problems arise such as cramps and muscle twitching tetany magnesium is often taken for headaches that is magnesium helps with headaches if there is some problem associated with nerves and muscles with irritation and even with heart rhythm disturbances think about magnesium but let's talk about things you probably haven't heard of Although they are very interesting there is an enzyme that helps regulate cholesterol levels it is called HMG and reductase it is what statins block so the fact is that magnesium acts similarly to statins that is it helps regulate LDL levels or increase HDL levels and it helps regulate triglycerides In addition magnesium is in enzymes associated with lecithin And this is so to speak an antidote to cholesterol without magnesium there will be a lot of problems with cholesterol with the proportion of LDL and HDL and it will not work Lecithin is another important process in which magnesium is involved is the creation of ATP ATP is a source of energy in the body and without ATP We simply cannot stay energetic That's why magnesium is the second most  An essential mineral in the body after potassium, without magnesium, constant fatigue is possible. In addition, magnesium helps reduce the level of adrenaline, cortisol, and the so-called ACTH adrenal corticotropic hormone, and CTH is a hormone produced by the pituitary gland and orders the adrenal gland to produce cortisol. So, when the regulation of this hormone worsens, stress levels increase. That is why magnesium is excellent for stress and anxiety because it helps normalize ACTH, cortisol, and adrenaline and counteracts oxidative stress caused by these stress hormones. So, magnesium protects us at the cellular level. Magnesium is a natural calcium channel blocker; it opposes calcium, so it can help with pressure, and there is a reason for this, and the reason is that magnesium acts as a natural calcium channel blocker. Calcium channel blockers are prescribed for hyper, and magnesium is their natural replacement. There are practically no side effects, but magnesium also acts as a beta-blocker, so it maintains calcium balance, and at the same time, as a beta-blocker, it reduces tension in the vessels and in all this Magnesium has a couple more wonderful properties in the system, number one is a natural remedy for blood clots, in fact, it is a natural blood thinner. You may know that magnesium helps lower blood sugar, it is very important to, so to speak, reverse insulin resistance and the latter. Although, perhaps this is the most important function of magnesium, magnesium is needed to create DNA. And without perfectly precise blueprints of the body, a huge chain reaction can occur. Usually, we need 310-420 mg of magnesium per day. Few people get that much magnesium, which means they have a magnesium deficiency and there are these problems. Magnesium is the basis of chlorophyll. So, it is found in everything green, for example, in dark green leafy vegetables. And many people do not eat them. Magnesium is also found in nuts, pumpkin seeds, dark chocolate, sugar-free, of course, in kelp and even in some types of sea salt, which is low in sodium, but we must also consider what deprives us of magnesium: refined sugar, empty carbohydrates, alcohol, diuretics, diarrhea, low acidity in the stomach, even the presence of certain changes in genes can also be a problem and this happens often. People simply don't absorb magnesium properly. It's even more important for them to avoid alcohol and anything else that deprives us of magnesium. They probably even need to take a good form of magnesium. I recommend taking magnesium hallucinate, it has very high bioavailability, and since we're talking about deficiencies, I have a whole course in which we consider deficiencies of many other nutrients. Health problems begin one by one when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.