There are seven signs of excess sugar in the diet, and it's very important to know them because the vast majority of people are always eating lunch at one stage or another, and they do n't even suspect it. I'll give a good example: the fuel gauge in a car. It shows how much fuel is left: full, empty, or somewhere in the middle. A small red part of the scale lets you know it's time to go to the gas station, otherwise the car will stall. This is the red line. Prediabetes is a condition that precedes diabetes. Blood sugar has already begun to rise, but not yet to the level of diabetes, but diabetes is just around the corner. If nothing is changed, there is also insulin resistance, which occurs even before diabetes. insulin resistance is also prediabetes. However, its danger is that doctors very rarely check for it. Many doctors don't even know how to test it. The test is called homo (hyphen and r). Fasting blood glucose and insulin levels are measured to determine whether there is insulin resistance. According to statistics, about 33 percent of the population has insulin resistance. But what worries me is that if doctors don't test, how do we know that this number is not higher? Of course, it is much higher. Most likely, 60 or even 75 percent of the population have insulin resistance, which is essentially what diabetes is. insulin resistance occurs due to excess insulin, and the cause of excess insulin is excess sugar. It is very important to see the signs of an impending problem because doctors do not conduct these tests and you yourself need to notice when the body hints at prediabetes, that is, excess sugar. The Heart Association states that you can consume no more than 6-9 teaspoons of sugar per day, but we are talking about added sugar. The average person consumes at least 9 teaspoons of sugar per day, and teenagers 18 and a half teaspoons of added sugar every day. This is 74 grams of sugar in 1 teaspoon of sugar, 4 grams of sugar. This is important to know to answer the following question. Don't most carbohydrates eventually turn into sugar? My answer is yes, all carbohydrates eventually turn into sugar except fiber, but bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes, everything turns into sugar. The amount of hidden sugar you consume every day is shocking, not even  Suspecting this, the amount of sugar that enters the body daily from carbohydrates is on average about 275 grams. 275 grams of sugar if converted, this would be 68 and 8 teaspoons of sugar. It’s hard to wrap your mind around so much sugar. It’s not surprising that almost the entire population is rushing straight to diabetes. This is a little more than half a pound of sugar per day, but this is not added sugar, but only consumed carbohydrates. 275 grams every day. Before moving on to the symptoms of the problem, I want to briefly explain in simple terms what diabetes is. There is type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. In both cases, sugar levels are high. In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas stops producing insulin, and if there is no insulin, then nothing can lower blood sugar levels. With type 1 diabetes, you need to take insulin, otherwise the sugar will get out of control and will rise because there is no hormone to keep it within limits. With type 2 diabetes, sugar levels are elevated and insulin cannot lower it because insulin does not work. There is insulin in the body, but it works, it is not perceived at the receptor level. This is insulin resistance. Let’s say I told you something.  and you have earplugs in your ears and you can't hear a word, so I'll have to shout this, and there is type 2 diabetes in the body, initially high levels of the hormone insulin, this is the message, but it doesn't reach the addressee because the earplugs in the ear resist this message, and the body produces more and more insulin, like a person screaming until eventually the pancreas gets tired and fails, then the insulin begins to decrease, and then the person needs to inject insulin, even though it's diabetes 2, they are type 1, this is the difference between type 1 and type 2, and blood sugar levels affect 4 areas in the body: eyes, kidneys, nerves, brain, and blood vessels, sugar doesn't affect anything else, this is just the main cause of blindness, the main cause of kidney disease, the need for dialysis, the cause of peripheral neuropathy is numbness and tingling in the feet or fingers, changes in the brain, namely dementia and Alzheimer's, which is considered type 3 diabetes, attacks, sugar doesn't affect anything else, okay, what are the signs? Frequent urination, basically.  At night, but sometimes during the day, the body tries to get rid of glucose, considering its excess toxic, trying to remove it, but with glucose, water also leaves. The body cannot remove only glucose, it removes water, so you will urinate much more often than usual. Where glucose goes, water goes, then secondly, thirst is stronger than usual and you may even want cold water with ice. Dry mouth may also occur and probably dehydration. The body gets rid of fluid and you drink more. These are 2 significant clues that diabetes is around the corner, or maybe you already have it, but this does not happen overnight. You slowly enter this state over time, and then after fifteen years, this leads to full-fledged diabetes. Initially, there may be only a couple of symptoms, but it constantly gets worse, because no one tests for insulin resistance, which precedes diabetes. Then thirdly, hunger between meals requires a snack between meals. You cannot last for some time without food, so energy bars are used. When you leave the house, you take something to snack on. This happens at the cellular level.  They don't get fuel, nutrients, they are constantly hungry and don't get full, even when you've eaten, you can overeat but still not feel full, and that's why people snack even when they're full, and so on. Fourth, vision deterioration. Remember I said that where sugar goes, water goes too. Because there are high sugar levels in the vessels, a fluid imbalance occurs. Fluid actually leaks from the blood vessels into the lens of the eye, and this causes blurred vision. This can happen in one eye or in both. 5. You are easily irritated. People get on your nerves, but as soon as you eat, you become much calmer. This is blood sugar. insulin resistance or prediabetes means you're eating too much sugar. Next, 6. Another sign of excess sugar in the diet is unreasonably frequent fatigue, no matter how much you sleep. This is especially evident after lunch. You want to take a nap. This is a symptom of high insulin. Because of insulin, you feel sleepy, especially after a hearty lunch. When you've eaten carbohydrates, you want to take a nap when I  I was over 30, I knew nothing about nutrition, and to fall asleep, I had to increase my insulin levels by eating a bucket of ice cream, about half a kilo, I induced a sugar coma, and this helped me fall asleep, at least at first, but then everything turned the other way around, because all this sugar took all the potassium, and with a low rut, the pulse quickens. Try to fall asleep when there is a pounding in your ears, you put your head on the pillow and hear this boom boom boom boom boom and the last sign of excess sugar is itching in the genital area. It can itch with your genitals or around them, this can also manifest as a rash or redness. What is the cause? Candida feeds on sugar and is dependent on sugar. It is impossible to get rid of candida unless you deprive it of its main food source, sugar. Without sugar, candida cannot exist, which is why a low-carb diet is the right path. If you want to learn how to get on this path, I suggest you take my basic course. Sign up under the video. I invite you to my course.  Healthy chum is for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.