Let's discuss 7 bad habits that can ruin your day, so first, have breakfast. Some of you will say, but I thought that skipping breakfast was a bad habit, and not eating on time is bad. Especially for beginners, I'll explain. Eating breakfast is a bad habit, especially if it's carbohydrates, but even if it's not carbohydrates, when you eat something, you actually stimulate hunger every time. An hour and a half after eating, you will feel hungry. This is because every meal raises insulin levels, and it doesn't matter what you eat. If your food contains a lot of carbohydrates, insulin really soars, and it is insulin that is behind what we call hunger. I want to read you something. I found a text in one paragraph that contains more lies or misinformation than any other text I've ever come across. According to a 2011 study by the Calorie Control Council, 17 percent of Americans skip meals to lose weight. The problem is that skipping meals increases the risk of obesity. How are you really going to gain weight if you eat  We go less often, especially when it comes to breakfast. Do you realize that this is an absolutely false statement? A study from the American Journal of Epidemiology found that people who don't eat in the morning are four and a half times more likely to be obese. Yes, I read the beta studies, I have n't seen them. That is, if you don't eat breakfast, you will gain weight. There is no logic at all. Why does skipping meals slow down your metabolism? This is another false statement. Skipping meals does not slow down your metabolism, but if you eat frequently, it will slow down your metabolism because it leads to insulin resistance. At the same time, you have excess insulin in the blood, and insulin is a hormone that prevents you from losing weight. Why on earth will frequent meals speed up your metabolism? There will be no share, they write, and this will increase the feeling of hunger. Here's what I'll say: If you are not adapted to burning fat, if you do not burn fat as fuel, and you are not used to it, like many people, then skipping meals will make you feel very hungry due to a lack of blood sugar, and its reserves are small, so as soon as the sugar runs out, your appetite will be brutal. So this paragraph applies to those people who are not adapted to burning Unfortunately, it's torture to try to follow a weight loss program or limit yourself if you haven't adapted to burning fat. Because when you've adapted, your hunger disappears and it's much easier to follow a program when you don't suffer from hunger all day. Okay, here's what's written next. It switches the body to fat storage mode as the main mode. In general, all this advice to eat often and little by little throughout the day so as not to overeat is the worst advice you've ever heard. It leads to a constant surge of insulin throughout the day and when it rises, your blood sugar level drops and you will constantly want to eat. For you, it will be just torture. You won't be able to lose weight. No one can endure this for long. But this theory is still alive, apparently, and food manufacturers lobby for it. And the last sentence, don't say that you don't have time for breakfast. You can easily make oatmeal the night before. And that's what's important: having carbohydrates for breakfast. This is the worst thing. Oatmeal is carbohydrates. You shouldn't eat carbohydrates for breakfast. Breakfast is not the most important meal of the day. I used to recommend having breakfast, but now they don't recommend it. Bad advice. If you have carbohydrates for breakfast, you will most likely be drawn to carbohydrates in the evening. Point 2: Drink too much coffee. This applies to me before. I drank liters of it, and very strong coffee at that. This leads to the fact that caffeine blocks certain substances that help you sleep. If there is too much caffeine, the liver does not have time to remove it by the time it's time to sleep. Excess caffeine will not let you fall asleep, and you will be tired the next day. So, I recommend drinking one cup of coffee in the morning. You can also drink coffee substitutes, for example, made from nuts or a turmeric latte drink or mocha latte, which has less caffeine, it is based on green tea, or just add water, a whole lemon, blend it and drink it. You can add a little stevia or electrolytes. Below is a link to a video about this. Point number three: Snacking in the evenings is a very, very bad habit. Perhaps the worst thing is to distract yourself in the evening after dinner. You continue to eat and constantly sharpen something until you go to bed. This way, you constantly raise your insulin. After this, there will be no fasting at night, no fasting, no ketosis, no fat burning.  There will only be a surge of insulin, this insulin will interfere with losing weight and the next day you will bloat, besides, in the morning you will feel hungry and give in to the temptation to eat something, but what actually happens in the morning is that your blood sugar will be low, this affects the brain, there will be fogginess and mental fatigue, you will not be able to fully perk up, you will be capricious and irritable, you may experience anxiety and stress. To fix this, you need to eat more fat during dinner and perhaps at first, instead of regular snacks, eat carrots and celery in the evening. Do this until you give this up too, but if your last meal is rich in nutrients, this will help you. If you eat a lot of food but it will have few nutrients, say you eat some ordinary food with or without vegetables but in which there is nothing, you can fill your stomach, but you will not have the satiety that nutrients provide. Then there is too much blue light during the day, working at the computer or sitting on the phone for too long, especially before bed, you get a lot of blue light, blue light blocks  Another type of light is infrared. Infrared radiation is very important to receive from the sun and other sources, for example, from a fireplace, candles, or incandescent lamps, which we no longer have. Blue light interferes with the production of melatonin from infrared light. If you are not in the sun and are exposed to blue light, you will not have enough melatonin. This will affect sleep and health. Sleep will not restore strength, and in the morning you will be sluggish and tired. If you haven’t watched my video about melatonin, watch this. This is important. The link is below. Another bad habit is dining in a restaurant. This is in the altar. You don’t know what they’ll give you. There are a lot of hidden chemicals, such as monosodium glutamate and omega-6 oil, which they cook food with, and every time I dine even in a decent restaurant, I feel worse the next day. Try not to get carried away with this. The next point is to go grocery shopping when you’re hungry. It’s a big mistake. You’ll buy things you don’t usually buy, so always eat first and then go grocery shopping. Lastly, don’t eat nutrient- rich foods. Food is empty and has few nutrients, even if  It's keto- compatible and low-carb, so it will never give you a feeling of fullness and you'll be drawn to unhealthy eating. When your food is rich in nutrients, you can easily get rid of obsessive food cravings. Following the plan, you'll feel better, and the pleasure of this feeling of health will help you stick to the plan for a long time. I think the next video is for you if you haven't watched it yet. This is my video about melatonin and it's amazing. See for yourself.