Let's talk about the 7 healthiest foods. The question is, what makes food healthy? To answer it, we also need to understand which foods make us unhealthy. Of all the things that make us sick, as you probably know, insulin ranks first. So, any product that increases insulin due to increased sugar not only prevents you from becoming healthy but also leads to illness. Products that deplete your nutrient supply also lead to illness. We need foods rich in nutrients and those that improve the absorption of nutrients. That is, low-carbohydrate foods are one of the factors. Two products that do not stimulate insulin, that is, do not cause insulin responses, are fiber and fat. Regarding protein, the less fat in the protein, the stronger the insulin response. That is, in terms of the insulin index, whey protein and very fasting on protein actually cause a surge in insulin, unlike higher-fat proteins. So, products should contain more fat and less protein, if possible. Regarding nutrient content, we need not only vitamins, minerals, trace elements, and essential fatty acids such as omega-3, but we also need phytonutrients. Because phytonutrients They provide additional benefits much greater than minerals and vitamins, and so the first product on our list is sauerkraut. Why is sauerkraut so healthy? One glass of sauerkraut contains only 6 grams of carbohydrates and 4.1 grams of fiber. This is one nine-tenths of a gram of digestible carbohydrates, that is, less than 2 grams of carbohydrates in a whole glass. It's incredible. There are definitely few carbohydrates and a lot of fiber and a lot of nutrients. After all, sauerkraut has more vitamin C than any other product. One glass of sauerkraut contains more than 700 milligrams of vitamin C, and we only need about 75 milligrams per day. 1 glass of sauerkraut gives us 700 milligrams. Vitamin C is very, very important for collagen, for building bones, for protecting the heart from free radical damage. It is a very powerful antioxidant. Without vitamin C, you get tired, like with scurvy. Joints fall apart, connective tissues are not built, so wrinkles increase.  and you look older and sauerkraut is a very good prebiotic and probiotics, it is excellent fiber for feeding microbes and it is fermented, so it has a lot of beneficial bacteria, these bacteria can improve your intestinal flora, the beneficial bacteria in yogurt are also probiotics, but they are destroyed in the stomach, and in sauerkraut, the probiotics survive and enter the large intestine, another beauty of sauerkraut is that cabbage is a cruciferous vegetable, of all the cruciferous vegetables, it contains the highest amount of the most powerful phytonutrients of all the vegetables that exist, cabbage, including sauerkraut, is unique in that it is very easy to digest if you have digestive problems, then cabbage will probably digest better than other vegetables, it does not cause severe bloating like broccoli and other vegetables, it increases the level of acetylcholine, which promotes regular bowel movements, it increases the amount of gastric juice and improves brain function, sauerkraut  There's a lot of lactic acid, it's good for good bacteria and not so good for bad bacteria, pathogens don't survive when there's too much lactic acid. Sauerkraut is also an excellent source of vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 is produced by bacteria, and vitamin K2, which is also found in certain fats, prevents calcium from entering joints and blood vessels and directs it to the bones. Finally, there are a lot of vitamins in sauerkraut. You might ask what kind of vitamin it is. You can find out about this vitamin at the link below. It's a true vitamin. It's great for diseases like colitis, an inflammation of the colon. It's great for ulcers. It's very good for gastritis, acid reflux, GERD, and even for intestinal inflammation. Arugula is good number two. If you watch my video, you know that I recommend eating a lot of greens every day. Plants with a higher nutrient content are good as a base green. Arugula is ideal. Arugula is a cruciferous vegetable, so it has a lot of different phytonutrients. Arugula is very good for the liver, it significantly improves its function. If I have a choice, I'll  I always prefer arugula to any other greens, especially spinach, because it has a lot of oxalates, which can cause kidney stones. But ruka li has few oxalates. Oxalates bind to calcium and can form kidney stones. Arugula has a very pleasant taste. It has a kind of peppery, sweet, spicy, hot taste and it doesn't need a lot of seasoning. I add extra virgin olive oil, maybe a little sea salt, and that's it. Arugula is very useful for inflammation. It has a very powerful anti-inflammatory effect. Ruka li also has a lot of nitric oxide, which is good for libido, erectile dysfunction, and is good for the cardiovascular system because it strengthens the endothelial walls, which are the inner walls of blood vessels where clots and plaques can occur. Ruka li also has a lot of calcium, potassium, folate, magnesium, vitamins C and K1, and finally, arugula has a fairly powerful anti-cancer effect. um, so the next item on the list is salmon, of course, I recommend always taking commercial salmon, and the fattiest one, and I don't remove the skin because it's right under the skin.  a lot of extra fat if you are concerned about mercury content then salmon has significantly less than other fish and much less dangerous levels and you should know something else salmon has a lot of selenium it has a strong counteracting effect on mercury and the presence of selenium and mercury is not absorbed so when you eat salmon do not be afraid of mercury of all fish salmon contains extremely high levels of omega-3 fatty acids omega 3 fatty acids are very beneficial for the brain heart joints they have an anti-cancer effect most people consume too much omega 6 fats in soybean oil corn oil and canola oil cottonseed oil and they get extremely little omega-3 fatty acids and this imbalance causes a lot of inflammation if you want your inflammation level to always be very low eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids so I recommend eating salmon at least several times a week the ratio of fat and protein in salmon is approximately one to two ideally there should be more fat than protein but due to these beneficial properties of salmon I included It's on the list, it's readily available, it's tasty, so you can eat it regularly. You can always add fat, class A to make it even more fat. If you compare the omega-3 fatty acid content in salmon and, say, cod, 85 grams of salmon contains more than 2,000 milligrams of omega-3 fatty acids, while cod only contains one hundred and seventy-one milligrams. Look, 2,000 versus one hundred and seventy-one milligrams. I think I'll choose salmon, and salmon has a lot of potassium, zinc, and calcium. Well, the next item on our list is cod liver. Before you turn up your nose at the word liver, hear me out. Offal in general is extremely rich in nutrients. The problem is that most people don't like it because it doesn't taste very good and is sometimes difficult to find. High-quality products are available because of environmental pollution. Never eat regular beef liver and other offal, only organic. But commercial cod liver is not only readily available, it has a delicious taste, it doesn't taste bad at all, it does n't even have a fishy flavor.  If you eat it within one or two days, you don't need to leave half a jar in the fridge and then forget about it and finish it in a week, it will have a slight fishy taste, but if you eat it in one or two days, it tastes amazing, it has a delicious taste and texture, it's like pudding, and in my opinion, it does n't have a fishy taste at all. You might not like its taste or smell, but I think you should try it at least once. I think eating offal, even beef liver, is very healthy. I just can't eat beef liver at all. I just don't like its taste. But I would eat cod liver from morning until night. Cod liver, unlike beef liver, is unique. That's why cod liver has much more omega-3 fatty acids. I have a jar of cod liver here. If you can see it, it's Icelandic cod liver, it's a little blurry. It's from commercial fish, and this liver is in its own fat, that is, the fat that is here is cod liver oil, and it tastes amazing. I don't recommend eating the whole jar at once. It's hot here.  It's a bit much and it can be hard to digest, but half a can is just right. About once a week, I eat half a can at the first meal and half a can at the second meal. If you're following the lipstick regimen, eat half a can today and half a can tomorrow. Store it in the refrigerator. But if it sits in the refrigerator for a long time, it may have a slight fishy taste. Cod liver oil is generally different from fish oil. Cod liver oil contains omega-3 fatty acids. They contain them, and it's good for children. Fish oil doesn't contain vitamin A or vitamin D, which are found in cod liver and cod liver oil, so cod liver and oil from it provide additional benefits. Vitamin A is what I'm talking about. Retinol is essential for the eyes, essential for the immune system, essential for internal surfaces. I'm talking about the sinuses, esophagus, trachea, lungs, and it's very beneficial for the kidneys. As many people know, vitamin D is great for blood pressure, pain, depression, and it strengthens the immune system.  immunity and there are few foods rich in vitamin D in cod liver, there is also vitamin K2, it contains iodine and it is very rich in B vitamins and cod liver is remarkable in that the ratio of fat to protein in it is five to one, that is, it has 5 times more fat than protein, so it has a very low insulin index, it does not stimulate its production, the more fat in relation to protein, the deeper your ketosis. If you don’t like cod liver itself, at least eat oil. Cod liver oil is one of the best products for children and pregnant women due to its extreme health benefits. It is rich in nutrients, including essential omega-3 fatty acids. And lastly, where to buy it? You probably won’t find it in a store. Look online, but in online markets you will find many different options. The next product and some will disagree with this is beef steak, you’re just listening to a speech not about a hamburger with a BUN, not about regular beef patties. I was talking about organic grass-fed beef, not lean. 10% fat beef is too late, I don't recommend it, but since beef ended up on the list of healthy foods, I also take into account the practicality of the products, availability, ease of digestion, compatibility with various other products, and health benefits. Some will say red meat is not healthy. 5 10 is an absolute lie. There is a link below for those who haven't seen my video on red meat. High-quality red meat does not cause cancer, does not cause heart problems, organic grass-fed red meat. This is not the meat in a fast-food hamburger for me. It's completely different. Some people have trouble digesting red meat themselves, but easily digest ground beef. Usually, the reason for this is that beefsteaks have more fat than most steaks. Unlike steak, beefsteaks have a two-to-one fat-to-protein ratio, which has twice the fat. This helps retain protein in the small intestine, so gastric juice and bile act on it longer, and it is better digested. Leaner protein  It passes through the digestive system faster and it does not have time to break it down completely. Moreover, with age, gastric juice becomes less. The older we are, the less gastric juice you have to digest red meat. A simple solution is to take betaine hydrochloride. This will increase the production of gastric juice and improve the absorption of red meat. Many elderly people have low iron levels and have anemia. One of the reasons for this is a lack of acid in the stomach. The stomach needs acid to absorb minerals, especially iron and calcium, and also to break down protein and kill pathogens. Beef steak is usually easily digested. I regularly eat a lot of beef steaks on the TEO gene diet. Beef is a very good source of amino acids and bioavailable iron, unlike iron, for example, in spinach. You get much more iron from red meat, including beef. In addition, beef contains a lot of vitamin B12, phosphorus, zinc. Beef is an excellent source of selenium and vitamin B6, B2, B3, and B5, and it has a lot of Beef is one of the richest foods in carnosine, and carnosine reduces glycation. Glycation is a natural process in the body that accelerates aging. Glycation is the process of combining sugar with protein or fat. It binds them and makes them inaccessible. The body becomes clogged with all of this. If you eat carbohydrates with protein or fat, you will have high levels of glycation. Carnosine inhibits glycation, reduces inflammation, and strengthens the immune system. Beef also contains a lot of creatine. Creatine increases physical performance and endurance, and it promotes muscle growth and muscle mass. There are other types of meat that are high in fat, such as duck, lamb, and even pork. But I included beef on the list because it is very practical, affordable, tasty, and very healthy. Well, the next item is pecans. I wanted to choose products from different food groups because many people eat nuts. I didn't want to talk about the healthiest of all nuts and why it is so healthy. Of all the nuts, they are smaller in peak concentration. Total digestible carbohydrates as you can see I have these nuts here I like to eat a handful of screens right after a meal they provide enough fat and a good feeling of satiety after a meal one glass of pecans contains 14 grams of carbohydrates and not a little fiber about 10 grams that is digestible carbohydrates only 4 grams per whole glass don't forget that naked and you can have up to 50 grams of carbohydrates per day so 4 grams is not significant and at the peak it is quite a lot of fat 71 grams there are nuts in which there is more fat for example in macadamia and pistachios x 'but at the peak they have the least digestible carbohydrates and an excellent ratio of fat to protein about seven parts fat to one part protein hence the very low insulin index in pecans there is a lot of zinc and copper zinc and copper always balance each other and it is good when a product contains both zinc and copper at the peak they also have a lot of vitamin B1 so during stress it is very worth eating pecans of all nuts at the peak they have very few oxalates oxalates can bind with calcium and form kidney stones, vicanas are very good for the heart, they are good for normalizing blood sugar and at the peak they have more antioxidants than any other nuts, antioxidants can reduce the complications of chronic diseases such as diabetes, heart disease and inflammatory diseases, and pecans are very easy to digest, they are digested easier than walnuts, peanuts, Brazil nuts and even macadamias, and I also like their taste, they can be added to different recipes for desserts, and the last item on the list is extra virgin olive oil, it must be real, so if you can see I have real ones here, there are many different types, you need to read these babies, as you can see, I use this olive oil a lot and regularly, olive oil is an interesting thing, because if you buy cheap oil in different stores, you will be lucky if it is real, olive oil is very often counterfeited, it is mixed with other oils and this is not the same, real olive oil is slightly tart, it has a great aroma like freshly cut grass, it has a peppery taste and it starts to make your throat a little scratchy, this is one of the signs of real oil, I add it to greens every day, why is it so useful  Extra virgin olive oil contains vitamins, vitamin E, vitamin A, and minerals such as magnesium and potassium. It is a fat, so it does not affect insulin levels, which is very good. It actually contains a lot of phytonutrients, including some that can slow down aging so you live longer. It protects telomeres, and with shorter telomeres, a person lives less. It protects and restores mitochondria. If you don't know, cancer is a disease of the mitochondria. All you can do to protect, support, and restore mitochondria helps you protect against cancer. As for anti-inflammatory action and pain relief, olive oil is comparable and possibly not inferior to ibuprofen. Below is a link to a study. Substances in extra virgin olive oil can reduce beta-amyloid levels. They are deposited as plaques in the brain of people with Alzheimer's disease. So, this oil is very beneficial for the brain. It is beneficial for memory and concentration. It also excellently counteracts the formation of blood clots and protects the retina, that is, it strengthens the retina of the eye, especially in diabetes.  If you have high sugar or insulin levels, extra virgin olive oil contains phytonutrients 20 times more powerful than green tea, so don't skimp on it. Pour plenty of it into your greens. The fat in olive oil will help extract a lot of the phytonutrients from the greens. So, these were the seven healthiest foods, and now let's talk about what you shouldn't eat. We'll discuss this in this video.