I want to talk about the Seven Very Important Things About Probiotics. So, probiotics are friendly bacteria. We have 10 times more of these microorganisms than we have our own cells. You probably know that these microorganisms form a significant part of the immune system. They help us digest food. They produce bile, a secondary bile salt. They are directly involved in the creation of vitamins. These microorganisms produce neurotransmitters. 90% of the serotonin in the body is produced by our microorganisms. They do a lot. Let's look at these seven points. Number one, probiotics are good not only for the intestines. Many people apply probiotics to their skin, for example, to their face to combat eczema and some types of cancer. They apply them to the scalp to stop the excessive growth of fungus or Candida. There are probiotics for the oral cavity. There are probiotics for the vaginal area. So, probiotics are good not only for the intestines, because microorganisms live outside the body, not just inside. In the second point dedicated to probiotics, we will talk about their opposites, namely, antibiotics.  There are also substances that act like antibiotics, for example, glyphosate. It is a herbicide; it is found in all GMO food products. Some artificial sweeteners also act like antibiotics. In addition, antibiotics are terribly abused. For example, most respiratory infections are viruses, not bacteria. But more than 75% of upper respiratory tract infections are treated with antibiotics. Most sinus problems are caused by viruses. If you treat a viral infection with an antibiotic, there will be no result. In fact, the antibiotic will weaken the immune system, then the virus will gain an advantage, and the viral infection can drag on. Most eye infections are viruses, not bacteria. Most ear infections are viruses, not bacteria. Even sore throats are more often caused by viruses, not bacteria. 95% of bronchitis is caused by a virus. I repeat, if you solve the wrong problem, there will be even more problems. Antibiotics have some trivial side effects, and of course, this is sarcasm. This is a lot of digestive problems, diarrhea or constipation. Bacterial resistance develops, that is, superbugs resistant to a given antibiotic appear. Antibiotics can never kill them.  100% of microorganisms always survive a small group of very, very tenacious individuals and then they pass on some genes by inheritance and now you have a problem because if you take antibiotics again and again or if you get sick again and again eventually you will have a problem because the antibiotics will stop working not only that, infections are becoming more and more dangerous this is a kind of trap so learn from the mistakes of others use antibiotics wisely and when you take an antibiotic always take a probiotic at the same time unfortunately as a child I had throat infections from year to year I took a lot of antibiotics and the last point on this topic animals are given a lot of antibiotics the overwhelming majority of antibiotics are received by the animals that we then eat and this creates a lot of other problems one of the side effects of candida after all our microorganisms are mostly bacteria but we also have friendly yeast friendly fungi and friendly candida they live in our intestines in good relations with us but when you take antibiotics you destroys candida and now there is no one to control  Their growth. So our relationship is becoming somewhat nasty. The remaining microbes are becoming sweaty and eliminate any sugar. Number three, you can take what I call natural antibiotics, for example, garlic, oregano, colloidal silver, black walnut extract, tea tree oil. All these remedies are excellent at killing pathogens, but they do not seem to cause side effects like antibiotics. Cranberries also help remove bacteria from the bladder. So, it has an antibacterial effect. Next, number four, kefir is always better than yogurt. Yogurt is incomparable to kefir in terms of the number of microbes, and the microorganisms in kefir are more diverse. It also contains friendly yeast and bacteria. But there are none in yogurt. The microorganisms in yogurt usually die in the hydrochloric acid in the stomach; they do not survive in our stomach. So, yogurt can serve as food for the microorganisms that you already have, but it will not add microorganisms like kefir, because the microorganisms in kefir usually survive in the stomach, but under no circumstances should you take low-fat kefir.  and sweetened kefir is even better number five if you have low acidity in the stomach. That is, if the pH in the stomach is not acidic enough. And normally it is from one to TH. If yours is higher, that is, less acidic, then most often in this case some microorganisms pass through the stomach and some of them can then grow, this is the so-called SIBO syndrome of excessive bacterial growth. And now you have an excess of microorganisms where they should not be. These microorganisms should be in the thick tishta and not in the thin one. After the probiotic, your bloating increases or you feel worse. You probably have SIBO. This is a good way to find out if you have SIBO. If you have it, you cannot take probiotics. At least for now, you need to take betaine hydrochloride. It will increase acidity and you can take natural antibiotics, garlic, oregano, and so on. And you really need fasting. When we fast, the intestines can reboot and remove what interferes with the growth of beneficial microbes. Fasting also increases the diversity of microorganisms in the intestines. I think this happens thanks to  stress in the form of starvation number six vegetables grown in the soil actually contain microorganisms This is an excellent probiotic Unfortunately, most of the greens and vegetables sold in stores are grown hydroponically, my point of view on this is that although there is little research on this topic so far, the microorganisms in vegetables grown hydroponically are incomparably less than in vegetables grown in the soil, but I'm not just talking about vegetables grown in the soil I'm talking about vegetables grown in very good fertile soil, like in a vegetable garden about vegetables from farmers, because the roots of plants are similar microorganisms they draw them in Therefore, in such vegetables there are sometimes a lot of microorganisms and they act as a probiotic And when you eat different vegetables, the diversity of your microorganisms increases and number se metabiotics What are metabiotics? This is everything that probiotics create with probiotics and with foods rich in them, like sauerkraut, in addition to probiotics, we get a lot of other things and this is called  Metabiotics. You'll hear about this again. These are all additional related things, not only probiotics that bring many health benefits, but also homeostasis of beneficial bacteria in the intestines and even a reduction in the level of carcinogens. In fact, these factors help break down something that can turn into rags and maintain the impermeability of the partitions in the intestines, without which it becomes leaky. To learn more about probiotics, watch this video. If you haven't watched it yet.