Yes, I know this shirt is not suitable for recording a video, it blends into the background, I understand, but let's move on to our topic. I want to talk about Seven remedies that seem to work in most cases. First, let's discuss the benefits of the first remedy - salt. Of course, we are talking about high- quality sea salt. Salt helps with many problems, but two main problems that salt eliminates stand out in particular. Specifically, sodium. First, weakness in the body. Let's say you have been fasting for some time and do not consume enough salt and a sodium deficiency occurs. Especially if you exercise and sweat, especially if you drink a lot of water. The sodium level drops and you will have serious weakness. The muscles will be weak. If you feel like this, take some salt and you will quickly feel better. Sodium also helps reduce the activity of the nervous system. The stress response, Fight or Flight. Let's say you were stressed and you can't sleep. The sympathetic nervous system is overexcited. Salt before bed. Pour some water into a glass and add a little salt, perhaps half an eighth of a teaspoon, dissolve it, drink it and go to bed. Your sleep will be much better because of the sodium deficiency.  activates the sympathetic nervous system and reduces the activity of the parasympathetic system, weakens it. In general, if you take a little salt, it will calm the nervous system and balance the autonomic nervous system. Try salt, it can cause many positive effects. I named only two that occur in most cases. Number two is apple cider vinegar. Of course, I advise always diluting it with water, say, an odd spoon of apple cider vinegar per glass of water. Apple cider vinegar eliminates two main problems. The first is any indigestion or acid reflux, or heartburn, or GERD. These are actually several problems. And if you have insufficient acidity in the stomach, you will have indigestion, gas, acid reflux, heartburn, or RB. If you drink apple cider vinegar right before a meal, it will help you a lot. In addition, apple cider vinegar is very effective in stabilizing blood sugar levels. So, if you have diabetes, or you have prediabetes, or severe insulin resistance, like 90% of people, and you drink such a drink, say, in the evening, then in the morning your blood sugar levels will be better, food cravings will probably disappear, and you will be less hungry.  Smooth out sugar surges if something is wrong with blood sugar levels or you need to increase insulin sensitivity. Apple cider vinegar, by the way, apple cider vinegar will also add energy. Number three: a whole lemon. Take a whole lemon and chop it in a blender with a glass of water. You can add a little stevia or electrolytes so that the drink is not so sour and drink it. That is, we chop the whole lemon in a blender, the peel, the insides with the seeds. Thanks to this, you will get a huge dose. Bioflavonoids help with spider veins and varicose veins. But this takes a little more time. If you have spider veins, notice a whole lemon every morning after waking up. Drink all this and see what happens. And from this drink you will get an excellent complex of vitamin C. This will help with problems such as bleeding, disen, vitamin C deficiency. With this, it will get better. Next, four: Extra Virgin olive oil. If you use olive oil, make sure it is of high quality. I buy olive oil from one farm in Italy, which I trust very much. I will leave a link, but there are many other brands that It's no worse, just don't buy fakes. So, if you add olive oil to greens every day, it will help with many problems: enlarged prostate, hypertension, cholesterol problems. This oil protects the heart and reduces inflammation. There are many studies on this oil. Many people use it and many feel better thanks to it. Number five: baking soda. If you have tartar, take a quarter teaspoon of baking soda, add 100 ml of water, mix and brush your teeth with this mixture. First, baking soda, because this alkali will help break down the biofilm and reduce possible acidity in the mouth. So, soda helps with tartar, but it also helps. If you have heartburn along with an ulcer or if you have a problem with burning, take apple cider vinegar or betaine hydrochloride. Because usually, with a burn or acid reflux, I recommend betaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar to increase acidity, but if you have gastritis or some kind of inflammation or ulcer, it will make things worse. Therefore, you need something that won't make you worse. Baking soda will help reduce acidity.  aggravate ulcers or gastritis and also use chlorophyll for healing zinc I recommend zinc carnosine or even grass juice in powder with water because it promotes the healing of the gastric mucosa or even the esophagus it was baking soda number broccoli sprouts with broccoli sprouts No problem This is a report product If you sprout yourself in the soil until the broccoli grows a little bigger then it is already microgreens it is a little better because there is benefit from the soil so broccoli sprouts contain the so-called sulforaphane and in sprouts there is more of it than in an adult plant in sprouts sulforaphane is 50 times more this is an excellent remedy for Helicobacter pylori And this bacterium causes ulcers and all that also sulforaphane is a powerful remedy for cancer I am not making any claims but there are over 2000 studies on the effect of sulforaphane on cancer and 30 of them are human trials This is great  It is also known that sulforaphane helps with autism in children and adults. There is a lot of garlic in garlic. Alena. Alena is a very powerful microbial agent. It is good not only for getting rid of bacteria and viruses, but also for getting rid of fungi, mold, and parasites. That is why it is very important to cook meat and everything with garlic, because if a product contains some kind of pathogen, garlic will help neutralize it. Garlic is also useful in the presence of an infection, and garlic contains substances that help lower blood pressure and blood, which prevents the formation of blood clots. So it is very good for the heart. If you want to get a list of all the remedies, you can download it for free using the link below this video, go and download.