Today I'll tell you about seven strange signs that your body needs iodine.  And the last, seventh sign, the most important and most interesting.  Over the years, our soil has lost iodine.  If there is no iodine in the soil, there will be none in the herbs.  If it is not in the herbs, it will not be in the animals.  And if it is not present in animals, you will have a deficiency.  In the forties, nodular goiter was a huge problem.  This is an enlargement of the thyroid gland.  due to iodine deficiency in different states.  That's when they started iodizing salt.  But in the seventies, iodized salt disappeared somewhere. It was replaced by sea salt.  However, sea salt does not contain enough iodine.  Not only do we not get enough iodine from food, there are also factors that deprive us of iodine.  This is the second in our water, this is chlorine in our water.  And especially if you are a vegan, you do not eat foods rich in iodine.  The more you go into vegetarianism or veganism, the less you eat shellfish, dairy products, eggs, seafood, and other foods that typically contain iodine. And now a list of signs.  Number one. If the hair on the outer third of the eyebrow starts to fall out , mine doesn't fall out, they are thick, but if they start to fall out, then here you should suspect an iodine deficiency.  Number two, hair loss.  Iodine is essential for healthy thyroid hormone levels, and without them, hair does not grow.  One of the main symptoms of hypothyroidism, decreased thyroid function, is baldness.  Number three, it's strong, like it's in your throat.  The reason is that the thyroid gland enlarges as it tries to reach the iodine and puts pressure on the vocal cords.  This can affect not only the voice, but other things as well.  Number four.  Enlarged tongue.  the tongue becomes larger.  You can tell that your tongue is enlarged if there are small indentations along its edges .  In this case, iodine deficiency should be suspected.  Number five. Unexplained weight gain.  You gain weight for no reason.  You haven't changed anything in your life, but your metabolism has slowed down dramatically. Iodine deficiency should be suspected.  After all, iodine is needed for the functioning of the main gland that regulates thyroid metabolism.  And excess weight is distributed evenly throughout the body, not necessarily in one place.  Number six. Increased estrogen levels.  This can manifest itself in the form of heavy periods, especially painful headaches during critical days, and even fullness in the hips.  Moreover, testosterone can be low not only in men, but also in women.  If thyroid function is low, estrogen will be high.  And testosterone is low.  Many men have iodine deficiency.  Because of this, they have low testosterone and testosterone is not activated.  For many men, when they add iodine back into their diet, low testosterone immediately increases. Testosterone is not only associated with libido. It is a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent.  It helps the immune system reduce inflammation.  Testosterone prevents muscle loss in both men and women.  Testosterone is also needed for bone health, so a deficiency can lead to osteopenia and even osteoporosis.  Number seven is the most interesting and important sign of iodine deficiency.  Iodine deficiency reduces IQ not only in children, but also in adults of any age. Iodine affects cognitive function in a number of ways.  Firstly, the thyroid gland directly affects the brain.  There are two parts of the brain where many receptors for thyroid hormones are concentrated.  One part is the hippocampus.  It performs control functions.  It's decision making, it's problem solving, it's concentration.  Some are more vulnerable to this problem.  If a child is one or two years old, it is very important for him to get enough iodine.  Iodine deficiency leads to problems with the cerebral cortex and hippocampus.  This manifests itself in the inability to remember something, to concentrate on something.  The ability to solve problems and creativity in general decreases.  Here's what's interesting about IQ.  Yes, IQ has been declining in humans for the past 40 years, but measuring its change over time is very difficult because there is no single standard test.  The IT test is modified and revised from time to time.  The way it is carried out has also changed.  Comparing the IQ of people in the fifties and today is like comparing something warm with something soft. The problem with IQ testing is that we can't compare our IQ to the IQ of someone from the 1950s.  Using the same test, we compare our IQ with the average IQ of randomly selected people.  IQ is declining, but we may not see it because we are constantly shifting what is considered normal.  Something very similar happens with testosterone testing.  We know that in 1950, someone's testosterone was at the same level at 50, but now it is much lower.  But the normal range is based on the population average. Essentially, we compare ourselves to a crowd of unhealthy people.  Yes, there are other factors.  The school system, the way we are taught, the time we spend in front of a screen, the food we eat.  But we must not forget about iodine.  And if you take the iodine level in the urine of randomly selected people since 1990, it has decreased by 50% to this day.   The main role of iodine is to provide the thyroid gland with enough trace elements for thyroid hormones to work.  Thyroid hormones are distributed throughout the body. They affect the ovaries and testicles.  They help regulate and control estrogen dominance.  Thyroid hormones directly improve cognitive function and mood.  People with hypothyroidism are usually depressed, and hypothyroidism is an underactive thyroid gland.  By the way, hypothyroidism is one of the most common health problems in the world.  There is another microelement that is extremely important in Achimota disease, and that is autoimmune hypothyroidism.  This trace element is selenium.  My advice is not to wait for one of these symptoms to appear, but to prevent iodine deficiency by eating foods that contain enough iodine.  And sea salt won't help here.  Here are foods rich in iodine. Seaweed, kelp, mollusks with crustaceans and ocean fish.  Iodine can be obtained from eggs and dairy products, but only if the cows' diets contained enough iodine.  And the last important point.  Buy a filter that removes chlorine and fluoride from your water to prevent them from harming your thyroid.  And be careful with toothpastes that contain a lot of iodine, and with dental treatment with iodine, since iodine can also harm the thyroid gland, because it blocks iodine.  Thanks for watching, and see you in the next video. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals.  Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways: from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity.  How to fix this safely? Will pharmacy vitamins help?  What supplements should I take?  How and when?  In the Nutrient Deficiency course, Dr. Berg will discuss vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists. Everything you need to get a clear understanding of this topic.  Sign up for the course using the link below.