The problem with growth hormone is that it decreases with age. If you notice that something is wrong with your joints or muscles, it could be a decrease in growth hormone levels. Growth hormone is involved in fat burning, collagen accumulation and cartilage and muscle growth, and improves endurance during exercise. It also helps to recover from injuries, trauma, surgeries and even strokes.  It also helps with cognitive brain function, so if you're deficient in growth hormone, you may experience problems with your memory and concentration .  If you are young and have a growth hormone deficiency, it can make you shorter than you should be.  I highly recommend against taking growth hormone.  This is probably a big problem in sports, but you don't have to do it.  There are many natural remedies that can increase growth hormone and slow down the aging process.   It all starts with the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus, which is in the brain, sends a signal to the pituitary gland to release growth hormone.  Growth hormone is produced by the pituitary gland. Another hormone tells the pituitary gland to start producing.  The growth hormone then goes to the liver, and it works with the help of another hormone called IGF-1, insulin-like growth factor 1.  In other words, IGF-1 does the work of growth hormone.  I want to talk about what stimulates growth hormone, and then what slows down or suppresses growth hormone. When you sleep and enter the deep sleep stage, delta, there is a surge of growth hormone.  Of course, if you don't sleep, you won't have as much growth hormone.  So sleep is a very good way to let growth hormone do its job.  Second, intense training. Not light training, but intense.  The more intense the training, the better the growth hormone is stimulated.  You have the potential to increase your growth hormone levels by up to 11 times if you engage in intense training.  Of all the workouts, sprinting is the best, but there are many different workouts that raise your heart rate and engage your entire body intensely. Simply walking on a treadmill will not affect growth hormone levels.  You need to really push yourself. But if you overtrain and don't get enough sleep, it won't work. You need to engage in intense training, but not overdo it. Therefore, you need to do short, high-intensity workouts with plenty of rest.  Low blood sugar is another effective way to stimulate growth hormone.  And this is a low-carb diet, a keto diet. Diabetics who have high blood sugar levels because no one told them about the connection between carbohydrates and dietary sugar, but only told them to manage their blood sugar.  Very low growth hormone levels .  Basically, you need to keep your blood sugar low to activate growth hormone.  Fourth, amino acids, that is, proteins.  You need proteins to stimulate growth hormone.  Without protein, you won't have enough growth hormone. There are several amino acids that activate growth hormone, but the most important is arginine.  One study found that 5-9 grams of arnine were needed to double growth hormone levels . I do not recommend going out and buying ardinine.  I do n't think it should be taken.  I just wanted to mention it.  This is a potential way to increase growth hormone.  Sometimes people are concerned about branched-chain amino acids when fasting and are afraid that it will raise blood glucose.  And this can happen. But, apparently, ardine will not increase blood sugar .  This is interesting and useful to know.   There is also a unique amino acid blend that I recommend to certain people who need to maintain muscle mass while fasting. And it does not have the property of turning into sugar, like other proteins.  99.8% of it is converted into muscle tissue, so it does not stimulate glucose.  And that's good.  I'll leave a link to it below for those who may be interested. Typically, when you eat protein, it turns into glucose, which raises insulin, and this defeats the purpose of fasting.   What I'm getting at is that you need enough amino acids to boost growth hormone. Fifth.  Starvation.  Fasting has the strongest effect on growth hormone. In men, it can increase growth hormone production by as much as 21 times. In women, it can increase growth hormone by 14 times.  So this is a very effective method.  I definitely recommend getting better sleep, sleeping soundly, fasting, and following the ketogenic diet.  Training intensively is the key factor.  There is also neacin. This is vitamin B3.  which, in theory, can increase growth hormone.  Not much, but maybe.  Vitamin D. You can get it from the sun, it's free, and it can boost growth hormone.  Now about what interferes with growth hormone.  Stress and cortisol. They also interfere with sleep.  The more cortisol you have, for example from drugs like prednisone, the more stress you will have and the less growth hormone you will have.  If you have a lot of carbohydrates in your diet , you will not have enough Hyperinsulinemia also plays a role in this. If you eat sugar, you'll have high insulin, and high insulin levels will knock down your growth hormone levels, especially if they're consistently high or constantly rising, which is what happens to most people.   as well as pre-diabetes and the first initial phase of diabetes, when the body compensates, but at some point the pancreas runs out of insulin, and then blood sugar jumps.  After that, of course, the doctor prescribes insulin for you. Next, obesity.  The more fat you have in your body , the less growth hormone you will have. Why?  Most likely, because of this, because of hypersulinemia. Next, hypothyroidism.  If the thyroid gland is not functioning properly, the body will not be able to produce enough growth hormone. Since growth hormone works through the liver, you need a healthy liver.  The more damaged the liver, the less growth hormone.  I mean fatty liver, inflamed liver, and also cirrhosis of the liver. Alcohol can significantly slow down or suppress growth hormone. What an age.  As you age, you will have less and less growth hormone.  We do all this to compensate for the aging that we have to deal with. Well, that seems to be all.  Now you understand what growth hormone is.