I want to tell you something very important about the immune system so that you don't get sick in the winter and even if you get sick, you recover very quickly. There are 7 most important nutrients that, in my opinion, are more important than all the others. I will try to explain everything as simply and clearly as possible. I will tell you how to get these nutrients from food. Most of the population, including you, is seriously deficient in some of these nutrients. So it will be useful for you to learn about their role and where to get them. Let's start with nutrient number one and this is vitamin A. One of the most important vitamins for immunity, especially with lung infections, vitamin A helps you produce antibodies. What is an antibody? It is a particle that marks an enemy in the body, for example. And it helps other parts of the immune system distinguish between friends and foes so that the immune system attacks whoever it needs and not its own. The task of antibodies is to mark someone. This is a kind of bounty hunter whose task is to find a criminal. He may not be involved in punishment. He may not send him to prison, but he finds him. This is the function of antibodies. Just imagine this work. The body is huge, there is an incredible number of cells in it, and antibodies move back and forth.  They look out for and search for various pathogens, somehow they recognize them and then mark them, and then tell other parts of the immune system that they need to be killed. The immune system does this. And when vitamin A is low, your ability to create antibodies and detect pathogens is significantly reduced. Your body's ability to recognize its enemies decreases. There is something else. Vitamin A helps the immune system coordinate this attack because it increases the number of special helper cells. And their job is coordination. I think this can be compared to the role of an orchestra conductor who coordinates the playing of instruments in an orchestra. If there was no conductor, the orchestra would be a mess. These helper cells do a lot to coordinate the work of the immune system. And without vitamin A, you are not able to detect an enemy in the body and also cannot coordinate the attack of your own army. A good source of vitamin A is grass-fed butter. There are other sources, such as egg yolk and liver, but you are unlikely to get vitamin A from plant foods. It is there mainly in the form of beta-carotene and must be converted into active vitamin A. Retinol, but this does not happen in most people. So Eat more butter in winter to support your immunity. The next vitamin that you may not associate with the immune system is vitamin E. Vitamin E is a very powerful antioxidant that protects the lipid membrane of the cell. Each cell has a layer of fat, a membrane that consists of lipids, and vitamin E protects this membrane from damage by the immune system and other things. Look what happens. You have an immune system, your army that fights pathogens. It has a weapon. One of the types of weapons is hydrogen peroxide. If you have ever treated a wound with hydrogen peroxide, you have seen how it hisses. This is an oxidation reaction. What do you think happens to the pathogens? They die. What happens inside the body? Hydrogen peroxide is used there, as well as other types of weapons of your immune system. So, vitamin E protects against various collateral damage. Without vitamin E, you would receive enormous damage from your own immune system. And you don’t need this, by the way, this is the problem of those receiving chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Yes, they kill cancer, but they also kill your immunity. If you have to undergo chemotherapy or radiation therapy, I strongly recommend taking vitamin E at the same time. and other nutrients that will protect you from collateral damage and by the way, there is another remedy that protects against the harmful effects of such therapy is fasting. Long-term fasting. Your cells automatically become stronger and live longer. When you are hungry during chemotherapy and radiation therapy. So, the first function of vitamin E is protection against collateral damage. The side effects of any weapons and ammunition that use the immune system can be reduced or eliminated with the help of vitamin E. In addition, if you lack vitamin E, the ability of T-cells and the so-called phagocytes that eat pathogens is reduced. This is the role of vitamin E. Where to get it? Butter. It can also be obtained from leafy greens, nuts, and egg yolks. It is a fat-soluble vitamin. The next important, perhaps even the most important vitamin is vitamin D. I have a lot of videos about vitamin D and its importance for immunity. It penetrates everywhere and affects every part of the immune system. But one of the most important functions of vitamin D is to help tame or calm an overactive immune system if your immune system is too energetically engaged in business. It is hyperactive and  you have too much inflammation vitamin D can come into play and calm it down in any situation that you have when there is too much inflammation especially chronic inflammation chronic arthritis autoimmune diseases or even cytokine storm arising from infection vitamin D can come into play and turn this thing off completely it can also shorten the duration of illness its amazing property the ability to put out a fire but you need a decent dose and not some 600 i.e. if you have an infection you need 10 20 or 30 thousand i.e. Where to get vitamin D and butter cod liver oil and also from the sun but not in winter of course many take it as a supplement This is a very important nutrient and you need to know more about it Because most people don't have enough of it the next important vitamin vitamin C there is a lot of it in raw sauerkraut not in pasteurized but namely raw 700 mg of vitamin C this is 10 times more than your need in one glass of raw sauerkraut vitamin C is one of those vitamins that help increase your  resistance and reduce susceptibility to various pathogens. But since it is an antioxidant, it also reduces collateral damage like their vitamin E. Vitamin E protects cell membranes made of fat, and vitamin C protects other parts of the body from damage. When there is a lot of oxidation of free radicals and inflammation in the body, vitamin C protects body tissues from various damage from the immune system. Often, when you feel sick, you feel lethargic or tired. When you have a fever or other negative manifestations of the disease, this is just a manifestation of this very damage. Vitamin C can help remove these manifestations and you will feel better. Vitamin E also works. Another useful property of vitamin C is that it increases the number of neutrophils. Neutrophils have three functions: they eat pathogens for lunch, that is, they eat viruses, bacteria, parasites, yeast, fungi, and mold. This is the first. They also produce weapons, antimicrobial agents that kill germs. They have a kind of shotgun from which they shoot germs. And their third function is quite funny: they kind of throw a net over pathogens and then hold them by injecting them with various substances that kill them and dissolve them. In this, they look like a spider.  which casts a net on the victim, these are the three functions of neutrophils and they depend on the presence of vitamin C. Vitamin C is abundant in kale and also in leafy greens. Vitamin C can even be obtained from entirely grass-fed beef and from liver of the same quality. Another nutrient of importance, the importance of which you probably already know, is zinc. Zinc is a component of several hundred enzymes. Without zinc, many things in our body cannot function. One of the most important functions of zinc in relation to immunity is to enable the thymus to do its job. The immune system camp and it depends on zinc. Without zinc, the thymus is greatly reduced in size and cannot function properly. Zinc allows your immune system to learn. And if there is not enough zinc, your cells will be weakened. They will not be able to fight. They will not be able to attack. The number of weapons they should have will be limited and their attacks will be suppressed. In fact, if you have little zinc, you are reducing your army and people with zinc deficiency have a lot of feta. You can find zinc in refined grain products. Many cereals, bread, pasta, cereals, crackers, such products, block zinc. Whole grains Zinc can be obtained from crustaceans and oysters, as well as from other foods in eggs and red meat. A study was done on mice. One group of mice was not given zinc, while the other group was given enough zinc. Then, both groups were infected with a deadly parasite. In the zinc-deficient group, the mortality rate was 80 percent. 80 percent of the mice from this group died, while in the other group, only 10% of the mice died where there was enough zinc. This suggests that zinc is very important to survive infection. This is the first and second thing. It is necessary for immunity, which protects us from pathogens, no matter if they are viruses, parasites, or bacteria. The next nutrient on our list is Selenium. Selenium is a trace element that helps synthesize glutathione, another antioxidant. It protects the body from free radical damage and oxidation. It also protects lipids and prevents inflammation, reducing collateral damage. If you have a Selenium deficiency, your immune system will not be as strong as it should be. It will have a harder time dealing with pathogens, and it will also be harder to protect normal tissues from various damage. Another study was conducted. One study on mice, there was a group with a selenium deficiency and another group with sufficient selenium. They were also infected with a parasite, not the same one, but a different one. In the selenium-deficient group, all mice experienced multi- organ failure, unlike those mice that did not have selenium deficiency. This is indicative, although these studies were not done on humans, but I think they deserve attention. Why are there no human studies? Would you volunteer? I don’t. The main sources of selenium are seafood and Brazil nuts, and not one of the nutrients on the list is copper. It works together with zinc. I’ve talked a lot about copper, and it is also important for immunity. If you don’t have enough copper, you are more vulnerable to various infections. Copper also works with selenium in the synthesis of certain enzymes. It acts as an antioxidant, protecting the body from damage, and also directly participates in the functioning of the immune system, namely, it calls on other parts of the immune system for help. Therefore, when there is not enough midi, the cells are poorly coordinated, it is difficult for them to get help and use the full power of the immune system. To repel an enemy attack, sources of copper include crustaceans, seafood, beef, meat, eggs, and many other products. I recently released a very interesting video about  What vitamin D does for immunity is detailed and worth watching. You'll get a full understanding of vitamin D and how it protects us from pathogens. Watch this video.