Let's talk heart to heart about autophagy, this is an amazing biological process that is always happening to some extent. I'll tell you what triggers autophagy and how quickly it happens. This is what happens during autophagy. The body eats its own tissue, eats the garbage inside itself and converts it into something usable. It's like a very complex garbage dump with a recycling center and by that I mean unusable damaged proteins in the body that cause inflammation. Organelles are also recycled. What is this? Inside the cell there are all sorts of mechanisms that create certain things on an assembly line. There are mitochondria. There are other mechanisms that create proteins. If any of the mechanisms is damaged, autophagy will take care of it. Autophagy also helps get rid of pathogens such as bacteria, fungi, mold, and viruses. They can all also cause inflammation. Autophagy also eliminates viral antigens. What is a viral antigen in viruses? There is something that signals the system about the need to react, which can also cause inflammation. This is part of the mechanism that creates antibodies, but in this I  I wo n't go into detail, but you need to know that autophagy cleans all this out in this way. If somewhere in the body there is something that causes inflammation, autophagy destroys it and everything starts from scratch without all this. Therefore, autophagy is considered a kind of rejuvenating system for cleansing the body, but it not only cleans everything, it provides new raw materials for the creation of something new, new cells, and also supplies us with fuel when we need it. How to start autophagy? Probably, you already have autophagy running to some extent. The question is how much is needed to start autophagy. To some extent, it depletes energy in the body, but first, I will tell you about two factors that very quickly turn off autophagy. One important factor is sugar, because it is a source of energy, and the second factor is protein. Any significant amount of calories turns off autophagy, because autophagy is the processing of proteins and everything connected with this. But if you have enough protein, there is no need to process old proteins. So, here's what you need to know: healthy cells and cancer cells. What I'm going to tell you now is very important, because it seems that autophagy can  You can really help, but there is a paradox. In fact, autophagy can, and in terms of cancer, autophagy acts as a very powerful barrier that protects us from diseases. If you constantly clean out damaged mitochondria, you can avoid cancer as well as many other diseases. But if it so happens that you already have cancer in your body, autophagy can help the progression of cancer. It can help the development of cancer. Why? Because autophagy provides resources. Cancer can provide fuel to cancer. Consider that autophagy can contribute to cancer in many ways. But there is one type of drug that is aimed at combating this. Drugs have been created that inhibit autophagy. They stop it, and this seems to really help as an anti-cancer therapy. One of them is hydroxychloroquine. But of course, all drugs have many side effects. So, researchers are also looking for non-toxic autophagy inhibitors for people with cancer, and a lot of research is being done on this topic. I will leave a link to a research paper that I just studied in depth. I will list natural, mainly plant-based autophagy inhibitors in case someone has cancer, but do not be afraid that these natural remedies that  I will say that they inhibit your autophagy if you do not have cancer, because these agents are very useful for healthy cells. But unfortunately, autophagy is a double-edged sword. It can help if you are healthy, but it can harm if you are sick. Unfortunately, many people wait until they get sick or wait until they develop cancer before doing something about it, especially in terms of enhancing autophagy, because it can be very useful. If you are healthy and can protect you from many tests. Perhaps this motivates you to do something about the World Cup. I will now tell you to enhance autophagy. Undoubtedly, the most powerful activator of autophagy is fasting. Why? Because we deplete calories and force the body to become very economical by processing damaged proteins. This is an important question. How many hours do you need to fast for autophagy to start turning on? As I said, autophagy is already running in you to some extent. It’s just that it can be greatly enhanced. It’s like with training when we train. We perform training of one of two types: aerobic or anaerobic. In each case, different fuel is burned if we  we run uphill. First, we burn glucose. And if we slow down and jog, eventually we will start burning fat. But in fact, we burn both sugar and fat to some extent. During low-intensity workouts, we burn more fat, but we also burn a little sugar. The metabolism of both sugar and fat seems to be controlled by a certain regulator, and this regulator begins to turn up the heat when we fast for about 18 hours, and everything really heats up during the day. But this largely depends on what you eat. Let's say you eat a huge amount of sugar or other carbohydrates, and then you fast for 18 hours. I think you need to fast much longer to burn this sugar, and you need to use the glycogen reserve in the liver. You also need it. With a low content of sugar and other carbohydrates, then there will be little sugar in the body and it can be used and depletes to bring benefits much earlier. Here's another little tip. We mentioned protein, so to get a little more benefit from autophagy, the diet should not be high in protein, you need to consume protein in  In moderate quantities, because we need all these calories to be absorbed and enter the body, but of all three macronutrients, fat slows down autophagy the least, in other words, if you compare fat and sugar, sugar slows down autophagy much more than fat, but still, if you snack during the day, even with fat, and it has a lot of calories, you do not heat up nutrients, vitamins, minerals and sea salt, but no calories. The next tip is related to dry fasting and water fasting. What is dry and water fasting? If you fast and do not eat anything, only drink water, this is water fasting, and with dry fasting, you do not eat anything and do not drink anything, similar to dry fasting. That is, when we do not eat anything and do not drink water, autophagy becomes much deeper, the effect of this is approximately three times stronger than from water fasting, which is logical. After all, we increase stress for the body and force it to deeper cleansing. You need to be in pretty good shape to start a long dry fast, because in this case  Sometimes they don't drink water for days, and I'm not really pushing anyone to do this. But at the same time, if you shift the focus from water and fast longer without water, say, starting with your last meal, you drink water before it, but you don't drink any more until the end of the day, and then you fast all night without water. You have dry fasting, the benefits will be much greater. After all, if you fast from yesterday's dinner until today, noon or until 2 o'clock, and only then take the first sip of water, the benefits will probably be greater. Let's say you still drink 2.5 liters of liquid, but you drink them, say, from noon or from 1 p.m. or from 2 o'clock until 6 p.m. So, this is fasting number 2. If you cut calories and don't overeat, this to some extent imitates fasting. If you consume, say, 500 kilocalories not constantly, but only from time to time, this can help enhance autophagy, especially if you combine this with real fasting, because when you receive few calories, you quickly expend them, and autophagy  It will start much earlier, especially if this reduced amount of calories has fewer carbohydrates and less protein, you can eat a huge portion of greens and a little protein. Number three, I have already said about fasting in principle, but now I want to talk about regular intermittent fasting for at least 18 hours, and 20 hours will be even better. Add to this number four, training, training depletes our resources, stimulates autophagy, and imagine aerobic training, less intensity, longer duration, stimulates autophagy more strongly than high-intensity training with weights, but I advise both. After all, long- distance runners probably have powerful autophagy, but they are very, very thin, they have less muscle than those who use strength training with weights. Muscle growth is very, very useful for many reasons. Autophagy and muscle building do not go well together, but I highly recommend using both. The point is, let's say you fast intermittently and train during the fasting period, this can increase the benefits. After all, you use your resources. When you fast, why don't you eat? Your metabolism increases, you spend  ATP And this enhances autophagy and by the way, we already mentioned water and all that, I don’t know if you know, but when the body burns fat, water is released. Yes, we get water by burning fat. So, the body doesn’t feel very thirsty without water. Number five, I’ve already said this, but I want to emphasize that in order to really start autophagy, you need to cut down on carbohydrates as much as possible, and you already know why this is necessary. And number six, I also said this, but I want to emphasize that you shouldn’t rely too much on proteins. You need to eat less proteins. But I’m not talking about a low-protein diet, I’m talking about a moderate amount of protein. And number six, some phytonutrients cause hortis, that is, a stress response in the body, which often turns on autophagy. There are nutrients in coffee, in tea, especially in green tea, in berberry, these are adaptogens such as ashwagandha, some mushrooms, ginger, and so on. Before I finish, I want to say a few words about cancer. If someone has cancer, then no matter what program he follows, he probably needs to add the following few things. I’ll leave a link to the study below. These things can inhibit autophagy, this will allow cancer to be stronger through hunger. In addition, it is necessary  Don't feed cancer what it loves most. And that's sugar. I'll list some natural autophagy inhibitors, number one being Stone Sponge. You probably have a sponge in your kitchen. So, stone sponge seems to have properties that can inhibit autophagy. Apigenin is a phytochemical, another remedy. Black cumin seeds are another remedy. Then there's tritium villefort, and also Retinol, which is the active form of vitamin A. They're all currently being studied as natural autophagy inhibitors. This is one of the strategies for fighting cancer, and 54% of the research is being conducted by pharmaceutical companies to find a way to obtain an extract, create a compound with it, and patent it. Finally, I'll say something about pharmaceutical companies, despite all my dislike for them, if they can at least create a treatment with minimal side effects, that would be great. If you liked this video, share it with those who might find it useful.