Let's talk about the Seven Best Products for Preventing and Correcting Kidney Problems. The kidneys are a filter. Here's a dirty kidney. But this is a clean kidney. We'll show you how to make this happen with the help of food. I think the most common myth about kidneys is related to potassium. I don't know where it came from. But people think that potassium is harmful to the kidneys. They say that if you want to protect your kidneys, don't eat foods with potassium. This is a complete lie. Potassium actually protects the kidneys. Potassium should not be taken only in advanced kidney diseases. You need to get a lot of potassium, since the body requires 4700 mg per day. Potassium, in addition to directly protecting the kidneys, helps them in other ways. Potassium lowers blood pressure. High blood pressure has a destructive effect on the kidneys. An imbalance between sodium and potassium, when there is little potassium, also has a negative effect on the kidneys. You can cope with the effect of sodium on the kidneys by simply increasing potassium. Potassium can help prevent kidney stones because it can reduce the amount of oxalates that combine with calcium. So, what harms the kidneys more?  In general, sugar, starch, and similar things are harmful to the kidneys because sugar in the blood enters the kidneys and causes strong oxidation. Its effect on the kidneys can be compared to rust. They corrode, and at the post office, alcohol, NSAIDs like ibuprofen and other drugs have a negative effect. Many drugs are synthetic, for example, prednisone, and even antibiotics. Pesticides from food products, heavy metals, food colorings, and excess phosphorus in sweets are also harmful to the kidneys. A proper diet can help here, plus a sufficient amount of vitamin D, potassium, and even magnesium. Now, about the foods you need to eat to get rid of the problems I'm talking about. First, there is a category of vegetables that are very important for the kidneys. Asparagus, some people don't like it, but if you eat it, it is very good for the kidneys. It contains an enzyme that helps remove toxins from the kidneys. Among other vegetables, I recommend celery. It contains substances that greatly improve kidney function. Bell peppers contain a lot of vitamin C, nutrients for the kidneys. Cabbage is also an excellent vegetable for the kidneys. Cauliflower is also a great vegetable for the kidneys. Cabbage is also good. Garlic contains a lot of alcin, which is good for kidney function. In general, there are many healthy vegetables, but these have very few oxalates, but spinach has a lot of oxalates. You can eat spinach, but it is better to eat it with cheese because oxalates can irritate the kidneys. Most often, kidney stones are stones made of calcium oxalate. To cope with them, increase the amount of magnesium in your diet. Second, foods rich in magnesium. A lot of magnesium is found in pumpkin seeds, leafy greens, and avocados. I also recommend taking magnesium glycinate at least 400 mg per day because magnesium helps protect the kidneys and it indirectly does a lot for the kidneys. Third, foods with probiotics: kefir, yogurt, sauerkraut, kimchi. In addition, there are two bacteria that have unique properties. They help increase the level of one enzyme that removes excess urea from the body. These bacteria are called lactobacilli. If you have excess protein in your urine or blood, you should press your kidneys. Eat too much protein. Eat less of it, but not too little. Eat protein in moderation, somewhere around 185-1 g per meal. As for the source of protein, commercial fish such as sardines and cod liver oil also contain omega-3, which is also good for the kidneys. And eggs. Fifth, foods high in antioxidants are blueberries, blackberries, raspberries. Strawberries and beets are very good for the kidneys, they also counteract oxidation that occurs with high blood sugar. Sixth, quercetin. Quercetin has properties that are beneficial for the kidneys. The best source of quercetin is red or white onions. I eat a lot of onions, you can fry them or eat them raw. Quercetin has anti-inflammatory effects, it also prevents scarring of kidney tissue, it soothes the kidneys during oxidative stress. You can cook eggs with onions or add onions to food. Seventh, extra virgin olive oil. Olive oil contains chemical compounds that destroy inflammation and support the kidneys, and it is even useful against kidney stones. I  I have tried many different olive oils and among them there are certainly good ones. My favorite oil is from Italy. I will leave a link to it below. It is simply of the highest quality. As for drinking, if you drink too much liquid, it is harmful to the kidneys because it overloads them. You need to drink a little and a lot in average. I will give you one more piece of advice on how to drink. Brew some tea, put it in the refrigerator and drink it. As the main liquid, because the polyphenols in tea are very beneficial for the kidneys. These polyphenols also bind to excess iron, which can harm the kidneys. Of course, I do not recommend those teas that have a lot of caffeine. And caffeine in general, but there are many different teas that are beneficial for the kidneys. Green tea, but if I'm not mistaken, contains caffeine. So, don't overdo it. Nettle tea is an excellent anti-inflammatory agent. Dandelion tea is also good. It also acts as a diuretic. You can drink turmeric tea and even just black tea without caffeine. Finally, I will say that the kidneys filter the blood and if you eat it often, the kidneys will be very Intermittent fasting is beneficial for the kidneys for two reasons: the first fast reduces the load on the kidneys, thereby allowing them to rest, and the second fast will lower insulin levels, allowing the kidneys to begin to recover because high insulin levels are harmful to the kidneys. Dr. Berg's practical course, a coach on intermittent fasting and the Keto diet, includes more than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which can be adopted in 3 months of training, receive a certificate, become a keto coach, help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule, do what you enjoy, sign up for the course using the link below.