I'll tell you about 7 unexpected and amazing beneficial properties of the trace element zinc. I think of everything you can do for your health, a small dietary adjustment will probably lead to one of the most significant improvements. After all, zinc is involved in more enzymatic processes than all other trace elements combined, and more than two billion people are deficient in zinc. One of the big problems with zinc is that our body does not have a zinc reservoir, so as soon as zinc stops coming in with food, a deficiency occurs. Don't think that zinc deficiency can be detected by a blood test because most of the zinc is not in the blood but in the cells. We'll talk about this. So, the first point is that the largest amount of zinc is concentrated in the prostate gland because zinc is needed for the production of sperm, testosterone, and so on. So, zinc helps to normalize testosterone levels, and with a zinc deficiency, there will definitely be problems with low testosterone, low libido, and even so- called hypogonadism, in which the testicles actually atrophy. Many people don't even realize how important it is to get zinc for normal testosterone levels. Number two, this is a very, very interesting point. Zinc plays an important role.  The pancreas plays a role in normalizing insulin levels and also in binding insulin to liver cells. The pancreas is second in zinc content, namely the cells that produce insulin, the so-called beta cells. Therefore, for example, in diabetes, zinc is very, very important. Diabetes is preceded by prediabetes. Diabetes is preceded by insulin resistance. Almost all diabetics have it, and most people on earth have insulin resistance. I talk about this a lot, but not many people know the importance of zinc in preventing As you may know, insulin resistance greatly increases the risk of fatty liver disease, liver cirrhosis, increases the risk of stroke, heart attack, obesity, high blood pressure, and zinc deficiency. Beta cells that produce insulin are depleted. Think for yourself why a person develops diabetes. And then we get diabetes. With diabetes, insulin no longer works, or it becomes less and less, then blood sugar gets out of control and rises. Because insulin keeps blood sugar levels within limits. So, when a person eats a lot of sugar, insulin is normally produced and prevents the accumulation of sugar in the blood. This can happen.  continue for some time, but eventually after 10-15, maybe 20 years, beta cells begin to deplete. I think what happens in these cells is that somehow zinc reserves in the pancreas are depleted, and then beta cells begin to burn out, and then diabetes and other complications occur. Zinc is a powerful antioxidant, and when a person consumes a lot of carbohydrates and has high insulin levels, this further depletes zinc reserves. It's like the chicken and egg problem. Zinc deficiency causes weakness, creating the preconditions for problems with beta cells. A large amount of carbohydrates consumed depletes zinc reserves, and the resulting diabetes worsens the zinc deficiency. That is, you need to know that zinc is very, very important. It helps in the fight against diabetes. Zinc helps lower blood sugar and increase insulin sensitivity. Number 3, it's also a very interesting point. Muscles are in third place in zinc content, so zinc is needed for muscle repair and recovery. But even with a zinc deficiency, muscles can apparently still function normally except for one muscle, and this muscle is the soleus, and the muscle where  The soleus muscle is located under the gastrocnemius muscle. The soleus muscle is a deeper muscle that attaches to the Achilles tendon. It can withstand the greatest load of all the muscles in the body. The soleus muscle has the highest concentration of zinc. The soleus muscle is very, very important for endurance, so a marathon requires a very healthy soleus muscle. Basketball players, with their explosive movements, need a very healthy soleus muscle. A zinc deficiency can lead to atrophy of the soleus muscle. Its contraction and relaxation may be impaired, which increases the likelihood of injury to the knee, calf, and If you are trying to build calf muscles and you have little zinc, they may never grow. By the way, red meat has four times more zinc than white meat. Many people who exercise eat chicken breasts, broccoli, rice, and other grains, but here's what they don't know. since they don't eat enough red meat they probably get less zinc not to mention that along with grains a person gets phytic acid this is a natural compound that binds numbers and other minerals this is one of the reasons for zinc deficiency in fact a large part of the world has zinc deficiency because they eat cereals and this is grains and zinc blocks the absorption of zinc in general zinc is very important for the soleus muscle to protect the knees ankles and also for the ability to play sports number 4 thymus the thymus gland is the main gland that is associated with the immune system it is located right above the heart it is not the thyroid gland it is the thymus gland so with zinc deficiency a big problem can arise atrophy of the thymus gland and because of this the number of T-cells and the number of antibodies can decrease think about your immunity if you have few antibodies and T-cells you will not be able to fight for a long time you will not be able to fight the infection so the infection lasts much longer with zinc deficiency number 5 perhaps you know that vitamin A deficiency can lead to problems with  Night vision, but zinc is just as important as vitamin A. It helps convert vitamin A into its active form. So, with a zinc deficiency, there may be problems with night vision, even if there is enough vitamin A. That is, for vitamin A to work, zinc is needed. Number six, zinc is needed by the skin. Without enough zinc, the skin becomes dry and flaky. The skin becomes rough and loses its smoothness. Number seven, intestinal inflammation. Many remedies for ulcers of the small intestine and stomach become much more effective with zinc. With a zinc deficiency, the risk of inflammatory diseases increases greatly. If the intestines are already inflamed, this can interfere with the absorption of zinc. This is why intestinal problems are so often accompanied by skin problems. Zinc is poorly absorbed. How does zinc deficiency occur? I will list several main reasons: birth control pills cause zinc deficiency; large amounts of sugar and other empty carbohydrates cause zinc deficiency; phytic acid in cereals blocks zinc; stress; cortisol and even the drug prednisone, a synthetic version of cortisol, deplete zinc stores; zinc may not be absorbed.  Due to a lack of hydrochloric acid, this happens very often after 45. Alcohol can also cause zinc deficiency. If you need a very high- quality product containing zinc and all the microelements, I left a link below this video, and here is the next video you should watch. After this one, it contains additional information about zinc deficiency. Here it is, take a look.