Let's discuss 8 unexpected beneficial properties of iodine. Iodine is a trace element. You don't need a lot of it, but some amount is absolutely necessary. If there is not enough of it in the body, a lot of things can happen simply because every cell in the body needs it, not only the thyroid, but the thyroid simply devours it, it will take most of the iodine, leaving almost nothing for other organs. The fact that your thyroid is working and does not show symptoms does not mean that you have enough iodine in your body. It is important not only to have enough iodine, but to have it enough for all cells. Unfortunately, today's recommended daily intake of iodine is too low. It is recommended to consume about 150 micrograms per day. But in Japan, where people have a very low incidence of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and prostate cancer, they consume 100 times more than this amount, mainly in the form of kelp, one of the best sources of iodine. I will be completely honest with you. Yes, I have my own kelp bath, that is, Helpa, and yes, I am very interested in my brand and its quality.  and in the sources of raw materials, but here's what I think many people have an iodine deficiency and unfortunately, there is no iodine in our food anymore unless you eat a lot of ocean foods like shellfish, 40- shaped seaweed, and so on. There is a very simple way to determine if you have enough iodine. Go to the nearest pharmacy, buy a bottle of iodine and cotton balls, then put a few drops of iodine on a cotton ball and apply it to your hand or forearm or on the inside of your leg under the knee, a small spot about 5 centimeters, just don't touch your clothes, a stain may remain, you can stick a bandage on top if you want, but if you have an iodine deficiency, then after an hour this spot will disappear, the skin will completely absorb it, if after an hour it is still orange or yellowish, then you do not have a deficiency, but I would say perhaps more than a billion people on the planet have an iodine deficiency, and for even more people this deficiency is subclinical and may not manifest itself in any way if you pay attention only to the symptoms of the thyroid gland, our body uses j a lot of things for which one  A very interesting function of iodine in the body is the removal of toxins, mercury, and lead. If you have enough iodine and you are exposed to lead and mercury, there will be a lot of them in your urine because the body is able to remove them. It also ensures the body's ability to remove fluoride and bromine. They are found in many powerful foods that can lower iodine levels. But if you watch my video, you have nothing to worry about because you don't eat refined grains. In this video, I want to show you unexpected beneficial effects of sufficient iodine intake that are not related to the thyroid gland at all. First, it can reduce cysts, cysts that develop in the mammary glands, for example, with mastopathy, cysts in the ovaries, cysts in the uterus, and of course, cysts in the thyroid gland. When these cysts occur, if not enough iodine is supplied for a long time, they develop into nodules, and they can also develop into cancer. That is, iodine has anti-fat properties and is very good at regulating estrogen when it is dominant. When there is excess estrogen, it helps to normalize it. Second, I have a whole video about this j helps reduce the size of papillomas and warts if you haven't watched the video, the link is below the next j is capable of destroying connective tissue in a disease called Dupuytren's contracture, this is when scar tissue forms in the tendons of the fingers and the fingers lose mobility, all the same j should be applied daily and in about a month you will feel noticeable progress, this effect is associated with the following: scar regeneration, say, for example, you have a keloid or some kind of surgical scar, if you apply j to this scar daily for about a month, you will see an impressive result on the scar, hair may even begin to grow if you are worried that iodine will stain the skin, there is a transparent j on sale that leaves no marks, but j helps destroy scar tissue, the next unexpected effect affects mood, if you have depression, j is very often able to relieve it, why exactly is unknown, perhaps due to the connection with the thyroid gland and this improves mood, or maybe because iodine is needed for some neurotransmitters in the brain, it is unknown, but j is able to improve mood, the following j can reduce  My parotid glands produce saliva when there is enough iodine. This can prevent the formation of these stones. It can alleviate hot flashes and severe menstrual cramps due to the fact that it helps establish estrogen balance. Lastly, it has a very good property: it helps reduce cystic ovary syndrome, which, by the way, is often associated with excess estrogen. I invite you to my course. If you have a thyroid body type, you have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, enlarged thyroid parts and nodes, and excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product list, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.