Let's talk about 8 dangerous signs that should never be ignored, but first I will voice my disclaimer: consult a doctor before following advice, consult a doctor, although this is not necessary for this video. Well, okay, if you watch my video, sometimes you might get the impression that I am against medicine or doctors, this is absolutely not the case. I respect doctors. I respect competent doctors. When I shattered my elbow in an accident, the situation was very serious. I had 30 small bone fragments, but the doctors put my elbow back together and I use it as a basis. So, I really respect competent doctors. I have a contradiction with the system as a whole. I am against the fact that it does not pay attention to food and nutrients. I am against the fact that this is simply not taught in jellyfish. Unfortunately, pharmaceutical companies have too much control over doctors. They produce pills that are only enough for a day, and then you need to take another one, and unfortunately, the patient eventually turns into a cash cow for pharmaceutical companies. But let's move on to eight dangerous signs that cannot be ignored and should be  go to the doctor to find out more sorry cough there is an acute cough that lasts for three weeks and usually goes away on its own there is a subacute cough it lasts from 3 to 8 weeks and there is a chronic cough a person clears his throat every now and then and the cough usually persists for more than eight weeks if you have already tried everything and took zinc and vitamin D even lactate rings it is not milk calcium and it helps with chronic cough if the cough has not gone away then you need to get checked and get more information especially if there is difficulty swallowing temperature if the lymph nodes are still enlarged then something is wrong especially if the cough gets worse number two wait a second everything is somehow blurry before loss of vision that was my dry humor of one or both eyes the cause may be a blood clot in the retinal vessels this can mean different things you could have those that is a mini stroke or transient ischemic attack the problem with a mini stroke is that there is a risk of recurrence the probability of recurrence within 90 days is 17 percent so you need to get checked if  If you have a stroke, you need to get to the hospital as soon as possible. They will give you blood thinning medication to prevent further damage. The cause could be a brain tumor, glaucoma, and many other things. I remember one patient, it was a woman who came with her husband, and his diet was simply the worst in the world. He allowed me to examine him. I laid him on the table and began to examine his limbs. His arms and legs were completely dead. He simply lost feeling in his limbs, lost their circulatory function. It couldn't be worse. Do you think I could help him? He was an expert at ignoring his symptoms. In the end, he came to me blind. You know, he had diabetes, and he did nothing about it. He didn't change his diet. He did nothing, and he ended up going blind. So, vision loss can also be related to diabetes. Okay, let's move on. Sagging or weakness on one side of the body. This could be a consequence of a stroke or an early sign of an approaching stroke. About 7 million people a year die from strokes. If these signs are present, 1. Sagging face. 2. Weakness in the arms. 3.  Slurred speech, calling an ambulance, remember this is number four. If you have a mole that is changing, if a mole on the skin begins to grow, then it needs to be checked to make sure that it is not melanoma, that is, skin cancer. There are a number of signs of melanoma and I will list them. The first sign is asymmetry. As a rule, a mole has a very symmetrical shape, and with melanoma, the shape is usually asymmetrical. The borders of the mole are very smooth, and the borders around melanoma are very blurry, uneven. Melanoma has uneven borders. The next sign is uneven color. The color of the mole remains generally unchanged: brown or dark brown, but melanoma can become yellow, blue, green, red. If you see that the mole is changing, check and then the diameter. The size of a melanoma usually exceeds 6 millimeters. This is about a quarter of an inch or the size of an eraser on a pencil. This is about a quarter of a one-cent coin. It is about 19 millimeters, that is, one quarter of such a coin. Moles are smaller and melanomas are larger. Next, change. If this changes. transforms, grows, suspect melanoma and get checked. By the way, I have a video about melanoma, I talk about this in my course on vitamin D, link below. There are many opinions about sunlight, but it is very beneficial in many ways. But if you stay in the sun for too long and get burned, then the risk of certain skin problems increases, but if you don’t get burned, the sun can be very healing in different ways. Some are so afraid that they stay indoors all the time and never go out in the sun. They don’t understand that being outdoors is extremely beneficial. Number five, let’s say you often feel very thirsty. You really want to drink for no reason. Your mouth is dry. You haven’t exercised. There is no extreme heat. You don’t take a lot of potassium or other electrolytes, and you don’t take diuretics. But you are tormented by thirst and you have to urinate a lot. This could mean that you have diabetes. Because what happens is that excess sugar is dumped in the mail, and where the sugar goes, water goes, so check your blood sugar. If you watch my channel, you probably won’t be at risk because you are applying all these wonderful principles of the ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting.  but this symptom may be in your friends and family members. It has happened that someone did not know about their extreme sugar level until these symptoms arose. A person can literally fall into a coma if the sugar level is too high, but you do not need to worry about this if you eat few carbohydrates. Number six is ​​a resting tremor. This can happen when you are tired. It can happen when you have not slept well or right after a workout. But it can also be an early sign of Parkinson's disease. If you notice a resting tremor, a slow gait, stiffness. Her face is very serious or depressed, like a mask. At least she is not depressed or serious. Perhaps this is an early sign of Parkinson's. But it can also be a symptom of the so-called metabolic alkalosis. This is when your blood sugar has become closer to an alkaline environment. Tremor is one of the symptoms. If you also have titania, that is, twitching or cramping of the muscles, then perhaps the problem is related to yours, so it would be good to get checked. Number 7 is any changes in breast tissue. If you are a woman and notice a lump in your breast or armpit, it is worth checking because this is  It may be an early sign of a tumor, but the thing is that fibrocystic mastopathy is when a cyst appears in the mammary gland. It is not necessarily cancer, but it is a cyst, and this is something else. I just wanted to say this because the most powerful remedy against this, which seems to almost always work, is kill kelp. Because the iodine in kelp helps reduce or control estrogen dominance in the body. So, kelp is extremely effective in helping get rid of ovarian cysts and cysts in the mammary gland. If you are using kelp but the lump does not go away, get checked out. And lastly, let's say you have blood in your stool, do not ignore this, but the cause may be hemorrhoids. The cause may be an ulcer in the colon. For example, you may have inflammation in the colon or even in the small intestine. This may be the reason. In addition, the stool may be red if you ate beets, or it may be colon and rectal cancer. It is better to find out about this as early as possible so that you can take action. The point of this video is don't ignore the message from your body, but get more data for  assess the situation to know what is happening and take appropriate measures. If you haven't seen my video on how to become so healthy that you can prevent all of this and avoid it, here it is, watch it.