I want to tell you about some benefits of coffee that you may not have known about. Coffee is the world champion among addictive substances. In 2016, more than two billion cups of coffee were drunk daily worldwide. A lot of people drink coffee. I do not promote any addictive substances, but if you drink coffee in small quantities, it may have some benefits. Personally, I drink a cup of coffee every day. I do not add sugar and buy only organic because, of all the crops grown, coffee is processed the most. Less than half a speaker. Some farmers use up to 115 kilograms of chemicals, not to mention herbicides, for example, glyphosate Roundup, which actually destroys the soil. If you drink coffee, it must be organic and do not drink a lot. Side effects of coffee: negative impact on sleep; negative impact on cholesterol; excess coffee can affect heart rate and cause arrhythmia. But many probably know that coffee improves cognitive function and physical performance; it can have a positive effect on mood. But I want to tell you about 8 additional benefits that you may not have known about. I found a lot of information with the help of  my favorite search engine or seed.  I'll leave a link below, this is a tool for extracting data from over two million articles, and so coffee is able to reduce the risk of developing dementia, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease due to its particular effect on the nervous system. Coffee helps prevent the oxidation of neurons with the help of a special protective gene with this name, and it protects neurons from death due to oxidative stress. Secondly, coffee can reduce the risk of gallstones. Coffee contains certain phytonutrients that stimulate the production of bile, the outflow of bile, hormones that control the gallbladder's contraction and relaxation. Coffee can help thin bile, which sometimes thickens and stagnates in the bile ducts, causing pain in the gallbladder and liver, which can cause more pain on the right side. But if the coffee contains a bunch of nasty things like sugar, syrup, and the like, we are not talking about this kind of coffee. I pay attention to this point because if you drink regular coffee with all the pesticides, this can put stress on the gallbladder and liver. Then, thirdly, coffee can reduce the risk of kidney stones. Studies have shown that coffee can help in the fight against chronic Coffee has an anti-inflammatory effect against kidney disease, meaning it works against prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, skin cancer, melanoma, and liver cancer. Coffee has an anti-inflammatory effect against inflammation from arthritis, bursitis, tendinitis, and other conditions. Coffee can help with metabolic syndrome with insulin resistance or excess insulin. Metabolic syndrome is a combination of high blood glucose, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol. All of this is associated with blood sugar and insulin resistance. Coffee can reduce the overall risk of mortality, meaning it can apparently help prolong life. All links to studies are below the video. Check it out. Finally, coffee has a hepatoprotective effect, meaning it supports liver health, reduces the risk of fatty liver disease, and reduces complications from hepatitis B and hepatitis C, as well as complications due to cirrhosis. Many people drink bulletproof coffee, no problem. A little oil and butter will help extend the fasting interval. These fats added to coffee can increase ketone levels and enhance cognitive function. If you don't know what to cook for those, then this book will help you. Chum salmon menu for two weeks, a diet for three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from readily available products, the basics of chum salmon and fasting, follow the link below