A few words about the amazing benefits of a regular hot bath. I'm talking about a 30-minute bath at 40 degrees Celsius or 104 degrees Fahrenheit. The biggest benefit is associated with anxiety and depression. Several studies confirm this. The link in the description. If you have anxiety or depression, this simple action will help greatly. Firstly, it reduces cortisol. Cortisol is a stress hormone. Less stress means less anxiety. Secondly, it increases serotonin. Serotonin is a happiness hormone. It gives a feeling of calm. It gives a feeling of well-being. Thanks to this, anxiety decreases and depression definitely decreases. Thirdly, a bath improves sleep. You will have much deeper sleep. The fact is that warmth relaxes you when you sleep. Melatonin causes the body to cool down a little, and by warming it up thoroughly with spot 6, you will achieve a rebound compensation effect and ultimately cool down better. The body sleeps much better in a cool environment. Try to sleep during hot flashes, you won't be able to. Fourthly, your muscles will relax very well. I recommend adding Epsom salt and magnesium sulfate to the bath.  Melissa officinalis oil is very relaxing and calming. People drink it with tea or as a supplement. It will help reduce chronic pain and stiffness. But there is one contraindication: if you have acute pain, say from a recent injury, and you also have swelling, then a hot bath will not be at all useful for this injury. You need to apply cold. A cold pack is best, ice, but for chronic pain and stiffness, this is what you need. Flexibility will improve. Sixth, a hot bath will help lower blood pressure. It increases nitric oxide, which dilates blood vessels. On the other hand, if you have heart pain, angina, or chest pain, you should not take a hot bath. Another contraindication: if you are prone to dizziness and take a hot bath, the heat will increase circulation, blood will rush to the muscles. When you stand up, you will feel dizzy, because the body does not adapt very well, you do not want to faint and get injured. 7. A hot bath can stabilize insulin levels. I found an interesting study about this, I will give a link and 8.  It can strengthen your immunity, because this is how you provoke a fever. If you have a viral or even bacterial infection and you heat your body strongly until you sweat, or take a hot bath, you contribute to the death of pathogens. Causing a fever is beneficial. Then you get into bed, it's warm, you get confused, and you sweat. These were the eight benefits of a hot bath, the first of which is the reduction of anxiety and depression.