Let's discuss the 9 best foods that provide us with all the fat-soluble vitamins. How do fat-soluble vitamins differ from water-soluble vitamins? There is a huge difference between them at the cellular level. Fat-soluble vitamins penetrate the cell membrane and go directly to the nucleus. They go directly to the nucleus and bind to receptors that can activate certain genes. While water-soluble vitamins are more like coenzymes, they are like auxiliary particles that do not penetrate to the nucleus itself. Fat- soluble vitamins are very, very important. These are vitamins A, D, K, and K. There are other fat-soluble substances in vegetables, and so on. These are phytonutrients, especially carotenoids such as lutein and zeaxanthin. They are necessary for the eyes. It has an anti-cancer effect. Chlorophyll from some plants is also useful. As for the vitamins themselves, like dissolves in like. You need to add fat to absorb fat-soluble nutrients. Olive oil is added to the diet to extract phytonutrients from it, and when you take fat-soluble vitamins,  Vitamins are important to take with food or add a little oil or other fat to them so they are better absorbed. Unfortunately, to extract fat- soluble nutrients, manufacturers make salad dressings from certain oils, in particular soybean, corn, and canola. They use solvents such as hexane, not fat, for this. So, there are chemicals that help dissolve, break down, and extract these fat-soluble substances. Here is another very important point about fat-soluble nutrients in general. To absorb these nutrients, the body needs bile from the gallbladder to the liver, which creates bile, it is stored in the gallbladder, and without bile, it is impossible to absorb these nutrients. So, bile is necessary if you do not have a gallbladder, if the gallbladder is sluggish, if you have liver problems, say, you have fatty liver, and so on. This reduces the amount of bile and impairs the absorption of these nutrients. You may not know that you have a hidden deficiency for quite some time if you do not know the various signs and symptoms of these deficiencies. Bile is produced by the liver and accumulates in the gallbladder.  and then it affects the fatty foods we eat and breaks down the fat, and partially not completely, it just turns it into something like an emulsion, and then the enzyme lipase from the pancreas goes there and breaks down this fat to the level we need so that the intestines can absorb it. If the pancreas is not in order or there is no pancreas, fat-soluble nutrients may also not be absorbed. One of the symptoms of problems with the pancreas, including pancreatitis, is traces of feces on the toilet. The fact that call floats on the surface of the water is two signs that you are not absorbing fat from food. An easy way to determine this. Also, if the intestines are damaged, say, there is scar tissue in the intestinal mucosa or the intestines are inflamed, soluble nutrients are also poorly absorbed, if absorbed at all, and many people have a deficiency of these nutrients, although they take them because deep inside the intestines are damaged. You also need to know that both fat and water-soluble vitamins are complexes and not any single vitamin.  So, taking 1 nutrient without the other nutrients included in the complex, you can upset the balance of these nutrients. It will disrupt their absorption. For example, take vitamin E, there are alpha-beta, delta-gamma tocopherols, the same thing with tocotrienols. ME, and this complex also contains sil, so each vitamin complex also has its own mineral. Vitamin A helps differentiate some cells. That is, with a deficiency of vitamin A, cells that are not related to the eye can form in the eyes. The same thing happens with the skin, both outside and inside the body. If you have rough, dry skin, this may be caused by a deficiency of vitamin A. Because cells do not form the cells that should be there, they form a rougher version of these cells. Vitamin A is very, very important for the immune system, especially for fighting viruses. I think this is not so well known and not talked about. Well, that is why you don’t need to follow a low-fat diet to strengthen the immune system. You need more fat in your diet to strengthen the immune system. Fertility depends on vitamin A. We are often told about its toxicity, but what Regarding vitamin A deficiency and how it can affect a growing child, as we remember, fat-soluble vitamins penetrate directly into DNA and affect genes and chromosomes. This especially affects the growth and development of a child. Retinol is undoubtedly the best form of vitamin A, its most bioavailable form, it is absorbed, the opposite of beta-carotene, which is also called vitamin A. What is not mentioned is that only a tiny part of beta-carotene is absorbed, so you will not get the necessary amount of vitamin A from beta-carotene. This is why beta-carotene from plants is good for some purposes, but it will definitely not give you retinol, the active form of vitamin A, which we really need. Let's talk about vitamin D. Vitamin D acts more like that vitamin, and it is very similar to cortisol because it can help reduce inflammation. It affects the immune system. Vitamin D is produced by your own skin. You produce vitamin D under the influence of ultraviolet radiation from the sun. For some reason, people are afraid that excess ultraviolet radiation will cause skin cancer. But we need ultraviolet light to produce vitamin D, which actually prevents skin cancer. I actually think that damage occurs due to sunburn, so if you prevent sunburn, everything will be fine because the sun provides enough vitamin D and is generally beneficial. For example, infrared light from the sun increases melatonin levels, which is an absolutely amazing hormone. Vitamin D strengthens bones, immunity, helps lower blood pressure, improves mood, reduces inflammation, relieves pain. Vitamin E is a very important vitamin. It is very important for neurological diseases and is very important for muscles. With a vitamin E deficiency, muscles are very weak, so this vitamin strengthens muscles and vitamin E is very important for the heart. For heart health, both the heart muscles and the inner surface of the vessels leading to the heart. With a vitamin E deficiency, you have no protection from oxidation and everything associated with it, and the heart muscle is more susceptible to spasm because vitamin E helps cope with the increased oxygen load on the heart. At the top of any mountain where people climb, empty cans of vitamin E are lying around because it improves oxygen saturation in the mountains. Vitamin K1 blood clotting with deficiency.  Vitamin K1 possible problems even with DNA synthesis K1 penetrates directly into the cell nucleus and of course vitamin K2 is vital it directs calcium where it is needed it helps transport it from where it is not needed to where it is needed fat-soluble vitamins help the absorption of some minerals vitamin A helps absorb J vitamin D increases calcium absorption by 20 times that is a lot you only need a little vitamin D to greatly increase calcium absorption if vitamin D is not enough calcium you will not absorb vitamin K2 as I said helps transport calcium and works together with vitamin D3 I advise taking both together if you take a supplement the product I will be talking about I just want to say that there are much more fat-soluble vitamins in pasture- fed and commercial products because when animals are fed grain vitamin E is destroyed if you are told that vitamin E can be obtained from grains the problem is that the grains need to be ground you will not eat unground grains in their grinding but as soon as oxygen and  If sunlight hits flour, vitamin E will be destroyed soon after, so grains are not a good source of vitamin E. Well, okay, egg yolk products. Egg yolk is undoubtedly a dietary supplement with a complex of fat- soluble substances. It contains absolutely all the fat-soluble nutrients we need, including vitamin E. Cod liver and cod liver oil. If you've never eaten cod liver, I recommend trying it. It actually doesn't have a particularly fishy taste, and it's not bad at all. It has a unique flavor. I like it, and its texture is like pudding. It has a lot of omega-3 fatty acids and these fat-soluble vitamins, especially vitamins A and D, as well as omega-3. You can use cod liver oil by itself or in capsules. One of the problems I notice in those who use it is increased belching with this aftertaste. The solution is to buy cod liver oil in powder form. This powder does not cause belching and has no taste.  There is a link below for those who want to buy powder in such capsules. Fatty fish is another very good source of fat-soluble nutrients, vitamins A and E, K1, K2, and also omega-3 fatty acids. Number four is fish caviar. If you don't like the taste of caviar, you can buy it as a dietary supplement. But of all the products that are useful for pregnant women who want to create conditions for the birth of a wonderful child, caviar is the best product. It is also good for women and men who want to increase their fertility, and the graph will help with this. Number five is liver and other offal. They contain a lot of vitamins A and all the other fat-soluble nutrients. You do n't need a lot of them, but liver should be in first place. Number six is ​​poultry fat. I don't recommend eating chicken if it has no skin and fat. The skin contains an incredible amount of fat-soluble nutrients. It contains vitamins A and D, as well as vitamin K. By the way, chicken thighs contain the most vitamin E. It's interesting that mollusks and crustaceans are very rich in fat-soluble nutrients and microelements. Number eight is European cheese and cream. Cheese is best in America we usually eat more cheese from pasteurized milk and in Europe there are a lot of cheeses from raw milk they are simply amazing and cream so I'm not talking about ultra pasteurized cream but raw cream if you can find it I found a farm nearby that makes amazing cream I get cream from there every week now we get 2 liters of cream every week for us but they have an amazing taste and they are very filling I drink literally a liter of this cream a week my wife also drinks a liter they are great for adding to coffee in various products they are excellent with walnuts or you can even add some berries and a couple of drops of Stevie Wonderful wonderful product but I do not recommend drinking a lot of pasteurized cream you can add it to coffee but believe me there is nothing better than raw cream number nine grass-fed butter it has a lot of vitamins A D E K 1 and definitely CO2 at the end I would like to tell you one story because in these videos I often talk about myself about my health problems this is real for me  I had almost all the problems that you probably had and one of the problems that I had, I think I had it quite confidently, it's called osteomalacia. I'll tell you a little about it, because stimulation is similar to rickets. Orchid is a deficiency of vitamin D in children, and stimulation is a deficiency of vitamin D in adults, which affects bones. So, I think it started for me in the ninth grade. It didn't look like rickets, but there were clear symptoms of osteomalacia, namely, soft bones. This can also affect teeth. I had very bad teeth. I constantly went to the dentist. I had a craving for butter as a child. I desperately tried to get these nutrients, but I had no idea what was happening. I think it started when I was playing sports in the ninth grade. When I joined the team, I noticed that my pelvis and lower back hurt a lot. The pain did not go away no matter what. I had a strange gait and severe muscle spasms. The reason for this was a serious deficiency of vitamin D, but I was in the sun a lot. Wait, I'll tell you how I  I think it was caused by a deficiency in general, I had back problems, then I took up wrestling in grades 10, 11, and 12. I prayed to myself with hunger, trying to lose weight to a certain weight, and at the same time I ate completely unhealthy food, and I had a lot of problems, women, as I found out, because my right shoulder hurt mainly, and this was caused only by the gallbladder. I went to a chiropractor about this many times, but it never fully returned to normal. It was a problem with the gallbladder at an early stage, and bile and the gallbladder are needed to absorb fat- soluble vitamins, mainly vitamin D to strengthen bone health, and vitamin D strengthens the immune system. I can't count how many times I had a sore throat several times a year. I was constantly sick all the time. It was because of low vitamin D levels, and my legs were weak. I remember how in Wisconsin I was walking in the snow, and my legs were so heavy, I didn't know what the hell was going on. It was a vitamin D deficiency. When I was wrestling, things were going great for me in the beginning. season and it was terrible at the end I got to the state championship and here's what's amazing I'm in peak health going to the state championship coming home the next week I wrestle with my younger brother who is much younger than me and I end up breaking my leg wrestling with my younger brother this is only possible if you have soft bones then I go to college and continue to train I think in the first week I got a crack in my neck and the effort was not very great so at that time I literally had very soft bones because one of the symptoms of this is that bones break easily I'm telling you about this simply because this knowledge is important knowledge not only about foods well and the gallbladder about what to eat and what to avoid identifying early symptoms if I knew what I was lacking early on and what to do about it it would have saved me many years of unnecessary pain from the gallbladder that tormented me for probably another 15 years after that until I finally figured out the cause and since we're talking about fat-soluble vitamins in the gallbladder I would like to invite you to my course about the gallbladder the link to the recording is below you  Are you sure your gallbladder is fine? If so, should I have it removed? If your gallbladder has been removed, how do you eat properly to avoid complications? How do you deal with constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea? I'll talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.