Let's talk about the 9 best foods for the Tetta diet. I'm basing this on two criteria: low carbohydrate content and an abundance of nutrients. The first is marine invertebrates, and I'm talking about oysters. They're a great product, rich in trace elements, zinc, green iodine, and chromium. They also contain maidenhair, which is a crucial omega-3 fatty acid. So, marine invertebrates are the undisputed leader in trace elements and healthy fat. The second is the source, and it's commercial fish, specifically salmon, and it has the most omega-3 fatty acids. First of all, we're talking about two acids, and where are they found? They're good for the retina, the brain, and the heart. In addition, salmon has high-quality protein. The third is leafy greens, for example, salads. Why do they contain potassium, magnesium, and other elements, and a large amount of vitamin C? They're also easily digested. I recommend eating them raw. The fourth is sardines. There are a lot of ideas, and maidenhair is omega-3.  Fatty acids and forks with orders are very good 5 eggs I mean organic pastured eggs they have almost all the existing vitamins except maybe vitamin C but otherwise they have almost everything I eat a lot of eggs it's a very healthy food cholesterol will not increase from them if you heard that eggs worsen cholesterol follow the link under the video there I discuss it in detail there I talk about facts they myths eggs are a very healthy product 6 product cruciferous most cruciferous especially Brussels sprouts and other cruciferous I recommend steaming because of this in cruciferous vegetables the availability of phytonutrients is high the benefits of cruciferous not only in vitamins and microelements but also an abundance of phytonutrients and phytonutrients are additional health factors that can reduce complications from diabetes for example Alzheimer's they minimize the damage caused by these diseases and they also protect the body from cancer 7 product avocado low in carbohydrates lots of healthy fats it is a very healthy product but some people get bloated if  I couldn't help but mention it, but overall it's a very healthy product. 8 olives and extra virgin olive oil, and organic is great for the Titogenic diet. 9 completely grass-fed meat is very important. The thing is that sometimes cattle are fed grains before slaughter, and this grain can be gamma. Scott can be fed with it to gain weight in about 10 months, and this is bad. Are you looking for meat from animals that have been grass-fed all their lives? I'm not saying that I recommend eating lean steaks, a fatter cutlet. This extra fat can even reduce the effect of insulin, and such a product is easier to digest. The same applies to sausages made from meat from completely grass-fed animals. Now, the other side of the coin is that there are many products that are not even remotely related to the Titogenic diet. There are worse products than these, such as sugar and cereals, but I'll talk about the products that people who follow the Tetta diet regularly eat. It's dirty. I want to talk about this. Firstly, some classify corn as a vegetable, so they eat corn on the Tetta diet, perhaps very little. The problem is that  95 percent corn and that is a serious problem, besides, corn has a high glycemic index, so although corn is a vegetable and they are not in yogurt, there is a lot of sugar, but some people eat Greek yogurt. Be sure to read the label. You will be surprised to find out how much sugar is in Greek yogurt. If you eat it little by little and count carbohydrates, it may not be scary, but make sure that it is organic and made from the milk of grass-fed cows, but still, it is not a very good product. Next, store-bought chicken, unfortunately, chickens are poorly processed, they are raised on farms and fed grain. In general, this is not the best protein for a healthy chum salmon. Next, processed meat, cold cuts, etc., although it can be considered suitable for those, there are nitrates, a lot of added sugar, sometimes there is monosodium glutamate, and it is definitely not from grass-fed meat. There is such meat. I also do not recommend cheese now. I regularly eat a lot of cheese. The thing is, what kind of cheese is cheese after processing and cheese from the milk of non-grass-fed cows. I do not recommend this kind of cheese. If you decide to eat cheese, find organic cheese.  Grass- fed cows or don't eat cheese at all. Many people are very sensitive to some components of cheese. Cheese is made from milk. Milk is associated with many hormonal factors that can affect men with prostate disease and women with fibrocystic breast disease and ovarian cysts. So, with estrogen dominance, I don't recommend eating cheese. If you do, go. I recommend not eating a lot. Sometimes, just a little spinach. The problem with spinach is that it contains a lot of oxalates. Oxalates can lead to kidney stones. You can eat spinach if you don't form stones. If you've never had kidney stones, then you can eat spinach. An interesting point: if you eat high-quality cheese or cottage cheese with spinach, the calcium will bind oxalates in the digestive system and they won't enter the bloodstream and kidneys. So, the calcium in cheese can protect against kidney stones. But I don't recommend eating a lot of spinach. I advise eating other greens and now nuts.  It's easy to overdo it with nuts. Almonds have the highest oxalate content if you're prone to kidney stones. Some people with arthritis should avoid almonds, too. You'd be surprised how many people with arthritis eat too many oxalate-rich foods. Salads, which can irritate joints, are a good source of oxalates. If you eat nuts, eat nut butter or even seeds. Eat only a little. Too much nuts can irritate the gallbladder, liver, and digestive tract. Vegetable oil is considered a very healthy product. In fact, it's the oil from grains, usually gamma, and often causes inflammation. But they're suitable for those who are low in carbohydrates and high in fat. These were two lists of good foods and bad ones. Thank you very much for watching.