I'll tell you about nine unexpected uses of hydrogen peroxide. Most people use hydrogen peroxide to disinfect wounds and cuts and cover them with a bandage, but there are other ways to use this remedy that are worth considering. What is hydrogen peroxide? It's H22, two hydrogen atoms and two oxygen atoms. It's one of the safest natural disinfectants. The body itself produces hydrogen peroxide. The immune system produces it as a defense mechanism. The lungs produce it. The thyroid gland and even the intestines produce it. It's also found in foods like instant coffee, green tea, and black tea. Today I'll tell you about some interesting ways to use this very inexpensive home remedy. Just take a three percent solution, not ten or twenty percent. So, first, hydrogen peroxide helps clean out your ears. It helps kill bacteria in the ears and also soften and dissolve earwax. You can put it in your ears to clean them of wax several times a year for better hearing. So, you just need to lie on your side and put a couple of drops in your ear.  from a small pipette and then take this small piece of skin cartilage and press on it press 10 times to rinse everything thoroughly it's like a button on a washing machine and then after about a minute return to a sitting position Take a cotton swab and clean everything out a lot of sulfur will come out this was the first second hydrogen peroxide destroys any type of fungus on fingernails or toenails for example with fungal mycosis hydrogen peroxide kills hundreds of different fungi Not to mention bacteria and other microorganisms with mycosis of the feet you can add a little iodine I will leave the details in the description under the video there was a sore throat peroxide will help dilute a tablespoon of peroxide in 100 ml of water gargle with this mixture It will kill bacteria and other microbes that should not be there further number p acne one of the factors causing acne besides hormonal is Take a cotton swab or cotton pad and apply a little peroxide to the pimples This will help reduce them or at least remove bacterial  Irritation and inflammation number six - This is an excellent tool for cleaning the bathroom from mold and mildew. Simply pour a three-percent solution into a spray bottle, spray it on the mold, leave it for 30 minutes, and then rinse. Number seven. Hydrogen peroxide can be used to remove stains, for example, from wine, blood, and grass. You can also use it against fungus on plants. If some kind of fungus begins to develop in the garden, dilute four tablespoons of hydrogen peroxide in a liter of water, spray the leaves twice a week, and the fungus will begin to disappear. Hydrogen peroxide fights mold and mildew very well. Ninth, use it to wash vegetables. This will help extend shelf life and also clean them from pesticides and other pathogens that may be on vegetables. So, 60 ml of hydrogen peroxide per 4 liters of water and soak the vegetables in it for 20 minutes, then take them out, rinse, dry, and you're done. If you haven't watched the video about baking soda, be sure to watch it here. L