As you may know, I have a lot of videos about the gallbladder and bile salts because this organ is very important. It is usually considered that this is an extra, not particularly necessary organ, but the gallbladder is very, very important. It helps accumulate and concentrate bile salts. Bile is produced by the liver and also by your friendly bacteria. And 95 to 97 percent of all bile in the body is used secondarily. So, bile is very important when taking supplements with bile salts. They are usually taken with meals, sometimes immediately after meals, and usually it helps with bloating, belching, and nausea. The main, most well-known function of bile salts is the extraction of fat-soluble vitamins and eaten fats, but you can get many other benefits by taking bile salts on an empty stomach. I have purchased almost all medical textbooks on the topic of the gallbladder and bile salts. This is an amazing topic. I decided to tell you about 9 benefits of taking purified bile salts to get all these benefits. I recommend taking bile salts on an empty stomach. I advise taking one capsule in the morning and one in the afternoon. So, the first intake of purified bile salts helps reduce the risk of gallstones. Why? Because these  Gallstones are super concentrated crystallized contents of the gallbladder. Bile salts help prevent the formation of cholesterol crystals. This is the first. Second, they help extract fat-soluble vitamins, vitamins A and K, and omega-3 fatty acids. As for them, they emulsify it, break down fat into small particles, which increases its surface area so that the pancreas can release lipase, its enzyme, which then further dissolves these particles so that you completely extract these nutrients from food. So, you need both bile and pancreatic enzymes for all this to happen. Third, they help with constipation. Bile is a kind of lubricant that helps lubricate the intestines, and if there is a lack of bile, constipation can develop. If there is too much bile, diarrhea can occur. Since this releases a lot of water through the intestines, namely the large intestine. That is why the correct dosage is important. 4. Bile helps hormones on snails. T4 is an inactive version of the thyroid hormone, and T3 is an active form. Bile is necessary for T4 to be converted into T3. That is why sometimes after gallbladder removal, there is a shortage.  bile and a person begins to have problems with the thyroid gland, a simple solution is to take purified bile salts, this will greatly help the thyroid gland. But there are contraindications to taking bile salts if thyroid hormones are in excess, that is, with hyperthyroidism, you cannot take bile salts, since this will increase the conversion and only aggravate everything. But with the hypothesis, purified bile salts will greatly help. The fifth point is very interesting: bile salts can act as a vitamin D receptor agonist, which means a vitamin D receptor agonist. Bile helps activate the vitamin D receptor, which is very important in autoimmune diseases. Because in autoimmune diseases, the problem is very severe inflammation, and vitamin D is the most important vitamin for reducing inflammation. If you have an autoimmune disease but there is no inflammation, then you have practically no symptoms of this disease, that is, bile indirectly helps reduce inflammation in the body, especially in the liver. 6. Bile salts help reduce pain in the body, especially in the right shoulder, simply because there is congestion in the gallbladder or ducts between the liver and gallbladder.  A bile sludge forms in the gallbladder and small intestine because there is n't enough of it. This sludge clogs the ducts, presses on the liver, and causes pain in the right shoulder. It also irritates the phrenic nerve, which runs from the diaphragm to the neck, causing pain in the right shoulder, in the right trapezius, here, pain in the rhomboid muscle in the back, here, headaches can also occur on the right side of the head, pain, a feeling of tightness in the right hypochondrium, or in the stomach area, or in the left hypochondrium, and even pancreatitis can occur because this bile sludge can accumulate, and now your bile salts, which are essentially detergents, don't flow normally, get stuck in the bile ducts, in the liver, and even in the pancreatic ducts. And lack of movement causes inflammation. Taking purified bile salts liquefies this sludge, allowing bile to flow through the ducts, and the pain goes away. So, many different ailments can be caused by a deficiency of bile. Let's take a break and list the possible causes.  bile deficiency first gallbladder removal second low-fat diet 3 excess consumption of omega-6 fatty acids in soybean, canola, cottonseed, corn oils all of these vegetable oils for cooking are very harmful to the liver and cause many problems excess sugar or refined grains or a surge in insulin can reduce bile volume estrogen dominance or insulin surges from taking birth control can create a bile deficiency if you have a liver or hepatitis or cirrhosis, that is, the liver is damaged, this greatly reduces bile production with high cortisol levels or taking prednisone types of cortisol can cause bile deficiency soy protein isolate can greatly strain the gallbladder and liver and cause a lack of bile a large amount of exotoxins let's say you did a detox and it destroyed bacteria or virus particles, their endotoxins are released, which by the way causes a detoxification reaction that occurs during detox most people, in this case, the movement of fluid in the liver is disrupted and bile cannot flow normally So with  Detoxification, especially of the liver. I always recommend taking purified bile salts first. Let the bile flow normalize first so that toxins do not accumulate in the liver, because this is very uncomfortable. Another reason for impaired absorption is intestinal damage: you will not be able to reuse bile because almost all of the bile in the body is reused. If the last section of the small intestine is damaged or inflamed and you do not reabsorb bile, a deficiency occurs, and the last possible cause of bile deficiency is a lack of beneficial bacteria. Okay, back to our list number seven. Purified bile salts reduce the risk of bacterial overgrowth syndrome. Why? Because bile is toxic to bacteria. One of the functions of bile when it enters the small intestine is to kill all the bacteria in it. This way, you do not allow bacteria to grow where they should not be, that is, bile passes all the way through the small intestine, killing bacteria so that they do not grow. And in the last section, most of the bile is reabsorbed and returns to the liver. Very little bile enters the large intestine. This is how we keep the bacteria there.  Where is it necessary in the large intestine? If there is a problem with this and some of the bile gets into the large intestine, diarrhea occurs. 8 I already mentioned this. Bile helps significantly reduce inflammation in the liver by acting as a hepatoprotector, that is, protecting the liver. The last point is purified bile salts reduce the load of toxins. The liver needs bile salts to pass through the small intestine and exit through the large intestine. They also help regulate excess cholesterol. That's all there was to it. 9 benefits of taking purified bile salts. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, do you need to remove it? And if the gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly and avoid complications? How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea. I will talk about this in my course about the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.