Today we will discuss the signs that will help determine if there are parasites in your body, but I have news for you. No matter what you do in terms of health, most likely you have parasites now, they just do not create problems. What is a parasite? A parasite can be a virus, a worm, a bacterium, or a fungus. Whose relationship with your body is completely different from that of bacteria and other friendly microbes. A parasite essentially sucks something out of you, creating problems for you, but in return, it does not bring any benefit at all. This is a pathogenic relationship. Of course, there are even people who are parasites. They live at the expense of other people, but do not give people anything in return. They just take and take. You probably know such people. As for microbes, if there is an exchange in the relationship with them, there is no problem, but parasites literally steal your nutrients. So, let's consider some symptoms of the presence of parasites. The first important symptom is associated with digestion. All reactions of the digestive system to parasites are caused mainly by attempts by the immune system to kill these hostile microbes. So, diarrhea usually occurs. What can be the benefit of diarrhea? This is one of the ways to expel parasites. Diarrhea is one of the most  symptoms or signs that there are parasites, especially if it begins immediately after a long trip. When you left the country and accidentally drank water from some source, not having the same immunity as the locals, another symptom associated with immunity is nausea. You feel sick. This symptom is also associated with the reaction of the immune system, which is trying to kill the parasite. There may also be severe bloating, measured gas formation, constipation is possible. The next symptom that can appear due to parasites is fatigue, mainly. This is due to the fact that parasites steal your nutrients, compete for them, they eat up all the nutrients in the small intestine and you have a nutrient deficiency, so you feel tired and exhausted, you do not have the energy you need. Fatigue is caused by the immune system working hard to kill the parasites, as well as high levels of stamino histamines - these are fatigue-causing substances that occur during immune reactions. Another common symptom of the presence of parasites is itching in intimate places. However, itching can also be all over the body. But usually with  Parasites, itching occurs in intimate places, mood swings are also a common symptom, this affects mood, there may be an irritant, problems with blood sugar are possible, since these microbes affect the chemistry in the body. As a result, changes will appear on the skin, especially with worm infestation, for example, with roundworm, there are skin problems, and also with ringworm, redness is possible with a tick bite, a rash is possible, this happens with Lyme disease, there is also often a craving for milk sugar, for example, you want ice cream or sweets. What can be done if there are parasites or even a candida infection is to continue consuming milk sugar or any sweets. In some people, depending on how long they have had parasites, their appetite may either increase or decrease, depending on the stage of this infection, appetite may disappear completely, or probably at the beginning of the infection, appetite may increase. After all, you do not get nutrients from the food you eat, which parasites steal them, but with infections in general, other processes occur. One of the mechanisms of our body's defense against infection is loss of appetite. Fasting indirectly strengthens the immune system so that it better fights  infection for example Many animals also lose their appetite When they have an infection So eating more to saturate the body is not always good for the immune system Clouded consciousness is another common symptom This is caused by both the immune response and some byproducts or toxins that parasites release when the immune system kills them A parasitic infection can also cause allergies Excessive sneezing You always need to find out when these symptoms appeared and what happened right before it When I was in VL practice I had quite a lot of nurses come and I often saw that nurses usually have more parasites One of the common reasons for contracting an infection is being in a hospital Apparently the hospital is the worst place to go If you want to avoid an infection Because in a hospital there are a lot of sick people gathered in one place and pathogens are flying everywhere Parasites are very common per year They infect about 3 billion people worldwide It seems over 200,000 die from parasites That is why it is so important to understand that your immune system is your best weapon You need your immune system to keep in  curb parasites and pathogens this is its goal and one of the main techniques that pathogens use against you is suppression of your immune system they block nutrients such as zinc vitamin D and other nutrients to gain an unfair advantage you absolutely need to pay attention to the immune system if you do not think about the immune system you can accidentally destroy your immune system when you are trying to destroy some pathogen or cope with a disease so be sure to remember the importance of your immune system during any treatment because by suppressing your immune system you will immediately become more vulnerable to more infections for more problems and this definitely applies to the intestinal microflora the intestinal microflora probably provides at least 75 to 80% of our immunity and the most important thing is to work with all your might to keep these microbes alive happy and friendly and in no case allow this relationship to become n because we are surrounded by a very aggressive environment there are over 300,000 different parasites they are all around us we cannot hide from them we cannot live in a sterile environment So our best weapon is taking care of our immune system. What are the best remedies for fighting parasites? These are natural remedies that have a very powerful antiparasitic effect, but at the same time have the fewest side effects. Now I will list such remedies. There are four of them. There are many other remedies. But these are herbal remedies. Plants also have parasites, and they have been developing certain strategies and chemicals for an incredibly long time that kill parasites. And we, in turn, can use these plants to fight our parasites. The number one remedy for parasites is garlic. Eat a lot of garlic. Number two is wormwood extract. Wormwood extract is a powerful antiparasitic and a good anthelmintic. Next, cloves. Cloves contain phytonutrients with a powerful antiparasitic effect. Next, the famous black walnut shell extract. This is an extract of the outer skin of the black walnut. It has a very, very sharp taste and a very, very powerful antiparasitic effect. You will not see many parasites near this shell. Even animals, say, the cows that I raise, can be given apple cider vinegar to fight  worms and not antihelminthic drugs. Why is this important? Because everything that increases stomach acidity helps kill parasites. People probably get parasites because the environment is not acidic enough to kill parasites that are present in food. So, stomach acidity is another very important barrier that does not allow microbes to survive. Since we are talking about parasites and digestive problems, in particular about diarrhea, there are several other means to get rid of diarrhea. I think you will really learn about them. Here is a video about it. Watch it.