I have many videos of various indicators on the human body, on the skin, on the eyes or lips, which give an understanding of what is happening inside. Today we will talk about the relationship between the condition of human skin and diabetes. You can learn a lot from the skin by watching this video. You can look at someone's skin and be sure whether they have diabetes, and you can also apply this to yourself. If you have such signs, I will tell you what to do about it. I see a big problem in terms of diabetes in general. The task of medicine is to help control and regulate blood sugar levels. They prescribe medications to normalize this level and believe that the problem is solved. If you control sugar, everything is okay, but I have a question. What does it mean to control sugar? It is clear that you lower blood sugar to normal with medication. Similar to blood pressure medications, but the question is this: Where does the sugar that you control or reduce go? It evaporates or simply moves to another place. And here is the answer. It moves to another place from the blood to other parts of the body. The liver and other organs are converted into fat, making the liver fatty. So this is not a correction, it is the transformation of one problem into another. There are two main things associated with diabetes that are visible on the skin. The first is  High glucose levels, which directly or indirectly affect the skin, are another group of problems associated with the hormone insulin, which is important for diabetes. Let's start with the second group: insulin is a hormone that lowers glucose levels. When you have a lot of glucose in the blood, you will also have, at least initially, very high insulin to counteract this glucose, and of course, insulin resistance will develop in the body, due to which the pancreas receives a signal that more insulin is needed to overcome this resistance. Diabetes is always accompanied by elevated insulin. Tests have proven that doctors focus on glucose levels. But if you check insulin, it will also be elevated until the pancreas is so tired that it can no longer produce so much insulin, and it will drop. At this stage, a person, unfortunately, will have to inject insulin, but now is not about that. When we have high insulin, insulin resistance is one of the frequent symptoms of this, apparently on the skin, is the so-called black octanthos. It is one of the common symptoms of insulin resistance. Your skin will darken as if it is tanned in this place, and to the touch it becomes almost velvety. Such spots usually occur in the folds of the skin under the arms on the side.  On the back of the neck and also these spots can appear on the folds of the elbows. The reason for this skin color is melanocytes, they produce melanin, a skin pigment. insulin resistance causes these cells to work more actively than usual. This is the first skin problem. The second skin problem associated with insulin is papillomas. insulin is an anabolic hormone, and when there is too much insulin, it leads to growth. Such mini-tumors appear. Papillomas are benign formations, and here are the reasons for their appearance. When there is more insulin, growth increases. By the way, if you want to quickly get rid of papillomas, follow the link below. The next skin problem is digital sclerosis, a skin condition when it becomes thick and rough. In addition, it will probably be dry and flaky, and the reason for this is also increased insulin in the blood. Among the various skin cells, there are so-called keratinocytes. insulin acts on these cells, causing them to grow excessively. Which makes your skin thick and rough. I also dare to suggest that this is also why calluses appear on the skin. The next skin problem that is affected by insulin is acne. If you have elevated insulin levels, you may experience acne.  This is especially common in women with polycystic ovary syndrome when the level of androgens is elevated, this affects the sebaceous glands on the skin. What increases compactness. So behind elevated androgens is elevated insulin and polycystic ovary syndrome is high insulin, which is why androgens are elevated, and acne is just one of the symptoms. insulin resistance and high blood sugar also affect the immune system and do not reduce a person's immunity, increasing the risk of various infections. Due to some bacterial infections, cysts appear, for example, a Baker's cyst, and when I was practicing, I noticed that a large percentage of people from that Baker's cyst are diabetics. This is due to how high blood sugar affects the immune system. Now about blood glucose levels. When blood glucose levels are high, blood reaches the skin with big problems, for example, when small capillaries suffer, for example, in the lower part of the legs, such small red or purple dots or spots may appear, they are called petechiae or purpura and quiet. These are small red or purple dots. And purpura is larger. This is a problem with the circulatory system when the walls of the capillaries are destroyed and the blood begins  seep into the tissues. Usually, such things appear in diabetics in the lower legs, various black and blue spots similar to bruises, but the reason for this is that high glucose levels actually destroy both microcirculation (small capillaries) and macrocirculation (blood vessels in general). Part of the blood and oxygen leaves the tissues of the body, starting with the most specific parts of the body, for example, the feet and lower ankles, which brings us to the next problem: gangrene. With gangrene, the foot and toes take on a different color - green, black, brown, blue. This is a serious complication of diabetes, as a result of which tissues die. As a result, the foot can be amputated. And the problem rises higher and higher, as a result, you can lose the entire leg. And in one of the varieties of gangrene, wet gangrene, there is also an infection, and all because of impaired blood circulation, which develops due to high glucose levels. You may also develop ulcers on your legs. Ulcers on your feet. If you are a diabetic, the cause is also poor blood circulation and infection. In this condition, the immune system  the system is slowed down, another sign by which you can easily detect high sugar and not only with diabetes or prediabetes But even at the previous stage of insulin resistance, these are the eyes They look swollen, puffy and red in such a person I mean the eyelids once a long time ago I had this I had no idea what the reason was swollen eyelids can indicate kidney problems but What is the number one cause of kidney failure is diabetes in diabetes a lot of fluid is retained and this is visible in the eyes and sometimes on the lower legs and feet So I listed various skin problems associated with blood sugar insulin But what surprises me is that so much emphasis is placed on treating the symptoms and diagnosis of this condition, but very little attention is paid to the treatment of diabetes itself Glucose And also its causes for me It's some kind of wildness that such an obvious problem as excess sugar and carbohydrates in food is not paid attention to It's just amazing But if you think about it, it becomes clear that they make a lot of money on diabetes drugs if you apply such a simple solution, then the entire industry will lose its income, both drug manufacturers and food producers, so if you want to seriously improve your  skin and you have diabetes. This is what I would do immediately. I would switch to a low-carb diet and start intermittent fasting. Both of these actions will lead to serious changes quite quickly. I would also start adding a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to my drink several times a day. Apple cider vinegar is a powerful remedy that helps people with high blood sugar, increases insulin sensitivity, and also corrects insulin resistance. Here's what I would do besides this: I would start drinking one of the most effective herbal analogues of metformin, a natural version of metformin that has been well studied, it is called berberine. Berberine. According to the study, I will leave a link to it below, it gives identical results in terms of normalizing blood sugar when compared to metformin, but without side effects, it turned out to be even more effective for normalizing cholesterol, normalizing triglycerides, correcting fatty liver, reducing heart problems, reducing inflammation, and also for solving skin problems associated with diabetes. So