We all know how important vitamin D is, but it's incredibly difficult to understand what dose you need and whether your blood vitamin D levels reflect what's happening in your cells. Some blood vitamin D tests indicate a normal range of 20 to 40 nanograms per milliliter, while others say 30 to 50 nanograms per milliliter. Other parts of the world use different units of measurement, for example, 50 nanograms per milliliter is equivalent to 125 nanomoles per liter. As you can see, this can be quite confusing, especially when the vitamin D dose is indicated in a completely different system of international units. This adds even more confusion, because for vitamin D3, one international unit is equivalent to micrograms, while for other vitamins such as beta-carotene or retinol, an international unit is a completely different amount. In short, it's a real hassle. But even the recommended daily intake of vitamin D for people under 70 is 600 IU, which is 15 micrograms. The research that established this insignificant amount took years.  back for the prevention of rickets, this was long before the emergence of new data that vitamin D strengthens the immune and many other systems. So you can check the level of vitamin D in the blood and this is great, but the main question in connection with vitamin D. Does it get into the cells? In the cell, it gets through the receptors for vitamin D and, unfortunately, the level of vitamin D in the blood does not reflect what is happening in the cells simply because of a huge number of problems with receptors for certain viruses and other pathogens, there is a survival mechanism that blocks our receptors to vitamin D for the sake of survival. After all, they know that if vitamin D gets into the cell, they are finished. Also, some types of cancer have a survival mechanism that worsens the functioning of receptors to vitamin D so that it is not enough, because vitamin D is honestly associated with a reduced risk of cancer. Even a benign tumor reduces the absorption of vitamin D by up to 93 percent, and with a malignant tumor, the absorption of vitamin D by receptors decreases to 56 percent. As you can see, cancer cells block the absorption of vitamin D, and thirty percent of people, including me, have a genetic problem with receptors. I wrote, therefore, the usual doses of vitamin D are not  cause the changes I need, how do we solve this problem number one? It would be a good idea to do a gene analysis to assess vitamin D receptors, but there are other simple ways. Do you have any diseases or problems associated with the vitamin D receptor in your family or do you have them? I will list them now, but there are many diseases and health disorders that are directly related to the problem with vitamin D receptors. So, I will list them: autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, Hashimoto's disease, ankylosing spondylitis, the next category, some types of cancer, especially breast and colon cancer. Just realize how important Vitamin D is for many things, including all aspects of the immune system. It fights cancer. Normally, immune cells should kill cancer if they have enough vitamin D, but they do not kill it if there is little vitamin D. Some cardiovascular diseases are associated with a problem with vitamin D receptors, as are some cognitive disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and then diabetes, both types 1 and 2. The first autoimmune disease is definitely related to vitamin D. Metabolic syndrome, which includes high blood pressure, lipid problems, high blood glucose, or diabetes. Tuberculosis is caused by a huge problem with vitamin D receptors. Years ago, one of the first treatments for tuberculosis was sun exposure. It was very helpful because it produced vitamin D. If you have a choice between getting vitamins or from the sun, it's better to get it from the sun. This is ideal. If you can get vitamin D from the sun, then tuberculosis, as well as some viruses, parasites, and some bacteria, Lyme disease is definitely associated with vitamin D receptors. Hair loss, Crohn's disease, and other inflammatory gastrointestinal problems are all linked to vitamin D, because as we remember, vitamin D is perhaps one of the best natural anti-inflammatory agents. Respiratory infections are closely linked to vitamin D receptors, probably due to viruses that take control of vitamin D receptors. If a child is outdoors in the fresh air, in the sun, the incidence actually decreases. Food allergies: the more food allergies you have, the more problems with vitamin D receptors you have. Low back pain is very common, and it's linked to vitamin D.  Vitiligo is a lack of pigmentation in certain places on the body. Osteoporosis, COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and even post-traumatic stress are associated with vitamin D deficiency, probably because vitamin D is great for depression. So, a blood test is all good, but if the problems haven't gone away, higher doses of vitamin D will probably help you. So, number one, take more vitamin D. It's that simple. You might need 20, 30, 40, 50,000 I.E. If changes begin, then we know, regardless of how much vitamin D you have in your blood, that you had a deficiency in your cells and a problem with vitamin D receptors. Number two, don't take it constantly. Instead of taking vitamin D regularly, take it maybe once every three days or once every four days, and take a lot of it. It seems like a good strategy if you have a problem with vitamin D receptors. Although I have this problem with vitamin D, I take it every day, it's just easier to remember, but if I have an autoimmune or other disease, I would take it irregularly. You can take magnesium. This will help vitamin D receptors. You can take zinc. You can take  Bile salts are an interesting thing. They act as an analogue of the vitamin D receptor. What does this mean? This means that you can activate the vitamin D gene without taking vitamin D. You can take them in the form of tutki or simply in the form of bile salts. Omega-3 fatty acids activate vitamin D receptors. Vitamin K2 also helps. There are various plant substances that also greatly increase the absorption of vitamin D by receptors. These are resveratrol, curcumin, hercetin, and sulfaraphane. They can all help greatly. And the last remedy for increasing the absorption of vitamin D is butyric acid, a short-chain fatty acid produced by our microflora. Its production can be increased by eating vegetables, because vegetables contain fiber for microbes. They eat it and convert it into butyric acid, which helps absorb vitamin D and reduces insulin resistance. And it is also a type of ketone. Of course, I also recommend following a ketogenic diet; it will reduce insulin resistance. By the way, I am often asked about vitamin D toxicity.  I have a very good explanation of the real toxicity of vitamin D. This and many other topics in this course are available online. I invite you to my course on vitamin D, the vitamin of health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my 2019 presentations on longevity and health. All of this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you on the course.