Today we'll talk about why diabetes makes you vulnerable to viruses. Specifically, I'm talking about type 19 diabetes, which triples the likelihood of dying from this virus. The question is, why? Why does the virus enter the cell through your own receptor? The type of receptor is called the FF2 receptor. So, the virus gets inside and begins to replicate. The thing is, the more receptors you have on your cells, and PEV-2, the easier you will be a victim for this virus. Diabetics have many more FF2 receptor proteins on their cells. People with high blood glucose levels have more FF2 receptors. People with a lot of insulin have a greater number of these receptors. That's why they are more vulnerable to viruses. However, there are a couple more reasons you need to know. The first is insulin resistance. By the way, about 75 percent of the population suffers from insulin resistance. That is, it is very, very common. insulin resistance weakens your immune response to the virus, but that's not all. People with hyperglycemia and high sugar levels have a lot of these people. I also include people with diabetes, which has a reduced number.  I'll explain what a neutrophil is when you have an infection. About 70 percent of your white blood cells are neutrophils. There are a lot of them. They are phagocytes, that is, cells that absorb viruses and bacteria. But first of all, they are involved in many viral infections. And when you have diabetes, your neutrophils are low. Neutrophils perform three functions. First, they eat viruses for lunch. Second, they secrete antimicrobial substances that kill pathogens, for example, hydrogen peroxide and bleach. And in fact, bleach kills microbes. Third, they have another strategy using nets, not TASS. In this case, they literally cast a net on the microbe and dissolve it with their chemicals with neutrophils. There is one problem: they produce a lot of collateral damage because they have these poisons and sometimes they can affect the immune system. But the point is that if you have a shortage of neutrophils, your immunity is at risk because the body simply has no weapons to fight. Imagine if you send troops to  A battle without any weapons. This is exactly what will happen if you have high blood sugar. That's why diabetics have a higher mortality rate from this virus and other viruses. If you're diabetic and worried about the type 19 coronavirus and continue to eat carbohydrate-rich foods, you're missing a key piece of this puzzle. By making small changes to your diet, eliminating carbohydrates and reducing the amount of food you eat, you can significantly reduce diabetes and strengthen your immune system. If you have diabetes, it's important to know what you eat to reduce risk factors. I'll post this video here. Watch it.