I will tell you about the best hit exercises, that is, high-intensity interval training for maximum fat burning. I will give many examples of effective exercises for these workouts and then I will share the number one exercise that is head and shoulders above the rest, but first, I will explain what hit exercises are. These are high-intensity exercises with a short duration that stimulate a strong surge of growth hormone and not only this, the main advantage of using high-intensity short exercises is the absence of a huge number of repetitions, this is less time in the busy schedule of many people. Let's figure out what the exercise consists of. 4 parameters: duration, that is, the execution time, intensity of the exercise, recovery after the exercise and the number of approaches, how many times you repeat this particular exercise, how long you perform it, how long you rest and how many approaches you do. Usually, when performing a hit high-intensity interval training, the exercise is performed for 30-60 seconds, you can do it longer, maybe a little less, and then rest for 30 seconds, but most often from a minute to 5, so from three to seven times a week, maybe I don’t know, one, two, three workouts, this is a general scheme. To understand why training is effective, we will consider these parameters in more detail. Intensity is a key factor in exercises that stimulate muscle growth and stimulate growth hormone at low and high intensity. The duration of the exercise, for example, during a long run outside, not an intense leg, Russians just jog for 45 minutes, growth hormone is not nearly stimulated, since with a high-intensity short workout, another key point is recovery without recovery after such a high intensity, the results will be completely different from after good recovery, recovery is different for everyone, each person has their own ability to recover. I recommend conducting one effective test to determine the speed of recovery, you need to monitor this because overtraining will harm the body, we definitely do not need this if there are injuries, high-intensity training is not the best idea, the same with poor recovery, I will tell you how to determine this, be careful if you have heart problems, intense exercise without supervision with heart problems can harm here is what you need to do measure your pulse at rest, you can use a heart rate monitor or check manually here and count the beats per minute or time it in 15 seconds and then simply multiply by 4 usually the average pulse is about seventy- two beats per minute with a high pulse of 90-100 and above seek help because this is not normal for a resting state if  Below is much better, but if you don't exercise and your pulse is very low, it may be heart problems. But if you exercise and are in good shape, your pulse should be less than 72, somewhere around 60. People in very good shape can have a pulse of 50 or even 40, this is an indicator of a healthy heart. So, do the exercise for one minute very intensively, give it 80 percent of your maximum capacity. You get the idea. I do n't want to go any further than Georgia. Just push for a minute and then check your pulse. At the end of this one-minute workout, let's say it's 160. Your pulse has risen to 160. Rest for one minute and check your pulse again. Let's say it's 150. Subtract the second number from the first, you get 10. Then look at the table. If your pulse has dropped by less than 12 beats, this is bad. This indicates a high risk of heart problems. Once, a woman came to see me. We did this test. Her pulse jumped to 150, and then, for some reason, I didn't check her pulse. After resting, it just slipped my mind and she went home. The next day, she came back and I checked it again. Guess what her pulse was like, 150, that's very bad. Her pulse hasn't returned to normal even after 24 hours. This means there's no recovery. I saw such a deplorable situation again. A special forces soldier had to jump out of a plane with a parachute during training. He landed awkwardly on some trees and injured his back. He was captured for two weeks and tortured. Somehow, he survived it. Guess where he worked before, in radio, and of course, he received a bunch of injuries there. When I checked his recovery, it was absolutely zero. Very high blood pressure and many other problems. In the end, we helped him. This is another example of poor recovery. If the difference between the upper and lower numbers is from 13 to 20, then the risk is moderate. The loads should be light. If it's from twenty to thirty, if the difference is from twenty to thirty, then everything is fine. This isn't ideal, but more or less. If it's more than 30, you're in pretty good shape. Excellent. Ideally, your pulse should drop as much as possible to the resting rate. If it drops to your resting pulse rate, then you're in excellent shape. I'll tell you more quickly.  I just remembered one story, a man was over 80 and after the exercise his pulse seemed to be around 160 and it normalized to his resting pulse and he was over 80. I was impressed and shocked by this decrease and then I found out that in his youth he was an Olympic champion in water polo. Water polo is probably the most difficult sport in terms of the cardiovascular system and endurance, but he won gold at the Olympics and maintained physical fitness throughout his life. He can still easily hold his breath for three minutes underwater. In general, excellent recovery. So, the last point and we move on to exercises. When you start training and increase your pulse, the sympathetic nervous system is stimulated. It's all about stimulating the sympathetic part of the nervous system. The pulse quickens, adapting to changes in the body, increasing blood flow. Without this reaction, the pressure would drop, blood flow would be disrupted, including in the brain. It would be impossible to climb the stairs and exercise, but then the exercise ends and rest begins. This stage is under the control of the parasympathetic nervous system, the mechanism of rest and digestion. At this moment, this system is actively connected and  It starts to lower your heart rate and puts your body in a state of rest and relaxation. It reduces the increased indicators. This happens in waves. The problem with many people is that they don't take this system into account. They don't understand that this is an active system. It needs to be strengthened, and this can be done by giving your body enough time to recover after training. Therefore, when following this training-rest scheme, remember that the rest period is very, very important. You need to give your body time to fully recover. I advise using your heart rate as an indicator and resting until it drops to a level close to resting. Instead of resting according to a pattern of one minute, it might be worth taking a 45-minute break, especially for beginners. This will minimize overtraining and begin to strengthen the recovery system. Control over the parasympathetic nervous system. I will give several examples of good HIIT exercises. Leo metrics is a sharp release of energy, it doesn't matter whether it's jumping on a platform or other explosive movements. Somewhere in old videos there is a picture of me jumping on a tree stump. Plyometrics is an excellent type of hit exercise. Jumping rope is another good hit exercise. Burpees are also a great option. Kickboxing. In kickboxing, you must definitely take breaks for rest because sometimes they practice without a break, but in kickboxing, there are a lot of explosive movements. Exercise bikes are an excellent workout during which you can perform a short series of intense exercises using your legs, your lungs and heart work well, and then rest. Then, kettlebell swings. The Bulgarian bag, which I now like to use in training, is like a sandbag with which you perform different movements and swings, the whole body works intensively, so the approach cannot last more than a minute. You need rest. Crossfit is quite intense, but Crossfit has one problem. It is good even if you are young, but with age you need a longer recovery. You need a short burst of high intensity with sufficient recovery and, of course, you need to avoid injuries because you can get hurt. Number 10: cross-country skiing. Machines that imitate cross-country skiing can provide an intense workout. With cross-country skiing, you can burn a huge amount of calories. Push-ups and setups are available, and you don't necessarily need to have equipment. You can use your own body weight. Jumping jacks are a good exercise. The mountain climber exercise is also quite intense, and they are all good, but number one on the list. High-intensity exercise is sprinting, sprint interval training is full, a meta-analysis of more than 70 studies has shown that sprinting leads to the greatest fat burning and the least amount of time spent, this is very cool. During sprint training, which is actually a type of high-intensity interval training, body fat is burned thirty-nine point nine percent more in terms of time spent 60 percent less time spend less fat burn more if you compare spring with regular high-intensity training if you compare sprint interval training with continuous moderate-intensity training, it is not as intense and longer, then the reduction in body fat is already ninety-one percent higher with a decrease in time spent by 71 percent impressive I will tell you a little more about sprinting because there are nuances you need to give it your all, run as fast as possible using your whole body, this is first not at 80 percent of your capabilities, but fly at full speed, then the duration is very short in fact, during a real sprint you will not be able to run  It's a long time because you're practically not breathing, there's no oxygen supply, and its supply will run out very quickly. This is an excellent workout for overall health. If we 're talking about 100 meters, which is a standard distance, a good 100-meter sprint takes 12 11 10 seconds. I think the world record is about nine and a half seconds. So, this is a very short workout. I advise doing sprints from 30 to 60 seconds. I also recommend starting with 15-second sprints in your first workouts, gradually increasing to 30-second sprints, and perhaps eventually to 60 seconds, but most people won't reach 60 and will stop at 30 seconds. This is a very short workout. The workout is short, and the rest should be longer. You need to rest from 2 to 4 minutes completely without running in place. Just sit down and let your heart rate return to normal. Here's a sprint workout plan. Ideally, find a park with soft grass nearby, put on your sneakers, and start with 15-second sprints, doing 46 runs.  4 is enough to start, then rest for 2 to 4 minutes until your heart rate returns to normal, and so on for four runs, and ultimately six runs per workout, and do this no more than 2 times a week, and this will lead to much greater fat burning than any of the above options. I will leave a link to the study under the video, and speaking of fat burning, if you want to speed up the process, I have a video, watch it next.