I'll tell you how to quickly determine if you have brain damage. First, what not to do. Don't turn to friends and family with statements like this. I watched Dr. Berg's video and I think you have brain damage. Don't do that. Remember, this video is for you, they are for them. Keep in mind that almost everyone's brain is damaged to some degree with age. This is due to the fact that the neurons in the brain don't have enough fuel. One study showed that the average person loses about 30 percent of their brain cells with age by age 80 or 90. That's what I mean when I say brain damage. It's not just about dementia. It can happen gradually. A person forgets words. They try to remember where they put the key. The reason for this is that the neurons are starving. They don't have enough fuel to work. The symptoms of this include memory loss, loss of clarity, difficulty concentrating and paying attention. This happens because of a high-carbohydrate diet. Over time, the body will begin to resist carbohydrates. insulin resistance will develop. Glucose will not enter the brain cells and they will starve. The good news is that neurons prefer other fuel, they do n't need it.  Glucose and ketones. In fact, given a choice between glucose and ketones, the brain always looks at ketones as fuel. It prefers them more. If neurons don't have enough glucose, just feed them ketones. Here's an experiment I suggest you try: start following the Grandfather 1 diet and intermittent fasting. There's a link in the description. After a week or two, pay attention to changes in cognitive functions, such as intelligence, focus, and memory improvement. What about mood? Has it improved? If so, it's safe to say that you had some brain damage. You can conduct another experiment. Take m-city oil. M-city medium-calorie renal triglycerides are produced from coconut. When you take it, the body produces ketones directly from it. Even if you're not on the right diet, the brain will absorb these ketones. If there is brain damage, cognitive functions will begin to improve. Intelligence, concentration, and attentiveness will improve. Memory will improve, and your mood will even improve. If any of this improves, it means you have some damage. M-city oil gives the brain  Instant fuel that is absorbed, bypassing the damage caused by a carbohydrate diet. Many people who begin to follow ghetto and intermittent fasting face the same thing: they begin to feel better, more energetic, their cognitive functions noticeably improve, their mood improves significantly, and it is not surprising that they do not want to give up this diet. What is good about this diet is that over time, you can even cope with some brain damage. Instead of doing a CT scan or MRI of the brain, just switch to another fuel and decide for yourself whether it is worth sticking to this regimen. That's all, thanks for watching. There is a link below that explains how to properly follow this diet and intermittent fasting. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.