I made a lot of videos about how to lose weight, but there haven't been any videos yet about how to gain weight or how to store fat. Sometimes it's useful to go the opposite way. Because if you know how to gain weight, and many people know this, then by doing the opposite, you can eventually lose weight. I came across a diet that made me laugh. It's called the Chewing Diet. It really exists. In this Chewing Diet, you need to snack 17 times a day. It was invented in 1978. It provides not just three meals and two snacks, but also additional snacks between snacks. This is even worse than the six-meal-a-day plan that some people follow. It also looks like a diet of eating little by little all day. I'm not kidding. There is a diet called just eating little by little all day. When you have six snacks, each of which averages 180 kilocalories. Lunch is 300 kilocalories, but you can change it. You can swap one snack for another or swap two snacks for dinner. Because we all know that.  That all these calorie counts give absolutely nothing, we've tried a million times, it doesn't work, it's outdated, but there are those who try again and again, but let's go back to the chewing gum diet. The strategy of this chewing diet includes 17 snacks a day. This is what makes you feel like you're in control, because you eat when you want, that is, you control everything. In fact, it's just the opposite: you don't control anything at all, and what's really out of control is your hormones. Your hormones have gone so crazy that you're essentially riding like a passenger, and your hormones are driving the car. In such a situation, disaster is simply inevitable. Because every time you snack, no matter what you eat, it simply spurs insulin, and it starts jumping up and down. You know that insulin is a hormone that turns food into fat. insulin is a hormone that causes yawning hunger. insulin is activated by eating, whether you eat carbohydrates or something else, and with each snack, you simply spurs insulin every now and then. 17 times is a great way to gain weight, and let's say, for example, that you  You're going to a film audition and you need to gain weight quickly for a role. This diet is perfect. Another excuse given in that book is that animals eat all day and don't get fat. I think they're talking about cows, but firstly, cows are fat and they eat grass. So maybe you should start eating grass. You can eat it all day and maybe that will help you. But most animals don't graze all day. They usually have periods when they don't eat. In fact, they fast, and intermittent fasting is a constant tradition. The grass that they eat passes through four sections of the stomach and is fermented. They have a completely different digestive system than humans. Another excuse given in that book is that you need to eat to avoid hunger. Because if you're hungry, you can overeat, and if you snack little by little, you're safe because you're not overeating. But the problem is that insulin spikes and everything you eat is stored as fat. This isn't a good strategy. It also says that snacking prevents your sugar from dropping too low and thus suppresses hunger. I guarantee the more you snack, the hungrier you'll be. Snacking and overeating will completely disable your ability to burn fat. You'll have only a small reserve of sugar, it'll run out, and then you'll be hungry again. You'll drive yourself into a difficult situation: excess weight, hunger, fatigue, and diabetes. Now that you know how to gain weight, let's go the opposite way and apply the opposite strategy: intermittent fasting. No snacking, just less frequent insulin use. Then the body will be able to start burning fat. The average person has an almost unlimited supply of fat fuel, unlike sugar reserves, which are very limited. It's better to draw fuel from an almost infinite supply. This way, you continuously burn fat, don't feel hungry, your appetite goes away, and it becomes much easier for you to lose weight because you won't have any appetite or hunger. If you're new to the channel, there will be a link to the exact plan in the description. Just follow it, and I promise it will work.