Let's discuss why the prostate increases in size, which can make urination difficult. Indeed, with age, the prostate increases in size in men. Let's look at where it is located. This gland surrounds on all sides this narrow tube that comes from the bladder, and so when the prostate enlarges, it outgrows this tube and thereby makes urination difficult. Therefore, the doctor prescribes medications such as Flomax antibiotics, does a blood test and asks to come back in six months. But I want to ask a question: what is the reason for the enlargement of the prostate gland? If we look at all our hormones, we will see that they can be divided into two categories. Category 1 is anabolic hormones, and the second category is catabolic hormones. Anabolic hormones are associated with the creation of something, and catabolic hormones with the destruction of something. When we eat, a catabolic effect occurs. Various enzymes break down food into simple building blocks: amino acids and fatty acids, glucose, and so on. Then anabolic hormones come into play. They take these building blocks and create body tissues from them. So, obviously, prostate enlargement is caused by anabolic hormones.  Let 's look at anabolic hormones. We have prolactin. You may have heard about prolactin in women who breastfeed, but men also have prolactin. If prolactin levels are too high, this can lead to prostate enlargement. Estrogen itself can increase prostate size, and estrogen also increases prolactin production. There are other hormones, such as DHT, dihydrotestosterone, a very potent form of testosterone, and androgens. Cortisol, growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor, is a supplement to growth hormone. It is produced by the liver, stimulates growth hormone, and it definitely increases prostate function. There is also progesterone and insulin. insulin is a very powerful anabolic hormone. So, let's look at what food product or substance contains most of these hormones. You may regularly consume milk. Milk is a very powerful anabolic substance. Cheese, yogurt, and kefir are made from it, and milk contains most of these anabolic hormones. If you have problems with urination or prostate adenoma, you must completely exclude milk and all dairy products from your diet. That's number one, number two, insulin.  What causes insulin activation? Sugar, a high-carbohydrate diet. If you have prostate adenoma or problems with urination, you need to give up sugar and switch to the Tit 1 diet. If you are new to my channel, follow the link below. In addition, there is estrogen. There are many different sources of estrogen. Soy contains a lot of estrogen. Soy contains a lot of estrogen, so if you consume something like soy milk or soy protein isolate in protein drinks or diet shakes, or if you do not eat organic foods but only stores and vegetables and other foods that contain a lot of substances that mimic estrogen, this can be a powerful factor in prostate enlargement. People often take natural remedies for the treatment of the prostate, for example, with saw palmetto, because saw palmetto inhibits a certain enzyme that usually converts testosterone into a very powerful form of testosterone, namely DHT, which can increase simplicity. But there is a problem: if you take saw palmetto and still consume a lot of dairy products, consume sugar, perhaps you consume soy, then this will not work. I recommend giving up dairy.  Those on a rocket diet should avoid anything that can stimulate estrogen. In addition, drink green tea with saw palmetto, which is an excellent enzyme blocker, as are pumpkin seeds, zinc, and lycopene. There are excellent studies showing that lycopene helps reduce estrogen, and tomatoes contain a lot of it. Therefore, tomatoes are good for you if you have increased estrogen. If you are planning a diet for someone with prostate adenoma, in addition to a healthy diet and intermittent fasting, I would increase the amount of cruciferous vegetables, especially kale, as this will balance estrogen, and even beets.