God, this problem with an enlarged prostate is extremely common with age in every second man. That is, half of men have an enlarged prostate, this is benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), which essentially means an enlarged prostate. Before moving on to what needs to be done, this problem is not terribly complicated. If you don’t understand, there is an excellent solution. I’ll tell you about it first, I want to explain the difference. How is BPH different from prostate cancer? Are they similar? They are not particularly similar. In fact, they are very different things. With cancer, normal cells are damaged, their mitochondria are damaged, after which the cells become cancerous. Prostate cancer can spread throughout the body and kill you. This is a fatal disease. And BPH is a benign tumor, which means it will not spread, it will not turn into cancer. It is not fatal. Symptoms of prostate cancer include blood in the urine, blood in the semen, painful urination, erectile problems, possibly pain during ejaculation. These symptoms are very different from the symptoms of BPH. Here, mainly only the urinary tract is affected. You wake up at night and want to go to the toilet when  Urination positions: unable to urinate or completely empty the bladder; incomplete urination; BPH; many different problems with urination arise simply because the prostate is a gland that surrounds the urethra, that is, the tube that connects the bladder to the penis. When the prostate enlarges, it compresses this tube and a person cannot completely and freely remove all the urine from the bladder; urine is released intermittently; many different problems arise; the prostate should be the size of a walnut, but can become very large with prostate cancer; the big question is whether phytonutrients, in particular phytoestrogens, in herbs and vegetables, will worsen the situation; there are certain compounds that mimic estrogens, they are called phytoestrogens; we know that estrogen dominance can cause breast cancer in women and cancer in men; many chemicals around us mimic estrogen, these are pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, heavy metals; they are all considered estrogenic or hormone disruptors.  But you should know a couple of things about plant estrogens, phytoestrogens, with the help of phytoestrogens, you can prevent prostate cancer, you can slow down its development if you have early stage prostate cancer, but at the third, fourth, that is, at the later stages, you should not rush Because there is evidence that these phytoestrogens can worsen the situation But by the way, the studies that I read about this were related to castrated men So if someone is castrated and has late-stage cancer, he should not consume phytoestrogens even in small quantities, this can make things worse But the purpose of this video is to focus on an enlarged prostate Let's talk about it So there are two main theories about why men develop benign prostatic hyperplasia Based on everything I've read, it seems that both theories are correct and they work together Here is the first theory in men, testosterone levels decrease in both men and women, there is both testosterone and estrogen, and when over the years, men's testosterone levels decrease, the relative estrogen level increases, that is, testosterone  There is less and estrogen has become relatively more. And this happens with age, and we can say for sure that BPH is associated with aging with aging factors. So, number one is a decrease in testosterone levels and an increase in estrogen levels. And estrogen stimulates the growth of the prostate gland, especially. In addition, estrogen can cause the pituitary gland to activate the hormone prolactin, which can also enlarge the prostate. With age, people often gain weight, they get more fat, and the more fat you have, the more estrogen you will have. Because there is an enzyme that converts testosterone into estrogen, this is the aromatase enzyme. This happens in both men and women. If the liver is damaged, say, it is inflamed or you have a fatty liver or cirrhosis, scar tissue in the liver, then more estrogen is produced. I'm sorry to tell you this. If you like beer, but alcohol, especially beer, affects the liver. So, estrogen increases much more than testosterone. Alcohol in general lowers testosterone levels and increases estrogen levels. I'll say one more thing and it's important to understand that there are three types of estrogens. There is estrogen 1, 2, and 3.  and 3 these estrogens can bind to small receptors in different places in the body, so only estrogen 2 can enlarge the prostate gland, estrogen 1 and estrogen 3 cannot do this. And all phytoestrogens, these plant substances that affect estrogen, affect only estrogen number one. They do not affect number two or three. In general, phytoestrogens do not enlarge the prostate. However, they try to bind to receptors for estrogen 2 and block them so that other types of estrogens cannot have an effect. That is, phytoestrogens help reduce the level of estrogen 2. And thus, indirectly from the enlargement of the prostate. So when you hear that plant estrogens enlarge the prostate. This is not true. This does not happen. The second part of the overall picture is testosterone. When testosterone levels drop, there is also a powerful form of testosterone called DHT, it increases. DHT leads to hair loss and also the prostate. So, with age, testosterone levels decrease and DHT levels increase. There are people who, because of genetic problems DHT is not produced and they do not have an enlarged prostate, so the question is this: What increases the production of DHT? Well, this is connected with another enzyme called 5 alpha reductase. When there is an excess of this enzyme, there is too much DHT and because of this, the prostate can enlarge. Now we know both mechanisms. What can be done about it? The first strategy is to consume more phytoestrogens. This will help you. Genistein is a very common phytoestrogen. Many people take it for an enlarged prostate. The phytoestrogen Nin is found in many legumes. It is present. It can help with this problem. The next product is cruciferous vegetables. Kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage. All of this increases the level of phytoestrogen receptors. The goal of the next two strategies is to block these two enzymes. One of these enzymes is aromatase, an enzyme that converts testosterone into estrogen. It is found in fat and other cells. So you need to take aromatase inhibitors. There are prostate medications with Synthetic inhibitors I recommend natural ones Imagine I recently made a video if you grind a whole lemon in a blender, peel, white pulp, seeds, all this every morning, add Tevi and water and drink it, then apparently the peel of citrus fruits lemon and lime act as an aromatase inhibitor. If you haven’t seen the video, the link is below. This drink is very easy to make, it has a lot of vitamin C and not only another powerful aromatase inhibitor, stinging nettle root. I really like it because it is also an excellent anti-inflammatory. If you have arthritis, be sure to take another aromatase inhibitor. Dim Dim is a concentrate of cruciferous vegetables; it can be taken as a dietary supplement. It is excellent at helping to balance excess estrogen. And the third category is inhibitors of the enzyme 5 Alpha reductase; this enzyme needs to be blocked; for this you need to take Serena. You may have already heard that it is good for the prostate; pumpkin seeds also help the level of this enzyme, as well as green tea; zinc also reduces the level of this enzyme. Now you know why it works. In addition, you need to avoid certain things. High insulin levels can act as a factor in prostate growth. So, a low-carb diet and intermittent fasting are definitely necessary. I would also avoid dairy products because they contain an e compound. You may have already realized that when you eat more dairy products for dinner at night, you have more problems with urination or urine retention. Dairy products affect alcohol too. If you want a good alternative to alcohol, try kombucha; it is similar in consistency to beer and it relaxes well. I also want to say about plastic. I have a whole video about this. Unfortunately, plastic imitates estrogen and can cause serious problems, especially when it comes to the prostate. The average person in the US absorbs as many plastic nanoparticles per year as a bank card. I have a video about this, a link below. If you drink neophyte water, say from the tap, then you also get a lot of compounds that mimic estrogen, especially plastic. So, install a filter and there are also hormones in foods. If you eat little organic food and eat at a fast food eatery, then you get a lot of hormones from  Animal products, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, and so on mimic these hormones. Here's a very simple thing you can start doing right away every morning after waking up: grind up the whole Mon with water and drink it. If you haven't watched that video, watch it here.