Today we'll talk about the connection between allergies and stomach problems. A decrease in gastric acidity is normal. The pH in the stomach should be between one and three. This is a strong acid, a million times more acidic than blood. The function of this acid is, firstly, to digest proteins. By the way, protein is always involved in real allergies. When there is undigested protein, it moves further along the digestive tract. With leaky gut syndrome, it immediately enters the bloodstream, and your immune system incorrectly recognizes it, causing hypersensitivity and allergies. Secondly, acid disinfects microorganisms, viruses, bacteria, and yeast, including candida fungus. If they enter your body with food, they should be destroyed in the stomach and not enter the next sections of the gastrointestinal tract, where they can cause all sorts of problems. Also, acid helps absorb trace elements that are needed for many reactions in the body. If you can't absorb calcium, magnesium, selenium, or iron, your immune system suffers, and this alone will cause a predisposition to allergies or even asthma. If you look for data on low  Stomach acidity, people, you will find the term hippochlorite and you will encounter a number of symptoms caused by low stomach acidity: gases, indigestion, belching, bloating, and here they are: allergies, cause and effect, vitamin B12 deficiency, then candidiasis, then an illness called siberian bacterial overgrowth syndrome, when bacteria grow in the small intestine, they grow in the large intestine, and if your stomach pH is very low, that is, the indicator is elevated closer to alkaline, it will be difficult to kill this microflora and it will penetrate the small intestine and begin to grow there, and also heartburn, acid belching. All these are symptoms of low stomach acidity. Here are several reasons: first, hypothyroidism, 2, a low-salt diet, why sodium chloride is needed to produce hydrochloric acid, antibiotics, antacids, a gastric tube also contributes to the development of the problem because it changes the volume of the stomach, there is also Helicobacter pylori, this is an infectious bacterium capable of lowering the acidity of gastric juice, and also a lack of vitamin B3, all this can weaken the acid or cause it.  There is a test for determining the pH of the stomach, the Heidelberg test. When I was practicing in the clinic, we did one test in which there was a small capsule with something like a fishing line. A person swallowed this capsule. The line remained outside the capsule and entered the stomach. We asked the person to lie on their right side for about 15 minutes. Then we pulled out the capsule, after which we measured it and went and found out the value. Quite a few people who had these symptoms had a pH not even close to the range of one to three. They had four or even five. Interestingly, I don’t see such tests anymore. I don’t know where to get them. There’s an easier way to do this. You just need this method, it’s also cheaper. Take this, assuming that the condition exists and see if the allergy goes away. These two remedies, betaine hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar, will help increase the acidity in the stomach and return yours to the range of 1 to 3, as it should be. In this video, I will not talk about dosages and timing of administration, because I am not your situation. Just read the instructions on the package. This will be enough. The main idea is that  What if you have an allergy caused by hippochlorite and these remedies will help you feel better? Well, thank you for watching. Thank you for being with me and watching my video. If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, subscribe so you don't miss new videos.