So, the topic of today's video is the beneficial properties of alcohol. I know many people won't like it. Some of you will even unsubscribe. But understand, I'm just sharing health information so that you know more about what to do to become healthier. If you drink, there are ways to reduce the harm from it. Are you ready to learn about the benefits of alcohol? There are absolutely no benefits from drinking alcohol. It turns out that any amount of alcohol has a destructive effect on the brain and heart. Although, for the last 40 years, it has been claimed that alcohol is good for the heart if consumed in moderation: one drink a day for women and two drinks a day for men. Imagine that. There's even a popular belief that giving up alcohol causes heart disease. A new study by Oxford University on twenty-five thousand people conducted from 2014 to 2020 showed that even small amounts, even less than moderate amounts, negatively affect the brain and heart. What about all these antioxidants in wine? It's made from grapes. Grapes are good for you, of course they have antioxidants, but the problem is that they also contain alcohol. We have it in our liver. Alcohol dehydrogenase is an enzyme that converts alcohol to waxed aldehyde, which is very toxic to the liver and the body as a whole. It is a highly toxic byproduct. It causes severe oxidation in the liver and other organs, especially the heart. Large amounts of acetaldehyde cause severe damage due to free radicals. The purpose of this video is not to tell you that you can't drink. The goal is to convey to you the truth about alcohol because some people exceed all conceivable limits of drinking because they think it's healthy. This is simply misinformation. But I want to give you something that you can do not only to somehow replace alcohol, but also to reduce the harm from it. If you drink a little, there are ways to fight freddy. The first thing I recommend, and if you haven't tried it yet, is kombucha. Kombucha is a fermented drink with a negligible alcohol content. It gives a pleasant relaxing effect. The texture of kombucha is very similar to beer or champagne. It is quite thick with bubbles and gives a pleasant relaxing effect. Try it instead of alcohol. Maybe.  You might also like this thing, kudzu root extract, you can take it as a supplement, it helps reduce cravings for alcohol, and together with glutamine, it works very well for us. Try it. The fourth recommendation for reducing harm is if you drink milk thistle right before drinking, it is a hepatoprotector, that is, it protects liver cells from damage, it even protects liver cells from some poisons, and acetaldehyde is the enzymatic breakdown of alcohol that I mentioned above. If you take milk thistle before drinking, I think it will reduce damage, and again, I emphasize, I am not forbidding you from drinking alcohol at all, I am just saying that if you think it is beneficial, it is not, and there is also a way to limit the harm caused by alcohol, and I did not say this, but fasting is another very important thing, and let's say if you drank on the weekend and the next day you fast, perhaps this is the best thing you can do to strengthen your antioxidant network and partially repair the damage done to your liver.