I was asked to make a video about a drug called Ampik, it's a very popular drug used for weight loss and needs to be injected, I won't deny it. It works, but not everything is so simple, and there are problems with it, and I'll tell you about them. But first, about why it works. ozempic enhances a certain receptor in the body called the glucagon-like peptide receptor 1. It helps slow down digestion, thereby reducing appetite and eliminating hunger, as a result, you eat less and lose more weight. It even improves the function of beta cells in the pancreas, namely, regulating insulin levels and helps reduce insulin resistance. Anything that reduces insulin resistance helps you lose weight. It also has an interesting effect on the liver. It helps reduce sugar production in the liver, a process called gluconeogenesis. It also helps replace the breakdown of sugar in the liver, which is why ozempic is used for diabetes, because it helps with blood sugar. It sounds cool, yes, but it also has problems, firstly. It's expensive, a monthly dose costs from 1,300 to half  thousands of dollars and it has small side effects such as nausea, vomiting, bloating, abdominal pain, headaches, gas, constipation, diarrhea, heartburn and dizziness. Some seem empty, but there are more serious side effects, such as thyroid cancer, suicidal thoughts, pancreatitis, kidney disease, retinopathy, which is damage to the retina, loss of muscle mass, and gastroparesis, which is when food from the stomach does not go further into the intestines. Some of these side effects do not appear for three days. So, there are no side effects for 3 days, but then it starts and the side effects can remain for up to 5 weeks, even after stopping the drug because it takes 5 weeks to eliminate it. Another question is whether you want to inject this drug for the rest of your life and whether it will solve your problem with excess weight without giving you a bunch of other longer-term problems. I will recommend alternative remedies. These remedies include some herbs. There are more than 200,000 secondary metabolites in the world. These are chemical compounds in plants that have a therapeutic effect on the body. 50% of all drugs are based on these.  The most plant compounds from which big pharma takes its ideas. But these compounds cannot be patented and, therefore, money cannot be made from them, so they do not receive much recognition. But Chinese and Indian medicine, all ancient cultures have used these plants for several hundred years. Even if we take diabetes, about 400 different phytonutrients have antidiabetic properties and, please note, they do not have side effects like that drug. And in general, there are no side effects as such. If you go online and search on Google or somewhere else for an GP1 agonist, you will find many different plants. The two most popular plants are ginseng Panax and berberine. Berberine is a very effective remedy in its action; it is similar to metformin. I definitely recommend these two plants, but in addition to this, something else is needed. Now I will tell you that this is a healthy version of the ketogenic diet, which must be combined with intermittent fasting. If you combine a low amount of carbohydrates in the diet, a healthy diet and less frequent meals, then  I guarantee that in 3 days your appetite will disappear without appetite and cravings for food, it will be very easy for you to lose weight. Include this in your lifestyle to do it constantly and save money at the same time, you will eat less often and it itself will not cost you a penny. You just change your diet, not only will your appetite disappear and you will lose weight, but your cognitive functions will also improve, your mood and liver function will improve, it will not be so fatty, you will be able to preserve your muscles, your digestion will improve, this alone is already worth a lot, but let's say you went down the path of taking medications and lost weight. Now you are constantly tired, you have bloating, you have lost muscle mass and developed acid reflux, what will you do? Take more medications to suppress the symptoms caused by the previous drug, you will feel very, very bad. So here's what I recommend: ginseng, Panas berberine, a healthy version of the Keto diet with intermittent fasting. The most important thing is to start, and you will learn how to do it in a healthy way. Here in this course, follow the link and sign up.  I invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting from Dr. Berg, it doesn't matter if you are just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available, there are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed, there are lots of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties, holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits.  for the rest of my life