I have many videos about mucus remedies, especially for mucus in the upper respiratory tract and sinuses, but in this video I will give another very effective tip. This is a very effective remedy, you will like the repost for nasal congestion, chronic rhinitis or sinusitis, pressure in the sinuses, cluster headaches, allergic sinusitis. This can help with such problems. Many are treated with steroids, drugs that cause many side effects, or even undergo surgery, and the complications from this are quite high. But there is another effective remedy. You can use it in the form of a nasal spray or just eat food, and this is hot pepper, for example, or some other hot pepper. There are pepper sprays, this weapon is sprayed in the eyes of the offender, but we are not talking about such concentrations. I am talking about very diluted cayenne pepper, or you can use horseradish or other types of pepper in the form of a spray. This will significantly improve the condition of the sinuses. The main phytonutrient is pepper, which works wonders when you go hot peppers, this is exactly it. The phytonutrient creates a sensation of heat, but it is not associated with an increase in temperature. It is simply a chemical signal that tells the brain that the food is spicy, this is how the plant protects itself from being eaten. There are different levels of spiciness. It is interesting that by the same principle, this is logical because peppers can be so hot that they literally burn your mouth and can create serious breathing problems and provoke increased sweating. Some people can eat spicy foods. Some people do not. There are studies on the effect of capsaicin on the sinuses. Some use it in the form of an ointment and apply it to the body for rheumatoid arthritis, osteochondrosis, and gout. But there is a nasal spray that contains a little diluted cayenne pepper or concentrated extracts containing zinc that can be used. Research has shown that this can help clear the sinuses of mucus, remove this mucus, unlike some medications, and then reduces nasal hyperreactivity. The mucous membrane will not react as strongly as before to the environment, whether it is an allergy or another factor causing mucus production. This can help open the sinuses, clear them, and reduce  sensitivity of the mucous membranes And as I already said, they will not be so sensitive, irritation, redness and inflammation will pass. Hot pepper also has antimicrobial properties. Many suffer from chronic sinus problems, chronic rhinitis, fungus growing in the sinuses, or even a bacterial infection. There are a couple of options. You can use it as a nasal spray. Or start using hot pepper. The effect will be basically the same. An experiment that I have never repeated. I drank 350 ml of Daikon radish juice in one gulp and after that I had so much mucus come out. I didn’t even know that the sinuses could hold so much. It kept flowing and flowing. And after about an hour, I noticed how dry I was. Radish is also suitable. It is quite spicy and any hot pepper will do. Sometimes people eat this pepper. The pepper can be so hot that you need to neutralize the burning sensation in the mouth. Some try to wash it down with water, but water only intensifies the burning sensation. There are remedies that help even better than milk, and milk neutralizes the burning sensation well. Some eat ice cream.  I recommend milk, but there is something better than milk. Milk protein is the best remedy for the sensation in the receptors, which has more casein than anything else, and the answer is in cottage cheese, which is exactly how cottage cheese has a lot of casein. In general, I talked about a remedy for problems with the sinuses. This is a simple and very effective remedy. I have another video about mucus not only in the sinuses but also in the lungs. By the way, it has a lot of views. If you haven't watched it yet, here it is. Watch it.