So, the topic of today's video is the beneficial properties of alcohol.  I know many of you won't like this, and some of you will even unsubscribe, but understand, I'm just sharing health information so you can be more aware of what to do to become healthier.  And if you do drink, there are ways to reduce the harm it causes. Original Dr. Berg's dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Ready to learn about the benefits of alcohol?  There are absolutely zero of them.  There is no benefit from drinking alcohol. It turns out that any amount of alcohol has a destructive effect on the brain and heart.  Although for the last 40 years it has been claimed that alcohol is good for the heart if consumed in moderation.  One serving daily for women and two servings daily for men.   Just imagine, there is even a popular belief that giving up alcohol is the cause of heart disease.  A new Oxford University study of 25,000 people, conducted from 2014 to 2020, found that even small amounts, much less moderate amounts, negatively impact the brain and heart.  What about all those antioxidants in wine?  It's made from grapes.  Grapes are healthy.  Well, of course there are antioxidants in there, but the problem is that there is alcohol in there too.  In the liver we have alcohol dehydrogenase. It is an enzyme that converts alcohol into acetaldehyde, which is very toxic to the liver and the body as a whole.  It is a highly toxic by-product.  It causes severe acidification in the liver and other organs, especially the heart.  Large amounts of acetaldehyde cause severe damage due to free radicals.  The purpose of this video is not to tell you not to drink.  The goal is to bring you the truth about alcohol.  Because some people go beyond all limits of drinking because they think it's good for them.  This is simply disinformation. But I want to give you something you can do not only to somehow replace alcohol, but also to reduce the harm from it.  If you drink a little, there are ways to combat the harm.  The first thing I would recommend, if you haven't tried it yet, is kombucha. Kambucha is a fermented drink with a low alcohol content.  It gives a pleasant relaxing effect. Kombucha's texture is very similar to beer or champagne.  It is quite thick and has bubbles.  Provides a pleasant relaxing effect.  Try it instead of alcohol.  You might like it.  There is also this thing called kudzu root extract.  It can also be taken as a supplement.  It helps reduce cravings for alcohol. And together with al-glutamine it works very well. Give it a try.  And the fourth recommendation for harm reduction if you drink is milk thistle, right before you drink. This is a depatoprotector. That is, it protects liver cells from damage.  It even protects liver cells from some poisons.  And acetaldehyde is a poison from the enzymatic breakdown of alcohol, which I mentioned above.  If you take milk thistle before drinking, I think it will reduce the damage.  And again, I emphasize, I am not forbidding you from drinking alcohol at all.  I'm just saying that if you think it's helpful, it's not. And there are also ways to limit the harm caused by alcohol.  And I didn’t say it, but fasting is another very important thing.  And, say, if you drank over the weekend and then fast the next day, that's probably the best thing you can do to strengthen your antioxidant network and partially repair the damage done to your liver. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Today we'll discuss how to block the effects of sugar, other carbohydrates, and other things.  If a person is on the teto diet, but somehow deviates from it and eats something that they shouldn’t have, how can they neutralize the consequences of this?  This is what we will discuss.  So, let's begin.  Number one. sugar.  Your friend just ate sugar. What does he need to do to neutralize the effects of sugar?  The damage that sugar causes is like rust in blood vessels.  It destroys our power plants, the mitochondria.  Foods have a glycemic index.  The more sugar we eat, the greater the blood sugar spike and the greater the destruction.  There is a scale of this index for all carbohydrate products.  There is such a concept as glycemic load.  It takes into account not only the amount of carbohydrates in food, but also the amount of fiber.  After all, fiber smooths out and softens the surge in blood sugar.  Therefore, of all carbohydrates, only fiber, and fiber is a carbohydrate, does not affect insulin. Other carbohydrates increase it, but not fiber, which is neutral.  So, the more fiber a product contains, the less impact sugar has.  Carrots, for example, are high in fiber, so it's very difficult to cause a spike in blood sugar when eating carrots.  Unless you squeeze the juice out of the carrots and just drink the carrot juice, like I did a long time ago.  So here's what you need to understand.  If your friend eats any sugar, encourage him to eat some fiber right away.  It is best if it is fiber from greens, because it will smooth out and slow down the surge in blood sugar.  You should also know that sugar, especially refined sugar, deprives a person of potassium, B1, zinc and magnesium. Therefore, if you take electrolytes, B vitamins and microelements, this will replenish their deficiency created by the sugar you ate.  It's just a way to minimize the side effects of sugar. Next comes gold.  After all, grains eventually turn into sugar.  There are a number of things you need to know about grains.  Number one, there are refined grains.  If you eat refined grains, they deprive you of certain nutrients.  After all, there are no nutrients in refined grains .  So when you eat them, your body starts to metabolize them and it has to take some nutrients from its reserves to burn these grains.  So, the more refined grains and even sugar you eat , the more of these nutrients you need .  After all, refined foods do not contain these nutrients.  So you have to use your reserves to digest it.  So, refined grains are a problem, but there are whole grains too.  They do have some nutrients, not as many as you might think, but they also have something called fetic acid and other antinutrients. Fetic acid blocks the absorption of certain minerals, so if you eat whole grains, you may want to eat oysters or other shellfish to replenish these minerals.  After all, shellfish, especially oysters, contain a lot of zinc.  Another big problem with grains is gluten.  It is a protein in wheat and some other grains.  Gluten allergy/ intolerance can be very disruptive and inflammatory to the gut in many people, especially because of the hybridization of grains, especially wheat.  And some hybrids not only have more carbohydrates, but also more protein.  And this protein can do different things to the intestines.  It may even act like morphine and dull the pain it causes.  And you think it's perfectly edible and continue eating it. And then one day, your gut becomes inflamed, and it creates a whole new set of problems that you never even knew about.  And by the way, to reduce inflammation in the intestines, let's say you want to reduce it, you can take glutamine.  Or there are foods that contain a lot of glutamine. Which ones exactly?  Meat.  That's why when a person goes on a meat diet or a root diet and gets a lot of glutamine from meat, his intestines usually get back to normal, provided that he doesn't eat sugar, grains, starch, and all that stuff.  And this video is just about how to neutralize the effects of carbohydrates and other things.  Refined grains also deprive us of vitamin E, and there is a close link between vitamin E deficiency and angina.  After all, the heart needs vitamin E. If you don't have enough vitamin E, your muscles, including your heart muscle, have a harder time working.  Muscles may become weaker. So, if you're thinking about eating refined grains, or if a friend of yours is, consider a deficiency of B vitamins, especially B1 and other B vitamins, as well as vitamin E. These need to be replenished to counteract the effects of the grains.  You can even eat nutritional yeast.  They contain natural B vitamins. Just make sure they don't have synthetic B vitamins. I'd also like to point out that if you eat grain products like bread, pasta, and the like in Europe, they're less likely to cause bloating because the grains ferment longer, which breaks down more carbohydrates because microbes eat them, and they can also break down a lot of gluten, and the added iron and synthetic minerals can make your intestines feel very heavy .  Another factor related to cereals. They are often treated with Roundup, which is glyphosate, a herbicide, to dry out the crops.  So the grains you eat contain this chemical.  And this is bad.  So if you eat grains, eat only organic ones.  I also want to mention the similarities. Vitamin C glucose molecules are very similar in their chemical structure.  So if you eat sugar, don't expect to absorb vitamin C. Sugar interferes with this.  So when people eat vitamin C gummies and they have a lot of sugar, they don't absorb the vitamin C. Just be aware that glucose blocks vitamin C. Therefore, in addition to everything else, you or your friend who eats carbohydrates or sugar should eat more foods with vitamin C. Sauerkraut is the richest source of vitamin C.  But it is also found in bell peppers, lemons, and any leafy greens.  lots of vitamin C. I also want to say that any berries are a good source of vitamin C. And when you eat fruit, I always get asked about fruit, whether it is harmful.  Yes, they contain a lot of sugar.  The body is designed for moderate consumption of fruits, but not those that have been made sweeter.  And today they have more carbohydrates, more sugar.  And fruits are seasonal food, but we eat them all year round.   Is fruit much different from high fructose corn syrup? Yes, very much so.  Fruit contains fiber, but consuming high fructose corn syrup is like eating pure fructose and glucose.  And it creates a completely different effect, even compared to the fructose from fruit juice.  After all, fruits contain antioxidants.  If someone has diabetes and high blood sugar.  And if you have diabetes, you should be aware.  If you have all of these side effects, complications of diabetes, you can greatly reduce many of the side effects if you just get antioxidants from vegetables. Benfotiamine and alpha lipoic acid also help very well.  Many diabetics have no or painful feet due to peripheral neuropathy. By taking benfotiamine or alpha lipoic acid, they will at least get rid of this pain, because they reduce the complications of diabetes.  Diabetes affects four areas: the brain and nervous system, the vascular system, as well as the eyes and kidneys.  Of course, changing your diet will solve everything fundamentally, but to simply reduce or neutralize some of the impact, you can simply start eating foods rich in antioxidants.  And you can also train. Blood glucose levels can be high not only due to carbohydrate-rich foods, but also due to stress and lack of sleep.  It can be high due to various reasons. Let's say you're on tetote, but your body hasn't adapted yet and is still producing sugar due to severe insulin resistance. This can be largely counteracted by simply exercising every day.  After all, training burns sugar and strengthens mitochondria.  New mitochondria appear.   There is something else that can be done.  Many people with diabetes take mitformin.  You can take, for example, berberine.  This is a natural remedy.  According to research, it has similar effects but fewer side effects.  You can also take cinnamon.  Just sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar.  Toasted bread with butter.  But of course, this is sarcasm. In fact, cinnamon helps stabilize blood sugar, just like apple cider vinegar.  It helps counteract some of the effects of consuming sugar and other empty carbohydrates.  After all, it increases acidity in the stomach and reduces blood sugar levels .  You will see that if you drink apple cider vinegar with water in the morning when you wake up, even after carbohydrates, your sugar levels will be slightly better thanks to the apple cider vinegar.  I want to say one more thing about this.  Since we are talking about blood sugar levels.  If you eat a lean protein, such as whey protein powder, it can cause a spike in insulin, which controls blood glucose levels.  There is a so- called insulin index.  It describes any non-carbohydrate food that raises insulin, not just sugar and all that.  Well, whey protein raises insulin significantly, because it contains no fat at all.  And this brings us to the next point.  Fat has very little effect on insulin. Fiber and fat don't stimulate insulin much, so fat can help moderate the insulin response.  If you have a choice between egg white and a whole egg, always eat the whole egg.  If you have a choice between fatty steak and lean meat, eat the fatty steak. Fatty nuts like macadamia or, say, picanto are much better than less fatty nuts.  Kefir or whole milk cheese and low-fat or skim cheese.  There is a huge difference.  Eat fatty.  Fat moderates the insulin response to protein.  Another way to neutralize the harmful effects of sugar is fasting.   While intermittent fasting should be done regularly, intermittent fasting will significantly reduce the damage done to cells.  A combination of factors also works well .  Let's say you eat greens, they have fiber, they have little sugar. Add apple cider vinegar to the greens and add olive oil.  So we get fat, we get vinegar, we get fiber.  The oil actually helps extract the fat-soluble nutrients from the greens.  And this combination gives an excellent cumulative effect in one meal, reducing the impact of unhealthy foods.  I talked about sugar and cereals.  Let me say a few words about alcohol. Alcohol is obtained from cereals.  And alcohol deprives a person of B1.  Alcohol is eliminated from the body by the liver as a toxin, and therefore as a priority.  It damages the liver, causes inflammation, and so on.  So if you suddenly find out that someone has drunk something alcoholic, tell them to take B1 to reduce the effects of alcohol.  B1 or nutritional yeast.  Just B1 is good too.  This can save you from a hangover.  Brine is also a good remedy, a kind of electrolyte.  He will help you cope with this.  You can simply take electrolytes to reduce a hangover.  And a hangover is a sensation caused by toxins in the liver.  If you are taking anything that is harmful to the liver, milk thistle is a good antidote, a neutralizing agent. Milk thistle is a good remedy for any poisons.  Whether it's snakebite venom, poisonous flu, alcohol, paracetamol, or, and this is our next point, medications. Some medications can damage the liver.  Take milk thistle to reduce or neutralize the harmful effects.  If you take statins, take coenzyme Q10 to avoid muscle damage.  If you have diabetes and are taking mitformin, be sure to take B1 and B12.  If you take antibiotics, be sure to take probiotics.  If you take antacids, you need to take bitainohydrochloride. After all, it's anthocyanin. And usually the real cause of acid reflux is not enough acid.  And taking antacids often makes the situation worse.  And if you add acid to the stomach, it will help neutralize some of the side effects of the anthocyanin, namely the lack of stomach acid.  Number four.  Let's say you've been eating a lot of salt, which is sodium, and your body is retaining sodium, and you want to counteract its effects, let's say it's affecting your blood pressure.  Just take potassium.  It helps neutralize the harmful effects of sodium. Then the body will get rid of retained fluid, bloating will decrease, and potassium will perfectly normalize blood pressure.  So eat lots of greens or other potassium-rich foods.  Same thing with sugar.  If you eat a lot of sugar, you lose potassium, and without it, your heart rate gets higher and higher.  And again, the antidote to a high pulse is potassium.  Number five is not carbohydrates, it is what is called axalates.  And since we are talking about neutralizing different things, I decided to talk about this too.  When a person starts a keto diet, they typically eat spinach, as well as sugar-free chocolate and almonds or almond flour.  There are too many axalates in all of this.  But if you eat cheese with any of these products, it will minimize the harmful effects of axlats. And I almost forgot about magnesium.  Magnesium also reduces the harmful effects of axalates.  And since I’ve already talked about salt and sodium, I’ll talk about drinking excess water.  Let's say you drink a lot of water.  And if you drink too much water, the sodium concentration in your blood can decrease. This can cause a serious problem, hyponatremia and possible brain hemorrhage.   There are known cases where people died after drinking about 4 liters of water in a short period of time, about three hours.  So drink when you are thirsty, but don't drink too much. But there is an antidote to this.  Eat some salt if you drink too much water, and take the rest of the electrolytes. Number seven.  If a person is on a teto diet with intermittent fasting, their need for minerals and B vitamins increases. And some people, if they don't take electrolytes, B vitamins, or eat foods rich in these nutrients, may experience side effects like keto rash, keto fatigue, and so on.  Number eight. It's not food, but I think it's important to talk about it and emphasize it. Stress.  How to neutralize the effects of stress?  What does stress do?  It deprives you of zinc, B1, magnesium.  So taking B1 will help you cope with stress. If you take B1, your anxiety will go away and you will become calmer. Magnesium deficiency causes leg cramps and fatigue.  Take magnesium and you will have more energy, endurance, less leg cramps, and stress deprives us of zinc.  Low zinc levels can reduce testosterone levels, weaken immunity, and severe zinc deficiency can lead to loss of smell and taste. Another way to protect yourself from the harmful effects of stress is exercise, long walks and physical work.  Do things that will get you out of your head, and sleep as well.  After all, sleep is the antidote to stress.  Don't know what to drink on keto?  Wondering if a drink will break your fast?  Diversify your diet with the book Healthy Drinks: delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar or harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes.  There is benefit in every ingredient. Order the book Healthy Drinks using the link below.