Let's talk about bangini and alternative ways to deal with it. Here's what you need to know about the me bank. In most cases, it is caused by a virus, so antibiotics won't help here only in 20 percent of cases. It's a matter of bacteria. What confuses many people about tonsillitis, people think that it is caused by bacteria, although in most cases the cause is a virus or even the Epstein-Barr virus. I'll tell you what to do if you have a sore throat and it doesn't matter whether it is due to bacteria or viruses. It's interesting that this disease is much more common from December to April, most likely due to a lack of vitamin D, because at this time there is less sun, and a deficiency of vitamin D makes us vulnerable to both bacterial and viral infections. Here are some recommendations for the period from December to April, especially if you or your children get sick every year. Start taking vitamin D during these months. Take it regularly. The second piece of advice is especially important if it is a virus, that is, in most cases, take more vitamin C, but the vitamin C you take should not be gamma. It often happens that it is made from corn, which is gamma. There are books about vitamin C in large quantities.  In certain quantities, this will help return the virus to remission and also boost the immune system to fight bacterial infection. Many people who take antibiotics develop resistance to antibiotics and suddenly they stop working, so people are looking for other solutions. Another remedy is apple cider vinegar. How it will help is by increasing acidity. Of course, you need to dilute the vinegar with water, a tablespoon per glass of water. This solution stimulates the cells of the immune system, phagocytes, and helps them work harder to fight infection. This is the first method. The second is fasting. If a person fasts for at least 18 hours, autophagy begins. Autophagy is something like a self-cleansing of the body. It helps remove damaged proteins and also helps remove viruses, bacteria, fungi, and mold from the body. This is a very, very powerful thing. Last but not least, the most powerful remedy I recommend is acupressure. It will help reduce the intensity of a sore throat. You can either purchase a special device for this procedure or ask someone to help you. Here's what you need to do: determine the place where it hurts on the neck and draw a circle towards the back of the neck and then press on the opposite side of the neck on the other side from the place where it hurts. There are two ways to do it the hardest: ask someone to press on the back of your neck with their thumb and middle finger, and apply pressure evenly on the other side for about two minutes. You can see on the screen how to do it while the person is pressing, you can understand which point you need to press on, that's where the most intense pain will be. In other words, if someone presses on the back of your neck, but it's too painful for me, then it's not the right one. Therefore, you need to choose another one, find the epicenter of the pain, so to speak. It will be a mirror image of the place where your throat hurts, and you need to press on this point for two or three minutes. Another way to achieve the goal is to buy a massager like the one in my hands. Using it, you can lean back in a chair with a high back or on a sofa and let the massager press on your neck as if someone else were doing it. I created this massager just so I could apply these techniques to myself and not depend on whether someone can help me. To summarize, in most cases, this is a viral disease, sometimes bacterial. Vitamin C stimulates the immune system, but make sure it is not gamma vitamin D is an excellent preventative. It also gives a boost to the immune system. Apple cider vinegar can speed up the phagocytes of the immune system. This will help you cope with the disease faster. Start intermittent fasting. Perhaps this is the reason why people lose their appetite. Under the video, I gave a link on how to do everything correctly and the acupressure technique. I have videos on this topic. From them, you can learn how to use it correctly. It can relieve pain. Try my advice. Share the results in the comments if you don't want to.  To skip new videos, click the bell next to the " You're subscribed" button.