Let's talk about sleep apnea. 98 percent of people with sleep apnea have low vitamin D levels. This study has a link below. Obstructive sleep apnea, also known as OSA, is very closely associated with low vitamin D levels. So, let's discuss this. Vitamin D significantly reduces inflammation. I'm talking about the tissues in the back of the throat and the back of the sinuses. These tissues are often inflamed, and this can interfere with normal breathing at night. Vitamin D also normalizes the active immune system. Often, in this situation, certain parts of the body become inflamed: the sinuses, the back of the throat, and even the lungs, and this can make breathing difficult. In addition, vitamin D directly affects sleep cycles. It helps you fall into deep, restorative sleep. It promotes the delta phase of sleep, that is, deep sleep. Without sleep, you don't fully recover. There are different types of vitamin D. In this video, I'm talking about vitamin D3, vitamin B2, and vitamin B2. There is evidence that vitamin D  D2 can cause insomnia, so always take vitamin D3. Vitamin D deficiency is associated with both sleep apnea and overall sleep quality. Without vitamin D, there is a higher risk of lower back pain, which prevents you from sleeping at night. Try sleeping with this pain. It's very difficult. Snoring is also associated with vitamin D deficiency. Snoring itself can wake you up, and if one spouse snores due to a lack of vitamin D, the other has difficulty sleeping. I already mentioned the deterioration of the delta sleep phase. Delta sonata is a phase of deep restorative sleep, and without vitamin D, it is very difficult to enter delta sleep. Without vitamin D, stress levels are higher and your mood is usually worse. You won't be able to sleep under severe stress. Without vitamin D, cortisol levels will be disrupted, and an imbalance of cortisol can also affect sleep. Cortisol is a stress hormone; its excess keeps you in fight-or- flight mode. If you don't have enough vitamin D, you may grind your teeth, which can also affect sleep. A possible cause  This internal stress that prevents you from completely relaxing, I recommend always taking vitamin D with magnesium because magnesium not only promotes the absorption of vitamin D but can also relieve nighttime leg cramps that can deprive you of sleep. Lastly, there is a close connection between vitamin D and insulin resistance. Firstly, with insulin resistance, the absorption of vitamin D is impaired, and with low levels of vitamin D, the risk of developing insulin resistance increases because vitamin D is necessary for the beta cells of the pancreas, these are the cells that produce insulin, and vitamin D helps keep free radicals and oxidation at a very low level in these beta cells. In short, if you have problems with sleep or sleep apnea, take more vitamin D. I recommend taking at least 10,000 IU of vitamin D right before bed and always with magnesium. I invite you to my vitamin D course, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of it with vitamin D.  To improve your health and maintain youth from these diseases and symptoms, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 Te To Summit as a gift. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course.