Today we'll talk about the good, the bad, and the ugly peanuts and peanut butter. Which fact should I tell first? The good, the bad, or the ugly? Let's start with the ugly. First, you need to know that peanuts aren't actually nuts. They don't grow on trees. They're plants from the legume family that grow in the soil. Let's start with the shell. The peanut shell is soft and easily absorbs substances from the soil, for example, chemicals. Keep in mind that peanut fields are simply flooded with chemicals. Pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides are used. Chemicals get into the soil. The nuts absorb the peanuts. In general, the peanuts are nigma, they're not genetically modified. But here's the problem: peanuts are alternated with cotton in the fields, and cotton is already GMO. So what do you think? Glyphosate, the main component of Roundup, which is used to get rid of weeds, remains in the soil. Since it's in the soil, it also gets into the peanuts. If you look at when they started using glyphosate, a herbicide, the main component of Roundup, you'll see a coincidence with a surge in peanut allergies. I wonder if there's a connection between the fact that people are developing  Allergies and chemicals in their food, what do you think? Leave a comment. I want to know what you think. When glyphosate was introduced, allergy cases increased by 400 percent. There's also a link under the video. Batches of peanut butter were tested and traces of glyphosate were found. This is a terrible fact. Let's move on to the bad news. There is a substance called aflatoxin. This toxin is produced by a fungus that grows on peanuts, corn, soybeans, and other grains. Peanuts contain much higher levels of this toxin, aflatoxin, and it causes liver cancer. Many brands of peanut butter are overflowing with added sugar, hydrogenated oil, and chemicals. Be sure to read the label. Check that the ingredients only contain peanuts and maybe sea salt. This is bad news. Let's move on to the good news. There is a type of peanut called Valencia. It contains the least amount of aflatoxin, which is good. Organic peanut butter also contains fewer chemicals such as pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides. If you make peanut butter from organic Valencia peanuts,  You will get less chemicals, especially glyphosate, and also less toxins from the fungus. This is good news. Here's some more good news: you can roast peanuts or soak them, that is, leave them overnight in water to remove antinutrients and other substances that can irritate the digestive system. This will ultimately increase the availability of nutrients. You can say that their content will increase because they will no longer be bound by antinutrient compounds. Here's some more good news: there is a substance called chlorophyll. It makes plants green. Its structure is similar to our blood, but instead of iron, there is magnesium. Chlorophyll is able to neutralize the toxin produced by the fungus, and that same aflatoxin. So, if you eat salad or some other greens, or drink grass-fed juice concentrate, or eat peanut butter and jam sandwiches. Just kidding, you shouldn't do that. But if you eat peanuts or peanut butter with something that contains chlorophyll, you neutralize some of it. This is good. The last good news is that peanuts are comparable to other nuts in terms of It contains vitamin E and B vitamins, it has phytonutrients, and it even has protein. Yes, guys, I'm sorry that nutrition can sometimes be a difficult task, but I want you to understand what you have to deal with, what chemicals get into your food, and also so that you understand where fungi and toxins can come from. Thanks for watching.