In this video, I want to talk about ascites. Ascites is a condition that is characterized by a protruding belly. It is usually not fat, but mainly fluid. The word comes from Latin and meant bear-shaped because the belly looks like a hanging bag, but usually the belly sticks out like a basketball. It usually doesn't sag much, but kind of sticks out, and if you slap one side of the belly, the other will begin to sway. This is because the belly is filled with fluid. Fluid flows out of the liver and it fills a sac around the abdominal organs. The most common cause of ascites is cirrhosis. With cirrhosis, there is so much scar tissue in the liver that the liver cannot cope with its function. That is, the liver cannot work and fluid flows from it into the abdominal cavity. There are other causes of cirrhosis, such as cancer, pancreatitis, heart disease, or tuberculosis. But most people suffer from cirrhosis. So, in an old video, I talked about a guy on the beach in swimming trunks with a protruding belly. In fact, he is thin, but his belly sticks out, which gives you an idea. What I mean is that there are other accompanying symptoms of ascites, such as portal hypertension, which is high blood pressure in the portal veins, swelling of the ankles, if you press on the skin on the ankle, an indentation remains, this is called pastosity, there may be spider veins on the abdomen, there may be multiple bruises on the shins, there may be gynecomastia, breast enlargement in men, this is abnormal, there may even be vomiting of blood, this is one of the symptoms, another common symptom is associated with the brain, excess ammonia accumulates and this can cause severe confusion and cognitive dysfunction, there are several remedies to combat this, number one is lactulose, sauerkraut helps reduce ammonia levels in the body, it would be good to eat more vegetables, do not consume excessive amounts of bell peppers, you need less protein, and taking EL glutamine can also help, here's what's interesting, when I was practicing, doctors came to me as patients, I asked them what the typical methods of treating ascites in medicine are, they answered drainage, then  Yes, they drain the fluid, prescribe the patient a low-target diet, prescribe a diuretic and often put the patient on a waiting list for a liver transplant because there are no other methods besides these typical treatments. I always asked why not strengthen the liver with natural remedies, but they don’t teach natural remedies at foreign universities. If I had ascites, I would do this: I would immediately start intermittent fasting because fasting helps lower liver enzymes, helps improve liver function, helps reduce the growth of fibrous and scar tissue, thereby reducing the severity of cirrhosis. I would also start taking their milk thistle, it is a good hepatoprotector, which means that it protects liver cells, it can also reduce inflammation. I would also start taking vitamin E, which is the most powerful antioxidant. It reduces oxidation, the damage caused to various tissues by free radicals, as well as the growth of fibrous tissue, and so it reduces inflammation and slows the growth of fibrous and scar tissue in the liver. The type of vitamin E you take is very important. I recommend taking tocotrienols.  Tocopherols and tocotrienols are 50 times more powerful. I would also take Silen, and it is one of the best antioxidants for the liver. I would definitely cut back on carbohydrates, because high levels of carbohydrates increase oxidation and scar tissue growth. Thank you for watching, and until next time, I invite you to my course. If you have a liver-type body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you, a special diet and exercises for effective workouts. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.