In this video, I want to discuss not a fat belly, what it is, this situation when a person's belly protrudes, but not because of fat. There is not much fat in it, mostly it is fluid. This condition is called ascites. I wrote about it in my book in the context of the liver body type. This liver problem is that the liver is so damaged that fluid literally oozes out of it, and this protein fluid accumulates in the abdominal cavity. Normal healthy liver cells are replaced by fibrous scar tissue. That is, liver cells stop working, so you accumulate fluid. With growth, it happens overnight. It develops over the years, often asymptomatically, no manifestations until it develops. You just consume alcohol or unhealthy food for years, something like that. But usually it all starts with inflammation, and such a person usually also has a fatty liver. The inflammation that occurs is part of the immune response. The body simply heals itself with scar tissue. How is this treated? Medicine reduces sodium. To reduce the amount of fluid, a person is given diuretics and the fluid itself is also pumped out. How do I know? I had a patient  A professional doctor told me that they do this, they pump out the fluid, and after two or three weeks the person comes for the same procedure. I asked why they don't correct the diet, he answered that they simply don't teach us this. I want to tell you what I would recommend in such a situation. Firstly, I would advise getting to the real cause of what caused the inflammation and fatty liver: simple carbohydrates, sugar, all that, that is, you should reduce your carbohydrate intake, you need to give up all alcohol, even wine, even on weekends, completely quit, otherwise alcohol will continue to irritate the liver, it contains solvents, this will be a problem. Thirdly, a moderate amount of protein. If you eat too much protein in excessive quantities, say 200, 250, 300, 350 grams per meal, this will be too much. You can also produce too much ammonia waste, and this can affect the brain because the liver processes proteins and you shouldn't overstrain it. I think the optimal amount would be 85 to 70 grams of protein per meal. You shouldn't overdo it with fat either, let the fats be moderate. Why because  When liver cells are damaged, bile stops being produced. Bile is produced in the liver, in the gallbladder. It is stored in the gallbladder. It is produced in the liver. People with cirrhosis do not have enough bile to metabolize large volumes of fat. This can be a problem. Fourth, cruciferous vegetables are important for a number of reasons. Firstly, they contain many more phytonutrients, which is very useful for protecting against damage caused by oxidative stress in the liver. This is also useful for detoxifying the first and second phases. They also provide a lot of potassium and other nutrients, which helps with fluid balance. Instead of reducing sodium, I believe a more appropriate strategy is to increase potassium simply because we need a lot of potassium anyway. Cruciferous vegetables are also important. Fiber in general will feed bacteria, which will then help you process bile. 90 percent of bile, which helps formulate fats and protect the liver from obesity, is produced from bacteria, and they need to be fed. Fifth, intermittent fasting is extremely important. Why is it because it reduces inflammation, which actually caused cirrhosis, very useful for healing the entire digestive tract. Next comes number six.  You need to be realistic if you have growth and you need to understand that this is a very serious liver disease, it can go so far that you will need a liver transplant, but that's why I started talking about this. A guy came to me with a patient who had cirrhosis and a lot of liver problems, and he had the idea in his head that he would be cured in three or four weeks. I told him the liver is one of the largest organs in the body, sometimes it takes years. I found that it was very difficult for him to adhere to the correct course of action for a long time, he simply could not. I don't know what happened to him, but the thing is that if your liver is damaged, everything can be so advanced that you already need a transplant, so you need to calculate the efforts that will be needed to overcome this problem, and this is a serious problem, but okay, see you. If you liked this video, share it with someone who might find it useful.