I want to talk about the Seven Amazing Causes of Autoimmune Diseases I'm talking about these diseases because it has literally reached epidemic proportions autoimmune diseases are developing in so many people all over the planet I'll tell you what I think is happening in terms of the number of patients autoimmune diseases are in third place after cancer and heart attacks but there are reports that there are more such patients than with cancer and heart attacks combined in fact the best-selling drug on the planet is an anti-inflammatory drug for autoimmune diseases So what the hell is going on What makes our own immune system turn against us and attack our own tissues it's so strange but I don't think it's a good question I think there is a better question because the search for the cause of autoimmune diseases gives some answers unknown maybe it's in the genes maybe in the environment we don't know More research is needed but a better question is what causes immunodeficiency or immunodepression in the body when the immune system is suppressed so much that it no longer works as a result of which this barrier this wall this immune defense system somehow weakens so much that it can happen  Something bad So the body can mistakenly mark as a target something that shouldn't be marked Open fire on your own is like this Let's say you need to go to court there is a jury and maybe there was some confusion and you were mistakenly found guilty you were marked as an enemy And now you suffer because of all the consequences of this And the same thing with an autoimmune disease the body draws a target on its own tissues and now the immune system attacks them and the inflammation caused by the immune system itself leads to collateral damage Here is another interesting question that is related to this why our microbes that are in a dormant state such as the Epstein-Barr virus fall into hibernation becomes latent But one day it awakens and eventually attacks us The question is why this happens What is the difference between before and now There is even a condition when, when the immune system is suppressed, friendly bacteria turn into unfriendly or neutral microorganisms that do not harm us and do not help, but it turns out that this is on us  An opportunistic infection is an infection that takes advantage of the situation. The problem with these conditions in terms of treatment is that they are simply contained with drugs like prednisone, and the side effects persist. Doctors don't know what to do with this condition. You may know that autoimmune diseases are caused by some chemicals around us, maybe toxins, leaky gut, when there are problems with the digestive system or thyroid gland, due to poor nutrition, holes can occur in the intestines, and then proteins leak through its walls, and the immune system mistakenly attacks them as foreign, and an immune reaction occurs. Autoimmune diseases can be caused by medications. It is known, for example, that corticosteroids are capable of this, and of course, chemotherapy. But let's talk about the root causes that you may not know about, and this is very interesting. Number one is an overly clean environment. When a child comes into this world, he receives some immunity from the mother, this is the innate immune system, then an acquired one arises, acquired through exposure to the environment and interaction with microbes. This is how immunity is formed. That's why it is important that a person is not in a sterile environment all the time, because then his  The immune system does not learn, so it is normal for children to get sick. If you quickly bring down the temperature of a sick child and suppress the disease with medication, he will not develop a good immune system. There is a hygiene hypothesis. It turned out that children living in an environment where there are practically no microbes have an increased risk of autoimmune diseases in the future, especially compared to children who grow up in villages alongside animals, that is, not in a sterile environment. Curiously, number two, I will not even say this, I will just show you the book, the textbook costs $ 120 on Amazon and you can very clearly see this relationship, which I ca n’t even talk about, there is a very close connection between this and autoimmune diseases. You can find this data yourself. But in this book that I have, I am reading it, there is absolutely reliable information about things that the news probably won’t talk about. Number three, baby formula. Yes, if a child is fed not breastfeeding but with baby formula, his tendency to autoimmune diseases or the risk of developing such a disease increases. Link to the source below. This is another curious and surprising reason that people do not realize.  Number four, the problem with the RVD. What is the RVD? Vitamin D receptor. There is a good study linking to it below about alleviating autoimmune diseases by correcting vitamin D receptors. That is, vitamin D is not a vitamin, but a very powerful steroid in the body that is closely linked to the immune system. It has been found that vitamin D affects more than 19,000 genes. Every part of the immune system needs vitamin D. In fact, vitamin D regulates the functioning of the immune system. If we lack it, we are very vulnerable to autoimmune diseases. I would even say that every person with an autoimmune disease lacks vitamin D. There may be a genetic problem with the vitamin D receptor. Polymorphism also increases the risk of developing autoimmune diseases, and these damn microbes. Both bacteria and viruses use a specific strategy to block the vitamin D receptor. They seem to understand that turning off this receptor turns off the entire immune system. The next slide will contain tips on improving the functioning of vitamin D receptors, but it's not even just about taking vitamin D. What's interesting is number five, this is an important point about loss. A serious stressful event.  I always asked patients with autoimmune diseases, "When did you get sick? What was right before it?" And believe me, absolutely every patient told me that it began after a great loss in his life, the death of a loved one, divorce, job loss. Anything related to stress can trigger an autoimmune disease. Because when cortisol increases, and it suppresses the immune system, it reduces the number of white blood cells, we become vulnerable, predisposed to various things, and the immune system incorrectly recognizes threats. That's why one of the main remedies for autoimmune diseases is a synthetic version of cortisol, prednisone, but it has many side effects. Number six, antibiotics. It's interesting that this point is related to point 7, loss of intestinal microflora. When the intestines don't have all the microbes that should be there, because you killed them or for some other reason, you are more susceptible to disease. Why is 80 percent of the immune system microflora? It seems that these microbes have a very interesting agreement with our cells. We help them, they help us, and within the framework of this agreement, they protect us from foreign pathogens, and for this, thank them. Let's move on to the next slide.  What we need to do with this is increase your vitamin D levels. Take at least 20,000 IU. Take vitamin K2 with it. I have a lot of videos about this. The links are below, but I'm talking about vitamin D3, not vitamin D2. You need to take vitamin D3. It helps restore regulation of the immune system, which is very important, but it does n't necessarily correct the receptors. There are other remedies that help the receptors for vitamin D, and one of them is bile salts, which have virtually no side effects. I recommend bile salt. Take it. Vitamin D is about the amount of salts. I would advise taking one or two capsules on an empty stomach and one or two capsules during the day on an empty stomach for at least three weeks. Then you can take one capsule in the morning and one in the afternoon for prevention until you get into good shape. Probiotics are a key factor. The point is that if you have an autoimmune disease, especially if it's related to the intestines, and if you have small bowel syndrome, then perhaps probiotics are not right for you. bloating can increase because of probiotics. You add microbes, they can get into the small intestine. A  they don't belong there or there may be an imbalance that can cause an immune reaction. So it's better to add probiotics very slowly, take perhaps a quarter of a teaspoon if it's liquid right before bed, or perhaps a quarter of a capsule, very little. After all, they can cause an immune reaction. This is related to number 4. Eat less fiber if your intestines are not in order. I'll remove this bracket if your intestines are not in order. So, if your intestines are not in order, then there is an imbalance of microflora. If you add fiber and probiotics to your intestines, then with bacterial overgrowth syndrome, your stomach may become very bloated. So, if there are no problems with your intestines, definitely take it and feel free. Eat fiber. I'm talking about fiber from greens and things like that. I never recommend fiber from cereals, beans, and other legumes. That's why if someone has an autoimmune problem associated with the intestines, they will be better off on a root vegetable diet than on foods rich in fiber. Number five is the keto diet. That is, you eat few carbohydrates and you eat quality foods. Don't overload your body with sugars and other carbohydrates.  You need a keto diet because ketones generally counteract inflammation, and we need to reduce inflammation. Number six is ​​a very important factor. Fasting is how you will fix your immune system. There is a lot of data that fasting helps with autoimmune diseases, especially regular intermittent fasting and periods of long fasting for 2-3 days. If I were you, I would fast for two days at least once every two weeks and fast regularly. If you can, eat once a day. This is the best thing you can do, but no more than twice a day. Fasting strengthens the immune system. Fasting reduces inflammation in the body. And of course, number seven, do everything you can to reduce stress. Clear your life of stress. If there are people around you who cause you stress, isolate yourself from them immediately. You need to be in a healthy environment. And the next most important video you need to watch is about fasting. Here is a link to it. Watch it.