This video is very important for everyone who has autoimmune disorders. And in general, any inflammatory processes. Of course, with an autoimmune disease, you need to consult with experts. That's right, and here's what the experts will tell you to do: eat lots of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes. Only moderate amounts of alcohol. Limit sugar and sweet soda and limit refined grains. Of course, their diet contains some sugars, juice, alcohol, refined sugar, grains, just don't overdo it and everything will be fine. I'll tell you right away that you will never get better if you follow this recommendation. Let's look at what actually underlies an autoimmune disease. Most autoimmune diseases in which cells attack themselves, causing a lot of damage due to inflammation, begin in the intestines. I'll tell you about the mechanism of their occurrence. There is an immune barrier in the intestines. There are other barriers, such as the skin, the inner skin, and other immune factors, such as acid in the stomach, bile from the gallbladder, lactic acid secreted by our microflora. All this prevents the invasion of pathogens into the body. And the so-called blood-brain barrier protects against Invasion of pathogens into the brain, I must say that the immune system is structured in a highly complex and mysterious way. No one really understands how complex this magical defense mechanism is and how amazing it is. When you understand this, you are unlikely to use products that bypass the immune system, such as antibiotics or anything that stops infection. The body must learn to strengthen the immune system upon contact with infection. First of all, I want to tell you about something very important in connection with the immune system. Since we are talking about autoimmune diseases, our immune system develops in infancy. I hope you were born without a cesarean section. Because it can interfere with the development of the immune system. This is due to the microflora that develops during natural childbirth. I hope you were breastfed, because breast milk contains probiotics. They greatly strengthen the immune system at an early stage. Developing in the womb, the fetus is not in a sterile environment. Previously, it was thought that this environment was sterile, but recently microorganisms were discovered in the amniotic fluid. And some babies for the first time  empty the intestines directly in the womb and microbes were found there where they came from from the mother the development of the immune system begins at birth if there are no certain factors if the environment is too sterile if the baby is exposed to antibiotics or anything that harms the microflora the immune system will suffer greatly and recently This topic became interesting to me in connection with my work on the farm and growing certain plants, I will conduct interesting experiments on this topic on my farm grain that sprouts in the soil This is not just a small package of genetic information, it is literally Noah's Ark inside this grain and on its surface grow all kinds of microorganisms that help enrich the grain with nutrients during the growth process and it turned out that if this microflora is destroyed at an early stage, the plant essentially will not grow it will lose the microflora that helps absorb nutrients the same thing happens with our immune system at an early stage we are talking about the intestinal barrier there is one protective factor this is the so-called impermeable partitions cells are connected to each other very, very tightly reliably this is a very strong barrier between the internal environment  body and the external environment, or more precisely, the environment inside the intestine, these partitions do not allow pathogens to invade through the intestines. In medicine, this is called intestinal permeability, but with leaky gut syndrome, there are holes in the intestines through which something can penetrate without receiving entry approval from the immune system. Then something can be mistakenly labeled as a target for the immune system and a war begins, inflammation begins, and autoimmune diseases can develop. There is one protein, zanulin, that controls these partitions. If this zanulin does not work correctly in the partitions, then the immune system cannot distinguish between self and non-self. That is, the immune system can mistakenly begin to incorrectly label its own tissue as a foreign pathogen and begin to create antibodies against the thyroid gland, against the brain, against anything. The level of this protein, zanulin, is always elevated in autoimmune diseases and in many inflammatory processes. It is the main regulator of intestinal permeability. As for the foods that are best consumed for autoimmune diseases, these are foods that reduce intestinal permeability and allow you to keep zanulin under control, preventing it from becoming too high.  level So I found many different products and other means that not only increase or decrease the level of zanulin affect intestinal permeability and also directly cause autoimmune diseases and the first factor that helps regulate the level of zanulin is your own microflora, therefore, everything that destroys microflora is very, very harmful to you, and everything that strengthens it is very helpful. And so we returned to these microorganisms, they are not us, but they live with us and greatly help us, a very large part of our immune system exists thanks to these microbes, I think that compared to what it was 50 years ago, we definitely do not have the same amount and diversity of microflora in the intestines and we definitely do not have the same amount and diversity of microflora in the soil. I think that the root of the problem is precisely this. So the first group of products that I recommend are products rich in probiotics, sauerkraut, kefir. Anything that supplies us with these friendly microbes, add probiotics, they are also good, because we need to increase the diversity of microflora. I think we need to talk about what should be avoided. Well, guess antibiotics, antibiotics directly worsen the syndrome. leaky gut, they increase the level of zanulin, they are directly related to autoimmune diseases and can cause them. So, don't rush to take an antibiotic at the first sign of illness. And if you need to take it, be sure to take a probiotic at the same time. This is very important. I've taken an insane amount of antibiotics in my life, I just didn't know about the consequences. You know that when you take an antibiotic, some microbes will survive and they will develop resistance to this antibiotic, and this microbe, now resistant to this antibiotic, is capable of carrying out so-called horizontal gene transfer. That is, it shares this information with other microbes that have not been exposed to this antibiotic. It transfers genes to them that will help them resist this antibiotic in the future. In this way, microbes can exchange information. This is part of the survival mechanism that they have developed, and with each dose, the antibiotic works worse and worse, and eventually stops working. Another type of food that is potentially useful for autoimmune disease is any fermented foods, but not fermented beer or other alcoholic drinks, but fermented vegetables. After all, they are easily digested. They contain microorganisms and fiber, which they feed on. Fermented vegetables contain many other substances.  substances that help maintain a high density of the intestinal lining. But if your autoimmune disease is associated with intestinal inflammation and it is very inflamed, you may have a problem with any vegetables and you may need to sit on a root diet. But if there is no such problem, fermented vegetables can help, and raw vegetables can also help. Personally, I digest raw vegetables very well. Apparently, my intestines are not very damaged and someone does not have such a problem. If an autoimmune disease affects the intestines, vegetables can make you feel bad, but if there is no such problem, vegetables can help create good intestinal microflora, because microorganisms feed on fiber. In addition, phytonutrients from vegetables are very helpful in normalizing the level of zanulin. One of the most important, excellently studied phytonutrients is sulforaphane, it is found not only in broccoli sprouts, but also in broccoli, cabbage, and other cruciferous vegetables. It directly helps change intestinal dysbiosis, that is, changes in the microflora. Sulforaphane is an excellent remedy for Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that lives in the human stomach, it can get out of control and become hostile when  under certain conditions, it can cause an ulcer. So, sulforaphane can help suppress Helicobacter pylori and send it back into remission. Sulforaphane strengthens the intestinal mucosa, and sulforaphane directly prevents the development of autoimmune diseases, especially lupus, even psoriasis and other autoimmune diseases. Broccoli sprouts contain the most sulforaphane. You can put them in your salad every day or take a dietary supplement with sulforaphane. Now let's talk about what to avoid. Avoid everything that contains the herbicide glyphosate. This plant is also useful for Roundup and other GMO products. It's interesting that there are both good and bad articles about glyphosate. Of course, articles about the safety of glyphosate are paid for by companies with vested interests, but think about this: there is a patent stating that glyphosate is an antibiotic, but it kills microorganisms. There is a statement on the Internet that glyphosate is not dangerous to people because the biochemical reactions it interrupts do not occur.  in the human body, what do they do in the microorganisms that live inside our intestines and on which we depend? So it definitely affects us through our microflora. Glyphosate is found in a huge variety of products, even in those that are not GMO, including wheat and other grains. Not to mention soy, corn, it’s just everywhere. Here’s another very important factor in terms of autoimmune diseases: gluten, which is found in certain grains. Gluten is a general name for several types of protein that are highly destructive to our stomach and intestines. Perhaps the only thing that comes to mind is celiac disease, a very severe disorder, but not as common as others. But there is also gluten intolerance, sensitivity to gluten, and quite often. And what about those people who do n’t have problems with gluten? But regardless of whether you tolerate gluten or not, gluten increases the level of zanulin in every person. Gluten opens dense partitions, and those who are not sensitive to it have a big problem with gluten, which is that it is the only protein that the human body cannot completely digest, and this Undigested protein moves through the gastrointestinal tract, creating holes in the intestines and passing through them causes immune reactions or at least inflammation, especially if you eat gluten chronically, as most people do. Unfortunately, over the past 20 years or more, the gluten content has increased greatly in wheat and other foods. Imagine the level of inflammation in the intestines. And we don't even know about this. Let's talk about product number four that needs to be consumed, and it's just a whole category of products: foods rich in glutamine. Have you heard about it or not, but glutamine is good at reducing intestinal inflammation. Glutamine is an amino acid that is a precursor to glutathione. And this is one of the most important antioxidants in our body. What foods are rich in glutamine? Cabbage, by the way, cabbage is useful for any gastrointestinal problems. Grass-fed beef, eggs, fish. All these foods are very rich in glutamine. Well, in addition, you need to avoid. Of course, glucose, fructose, and Glucose and fructose increase the level of zanulin and Alcohol also creates intestinal permeability. Holes in the intestines and, of course, vegetable oils are another very harmful factor. For example, corn, soy, cottonseed, and canola oils. These oils cause severe inflammation and definitely increase permeability. Of course, trans fats are also very harmful to the intestinal mucosa. And product number five is omega-3 fats. This is another category that includes cod liver oil, fish like salmon, and sardines. Omega-3 fats are very beneficial for the intestines and for maintaining high lining density and also reduce the risk of autoimmune diseases. The last thing that is very important is not the product, but the nutrients. And these nutrients, which I will now talk about, are undoubtedly the most important nutrients for the prevention of autoimmune diseases. For the density of the intestinal lining, this is zinc, vitamin D, and also vitamin A. It is found in egg yolks, beef liver, butter, and so on. Now you have basic information about what you need to eat for an autoimmune disease. And here is another important video about this smart disease that you need to watch. This is a very important video.  take a look