Today we'll talk about how to improve out of a due with coffee and herbal remedies. What is autophagy? The word means eating itself, and it's essentially a state in which the body begins to recycle damaged proteins and pathogens. Cells have real cellular mechanisms. Mitochondria are energy stations. DNA is the blueprint. Damaged proteins can cause even more harm to the body, so the body has developed a system for processing them, breaking them down with enzymes and creating new proteins. Amazingly, it also helps get rid of pathogens because they are not needed, and that's great. That's what autophagy is. It's a repair mechanism. It reduces inflammation, prolongs life, fights cancer, slows aging, and otherwise, it's useless. That was sarcasm. In fact, it's cool. Most people think that out of a due is provoked only by fasting. I believe that autophagy begins after about 16-18 hours of fasting, but this is not a fact. This is just my opinion. There are no studies that will determine how long it takes for autophagy to begin. This is just my guess. Exercise also enhances autophagy, and imagine coffee too.  to some extent, but of course, I recommend drinking coffee one cup at a time, they are liters because all this caffeine negatively affects sleep, and if you don't sleep, autophagy will not occur, so drink coffee little by little. If you need to sweeten it, use retreat or xylitol, you can add a drop of cream. If you choose between low-fat and full -fat cream, add full-fat cream, it has fewer carbohydrates. If you add a little cream, it will not have any significant effect on out of a due. Sulforaphane is a phytonutrient, a plant compound found in cruciferous vegetables, especially broccoli or broccoli sprouts. It can be taken as a supplement, thereby enhancing out of a due. Why not just eat broccoli sprouts or a little broccoli itself? What's interesting about autophagy is that it can be stimulated not only by fasting, but also by a very low- calorie diet, which also helps autophagy. If you look at all types of food, the least calories and the most nutrients will be in vegetables, mainly cruciferous vegetables. After all, they contain so many different phytonutrients, vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and even omega-3 fatty acids, alpha-linolenic acid. In general, a little broccoli sprouts can enhance out of a due. Next, there is a phytonutrient found in green tea and Jessie J. It not only stimulates out of a due, but it is also anti-inflammatory. It contains very powerful antioxidants and is also anti-cancer. Next comes curcumin, a spice from turmeric, it can enhance autophagy. There is also a phytonutrient called resveratrol. It is found in many places, for example, in the skin of grapes, and also in a plant called prey, Japanese nutria. It prolongs life well, stimulates out of a due. It has an anti-inflammatory effect, it contains antioxidants, and since it is found in grapes, it is obviously worth drinking a bottle of wine before bed. And again, this was sarcasm because alcohol affects the liver and negates all the benefits. But as a plan B, you can take grapes, squeeze out the pulp where all the sugar is, and eat the skin of the grapes. That's quite possible, or just  Take it in capsules. In general, this video is about how not only fasting can stimulate out of a due, but also something else. Thanks for watching. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.