There are thousands of training programs that you can follow and each of them is called the best Today I want to show you the basic principles of training so that you understand the essence of training and what lies at the heart of it. They were squeezed into some kind of scheme and did not do exercises that are of no use in training. I would strive to get the maximum benefit in the minimum time, but to achieve this, you need to master two simple concepts well. So, all exercises are actually divided into two types: anaerobic. What does it mean without oxygen and aerobic. What does it mean with oxygen? Do not confuse the word aerobic with the word aerobic. Aerobics is aerobic exercise, namely dancing or something like that for about 45 minutes, and the word aerobic means with oxygen. It is clear at the cellular level, depending on the type of exercise, we use either the anaerobic system or the aerobic. There are many variations between them. But if you simply understand these two terms and understand how anaerobic exercises differ from aerobic ones, then everything makes sense to you and you can regulate these factors to get maximum results and no longer waste time. So, look at  This is anaerobic. If you train without oxygen, how long will such a workout last? How long can you hold your breath? Not very long, that is, the duration of anaerobic exercise is very short, and exercises with air are very long. Let's consider the intensity. The intensity of anaerobic exercise is high, the intensity of aerobic exercise is low. The recovery time after anaerobic exercise is much longer due to high intensity. After all, muscles are damaged much more by low- intensity exercises. There is little damage. And the recovery time is very, very short. And of course, the frequency of anaerobic training should be much less than aerobic exercise. But let's start with the goal. The goal of anaerobic exercise is to increase muscle stimulation, enhance muscle growth, increase muscle strength, and also increase the speed you can develop. And the goal of the aerobic system is to increase endurance, increase the ability to move longer without fatigue. What type of exercise should you do? You need to combine both types. After all, muscle condition needs to be at least maintained, but endurance is also very important. After all, when climbing a mountain, you don't want to immediately get out of breath. Endurance is needed for many reasons: heart and vascular health, longevity, and so on. Sometimes we hear that high-intensity interval training is  7 minutes brings the same benefit as one hour of walking on a treadmill. The question is, what benefit are we talking about, because the benefit in these two cases will be different. Aerobic exercise reduces cortisol, anaerobic exercise increases cortisol, at least temporarily. The aerobic system uses oxygen and therefore oxidizes more fat during exercise. The anaerobic system burns mainly glucose in the muscles, but the activation of hormones during anaerobic exercise causes fat burning after a day or two. When you sleep. So, it is wrong to say that one type of exercise is better or worse than another. You need to understand the differences between these two types of exercise in order to use this knowledge and adapt your workouts to your goal. Let's first discuss anaerobic exercise. There is excellent information from Mike Mensor, who was the first to win the Mr. Universe competition with the maximum result. He wrote many books, but in fact, he writes about intense training. I will outline a couple of principles that I think are correct. You can use these principles in many ways. Mike wanted maximum benefit in a minimum amount of time, and he writes about this intensity parameter. This is a very important factor, especially if you need to build muscle. or just maintain them the more intense you train Let me clarify this I'm talking about applying maximum effort To achieve complete muscle fatigue When you can't do another rep That's what I call high intensity you stimulate the muscles enough When you do at least six reps from 6 to 8 but you can't do more than 6-8 reps no matter how hard you try You've reached your limit the body doesn't allow you to continue this creates enough stimulus and damages the muscles enough for them to be repaired in the recovery phase Which will make you stronger but here's what's interesting about such a high intensity Such a strong stimulation requires a very long recovery I'm talking about a period of 7 to 14 days let's say after training you recovered in one or two days this only means that the intensity of the training did not reach 100 percent and muscle fatigue was not complete Of course there are other factors the average person does not need such an intensity right away those who are older like me and I'm 57 I also don't need such an intensity right away especially if you have arthritis of the joints or some kind of problem with the discs this intensity requires some health but  The important thing here is the idea that intensity can be changed. You need sufficient intensity that you can tolerate so that then hormones and various chemicals and enzymes get to work and repair the body, making it stronger. But the main thing is to allow the body to fully recover. How do you know when you have already recovered? You determine this yourself, it's subjective. It depends on how you feel, whether the pain has gone away. Is your body ready for training? Yes, I'm ready to train. Even on the second or third day after training, I'm often still not ready to train. I just don't feel like it, I feel tired, my muscles ache. I just wait, and this is very important. Wait for complete recovery. Before starting a new exercise cycle, and change these two factors, increase the intensity and rest time over time as your form and muscle response improve. Recovery time decreases slightly, but it's perfectly normal to wait a week or even two until you have fully recovered after a powerful workout. Let's compare this with a moderate-intensity workout. Firstly, you won't feel any pain, muscle stimulation will be less, there won't be such an increase in strength and muscle mass, and intensity is the factor that triggers all these processes. So, it's all about intensity, but you will get some benefit. However, you will spend much more time in the gym due to the low intensity.  and in gyms, many people use moderate weights or work out on machines, performing 7-8-10 approaches. And they think that this is what they need. Complete muscle fatigue to muscle failure is the single most important factor in achieving your goals. Having reached this level, you will train only once or twice a week. I am talking about anaerobic training. I recommend repeating aerobic training more often, three times a week. I repeat them daily, because after them, I recover within 24 hours. I use low-intensity physical activity: walking, hiking, yoga, I do Pilates. Now I do geratonics. This is something completely different. This is performing movements with a full range of motion, stretching, and in fact, you don’t get tired. This is more aimed at restoring joints. So, the lower the intensity, the greater the aerobic load, the longer the workout should be, somewhere over 60 minutes, but this can be done essentially every day or every other day, depending on the intensity, the recovery time is much less, the frequency of training is higher. And the result is increased cardiovascular endurance and increased muscle endurance, the ability to move longer, many types  Exercises in the middle of the vector with Tsoi: cycling, swimming with varying intensity, dancing, exercise bike. The intensity can be changed from high to low, but as I said, depending on the intensity. If you ride uphill and give it your all until muscle failure, this stimulates muscle growth to some extent. The next day, the muscles will be sore and it will take time to recover. It may take a week to recover, but 2-3 days will be required, and then a new cycle will also cramp on the exercise machine. If you give it your all, you reach the limit and can no longer pedal. Another example of high-intensity interval training is sprinting. You can run at full capacity for five minutes. No, maybe 30 seconds. If you can do it longer, then the intensity is too low. So, first, you need to choose an intensity that your body can withstand. To find your level on the intensity scale, I wanted to outline the basic principles of training so that you can think in these categories and choose the right exercises for your recovery rate and your goals. To learn more about the benefits of exercise for your health, I recommend watching another video on this topic right now. Here it is. Watch it.