We all think that Alzheimer's is a brain disease and it begins in the brain, it develops in the brain and is not connected with any other organs, but I found very interesting data showing that Alzheimer's disease originates in the liver. The liver has a function to cleanse the body of what is called beta amyloid plaques. Normally, the liver should clean them out so that they do not spread throughout the body, but when the liver's function is impaired and it cannot cope, whether it is due to fatty liver due to cirrhosis, inflammation, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, or something else, then it will be very difficult for the liver to get rid of these plaques. Then these plaques appear in the brain, but you will not have any symptoms for 1-20 years, and only then does dementia begin. This is not a quick process. The problem is that often people wait for symptoms before doing something, but I want to draw attention to this crucial connection that you should know about, especially if you are concerned about Alzheimer's. What you can do is take care of your liver. I have many videos about this, I will give the links below.  A very important topic, but let's say, for example, that dementia is already manifesting itself. You enter a room, forget why you entered, you begin to lose your keys, you begin to have memory lapses as you age, and this worries you. The first thing you need to do is take care of your liver immediately. There is something that can be done, namely, you need to do four things. The articles cited in the description talk about these points, and in my opinion, bile salts are amazing, specifically the type called taura ursodeoxycholic acid. It is able to reduce the spread of amyloid plaques and clear them from the hippocampus. This part of the brain is involved in transmitting information to your database, forming memory, especially spatial memory. By the way, on a low-fat diet, bile salts stop being produced. Also, if the intestines are damaged, you will not be able to produce bile salts, since secondary bile salts are produced by intestinal microflora. This proves the crucial connection between the intestines and the brain. What happens below affects what happens above. Secondary vitamin D. By the way, if you do not have or do not have enough bile salts, you will not be able to absorb vitamin D, so there is a direct connection between vitamin  d and cleansing of amyloid plaques. Vitamin D is also very important for the liver, and the liver plays a very important role in the activation of vitamin D. This organ also helps store vitamin D. Vitamin D is very important. A third plant called milk thistle has the ability to cleanse amyloid plaques. If you have dementia or Alzheimer's, take all of this and also follow the next point: intermittent fasting. Intermittent fasting helps get rid of amyloid plaques. The question is how, due to the fact that the autophagy process is launched in the body, this is the processing of unnecessary proteins. You need to fast for at least 18 hours for autophagy to begin, but this is important if you want to cleanse these proteins. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salt, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.