Hi all.  Today we'll start with an interesting quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog.  So, which nutrient has the greatest impact on muscle gain ?  Dear viewers, as always, show off your genius, and in the meantime, we'll answer questions on social media. Kafmaman 10. What are the best natural heavy metal binders you would use? For aluminum I would use silicon dioxide.  There are a number of drinks that you can drink in the form of a shake or juice.  This is parsley juice and so on.  These natural chelates chelate heavy metals and remove them from the body.  I think we should make a video about this.  Also, there is, I think it's called et, etk.   I don’t remember the abbreviation, but this substance chelates heavy metals, binds them and removes them from the body.  You can also use it if you drink distilled water.  It also helps flush metals and minerals out of the body, but it is necessary to replenish the necessary minerals.  In fact, heavy metals are a big problem for many people, including children, especially those with autism.  Care must be taken to ensure that heavy metals do not continue to enter the environment.  There is such a problem.  And these metals can be removed, and I will make a video about it.  Great.  Now let's chat live with someone who called us from London.  And this is Joy.  I'm turning on the sound.  Joy, please ask one question in 30 seconds. Please.  Good afternoon, Dr. Berg. Hello.  Short question.  My daughter is 15. Can you hear me?  Yes. My daughter is 15. At 11, her family suddenly divorced. Asthnia Gravis. She had a thymectomy, she took retuximaps and all that.  It was 6-7 months ago.  She still has drooping eyelids and she eats poorly.  What would you recommend to prevent her from getting tired and to improve her quality of life?  I hope I got it right.  Yeah, right .  This is what makes London interesting, unlike all other places.  This is the city where most, or rather, of all the cities in the world, my videos are watched the most in London. Marvelous.  But I would advise your child to take a bath with the thymus gland.  It may be an extract from sheep thymus.  You should take one capsule before bed.  And also let your daughter take at least 20-30,000 vitamin D3 every day.  It will strengthen the immune system.  There is some interesting information about what is the name of the site?  It's called Hormones Mette.  Go to hormonsmet.com and search for this disease.   There may be other interesting solutions there. Well, thanks for the good call. I hope this helps your daughter a lot. We continue to answer questions on social networks.  By the way, Joy, stay with us until the end of the program, you will learn a lot of interesting things.  A cowboy girl asks about a village from YouTube.  What form of magnesium is best for a 4-year-old child and what is the recommended dosage? I would probably give maybe 100 mg. This is about a quarter of a measuring spoon.  It's easy to measure if it's powder.  I would give magnesium glycerate, because it does not cause diarrhea and is absorbed best by 80%, and magnesium oxide by 3-4% and causes diarrhea.  So yes, magnesium glycinate.  And it’s good to give it to your child in the evening, then he will sleep better. I take more magnesium now than I used to.  Much much.  And the changes are huge. It's not just about reducing muscle tension, cramps, painful spasms, and improving sleep, but also about improving muscle function during exercise.  And you also get more energy, because magnesium is a key element for creating ATP.  And this, in essence, is your energy.  So don't forget about magnesium, and it's very difficult to determine its level , assuming that you have a magnesium deficiency, like most people.  " Well, great," writes someone on YouTube with the nickname Finite Mathematics.  "I'm worried about my friend's mother. She has gastrostomia. Thank you, Teri, for spelling it out . It helped me."  And this leads to a whole series of other diseases.  We would be very grateful for your advice.  With gastrosis, the functioning of the autonomic nervous system is disrupted.  And as food passes through the stomach and the rest of the digestive system, digestion is slowed down.  That's what it is .  This is one of the side effects of Azempic, by the way, which is why I do not recommend it.  Another possible cause is an acute deficiency of B vitamins caused by diabetes or consumption of large amounts of empty carbohydrates.  So cut out the carbs and take plenty of natural B1, perhaps along with benfotiamine.  It will enhance the effect.  This is synthetic B1.  And B1 is needed to repair the autonomic nervous system.  And for any problems with both its parts, parasympathetic and sympathetic, B1 is perhaps one of the best means for its restoration, and it can normalize digestion.  Amazing.  I set up my microphone.  We've already received the answers to the quiz question, so let's read them out.  And the question was this: which nutrient, I’m also interested, has the greatest impact on muscle mass gain.  We certainly want to know. 75% answered: "Protein is like red meat."  20% said: "Fatty fish with omega-3."  And 5% food rich in amino acids.  Do we have geniuses today?  Dog, I think everyone is right, but I expected it.  I should have asked what mineral.  Oh, and this is zinc. But you are right, amino acids are needed to gain muscle mass .  Without them, muscles will not grow.  But the cofactor, the auxiliary mineral, is zinc.  Why does zinc affect muscles?  Because it powerfully stimulates testosterone production.  Even a slight zinc deficiency can reduce testosterone levels in men by half.  So testosterone helps, zinc increases testosterone, and testosterone helps build muscle.  And look, testosterone is a hormone that is produced from cholesterol. So people taking statins are literally depriving themselves of the raw materials to create testosterone.  And no matter how much zinc they take, it won't help unless they're taking statins, which destroy muscle.  A serious side effect of statins is the destruction of muscle tissue and ATP energy, as well as coenzyme Q10, which gives us energy and helps mitochondria.  You are trying to solve a problem.  Do you think high cholesterol can lead to heart problems and are you taking statins?  Is this the best solution to the problem?  Maybe try something without side effects?  in the form of muscle breakdown and without losing coenzyme Q10, which increases stress on the heart.  Oh well .  I wanted to tell you something that you should do and encourage you to address your health issues more with good nutrients from food rather than medications.