Let's discuss the foods that most often deprive us of nutrients. This video is not about how to get nutrients from food, but about which foods deprive us of nutrients. You need to know both. So, the first product I'll talk about is raw egg white. Raw egg white can lead to biotin deficiency. Biotin is very important for nails and hair. It makes hair and nails thicker and stronger, but with a biotin deficiency, hair will likely become brittle, nails will break easily. Biotin can be lost as a result of taking antibiotics, because most of the microflora also produces biotin, a vitamin B. Of course, you already know about the next three products: refined sugar, refined grains, and alcohol deprive you of vitamin B1, zinc, magnesium, and vitamin C. They have a lot of calories. But they often cause nutrient deficiencies, such as bleeding gums and fatigue due to a lack of vitamin C. The immune system will be greatly weakened due to a problem with zinc, and there will also be skin problems, because many skin problems are associated with  Zinc deficiency, of course, B1 deficiency causes severe anxiety, nervous tension, excessive stress, a swarm of thoughts in the head and worry, muscle spasms at night, difficulty falling asleep due to muscle tension, then caffeinated drinks such as coffee, tea, sweet soda, the two main nutrients that caffeine deprives us of are B1 and magnesium, and we move on to the so-called trypsin inhibitors, what is a trypsin inhibitor? Trypsin is an enzyme. If you block it with the following products: soy, cereals, legumes, nuts, seeds, and nightshades, there may be a problem with the absorption of some amino acids and a problem with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. To prevent this, many people sprout these plants, and people who eat them as is do not sprout them. And they think that this is healthier. They will be surprised because these unsprouted plants have certain defense mechanisms created by these plants so that they cannot be eaten. The next group of substances are tannins, they are found in tea, they definitely create a B1 deficiency, especially in those who drink a lot of tea.  They drink tea all day and although tea is better than coffee, it creates a B1 deficiency. This can begin to affect sleep and mood. If you take too much calcium, you can create a magnesium deficiency. Also, if you eat a lot of dairy products and do not eat leafy greens, you can create a magnesium deficiency. Magnesium helps you relax at night, helps relax muscles, and prevents spasms and arrhythmia. In addition, magnesium is needed to produce energy. If you have fatigue, you probably have a magnesium deficiency. We move on to the so- called oxalates. Oxalates are substances that bind with calcium, magnesium, and iron. When they bind with calcium, they can form kidney stones. There are certain foods, especially in the keto diet, that contain a lot of oxalates. Spinach is first among them, but I think there are even more oxalates in beet tops, and in the beets themselves, they are found in almonds, in almond flour, in chocolate, in Swiss chard, and in foods incompatible with oxalates, such as cereals and legumes, phosphorus.  The acid in sweet soda definitely deprives you of magnesium and calcium. Therefore, if you drink a lot of sweet soda, it can seriously damage your bones. Of course, I don’t even consider sweet soda a food, but I just added it here. The last thing I wanted to say is phytochemicals or phytic acid. Phytochemicals are found in certain foods and they block zinc, calcium, vitamin B3, chromium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, and vitamin D. Children eat a lot of cereal. They get a lot of phytochemicals and they deprive them of zinc, which is very important for the immune system. In some parts of the world, children with zinc deficiency have a serious problem with diarrhea. And this can create such problems. How to reduce electrolytes. Let’s summarize. The main product that deprives you of nutrients is cereals. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to fix this safely. Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when? In the course Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. Over 100 lessons, notes, and lists are included. Everything you need to fully understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.