We often think that we just need to eat more protein to build muscle because muscles are made up of protein, right? Many people do this, but it doesn't always help. In fact, there is a paradox here. Some people who eat more protein may even have a deficiency of some amino acid. If you want to prevent muscle loss with age, this is called sarcopenia, or you want to build muscle, you need to be aware of some other factors not directly related to protein intake. Although in order to build muscle, you really need to consume enough protein, but even more, you need a sufficient amount of amino acids. There is a lot of conflicting information about the required minimums of protein, but the general opinion is that we need 0.8 grams per kilogram of dry body weight of total weight. Let's say you weigh 180 kg and you have a lot of excess fat. This does not mean that you need much more protein. Its amount must be determined based on your dry body weight. So, eight tenths of a gram per kilogram of dry body weight is the minimum amount on average. This is approximately 50 grams of protein per day. So, when I say protein, I mean protein in food. For example, if you take a steak that weighs 100  gram then in these 100 grams of steak there are only about 26 grams of protein that is, we are talking about the protein in the food and not the oats of the product itself. A moderate amount of protein from one and two tenths to 1.7 grams per kilogram of dry body weight, and a large amount of protein is about two grams per kilogram of dry body weight. Many weightlifters eat this much protein and even much more, but I'm not saying that you need or do not need to eat this much protein. I'm just giving you an idea of ​​​​the range of the required amount of protein. I want to focus on other factors that affect muscle protein synthesis as such. A couple of things need to be said. The body usually does not store a lot of protein as a reserve. The body does not store protein. Therefore, if you eat too much protein, the body converts excess protein into glucose. Bodybuilders sometimes like this because sometimes they want to enhance the action of insulin due to glucose. After all, insulin is anabolic. They want to build muscle if they are lucky and they do not have insulin resistance. Or they are not susceptible to it or something else, unlike the rest of us.  For those who have it, this can help them, but when most people begin to get more The and sugar or even glucose from protein, thereby increasing insulin levels, then insulin resistance usually develops, this is like a Catch 22: you want to increase insulin levels. But the higher it is, the stronger the insulin resistance and this comes to the point that an insulin deficiency occurs, this is insulin resistance. How does this affect muscles? The fact is that insulin is necessary for the absorption of amino acids. So, the higher the insulin resistance, the less protein goes to the muscles. So, the first barrier is insulin resistance. It is caused by an excess of carbohydrates, but it can also be caused by an excess of protein in the diet. To remove insulin resistance, you need a low-carb diet and you need to eat less often. And this is another point about protein that I want to talk about. Many people think that they need to constantly eat protein when they train before and after. And even during training, they eat protein powders, shakes, bars. But in fact, this often gives the opposite effect, because these are snacks that increase insulin levels. insulin resistance is actually not necessary for many people. insulin resistance is definitely one of the reasons, another factor associated with muscle gain is growth hormone. There are some facts you need to know about the harmony of growth. What activates the production of growth hormone? It is activated by intense training. So, if you just eat protein and do not train, your muscles will not grow. Training is the most powerful activator of muscle synthesis, especially intense ones. Short, intense training is not enough. You need to increase the volume of training and muscle load. You need weight training. Training stimulates growth hormone and testosterone. They are both needed for muscle growth. Another way to increase growth hormone levels is fasting. You need to fast and not snack so often. Fasting increases growth hormone levels. If you want to build muscle, I would only fast intermittently. Eat infrequently, twice a day, I think this is much better than three meals a day. With intermittent fasting, the feeling of hunger decreases, but calories should be enough, especially if you have a fast metabolism. Growth hormone can be blocked by high blood glucose levels. Therefore, I am for a low-carb diet, intermittent fasting, and a good training plan, as well as enough sleep for recovery. All these factors help.  Increase growth hormone levels. Regarding testosterone, you need to know a few things. Due to zinc deficiency, testosterone levels can be low. Zinc can definitely increase testosterone. What is zinc found in? Red meat, shellfish, seafood, and other foods contain much more zinc than plant foods. What causes zinc deficiency? Excess empty carbohydrates, excess sugar, and stress. Testosterone can also be blocked by excess estrogen. Where does estrogen come from? Mainly from many foods containing soy protein isolate from soy milk. Estrogen levels also increase due to beer and other alcoholic drinks. Another way to create a problem with amino acids is to eat foods that are low in certain amino acids, such as plant protein, which vegetarians and vegans eat, or simply eat a lot of plant protein, which is considered clean. It often contains low levels of certain amino acids. I'll tell you about an amino acid called leucine. Leucine is a powerful stimulator of muscle growth, and foods poor in leucine are mostly plant foods. It's not animal meat, etc. So, the type of protein is also important: eggs, meat, fish, dairy products. All of these foods are very, very important. Another factor is stress. Cortisol increases. It is a powerful catabolic, the opposite of anabolic, it destroys everything. Chronic stress can seriously wear out muscles. At first, the thigh muscles and quadriceps suffer the most. Then it comes to the gluteus maximus. Cortisol converts part of the protein in these muscles into sugar. This sugar then turns into fat around the waist. This is another factor and you need to know about it. Another factor is microflora. Microflora undoubtedly helps create amino acids, as well as other substances, and in general helps create protein. If a person has taken a lot of antibiotics, he often has many different problems with muscles, building and maintaining muscle mass. So, eat more foods with probiotics. Fermented foods such as sauerkraut are very useful. I also encountered the fact that people do not have enough acid in the stomach to break down the protein necessary for building muscle, that is, the protein they eat is not completely broken down into amino acids. So, hydrochloric acid is very, very important. In addition, with age, the acidity in the stomach decreases. It is necessary to increase the acidity in order to break down protein into amino acids. Betaine hydrochloride is an excellent remedy for this. Take it.  with food so that the muscles get more amino acids. How do you know if you have a hydrochloric acid deficiency? Signs of this include indigestion, acid reflux, or HCG. If this applies to you, follow the link below. Enzymes mainly in the pancreas and even the small intestine. This is also a factor. If you lack enzymes, you cannot break down certain foods to then get pure amino acids from them. A few words about the pancreas. Bile sediment can accumulate, which can lead to pancreatitis. This is a problem with bile. At the same time, there is probably severe bloating or pain that radiates to the left or right shoulder. There is a link below on this topic. Or you have impaired absorption in the small or large intestine due to inflammation or due to past intestinal problems, which has greatly reduced your ability to absorb protein. In this case, you may need to take amino acids in the form of dietary supplements. I want to touch on another factor. When you eat protein, you must understand that the ideal protein for absorption by our body is protein in its natural form with fat, and not lean protein. The later the protein, the  The harder it is to digest and the more problems there are with it. There is interesting data about those who eat very, very lean protein and no fat and how this affects the body, because of this, many problems arise. I advise always eating the fat that is usually attached to protein. If possible, eat chicken with the skin. Eat fish with the skin. This is much better and this applies to a lot of people who eat purified protein all the time. They eat protein powders. You can eat a little of them, but if you eat exclusively protein powders, it is not ideal for building healthy muscles. In addition, they add extreme corn syrup and other crap in this video. I wanted to go beyond dietary protein and talk about other factors, especially so that you can build muscle and not lose it with age. And since I mentioned growth hormone, this is a very important topic. If you haven’t watched my video about growth harmony, I think it’s worth watching. Here it is.