I want to tell you about a very powerful anti-inflammatory, you would never have thought that this is an anti-inflammatory drug. You rather consider this thing that I will tell you about as something harmful that should be avoided. But it is a powerful anti-inflammatory and it is worth it. It is quite inexpensive, in fact, it costs nothing at all. Ultraviolet radiation. But as soon as I said this, you probably immediately thought about skin cancer. You need to avoid such radiation. This is something very bad. You need to understand that this radiation is part of solar energy and people, animals and plants have been living under these rays for a very, very long time, so we have adapted well to survive. With such radiation, we can use it for our own benefit. If we take all solar radiation, then only its ultraviolet part helps create vitamin D. And you know how important vitamin D is. This is the most important vitamin for immunity. This is the most powerful anti-inflammatory and it is created with the help of ultraviolet radiation. Do you agree? Still, watch to the end. The most important thing here is the correct dose. A small amount of UV radiation. And I will not hide. If you are constantly in the sun for a long time. This is bad and really increases the risk of melanoma. It causes the appearance of many wrinkles and takes water from the skin, drying it out, so that All  It depends on the dose of radiation received. However, little by little, from time to time, without causing burns, you can sunbathe, it will only be beneficial. First, I'll tell you what UV radiation consists of. There is UV A, UVB and UVC. Let's deal with the rays right away. They are not relevant to our topic because we are not exposed to this radiation. UVC rays arise in the sun, but on the way to the earth they are absorbed by the ozone layer. So they do not reach the earth. They are created artificially for various purposes. They are capable of killing certain microbes. However, they can also create problems. But you will not receive them from the sun, so there remains UVA and UVB radiation. What is the difference between them? It's very simple. Most of the ultraviolet radiation on Earth is UVA. 98.7 percent and it is the least harmful. However, if you overdo it, it will reward you with wrinkles, loss of collagen and even age spots. By the way, if you have enough antioxidants in your skin, they will protect you. Now let's talk about UV radiation. Its share is 1.3 percent. The harm from it can be assessed as average. A little more than from UV A, but not in the case when the dose  radiation is small, specifically FB rays create vitamin D interaction with cholesterol in the skin here we have two harmful things at once people think oh my god we need to protect ourselves from ultraviolet radiation and also avoid cholesterol But if you combine them, you get vitamin D and it is very necessary Especially considering that most people do not have enough of it in some publications that I tend to trust claim that it is almost impossible to get an autoimmune disease if you have enough vitamin D simply because vitamin D is tightly woven into almost every part of the immune system UVB radiation, among other things, triggers the production of melanin by melanocytes melanin is a pigment that makes our skin darker Therefore, people with lighter skin have less melanin than those with darker skin This is an interesting pigment it works as protection from the sun It protects against ultraviolet radiation from harmful rays that can damage DNA it acts as a sunscreen So when you receive UV rays, these cells turn on and produce pigment Now you are adapted and more protected from this radiation this is called the hermetic effect adaptation to slight stress which makes you stronger penetrates deeper than f exception penetrates  into the dermis, while FB only the upper layer of the epidermis. However, both types of these rays can damage DNA and provoke cancer. They can cause loss of collagen, lead to the appearance of wrinkles, and so on. But everything depends, firstly, on the radiation dose and secondly, on the antioxidants in the skin. But let's consider what benefits ultraviolet radiation brings in general. Energy of this type has an anti-inflammatory effect in high doses, it can cause inflammation. And in small doses, it reduces the amount of cytokines responsible for inflammation. Cytokines are involved in the inflammatory process. UFW radiation can activate certain cells, they are called regulatory cells, they reduce the risk of autoimmune diseases. What's interesting is that the risk of developing autoimmune diseases is higher the further north or south of the equator you live. If you live in northern latitudes where there is little sunlight, you are more susceptible to autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, and even a certain type of cancer. Which is quite strange. This is probably partly due to the production of vitamin D, but there are other factors besides the effects of vitamin D. You need to understand that the further you are from direct sunlight. If  The farther you live from the equator, the less ultraviolet radiation you receive. Ultraviolet radiation also reduces the risk of tuberculosis and the skin diseases that accompany it. The sun has long been considered an antidote to tuberculosis, even when there were sanatoriums. UV radiation also creates other effects that are in no way related to vitamin D. It suppresses the symptoms of eczema, psoriasis, dermatitis, vitiligo, which is a loss of pigment, and even scleroderma. There are also many different types of therapy that use UV radiation. Photo biomodulation therapy is used for skin problems. A very narrow range of UVB rays is used, which is beneficial. In such cases, the irradiation does not last long; small, short doses are used, and this has an interesting effect. It can even relieve pain. This is called the opioid effect of ultraviolet radiation on pain. If you have pain, go out in the sun; it can help. UV radiation also affects the hypothalamic- pituitary-adrenal axis. It helps regulate cortisol levels. This is useful when you are in a stressful situation, generally without cortisol.  This is a very important hormone. Ultraviolet radiation has a positive effect on the endocrine system if received in small doses. Combat radiation also increases nitric oxide levels. I have a video about how it helps blood vessels. Nitric oxide can also be of great benefit to the skin, playing the role of protection from ultraviolet radiation. Ultraviolet radiation in small doses is also useful for recovery, probably due to the hermetic effect of slight stress with subsequent adaptation. UV radiation can lift the mood, which is probably why many people like to be in the sun. It also helps balance serotonin. In this video, I wanted to show you, so to speak, the other side of ultraviolet radiation. There are many benefits and not only harm if you do not abuse it. You do not need to constantly avoid the sun, smear sunscreen, wear dark glasses and a sun hat. A little sun is beneficial, and of course, of all these factors associated with UV radiation, I think vitamin D is the most important, and I would like to tell you more about vitamin D itself and how it is related to the sun. Here is a video about it, watch it.