I made a lot of videos about testosterone and identified many factors that can lower testosterone, however, according to one recent study that I studied, sleep is an extremely important factor influencing testosterone levels, but it receives little attention. We will discuss this today, but before talking about sleep, I want to mention some other factors that can also greatly lower testosterone. You need to know them all, because what affects one person may not affect everyone. The first thing you need to know is that testosterone levels decrease with age, but this is not the main reason for low testosterone levels, and so first, we will discuss obesity. Excess weight can affect testosterone levels. Why is this because fat cells produce an enzyme called aromatase. Aromatase converts testosterone into estrogen. Therefore, the more fat you have in your body, the more estrogen you have. There is a relationship between testosterone and estrogen. When one becomes more, say, estrogen, the other becomes less. So, the more fat in your body, the more estrogen you have. There are a couple more factors that increase estrogen: one is a lot of soy products in the diet, another factor.  I have a video about this. The average person consumes as much plastic as a credit card every week. I would say it's too much plastic. We consume plastic when we drink from plastic bottles and cook food in plastic. Plastic is everywhere, and it increases estrogen levels. Another powerful testosterone killer is high insulin levels. Don't you think that insulin is only high in diabetes? This is not true. You could have prediabetes or insulin resistance. I think most people have it, and it could be the cause of low testosterone. Because you have high insulin levels, insulin tests are rarely performed. They usually check blood sugar, but they don't look at insulin. There is an excellent test for measuring insulin resistance. Homo I.R.  It gives a lot of useful information about the presence of insulin resistance and at the same time reveals high insulin levels and so high insulin low testosterone this is associated with another factor that I will talk about with the liver the liver produces the so-called sex hormone binding globulin SHBG an interesting term this is a substance that binds to testosterone because of which it can no longer become free testosterone and move around the body the body creates this substance to buffer testosterone so that it is not active in fact almost all of our testosterone about ninety-nine percent is bound to this protein and with other proteins that is in fact only about one percent of all testosterone is in a free state and can be used and 99 percent remains bound so the more you have this binding protein the less testosterone you have so any problem with the liver be it fatty inflamed or toxic liver can affect this part of the overall picture the next factor is the adrenal glands the more stress on the adrenal glands the more cortisol you have the less testosterone you have because stress or Cortisol suppresses testosterone. In addition, with age, the condition of the adrenal glands worsens and little raw material is produced for the production of this adrenal hormone. After all, the adrenal glands produce testosterone, among other things. One of the precursor hormones that helps produce testosterone is called DHEA. So, a deficiency of this raw material can be one of the reasons for a lack of testosterone, and this is probably mainly due to the aging process. This is just by the way. You can take the dietary supplement SDG, and if nothing else helps, this applies to both sexes. For women, a high dose of DHEA is fraught with excess testosterone. A lower dose can lead to increased levels of estrogen and progesterone. Just so you know, another raw material necessary for testosterone production is cholesterol. So, a low-fat diet and statin drugs can be the cause of low testosterone levels. Another factor is iron. If you have excess iron in your body, this can also negatively affect testosterone. How do you know if you have excess iron? Get a blood test. If you feel worse after eating red meat or taking Iron supplementation is another sign, another factor affecting testosterone, hypogonadism, when the testicles atrophy or shrink, one reason for this is aging, and another reason is zinc deficiency. Of all the nutrients necessary for testosterone, zinc is perhaps the most important, so you need to eat foods rich in zinc, such as crustaceans and mollusks, for example, oysters. You can even take zinc supplements if you want a good supplement with zinc and other micronutrients. There is a link below. Another factor affecting testosterone is alcohol. The more alcohol you drink, the more estrogen you have and the less testosterone, especially if you drink beer, but any other alcohol has the same effect. Now let's talk about sleep. Sleep is very, very important. In fact, a study I studied (the link to it is below) showed that the less a person sleeps, the less testosterone they have because the body controls testosterone and manages its levels using circadian rhythms. This means that there is a connection between sleep, especially REM sleep, which is the second half of sleep, and testosterone production. The more REM sleep, the more  Testosterone is produced, and if you sleep only five hours or less, or even six hours or less, this can be the main cause of low testosterone. So, no supplements, no zinc, no actions you take, including taking testosterone, will bring any benefit if you sleep poorly. Testosterone levels are associated with sleep. One study showed that if you sleep 8 hours or more, testosterone levels will be excellent. Also, with lack of sleep, cortisol increases. The stress hormone cortisol directly lowers testosterone, and cortisol increases insulin levels, which lowers testosterone. So, lack of sleep or poor sleep can destroy testosterone in a huge number of ways. Here's what I recommend. Number one, to sleep better, you need to exercise more, and even better, do physical labor. Exercise directly stimulates testosterone and at the same time improves sleep and also reduces insulin resistance. It also helps you lose weight, reduce the amount of fat on the body, and also improves liver health. Number two, give up carbohydrates. Carbohydrates increase insulin, they lead to the dominance of the sympathetic nervous system, and this can lower testosterone, because testosterone works in parasympathetic mode, it doesn't work much under stress.  A low-carb diet will get you out of sympathetic dominance mode and eliminate the problem with insulin. A low-carb diet will also significantly improve liver health and function and reduce the amount of fat in the liver. Number three, it can be improved by improving the state of intestinal microflora. I recently made a video about the need to drink kefir before bed or with your last meal. Very good kefir has a good strain of friendly bacteria and yeast, and so putting your intestinal flora in order is very important for sleep, and this will increase testosterone levels. You can even drink their probiotics. The intestines are very important for improving sleep. Regarding nutrients for improving sleep, vitamin B1 from nutritional yeast is extremely important. Potassium and magnesium are two physiological relaxants, and they are found in vegetables and greens. They can be taken in electrolyte powder to sleep better. Don't drink electrolytes before bed, but during the day they help you stay calm and relaxed. It is also very good to take vitamin D before bed because vitamin D greatly affects the body's circadian rhythms. Of course, I also recommend taking my  I would take two Healthy Sleep capsules. If you wake up during the night, take one capsule to fall asleep again. This will help increase the duration of sleep to 8 hours. Sleep will be as long as possible or optimal for increasing testosterone. There is more data on sleep that you need to know, they are in this video, watch it.