How to choose protein wisely The problem with protein is the following In nature, protein is never found on its own, it is accompanied by fat There is a so-called insulin index which reflects the effect of protein on insulin In other words, the less fat in the protein, the stronger the insulin surge If you want to enter very deep ketosis, do not eat lean protein, you need to eat more fatty protein Let 's imagine the keto diet as a pie chart Five percent is carbohydrates and I did not add another five percent here is greens and other vegetables because they are not taken into account in this balance And so about 10 percent are carbohydrates, half of which are vegetables 20 percent protein and 70 percent is fat Now we will consider fats protein in this ratio 70 percent fat and 20 percent protein We are talking about percentages of calories We see that the caloric content of fat is much higher than protein In fact, it is three and a half times higher than protein But let's look at the actual mass in grams Fat has a higher energy density than protein So the ratio is 1.56 grams to  One gram is the ratio by weight. You see, people talk about it. You eat so much fat, 70 percent fat, but by weight and volume, the difference is only one and a half times. So, if we consider the mass of the product, it doesn't seem so excessive. So, the more accurately we can maintain this ratio by weight, the more complete the ketosis will be. If we further increase this part, we increase the proportion of fat in relation to protein. There, we will produce more ketones. Children with epilepsy are transferred to a diet with a very high fat content so that they produce enough ketones and so that the diet works. When there is more fat than protein, it is very good for the digestive system, much better than when consuming lean protein. Of course, this depends on what sacrifice you make. But at the same time, when you increase the proportion of fat, the liver begins to produce more bile to digest this fat. People on a low-fat diet ultimately develop a bile deficiency and the risk of gallstones increases. What's interesting is, let's look at this interesting table. Here we have fat and here is protein. Here are the proportions for an egg.  the ratio is one to one if you eat an egg add a little fat a little butter or other fat steak two to one is a good ratio of fat twice as much as protein so steak is very good for chum I eat a lot of steaks beef look one to two in beef racks most often there is not enough fat and people usually trim it and do not eat so if you eat beef add additional fats to it chicken chicken has little fat a lot of protein there is twice as much protein as fat but specifically this is not always the case and that's why if you eat chicken with skin under which there is fat then perhaps the ratio will even be one to one so always eat chicken with the skin bacon one to one it would seem there is much more fat in it this is true but all the fat is rendered so if you eat bacon you need to add some other lace but look at this pecan 7 to one at the peak they have a lot of fat in of course this fat is not saturated it is omega-6 fatty acids and in  Pika does have some carbohydrates, just a little bit, but pecans are very healthy nuts. I eat them almost daily, it's a good ratio. Now, peanuts are two to one, a good ratio. I often add peanut butter and celery to my food to add a little fat. Next, cod liver is not cod liver oil, but cod liver itself. Look, Icelandic cod liver, maybe you haven't heard of it. There are different brands. It's mostly commercial fish. I don't know if all the fish are caught in one place, but this liver is very good. Look at the ratio: five times more fat than protein. That's for sure. It's genetic food. All the oils in these cans are actually from cod liver. So, I'm not saying you should drink all this oil. You can drink it, and maybe you should put it in the refrigerator and drink a little every day. Yesterday, I ate a whole can of fat, it was a little too much for one meal. If you eat half a can, everything will be fine. But yesterday, I wasn't hungry all day. I think I ate once. I usually eat  twice a day, this is an extremely satisfying product, dry-cured sausage, what is dry-cured sausage? This sausage, for example, is one that usually doesn't need to be stored in the refrigerator until you cut it. It says to store it in the refrigerator. Okay, this product, and I also consume it regularly, of course, it's organic dry-cured sausage. The problem is how to find dry-cured sausage without dextrose. It's a synthetic sugar and without nitrates. This sausage contains celery juice. I have a video on this topic. Celery juice does indeed contain nitrates, and therefore someone will say this is the same as the nitrates we get from other sources. Yes, but in fact, I couldn't find any studies that said that drinking celery juice with nitrates causes any harm. Perhaps there is some harm, but if you know of such a study, write to me. I'm still alive and I've been eating this product for a long time. There is organic beef, sea salt, and there is organic honey. I know what you'll say. You said not to eat honey here.  There's very, very little of it, I don't see a problem with that. It's about 1 gram per serving. That's quite a bit. There are also organic spices, cultured celery juice powder, and lactic acid from China kvass. I'm a cultured person, but the ratio here is two to one, which is actually ideal. When I'm in a hurry and cutting up sausages, I can add cheese or not, and I'm fine, and Lucy, our little granddaughter, who's now two years old, loves this sausage. It's quite healthy. I know if anyone wants to know where to buy it, you'll have to look for it yourself. I'm not affiliated with these companies in any way, but I'll provide a link below with the names of these products so you can look for them. Next on our list is macadamia nuts. Look at this ratio of eleven and a half to one. It's simply a killer nut, in a good way. Of course, next are sardines. Just take a look. Here's an example of sardines. It would seem they should have more fat, but look, they have twice as much protein as fat, but these are sardines in oil. Due to the large amount of oil, the ratio will likely be one to one, so I'm telling them sardines are absolutely normal.  You can eat them, but look at this salmon, one and a half kilograms, as it is obvious, salmon is closest to this ratio. This is the ideal Chinese diet. I love salmon. I love fatty fish. I eat salmon regularly. Salmon contains salicylic acid, and it neutralizes the mercury that may be contained in this fish, but you need commercial salmon. So, if you want to enter ketosis a little deeper, eat more of those proteins that have a higher fat content. Thanks for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salmon course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.