Today we will discuss such a nutrient as benfotiamine, this is a synthetic B1, natural B1 is water-soluble, and this is fat-soluble B1, and yes, it is produced synthetically, but this is the only synthetic vitamin that I recommend because it has no side effects. I believe that every diabetic should take benfotiamine, and here's why the fact is that vitamin B1 is directly involved in the work of our little motors, the mitochondria, in particular, in glucose metabolism, and the more glucose passes through this mechanism, the higher the blood sugar and the more the body's supply of B1 is depleted. In diabetics, four main tissues are involved in this: nerves and the brain, eyes, kidneys, and coronary vessels. It just so happens that benfotiamine is beneficial for each of these organs, since benfotiamine dissolves in fats. It can penetrate the nerves and the brain 35 times better, and this can give a really cool effect. Its main function is protection against oxidation, and this is a very serious problem in diabetes, because there is so much glucose in the body that the oxidation level goes off the charts, which entails Damage from free radicals and various complications tissues begin to break down due to the oxidation of glucose, any form of B1 will help with this, but benfotiamine penetrates deeper benfotiamine also reduces the level of advanced glycation end products (AGEs). What is this when you combine glucose with protein or glucose with fat and heat it, this leads to the formation of such sticky proteins, they can be produced by the body itself or they can be in food if you eat, for example, barbecue ribs when meat is fried in sugar or even ice cream which is made from sugar, milk protein and fat and all this is exposed to heat, you get a lot of these AGEs, this will generally add oxidation, accelerate the aging process, create a lot of sticky proteins that clog the arteries, brain, eyes and create many other problems and benfotiamine can also lower A1c levels. During my practice, I used it for peripheral neuropathy, this is the destruction of the nervous system in the feet and toes when you have pain in the feet, numbness or burning and it is difficult for you to walk here  Benfotiamine works wonders. You need to take at least 600 milligrams a day, and it can be taken more than once. I can't recommend a specific manufacturer. You'll have to choose for yourself, for example, based on good reviews. But if you have diabetes and your legs hurt, benfotiamine works wonders. It perfectly restores nerve function and helps with pain in any type of neuropathy. It also protects the brain well from complications of diabetes. Diabetics often experience dementia and memory loss. Alzheimer's disease is the third type of diabetes, and it helps with this disease. As for the eyes, there are many secondary diabetic complications, one of which is retinal damage. But imagine that the retina is nervous tissue, and benfotiamine is very useful for protecting the retina from damage. It is also useful for protecting renal cells (nephrons). If the kidneys are damaged, say, at stages 3, 4, or 5, then I highly recommend benfotiamine. Then there's the heart and coronary vessels. On the inner wall of the artery, there is a layer of epithelium and tiny blood vessels.  The capillaries that feed it can be protected by taking benfotiamine. If you have a vitamin B1 deficiency, you lack a very important antioxidant and damage and dysfunction can occur. Guess what happens next: cholesterol and calcium accumulate, and plaque forms in the arteries. Benfotiamine is very important for the functioning of the heart and blood vessels and for protecting arteries. Of course, I assume you regularly watch my channel. If not, I also recommend a healthy diet and intermittent fasting as a basic diet that must be followed in addition to taking benfotiamine. Because taking it without changing your diet may not work, I'll leave a link below for more details. Thanks for watching.