Hello everyone We have another amazing interview with Joel Salti If you haven't read his books you should read them they are amazing there is one situation that we now want to discuss Hello Joel Could you tell us a little about what is happening now with small farmers with the sale of food Thank you Doctor Eric and thank you for inviting me to talk with you it is a great pleasure and honor you know when you go to Umar or to the supermarket you can think Wow, this abundance, yes, you can buy anything here but the fact is that all the products in the supermarket are carefully, so to speak, sanctioned or licensed by a whole mountain of government regulations these regulations concern not only food but also zoning and much more And because of all this, it is very difficult especially for small farmers to go to the market I remember once I was talking with a group of vice president Toli Kostka nine vice presidents had, so to speak, a nature excursion along the east coast they were from Arkansas that is where their head office is, among other things They were going to spend the day in Chasopis Bay and so  Then I gave them a tour of the farm and so we were having lunch in the sales area and they asked me if they were very impressed with all of this, they were impressed by the organic farming and the use of worms in farming, the conditions for keeping animals and all that, and they asked me how we could organize the sale of your products in Kostka Lmar or somewhere else. I answered, first, we need to make it so that your warehouses could accept smaller trucks than a semi-trailer for unloading. That's all. This is not a government regulation, it's just a system, it's a system, and this system was designed and continues to evolve to protect the interests of existing influential circles. I'm not saying that this is some kind of conspiracy, even people realize what their own rules lead to, like the ban on unloading one-ton trucks in a warehouse. That is, I looked and saw from the faces of these people that this had never even occurred to them. Small farmers cannot unload trucks in our warehouses. It's unlikely that they thought about it. They live in a different world. I don't like using the word conspiracy or malicious intent. Young people from that  that people don't think about it and what happens happens, but the fact is that there are many such examples. If you think about it, I wonder what it would be like if, for example, we sold real artisan cheese from a meat farmer who makes it from unpasteurized milk. What would it be like if we had homemade pepperoni sausage, Bolognese sausage, meat snacks made from domestic pigs that grazed in the meadow and ate grass, ate corn, and this person, the owner of these pigs, would make these real delicacies, Polish sausages and all that, but nothing like that exists. In fact, in Virginia now, in Virginia now, there are none if I, as a small farmer, want to make and sell sausages, that is, good sausages not from some kind of shmt, but good sausages made only from meat without any fillers, without any garbage, only from beef and pork and that's it. Yes, in Virginia, there is not a single place where you can legally make sausages to sell them. It's incredibly sweaty to sell sausages, I have to send boneless meat to Pennsylvania and pay a large company in Pennsylvania that will make sausages and then send these sausages to us Wow, yes, as a result, of course, this food will cost a little more and then we are blamed Yes, you are completely greedy, look at the prices when I have yes, yes, I want to support local small farmers who produce the right food After all, I want to eat exactly this kind of food, but it is becoming very difficult to find such food, I see that this is because of regulations and support for large producers. So, it is becoming more and more difficult. In particular, you hold conferences with farmers who are very inventive, can you tell us a little about this? Yes, well, we started holding conferences on Unruly Food about four years ago. John Moody and I organized all this. I wanted to do this for years, but I needed an assistant who would take on the function of manager. I am a visionary, I am a dreamer, I live in a dream world and I needed an assistant director. I can come up with a theme and a script, but I am not the person who can manage the stage, and John Moody came and said I can do this. We started the first conference in the spring of 22, literally a week before the start of isolation and Our theme is that we are acting in a way that is not fulfilling the requirements. The thing is, Dr. Eric, when the rules become so onerous, they eliminate the possibility of any competition in the marketplace, and there comes a point when it actually becomes more effective to find some kind of workaround than to try to act directly and agree to comply with all the rules. So, we began searching across the country for people who have found a way to do this, who have come up with a workaround, and to make you think, there are a lot of such people. Of course, not millions, but enough to create a mass movement. The Seventh or Eighth Rebellious Food Conference will be held here in Virginia on our farm, and we will show people what we are doing, we will share ideas, talk about people. I will give a couple of examples. The first lady did not create a food church, and churches do not pay taxes. Join her church, and you receive food, and yours, in general, her protection is freedom of religion. Wow, my religion is to take care of my body, it does not belong to me, it belongs to God, and the body should not eat all sorts of junk, and for the body not to eat all sorts of junk, in other words, it is part of the whole, it is part of the religious experience, this is one example.  The state of North Carolina is still trying to shut down her church. There were six grocery police cars parked outside her warehouse. Yes, they were parked outside her warehouse and she couldn't do anything, saying it was freedom of religion. And so far, she's winning this argument. There's this guy. He lives in Florida who took advantage of the pet food directive 8-9 years ago. His place was searched because he was selling dairy products without a license. He milked cows and sold ice cream, kefir, yogurt, milk, and butter without any license at all. His customers were delighted. His products were incredibly good, people felt better. They wanted to buy from him, and he sold them. He was arrested, as they say. He was shut down, as a result, he began working with the Farm to Consumer Legal Defense Foundation, a group of lawyers like the Association for Home Education. They forced Florida bureaucrats to develop licenses for pets, and now for $25 you can register any food as pet food. Amazing. And he registered his ice cream, kefir, yogurt, as pet food for $25 per item, and now he sells food. Intended for people Eric within one year after this new rule went into effect in Florida there were 12 permanent farms producing raw milk I was in those places about 2 years later talking to locals in Gainesville Talaha Orlando these are big cities it's interesting what young people generation 3 thirty year old city guys said Look we know where to find good food look for pet food and the whole local healthy food movement knows about it Yeah this is another example great in Minnesota one lady took advantage of the lack of laws on fish bait so she was transporting cheese She was transporting cheese from Wisconsin to the Farmer's Market in Minneapolis she was arrested for not having a cheese license she called the state authorities and asked if there was a law or regulations on fish bait in Wisconsin in Minnesota they catch a lot of fish there the Great Lakes There are rules on bait there are no rules As long as it is edible and now she sells fish bait called Calder  Swiss and no one touches it Oh my God there is such a thing as a private membership association a very popular topic and at this conference we will discuss one issue there are supporters and opponents of the creation of a private membership association in essence we are talking about this In general, I join a private membership association such an association was created in the sixties in the deep south by country clubs in order to avoid complying with the civil rights law the association is not public it is a private club and therefore we can do whatever we want of course this club was created by influential circles of course biased but they set a precedent for the formation of a legal entity that is not a public organization in other words we hear in particular we must protect the interests of society food safety interests of society and what about what about private interests Yes private Yes and what if I don't want society to give its consent to what if I don't want to eat what society eats yes or food that is checked by society Yes I want to eat my own food this is an important point another example this is amazing this has just spread in our movement and I don't know if anyone uses it but I think this invention  Success awaits today on the Internet. You can take all sorts of courses, you can learn to sew, cook, fly an airplane, anything, any skill. So, all these courses, well, now there is the opportunity to enroll, say, in a butcher course, pay 200-300 dollars, and as part of the teaching aids or tools used in the course, you receive half a hundredweight of meat or 20 kilos. That is, my customers simply enroll in the course, pay for it, and Icha as part of the course materials and ingenuity. Yes, in essence, the whole principle here is that the government interferes with trade, namely, trade, and the courts have defined specific concepts, they have established what sale means, what income means, and in many ways, such ingenuity is aimed at finding a legal way to complete a transaction, to make a sale in such a way that it does not fall into the category of trade. After all, everything I said can be given to people for free, you can’t just sell it, all this can be bought. Buying is not illegal, only selling is illegal. Amazing. Amazing. This is what we do and our business is getting better. There are people who combine different ideas. I’ll take this idea and that idea and invent something of their own. We hold two conferences a year.  The next conference will be here. The fall conference will be in Dallas, Texas. I think we'll hold the next one in Florida. We just held one in the Pacific Northwest in Bowen, Washington. We hold conferences all over the country, and each time there are more and more people who have succeeded in fighting the bureaucracy that prevents small producers from entering the market. That is, if you want to sell, for example, produce from your farm. Will there be any obstacles to this? My God, in fact, we tried to do this about a year ago. We had a summer chef, and in the summer, when we use assistants, the summer chef and all the farm workers cook for all of us - that's 2,527 people can eat together like one family, all together. This is a wonderful end to the day. So, the chef wanted to stay with us, but the assistants only work for us for 5 months, until September. What should she do in the other 7 months? She suggested that I bake pies. This girl graduated from the Culinary Institute of America in Gates Park, New York. She is a certified chef with a diploma. So, I always wanted us to sell. chicken pies beef pies I love pies and all their variations with potatoes and meat and all that, in short, pies and our customers always ask. We would like to buy pies. So it was logical. And so she started making inquiries and of course she was told that first of all she needed a commercial kitchen. Well, we have a pretty good commercial kitchen on the farm, it's not licensed. The problem was that there should have been one there, but this kitchen is only hundreds of meters from our house. If she needs to go to the toilet, she can run to our house, but no, a commercial kitchen should have an adjoining bathroom, and a composting toilet will do. I asked. No. Do you need a porcelain toilet, running water, everything, the full program? And if I'm already satisfied with the Supreme Court? No, No, no options. And so it turned out that for a small experiment, you put down $40,000 to build a licensed wastewater treatment pond and a bathroom in order to try to sell a pie, and I started asking the inspector, " Can I go to Charlottesville for a minute?" There are food trucks in the university.  In the town where they sell pies, they constantly sell meat pies from a van, and there is no restroom there, and the inspector, yes, and this is a loophole that we want to eliminate, and we are thinking about how to do this. Wait a minute, I say, you want to say that if I install this kitchen on a chassis with wheels, then the restroom is no longer needed, and it is exactly like that. Absolutely right, but then the problem will be that pies cannot be sold except from a mobile shop. If you prepare food in a mobile shop, it cannot be sold anywhere. Besides a mobile shop, you can only sell from a mobile shop. So, we discussed and discussed. I could give more details, but you already understood everything, and all this is just for the sake of selling meat pies. You know, I think that we are dealing with a food industry that has a minimal margin. And these are meat products and all that. I looked at how much dent corn costs. $298 per metric ton. From this amount of corn, you can make more than 6,000 boxes of cornflakes. It turns out that the margin corn is about 7,000 pro while other products Oh my God, it's just incredibly difficult these barriers to entry into the market So I'm all for small farmers producing the right food and Is there some resource where a person can go and maybe find some network or some place where he can find where he can drink food close to home Maybe there is some database on your website or something else where a person can find where the information would be collected on all the small farmers so that we know where we can support them Well, there are online stores I don't know if I have one here somewhere I can Well, okay, the oral price fund this fund has an excellent guide for smart shoppers Of course, it's also called the Hitchhiker's Guide to Shopping, that's what they jokingly call it In addition, there are also other guides The main thing here is just to start different information Local food producers are a kind of subculture Yes, it's a subculture, a kind of tribal subculture Like any other tribal subculture and you won't find them if you sit on the couch and watch Netflix or football  sipping beer from a bottle So you won't find them You know, in the whole movement for real food, the most frustrating thing is that, as you know, it is very difficult to get people to change their usual way of life. Food is one of the main components of the usual way of life. I love this kind of food. I love this kind of food and if you want to change something in your lifestyle, you need real willpower, real conviction, to change it, a person must make a decision. I will participate. I will. I will. I will. I will change something. And this does not happen as if by magic. A good wizard will not do it for you. Information must be sought and in every region there are good farmers. And you can start your search with farmers' markets. Ask friends, go and see. Is there a market in your area that sells local products? Go to such a market, buy something there. See who sells there and then find out who these people are, how far away they are. You can become their customers. This is a very close Brotherhood. If they ask me, we do not grow everything we eat ourselves. We buy about 400  kilograms of apples a year from an organic orchard an hour and a half drive from us in the town of Froi and we bring apples from there then in a couple of days we make applesauce from them Teresa cans about 80 liters and this is our annual supply of applesauce If they ask me where I get apples, I will tell you where to buy them thus there is a whole network that Nobody knows about this ner This is not a bone this is not bailo glivi This is not one of those ordinary companies you need to move away from generally accepted views and find such farmers they absolutely exist And believe me it is worth it Yes it is worth it Yes, take at least the company carnivore snacks you know the one they recently closed I think they reopened But they closed because the dehydration process that they used they took finely chopped meat and sprinkled it with salt they were told no you can do that and the company closed but it reopened they had to change This and that but I think they will contact you or even come to your conference I think what you  You do this simply wonderfully After all, you organize inventive people so that they get together and share solutions and solutions always exist and more people can use them this is brilliant I live in Virginia and I know that here a lot of people run their own farms people are involved in this I think I will definitely indicate the date and location of your conference in the description under the video Yes, it will be next month But next month is already on the nose, right, it will be in May May 18th as far as I remember Yes, May 18th today is April 26th and the conference is on May 18th Yes, it’s coming soon, it’s coming soon Of course on that day For breakfast for conference participants we will have delicious wood-grilled sausages and scrambled eggs And for lunch, apparently, there will be delicious chicken barbecue chicken straight from my farm So it’s worth coming at least for the food Yes, friends, listen, this event is held specifically for farmers and also for everyone else who is looking for such food for city dwellers It happens that one of your friends wants to do this but he is at a dead end, you need to push him Tell me I was at the conference there is a solution to this problem there is no need to spend half a million dollars on all this infrastructure Let's come up with an inventive way to enter the market so that we don't have to go through all this, because thousands of people would like to become entrepreneurs, produce food, and they are ready to produce and supply their neighbors, but we were prohibited from doing this by creating insurmountable, enslaving licensing barriers. Yes, I will also try to get to you because in my opinion, the main factor in health is real food, so I want to continue to support this movement. It's hard to find food in stores today, you have to try really hard to find good food in them. What you are doing is wonderful. I will post your information below for those who are watching us. I highly recommend attending the conference, and for those who can't come, I think you will make a recording of the conference and it will be available in the recording. Yes, yes, it will be available, but we will not be broadcasting live. But we will edit and the video conference will be available later. And if you allow me, I will brazenly interject with advertising. Yes, I am addressing those who, after listening to us, will decide, you know, I must do this. I must make sure that this happens in my life. It's time to stop buying pumped-up chickens, and even organic chickens, which are actually kept locked up in I want to buy chickens that eat bugs, run around in the fresh air in the sun, eat green grass, they can just look at the green grass, we ship our products all over the country, and as far as I know, as far as we know, what we do is legal, but you know, I wrote a book about it, everything I want to do is definitely not legal, so, so, we're pretty visible, so we try not to push the boundaries, but we're pushing those boundaries. Maybe we should get permission to hold these conferences, but we didn't ask for permission, we just hold them, you know, don't ask, don't tell, it's easier to get forgiveness.  than permission So we just hold them In general, even if you even if you are not a farmer, it will be useful for you to come and see firstly what farmers go through trying to give you good food and secondly, learn something that will help you support a local farmer who is struggling with all this, there will be options for action, you can tell him about us, because as you know, if a person, let's say, does not share generally accepted views, he is lonely, he is lonely So we need camaraderie, brotherhood, support, and for this we must see that others do not give up Absolutely right Absolutely right, our food is at stake So this is very important I will give the information below I hope everyone will be able to come, not everyone But those who are interested and thank you Joel for participating and supporting all this I think this is a wonderful activity for a high purpose Excellent thank you for giving me a platform I look forward to new meetings great and