I want to talk about what is best to do not only for bipolar disorder but also for obsessive-compulsive disorder. I will note that all this does not replace medical treatment. Consult a doctor before doing this. I just want to give you another point of view because it can be very difficult to find a regimen that can really lead to the desired result. Unfortunately, the treatment of these two disorders that are offered today has many side effects. Firstly, there are a lot of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. These drugs block the reuptake of serotonin, which increases it in the body. You may also be prescribed intravenous clomipramine or deep brain stimulation, in which electrical wires are inserted into the brain, or even functional neurosurgery. Some may recommend a chemical lobotomy. When you read about alternative methods, you are scared that alternative methods are dangerous and have many side effects. But at the same time, someone was given fish oil 10 times the usual dose and, of course, received side effects. What about the side effects of drugs? The main question is that  Why did this disorder even arise? What's interesting is that it's important to understand that the mechanism of action of some of these medications is to manipulate neurotransmitters. A fact that many people don't know, although they should know, and which is related to all of this, is that the intestinal microflora produces a huge amount of neurotransmitters. It turns out that if you have intestinal problems, you'd better start solving them because in this case, the microflora probably doesn't produce enough neurotransmitters. I'm talking about serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. That's why people with bipolar disorder are much more likely to have intestinal inflammation than those who don't suffer from it. So, these things are connected. So, here's a simple procedure. If you have intestinal problems, first deal with them, as there are links to videos about this below. Essentially, you need to start eating foods that contain both prebiotics and probiotics. I mean fermented foods, sauerkraut, kimchi, maybe even high-quality kefir. Probiotics are a must. This alone can greatly stabilize your mood. And of course, I'll go straight to point six. The main thing that can lead to intestinal inflammation.  These are grains, so you simply must get rid of all grains in your diet, as well as sugar. Both of these ingredients are very destructive to the intestines. I know many people who simply eliminated gluten from their diet, got rid of sugar, and then these symptoms magically disappeared. To improve the intestines, fill them with friendly bacteria while simultaneously removing things that cause inflammation, and this also includes grain oils, such as soybean oil, corn oil, canola oil, and cottonseed oil. These are extremely pro-inflammatory foods. The second brain works much better on a low-carb ketogenic diet than on a high-carb, sugar-rich diet. Therefore, when we are dealing with emotional or cognitive disorders, the brain will benefit much more from ketones, so we reduce carbohydrates. And if you have irritable bowel syndrome or inflammation in the intestines, you may even need to switch to the carnivorous version of the ketogenic diet. On such a diet, you exclude plant foods. For some people, this is very beneficial, so we give the brain ketones as fuel and support the intestines. These are the two most important things. The third, very important point is fish.  I recommend cod liver oil because it also contains vitamins A and D, not to mention omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids help significantly reduce inflammation in the brain and, according to research, are very beneficial for such disorders. By the way, all the links about this are below. Good, high-quality fish oil is very important, but you need to understand that it takes about a month for it to work, so start drinking it regularly. This will help reduce inflammation in the brain and generally support its health. The next very important point is number four: B vitamins. Your brain desperately needs B vitamins. They are necessary for the functioning of neurotransmitters. If you have acarus, vitamin B1 is vital for you. It really helps with concentration and also relieves nervous tension. So, one is very important. In addition, you need folic acid. Take it. It is the natural form and this is very important. The rest of the B vitamins should also be taken. Natural nutritional yeast is an excellent source of these vitamins, much better than synthetic options. This is all a must, but this is at your discretion. Drain orotate and it is very  An effective remedy for bipolar disorder is the next item, n-acetyl cysteine, abbreviated as NPC. When buying something with the abbreviation Inesse, make sure it is n-acetyl cysteine. It is very effective in the manic phase of bipolar disorder because it regulates glutamate in the brain. This amino acid often affects people suffering from bipolar disorder or UCR. If you have depression, take hyperfarin. St. John's wort extract is an excellent remedy for depression. By the way, it is also an excellent remedy for vitamin D. If you also have schizophrenia, I recommend adding glycine to the list, but you need to take it in large quantities: 20 grams 3 times a day, which is 60 grams per day. You can adjust the dose based on your weight. To calculate it accurately, multiply 0.8 by your weight in kilograms. This can help significantly minimize this condition. Finally, you can add vitamin B3, niacin, as a kind of cherry on top.  It's well known that niacin is very helpful for those suffering from schizophrenia. In general, I wanted to give you this scheme so that you have an alternative scheme that you can follow to help yourself. You can create a basic nutrition plan and understand all the nuances of the ketogenic diet in my basic course, Healthy Keto. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.