There are interesting studies, the first of its kind, looking at the effects of BPA without phenol. This is a toxic substance found in water bottles, plastic, beverage can coatings, and canned goods all around us. The study was published in August 2020. It was conducted on 3,900 people for more than 10 years. I'm putting a link to it below. It showed that the group most exposed to BPA had the highest risk of premature death, regardless of cause. The group with the greatest exposure had a 51 percent higher risk of death. It was also found that it increases the risk of diabetes, diseases associated with blood pressure, and heart and vascular disease. This is another reason why it is important not only to have sufficient knowledge about genes in the environment but also to eat healthy foods. I mean regularly consuming foods that can break down these chemicals, such as cruciferous vegetables, broccoli, kale, Brussels sprouts, and arugula. There are also many non-cruciferous vegetables and various herbs, such as asparagus, bell peppers, and so on. All of this is very important because it promotes phase one and two detoxification.  Your body's detoxification systems also have their own mechanisms that are activated during fasting, so intermittent fasting is very important for eliminating harm and minimizing the effects of these environmental poisons that can kill you prematurely. Today's lesson is just a reminder that every day you act on your health either constructively or destructively, and what you are exposed to, what you eat, and what you do. All of this either contributes to your health or harms it. So it will be useful sometimes to sit down with a piece of paper and start writing down everything you are currently doing that promotes health, and on the other hand, write down for comparison everything you do that is harmful to your health and see what happens. Thank you for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.