Let's talk about how to get rid of plantar fasciitis, and what's more, instantly. The problem here is that people are prescribed painkillers, steroids, which have a lot of side effects, they are given injections, they are given orthopedic insoles, I had flat feet, I grew up on orthopedic walls, I had all types, it didn't help, we will make a cast of your flat tab and so that you can walk on it only when I throw away these insoles, my feet feel better, they also apply splints to hold the feet in the desired position at night, they also give injections of the toxin batulin, and if this does not help, we have a fast for Tamiya, it sounds like a lobotomy, but this is the removal of part of the fascia, that is, a person has the fascia cut to reduce tension in the hopes of relieving pain, and what about the scar tissue that will grow there and what about the underlying cause of fasciitis? At one time, I made a video about plantar fasciitis and I will simply read you a few comments to that video in which I showed a very non-obvious technique. Eliminating pain from plantar fasciitis and I will read you these amazing results and then I will show you how to use this technique. Listen, I tried everything. I am sitting on the couch and crying because I did all the stretches that I taught her, of course, and now I do not feel any pain in my heel at all. I don’t remember the last time I could walk without limping. Then, it’s incredible. The pain dropped from 10 to 0 on the second day after I started doing this. Long-term pain. Thank you. I also had plantar fasciitis for 3 months. The pain level was about 8. I was a little skeptical about this video because it went against everything I had seen, but I had nothing to lose. I tried it. The pain level dropped to one. Like many others, I was skeptical. I watched and tried it. I had heel pain for over ten years. There were days when I literally crawled around the house on all fours because I couldn’t stand on my feet. After one of these exercises, my heels got better. The pain dropped from 8 to 2. Thank you for going against the wind. And here’s another one I did ten times so far. I watched the video, the pain went away, thank you, Doctor Eric. I'll show you how to do it. Step 1: You should rate your pain on a scale of 0 to 10. 10 is very severe pain, 0 is no pain. Write this value down now, because we will rate the pain again after this simple stretch. Here's what you need to know. The worst thing you can do is stretch the fascia, like when stretching, and that's exactly how everyone does it. That's what splints do: they stretch it by lifting the foot up. Think about it: your fascia is inflamed, that is, the connective tissue under the foot is inflamed. Why stretch it further? There's probably already a microtrauma there, and if we stretch it, we injure it, and again, if you don't stretch it, you lift your foot like when stretching. If you have plantar fasciitis, you need to stretch the opposite muscles. In a minute, I'll explain why. There are a couple of ways to do this. I advise you to first do it this way: simply sit down, put your foot on the knee of your other leg, grab your toe and pull your foot down. In other words, you stretch. nic.ru you  Stretch the muscles in the front of your lower leg, this is the anterior tibialis muscle, and so stretch this muscle down, stretch it, relax, stretch, relax, stretch, relax, do this 10 times right now while you stretch. I'll tell you something: whenever there is damage such as inflammation under the foot and you stretch the opposite muscle, you send a signal to the opposite side, because when a muscle contracts, a chain connects this muscle and the opposite one to allow one muscle to contract, the opposite muscle must relax and lengthen, otherwise there will be no movement, but when you stretch a muscle, the same thing happens when you do this stretch, you send signals to the bottom of the foot and around to relax. This is what you do, probably ten times, you've already done it. Write down your pain level now. If you did everything correctly, it should decrease significantly, and please write it in the comments. Do this several times a day, every day for about two weeks. This is a stretch, but you need to do something else. Let's move on to number 2. You need to avoid foods that cause inflammation and what is considered food but is not.  In fact, junk food is made from three components: refined flour, refined sugar, and refined oils. Refined oils are called vegetable oils, but they have nothing to do with plants. They are not vegetable oils. They are oils from seeds, but vegetable oil sounds better. They don't squeeze this oil out of carrots or lettuce leaves. These oils are obtained in a different way. To get oil from seeds, you need to subject the seeds to enormous pressure, add solvents such as hexane, which can be toxic to the nervous system, and all this must be heated to very high temperatures. Refined flour, refined sugar, and certainly refined oils from seeds are evil, guilty of many inflammations in your body. But the main evil, and many do not pay attention to it, is vegetable oils. I mean soybean oil, corn oil, canola oil, cottonseed oil. This is what causes inflammation and other serious health problems. They lead to weight gain, obesity, heart disease, and shorten life. There is research linking them to cancer. After all, we recently replaced fats in our foods. Previously, people consumed saturated fats such as butter and lard.  hall and now we eat such vegetable oils I know you think and they use vegetable oils I don't have corn oil in my kitchen but in the US you get 20 percent of your calories from so-called vegetable oils 20 percent for the average person and I'll tell you where they're hidden in mayonnaise in salad dressings in canned packaged processed foods they're added to animal feed which you then go and these oils are in dishes in almost all restaurants restaurants don't cook with butter or olive oil it's soybean corn canola oil unfortunately if you often dine out and your plantar fasciitis gets worse then we know why this is what omega-6 fatty acids do which cause inflammation they begin to replace certain healthy fats in cell membranes in other words these oils get into the cells and then they are very difficult to remove from there it takes about four years to remove these oils from the cells remove them from the body because they are tightly bound to the membranes of all cells when you change your diet and start getting rid of  Use more of these oils than saturated fats for cooking. Go for butter, coconut oil, avocado oil, and especially olive oil. It takes about four years to completely remove these oils from the body, and the level of oxidation in the body is simply astronomical due to the fact that these oils are very fragile. The damage caused by free radicals during inflammation is enormous, not to mention the fact that all these oils are gamma oils, which means they probably contain traces of the herbicide glyphosate, as well as traces of hexane, and this is another toxin that I will not talk about now. I am emphasizing this because in my practice, I would say one hundred percent of people with plantar fasciitis consumed a huge amount of these oils, and as soon as we replaced these fats, they experienced significant improvements not only in terms of inflammation, but also in terms of various health problems. Also, to quickly achieve relief, you can take vitamin D3 in the winter and spend a lot of time in the sun in the summer, because vitamin D3 is one of the most powerful anti-inflammatory agents, and I would not take 600 IU, which is the recommended daily intake. I would take  At least 10,000 ohms, but even 20,000 is desirable, and probably within a couple of hours any inflammation in your body, whether in the soles of your feet or in your back, will begin to disappear. The last thing that causes severe inflammation is frequent meals. I highly recommend intermittent fasting, and you will see that this will also greatly affect your inflammation, not to mention things like weight, mood, cognitive function, and energy levels. For those who want to learn about what I think is a better anti-inflammatory diet, here is a list of several videos that you should definitely watch. Here they are. Watch them.