I already talked about pain in the abdomen on the right, but I haven't talked much about pain on the left. Maybe I talked about it in one video, but it's hard to find. This video is about what happens if you have pain under the rib on the left. What it could be is this liver. This is the pancreas. The liver is here, and the pancreas is on the left. The gallbladder is on the right. There are all these little tubes through which bile flows. The liver produces bile, it flows through these tubes. They are called ducts, and most of the bile accumulates in the gallbladder. There, the concentration of bile increases 57 times when you eat. This bladder contracts and squeezes bile into the small intestine. There is the pancreas. It produces enzymes. These enzymes are especially important when fats are being digested. The pancreas produces an enzyme called lipase, which helps break down fats. There are also other enzymes produced and secreted by the pancreas. If you look at this area, which is located somewhere under the stomach in the middle, here these bile ducts connect with the ducts.  pancreas if a gallstone accidentally formed here or some kind of obstruction arose in these tubes here or below here, the flow will be directed into the pancreas and now these enzymes dissolve and irritate the pancreas itself. As a rule, the causes of pancreatitis are either a serious excess of alcohol or stones in a woman, but up to forty percent of cases are idiopathic, which means the cause is unknown. But if you look for more information on this topic, you can find out that there is so-called biliary sludge, this is a kind of preliminary stage of a gallstone. A person develops a thick bile sediment. It is very difficult to detect with an MRI or even an ultrasound because the crystals are extremely small. I will leave a link if you need more data on this. But here's what happens if there is sediment that clogs these tubes and these valves, which may not close properly, enzymes do not drain, they fall back and we get pancreatitis. This sediment is concentrated cholesterol crystals. The reason for this is not high cholesterol or an excess of cholesterol in the diet, the reason for this is a lack  Bile is a key fluid in the body that regulates the amount of concentrated cholesterol. Bile helps liquefy cholesterol. If there is a lack of bile, there is a risk of gallstones. Biliary fold increases and these crystals appear. The solution is not necessarily a low- cholesterol diet, but a diet that needs to be supplemented with purified bile salts. Because bile salts help liquefy this cholesterol in bile, thanks to which all this can flow through the ducts, there are several things you can do to increase bile production. Reduce the amount of carbohydrates consumed. This is called healthy tetata. Intermittent fasting. Reduce the amount of grains. Because when you eat more grains, insulin levels rise. Excess insulin can deplete bile reserves. Excess estrogen can also deplete them. Therefore, taking birth control pills or high estrogen levels during pregnancy can negatively affect bile. This is why the risk of gallstones increases during pregnancy. Also, with estrogen replacement therapy, omega-6 acids in vegetable oils cause inflammation, which is why insulin resistance can occur.  It's true that excessive consumption of nuts or nut products creates an excess of omega-6 fatty acids, which irritates this area. Alcohol should be mentioned; you'll have to limit your beer intake to six cans on weekends, maximum number seven. Corn is mostly gamma-based, meaning it contains glyphosate, which strongly irritates the inner lining of the bile ducts. It's also high in carbohydrates. Taking purified bile salts is very, very important. One capsule in the morning on an empty stomach and one in the evening on an empty stomach, gradually. This will help keep this flow open, maintain outflow, and reduce inflammation. Well, thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.