Hi, today I'll show you an amazing stretch for the neck. If you look at the back of your head, the skull is attached to the first vertebra and to the other vertebrae as well. We'll be working with this connection between the skull and the first vertebra. There are a lot of ligaments that squeal and hold the bones together. If you've had a coccyx injury or other injury in the past, or just gravity is doing its job, you need to slightly separate them from each other and stretch them to increase the space between the skull and the first vertebra. Since this vertebra is round, we'll stretch at different angles. I'll show you everything. We'll start from this point and stretch in this direction, then here, then here. That's how I'll show you everything. Our goal is to create space there. The back of the skull is called the back of the head. This first vertebra is called the first cervical vertebra, C1. We're stretching this connection. The sensation will be wonderful, but you need another person for this. Find someone, show them a video, practice on each other. Of course, it will take time. There are a few moments when you put your thumb and stretch. Some people's thumbs aren't wide enough, so you might have to use part of your hand and be especially careful because that's where the hair starts.  and there is no need to pull them, I'll show you everything, let's get down to practice. Here's our skull, it sits on only one vertebra, the cervical vertebra C1. You can see that there are small depressions here on which this part sits, and it rotates. 90 percent of the movement occurs in the first vertebra. Let me put it back, and now we need to stretch the ligaments between the first vertebra and the back of the skull. This is a stretch of the ligaments between the back of the head and the first cervical vertebra C1. Here are the ligaments. The ligaments hold the bones together. The tendons hold the muscles and bones together. We will stretch the ligaments. So, you need to place your hand here below and stretch in this direction because the skull is attached to the spine. At this point, you need to stretch in this direction. We stretch in this direction. We get our finger from below and lift our hands, they are fixed. I lift carefully, do not pull the hair. You need a large area of ​​pressure, so use the entire surface of your finger and stretch upward. With the other hand, we help tilt the skull, of course, not that much. I'm just showing the direction and repeating 3-4 times.  then slowly moving here and lifting, you can put your finger like this, I'll show you on a real person, stretch it like this, you need to create a gap here, this will bring great relief, now move here and lift it like this, you can even use your fingers and work like this, elbows are well fixed, I press with my whole body, hands are not spread out, like this, move to this side and do the same, stretch the ligaments and lower your head down at this angle, tilt it like this, or we can approach from this side, place your hands here and tilt in the opposite direction, move up here and like this, if you practice, you can bring a person great relief, sleep will improve, breathing will become easier, stress will go away, he will even feel like he has grown, this is useful for those who have had a coccyx injury, the force from the impact goes up and gets stuck right here, this is a very useful technique, the only thing is if a person was in a car accident and there was a head-on collision, it means the head suddenly moved forward due to the sudden stop of the car, this damages the ligaments, so if there was such an injury, you begin to stretch  in this direction, it will only aggravate the situation. In this case, I would not do this. In this case, you need to stretch in the opposite direction, back, never forward. You will immediately understand if there was an injury, there will be discomfort, then stretch back. The problem is solved now. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type thanks to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, get back a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package, a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system is waiting for you. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course. And so, this is how it is done. The skull sits on the spine. The vertebra looks like a small plate and rotates. This is how the skull sits on the first vertebra. We need to create a gap between the skull, the lower part of the skull, the back of the head, and the first vertebra. We will stretch. Place your thumb directly under the back of your head here. So, I show you. Put your thumb here and here you need it. dexterity you need to kind of hook your finger under the back of your head under this protrusion fix your finger here and we will move at this angle I am trying to lift, lift and stretch forward and be careful when stretching do not pull the hair so I try not to pull the hair I do everything very carefully take the opposite hand and put it on the skull to balance the applied force and so we put the hand lift and move forward lift and stretch in this direction pull the head up pay attention to the elbow it is pressed to the body this is the position like this do not spread the elbows before I did this all day and it is physically difficult so you need to use biomechanics correctly lift and stretch by the way the sensations are great good code also help with this hand to tilt the head forward because I am trying to make such a movement after I lifted it requires some practice we lift from the bottom up without pulling the hair and do not pull the hair so now I move a little further to the middle the angle is different not like  before, we lift it like this, wide fingers and thumbs help, I have very wide ones, I repeat, be careful not to ruin your hairstyle, this is the main thing, yes, I lift my hair like this and tilt it forward, lower my chin like this to create a stretch, now I will stretch the middle straight forward, by the way, viewers, as you can see, he puts in a lot of effort of physical strength, but the sensations are amazing, before, stretching helps improve sleep, relieve neck pain, improve neck flexibility, relax, relieve stress, many people here are tense, this should not be done only in one case, if a person was in a car accident in a head-on collision, because the neck was the first to come forward and the ligaments here were torn, so you definitely shouldn't stretch them even more, in case there was a head-on collision, you need to stretch back in the opposite direction, and so if a person is in pain during the procedure, it is probably due to an injury, just stop, we can continue in this spirit here, but I prefer to use the middle finger here, and that is not a fact, the other fingers support the middle one, and I begin to stretch like this, I stretch it at this angle, and I lift it like this and I tilt it here, you can use your thumb, you can even stand on this side, put your thumb under the back of your head, pull it up and at the desired angle. Now I'm on this side and moving here. A slight movement. You just need to stretch it a little. Sometimes, if your thumb is too narrow, this can affect the lack of contact area. The pressure can be more painful, and therefore, you need to reduce the force depending on how the person feels. So, how are you? I'm just great. You applied a decent amount of force. This is not an easy movement at all, but the feeling is great. When you start stretching the ligaments and tendons, the whole body will feel super relaxed. It will be easier to breathe. This is also very useful if you had a tailbone injury because the force from the blow rose and got stuck right here, and here it will be tense. Amazing. Thank you, Dr. Berg. Please try this technique and write in the comments what you think. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.