Let's talk more about the rhomboid muscles. One of them attaches to the right shoulder blade and one to the left. We will talk mainly about what is on the right side. If it hurts, is stiff, or there are some painful sensations in it, you can decide that you just need to lie on a tennis ball, do a massage or stretch. But if you do this, the pain may return in about an hour. I had pain in the rhomboid muscle for literally years. I had no idea what the matter was. As a chiropractor, I thought that all the troubles from a bone displacement just need to be reset. The bone and the problem will go away. It's a pity I didn't know then what I know now. Because in fact, it was referred pain from somewhere else. If you step on a dog's tail, its mouth will bark. You will start to mess with its mouth. No, you take your leg off the tail. Often, people who have problems with a muscle in one area of ​​the body do not realize that this can be reflected in a completely different area of ​​the body. There is the so-called dorsal nerve of the scapula. It comes from the fifth cervical vertebra and connects to the rhomboid muscle.  also with another muscle, the levator scapulae muscle, it is located here right under the trapezius. So, this nerve goes from the fifth cervical to the levator scapulae muscle and the crampoid muscles, and pressure on this nerve can cause discomfort in these places, constant irritation, constant stiffness, constant spasm, but here's what I didn't know when I had this problem. This group of nerves in the lower part of the neck is connected to another nerve, the phrenic nerve. This nerve goes from the neck to the diaphragm itself, its front part on both sides with several. Therefore, if there is any problem in the area of ​​the diaphragm, signals from there can go back to the neck, causing slight tension, slight irritation of this nerve and creating constant stiffness of these two muscles on the right, and neither massage nor trigger point therapy will completely eliminate this. Today I will show you how to fix this. Yes, somewhere in five percent of cases, the problem is really in these muscles, then some stretching is needed. I will show you an excellent way to do it, but in the vast majority of cases, the problem is in the lower part of the phrenic nerve under the diaphragm in the area where three things are located: the first is the gallbladder, the second is the tubes.  connecting the gallbladder to the liver is the bile ducts and the third liver, there can be a lot of problems here, these are gallstones and irritation of the gallbladder, there can be bile sediment during which the bile ducts expand, this is called cholestasis and is caused by a lack of bile, or the liver can be enlarged, this is called hepatomegaly, and the cause of this can even be fatty liver, you know the French word foie gras, geese or ducks are force-fed corn or other grains so that their liver becomes fatty, and the liver can increase in size 10 times, from corn, sugar and other carbohydrates, our liver also becomes fatty, it can increase so much that it will press on the phrenic nerve and cause the same problem on the right, of course, someone may have this problem on the left, in which case the reason is the same. After all, if the sediment has blocked the bile ducts near the gallbladder, and the bile ducts merge with the ducts of the pancreas, then the pancreatic ducts can also become blocked and cause pain on the left and behind, the reason which I will tell you about is the same, be  then pain on the right or left The real cause of pain in the back is a problem with the gallbladder, its ducts, or the liver. This will help to find out. A very simple experiment will help. Massage or press under the ribs on the right. Where the gallbladder is located, 2-3 cm down and the same to the right from the center line. Just start massaging this area. It will hurt a little, but if you massage it for ten seconds, it should cause relief in the area of ​​​​the right shoulder in the rhomboid muscle. More discomfort will quickly return, but the fact that the massage brings some relief suggests that in this area on the right below, something is wrong with the gallbladder, its ducts, or the liver. We don’t know yet, but my recommendation is to change the diet to improve this condition. This entire area should be avoided. Others should be eaten until this problem disappears completely. I speak from personal experience. I no longer have this problem because I changed my diet. What foods most irritate the liver, gallbladder, and its ducts are cereals, as well as sugar and oils that contain a lot of omega-6. They strongly irritate the gallbladder and the liver. They cause inflammation. So if you go to a restaurant and order something fried in  deep-fried, you know that they cook with such oils and this food will cause bloating under the ribs on the right side and eventually tension in these muscles will appear. Other foods are also deep-fried, such as chips, just look at their ingredients. There is some kind of oil in which corn or potatoes are fried, and it also aggravates all this. Other foods that are high in omega-6 include nut butters, almond peanut butter. This area can be irritated by any nuts, alcohol, fast food, processed foods, large meals, frequent meals. If the entire digestive tract is constantly filled with food, this greatly irritates this area. The liver is constantly working, even more problems arise. All these are the main harmful factors. So, a moderate amount of protein is not necessarily a lot of fat, but do not avoid saturated fats. Eat high-quality protein, eggs, fish, grass-fed meat, etc. Eat plenty of vegetables or greens at the same time when you eat proteins and fats first. Eat a large portion of greens and then protein with fat, and so on at every meal, vegetables  The fiber in vegetables helps increase the release of cholesterol through the liver and bile ducts, and vegetables are generally very good for the liver. A diet consisting only of meat or fat without vegetables is hard on the liver. If vegetables are heated too much instead of eaten raw, we do not get the enzymes that are in raw vegetables and which help us. It is also very important not to eat so often. This is intermittent fasting. I recommend a couple of remedies to make bile more liquid and facilitate the flow. There is a product that can be bought online called Tutka. Taura ursodeoxycholic acid. Tutka is a type of bile salt that thins bile. Take two capsules in the morning on an empty stomach and two capsules in the afternoon on an empty stomach. In addition to this, find a good bile salt supplement that can be taken with food and take two capsules after meals. This additional bile will reduce the load on the liver, gallbladder, and its ducts and ensure a good flow of bile through this area. Within one to two weeks, you will feel great relief in this area at the back. This solution will eliminate the problem somewhere in 95  percentage of all cases, but let's say in this area there are problems due to the way you sit at the computer due to an injury. Here I advise you to buy poles for developing flexibility. These are excellent. I don't know. Can they be called tools? Training equipment. These are poles with which you can do amazing stretching exercises. I recently bought them and I love them and they are associated with this company. But there's a link below. You can do amazing exercises with them not only for the rhomboid and shoulder muscles, but for the whole body. I am constantly studying different equipment and different workouts. I really love these poles. And since we are talking about referred pain, there is a very interesting video that talks about pain in other parts of the body, the cause of which is not where you think. If you haven't watched that video, then watch it here.