I wanted to make a short video about how to get rid of painful menstruation, which is also called menstrual cramps or menstrual pain. It's all the same thing. A spasm occurs in the lower body. The question is, What exactly causes the spasm? Does it occur in the uterus? Yes, a spasm can occur in the uterus, because during childbirth it is the uterus that contracts. Well, during the menstrual cycle, the uterus also contracts. So, we are dealing with a muscle spasm. There is a very quick way to achieve relief. So, lie on your stomach. This is called the prone position. Put your hands in front of you and bend backwards. This will stretch the uterus, because it is in front of the lower back. So, you will immediately get relief and this will help. If you can do this, sometimes severe pain does not allow you to do this, but first of all, try to do this, but you cannot do stretching all day. Then, what can you do to get to the root of the problem? When you read about menstrual pain and menstrual cramps, one word catches your eye here and there: prostaglandins. What is this substance that gives a signal to one or another?  Parts of the body do certain things, for example, create inflammation. It is prostaglandins in the brain that are behind inflammation. When taking a drug, for example, Ibuprofen for pain, including headaches, it blocks prostaglandins. There are other types of prostaglandins, and we will discuss the purpose of which is to cause constriction of blood vessels in the uterus. If its level is too high, I will tell you why it is too high. Let's discuss how you can block prostaglandins. Or lower their level. Most people take ibuprofen, and it works, but there is a problem: side effects. It has many possible stomach problems. And not only that, but I don't want to talk about that, but about an alternative remedy similar to ibuprofen, but practically without side effects. Below is a link to a study in which ibuprofen is compared with this remedy, and they are very, very similar. Ibuprofen turned out to be more effective. But both of these remedies are very similar in their effectiveness. This remedy is cinnamon. Yes, cinnamon. So mix cinnamon with sugar, sprinkle it on toast, and that's it. Of course, this is a joke. You need cinnamon, which is sold in capsules, because you need a gram, that is, 1,000  mg of cinnamon and this dose should be taken three times a day. Cinnamon has many different properties. It normalizes blood sugar levels. But in this case, it causes inflammation by reducing the level of prostaglandins, namely those that affect the uterus. You are probably wondering why the level of prostaglandins increases at all. The issue is an imbalance of two hormones. The level of progesterone is excessively reduced, and there is too much estrogen. This combination creates this problem. So it turns out that cinnamon just lowers estrogen levels and increases progesterone levels. So, it not only affects prostaglandins, it acts deeper. I recommend a couple more things that directly block prostaglandins. Vitamin D3. I would take about 10,000 e three times a day during the day at the same time as you take cinnamon, as well as calcium and magnesium. Vitamin D also helps absorb calcium and magnesium, which helps them penetrate into tissues, which helps relieve this spasm. Vitamin D also has a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. A third remedy that can be very useful.  Omega-3 fatty acids in cod liver oil Omega-3 is a natural pain reliever, a natural anti-inflammatory. So, now you know a powerful remedy for menstrual cramps or pain. Now the question is, in the World Cup, what is this imbalance? Excess estrogen and lack of progesterone. This is one of the issues discussed in the course. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, product lists, and exercises for training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.