Many people sometimes experience pain or a kind of aching sensation behind the eyes and they try in every possible way to find the cause. Today I will tell you that usually, in fact, there are different reasons behind this, but most often this is what happens. However, there may also be sensitivity to light. There may also be pain. Here, above the eye, on the border of the eye socket, or below on both sides around the eye sockets, there may also be tension in the eyes or uncontrollable lacrimation. And what is the reason for this? It is the hypersensitivity of a certain nerve. It is called the trigeminal nerve and it is located right behind the eyes. So, you have similar symptoms and you blame this nerve. You do steroid injections, take medications, but the problem does not go away because the hypersensitivity of the nerve is just the tip of the iceberg. Something happens behind the scenes. I will tell you about what process occurs even before the symptoms appear. So, the first thing that happens is that you are sick with the so-called chickenpox. Most people have had it at some point. With chickenpox, your immune system is activated, namely, acquired immunity, not the innate immunity with which you were born. It begins to produce antibodies to this virus, and this protection then lasts for years. 50 but when it stops working you become more vulnerable to diseases such as shingles another name is herpes zoster its causative agent is the same virus that causes chickenpox the varicella zoster virus can cause full-blown shingles or give you a signal that this can happen and this signal is the sensitivity of the trigeminal nerve because this virus sits right in the sensory nerves there and waits for its time when the immune system weakens and the environment is suitable for it and this pain behind the eyes essentially occurs due to manifestations associated with this virus there are several reasons why it is activated one of the important reasons is the cold especially in the winter months it is important to understand you can simply avoid hypothermia when going outside very warmly dress and cover your whole body maintain a warm temperature in the house you wonder why when you just had a good time outside on a winter day you suddenly get pain behind the eyes and you just need to remove these provoking factors and strengthen the immune system another provocateur is atmospheric pressure when the weather changes the virus can become active and how can you cope with it  I have no idea about this with atmospheric pressure. I don't think the only way to strengthen your immune system is to be able to withstand everything. But here's another very serious factor: stress. There are many types of stress. You can say that you don't have stress, but look more closely. Stress is all around us. Psychological stress is constant because of the news, even some videos we watch, because of films that keep us afraid. We need to figure all these things out. I have a video about this, they're in my anti-stress course. Stress is a serious factor. It activates cortisol, which literally paralyzes white blood cells. In women, during menopause, the ovaries stop functioning, they are replaced by the adrenal glands, and the level of cortisol increases, and cortisol suppresses the immune system, and then all these symptoms occur. I also have a video about how to increase hormone levels during menopause. The link is below. The idea is to give the body a precursor of these hormones, namely cholesterol, and by the way, everything that lowers cholesterol. I won't name specific medications. It essentially reduces the amount of the precursor of these hormones, which in turn can activate some viruses that have been in the body for years.  Another type of stress is hibernation, which is vaccination, which actually weakens the immune system. I'm not saying whether you need to get vaccinated or not. I'm just giving you information. Two more provoking factors: the first is vitamin D deficiency, which automatically weakens the immune system, and the second is zinc deficiency. Both of these deficiencies create the preconditions for many problems. I'm just giving you food for thought, but come to all this and think about prevention. The virus plays hide-and-seek with you, sometimes it comes out, sometimes it hides again. When your resistance grows, important factors are good sleep, regular exercise, keeping stress under control, and a healthy diet. If you watch my videos, you know what this means. I just wanted to share information about what can cause pain behind the eyes. This information is from a book I just read. I'll leave the link below. If you haven't watched my recent video about cortisol and how to lower it, be sure to watch it.