Today we'll discuss how to get rid of menstrual cramps forever. If you are a woman and you experience cramps, you will be glad you watched this video.  After all, I will give you a solution that will eliminate not only the spasms, but also their very cause, so that they never return and without the side effects of medications.  Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. What are menstrual cramps?  These are very painful periods.  There are two types of spasms.  The first type is idiopathic.  This means that their cause is unknown.  Doctors don't know what causes them.  And secondary menstrual cramps are usually caused by something else .  It could be a fibroid, an ovarian cyst, or endometriosis, excess tissue that grows outside the uterus and around various organs in the lower uterine cavity.  The problem with severe menstrual cramps is that many women take NSAIDs for pain, birth control pills, depot, synthetic progesterone, and all of these have side effects.  But no one ever names the real root cause of menstrual cramps .  I know why they do n't name her.  Because, in essence, there is no consensus among doctors regarding it .  This is a group consensus.  It is often biased, which influences groups, and they then form a consensus. The problem is that you won't find information about menstrual cramps on Google or even in GPT chat.  I'll tell you how I learned all this using different clues.  I think what Wikipedia writes about this is very funny.  Here's what it says in the alternative medicine section.  There is insufficient evidence to recommend the use of many herbal and dietary supplements for the treatment of dysminaria, including melatonin, vitamin E, fennel, dill, chamomile, cinnamon, damask rose, rhubarb, guava, and uzara.  According to a 2016 review, there is insufficient evidence to support the safety of most dietary supplements.  This means there is no evidence that these natural remedies are safe.  What about drug safety?  When you compare the safety of medications and alternative methods, the difference is simply huge. Amazing.  They are clearly trying to dissuade us from trying alternative means. There is evidence of the benefits of fenugreek.   A 19-year study found that valerian and several other herbal remedies may be safe and effective in treating dysminaria.  One review found that thiamine (vitamin B1) and vitamin E are likely effective.  I would like to say a few words about vitamin B1.  There was a fairly large, randomized controlled trial of over 500 girls in India, and they found tremendous relief.  But at the end of the study it was said: "We don't know if this works in other countries. It may only work in India. But here's what's amazing. They took 100 mg of B1 for one to three months and got great results. According to another study, vitamin E reduced spasms. We'll discuss the mechanism later. Read on. The effects of fish oil and B12 on dysminargia have not been studied. There is encouraging data on herbal remedies of traditional Chinese medicine for primary dysminargia. Let's look at a few clues to get to the root cause. And in fact, I found all the clues on Wikipedia. Here's the first clue from Wikipedia. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you of new videos. With this simple action, you will greatly help the further development of the channel. And we continue. Painful spasms are caused by pain chemicals called prostaglandins. What causes them to appear? They don't just happen So, for no reason. If you don't know all the factors that cause their formation, you'll just take NSAIDs to relieve the pain. Number two. Vasopressin. Another substance whose levels are elevated during menstrual cramps. Vasopressin causes muscle contraction and a decrease in blood flow, creating a vasoconstrictor effect . If you don't know what's causing it to rise, you'll be taking pain medication until the end of your period. The third clue is related to high levels of parathyroid hormone. There's something called hyperparathyroidism. Here are some of its symptoms. Spasms, smooth muscle, titania - this is muscle twitching and spasms, which is interesting, because parathyroid hormone makes tissues hypersensitive to contractions. And a couple of things happen. First, the function of parathyroid hormone is to mobilize, take calcium from the bones and send it into the blood. After all, there must always be a certain level of calcium in the blood. But this extraction of calcium from the bones, unlike getting calcium from food, does not occur  smoothly, but chaotically. And that's what causes the cramping we're talking about . But the point is, when parathyroid hormone levels are high during menstruation, you're more likely to have cramping than when they're low. That's another clue. We'll get back to that in a bit . Also, painful cramping is associated with much higher levels of inflammation because of this thing. I won't give you a complicated explanation, but just know what it's called. It increases inflammation in the uterus. Next clue. Black women are 33% more likely than white women to have severe cramping, and they're 3-9 times more likely to develop fibroids. That's a little clue. We'll get back to that. And here's the last clue. Menstrual cramps are sometimes treated with calcium channel blockers. Calcium causes muscle contractions. So if you have a muscle contracting, it's caused by too much calcium. Calcium channel blockers are usually used for  decreased blood pressure and decreased contractions. And what is the connection between painful menstrual cramps and excess calcium? Have I given enough clues about what the root cause is? It's a severe vitamin D3 deficiency, low vitamin D3 levels. How does this relate to everything I've told you? Well, vitamin D reduces the activity of prostaglandins. Vitamin D also suppresses vosopressin and reduces its levels. It counteracts this contraction, dilates blood vessels, and improves blood flow. Next, does vitamin D affect parathyroid hormone? Yes, it significantly reduces its levels. After all, when you take vitamin D, your intestines absorb calcium, and the body does not need to increase parothyroid hormone levels to mobilize calcium from the bones. That is, a high level of parathyroid hormone only means a lack of vitamin D. After all, parathyroid hormone is a substitute for vitamin D. And when there is enough vitamin D, there is no need for high levels of PTH, and smooth muscles contract less. After all,  The calcium level in the blood is now normal. By the way, here's something very interesting. Some women take calcium gluconate as a remedy for menstrual cramps. After all, taking calcium automatically reduces the high level of parotid hormone. And then this severe cramp, this titanic thing goes away, and it brings you great relief. But it's much better to take vitamin D. After all, then you eliminate the root cause of the problem. And is there some connection between vitamin D and high levels of inflammation, and also with this NFC factor? Oh, yes. And what a connection. Vitamin D turns off this factor. It is one of the most powerful anti-inflammatory agents. So vitamin D reduces inflammation. And what about vitamin D in black women? Melanin in the skin is a natural protection from the sun. It blocks ultraviolet light. This is one of the barriers to obtaining vitamin D. The darker the skin, the more sun it takes for it to overcome this barrier and you get vitamin D. This also explains the formation of fibroids. After all, fibroids are caused by a severe deficiency of vitamin D, like endometriosis, like testicles  ovarian. There's some really interesting data that says that to shrink a benign tumor, you need to raise your blood vitamin D levels above 90 mg/ml. And a lot of people don't know that. They have blood vitamin D levels of 20, 30, 40, and that's just not enough. Not to mention that too much or too little estrogen affects your vitamin D levels. You need enough of the right estrogen to activate vitamin D and for vitamin D to penetrate deep into the cells. So there's a very close relationship between vitamin D and estrogen, as well as progesterone. And what about calcium channel blockers? Well, magnesium is a natural calcium channel blocker. Magnesium causes the opposite effect of contractions. It causes relaxation. Spasms always mean you need more magnesium, and without vitamin D, magnesium doesn't work. And without magnesium, vitamin D doesn't work. So you need both. The point is, magnesium is a natural calcium channel blocker. And  As for pressure, vitamin D is one of the most powerful means for lowering blood pressure. So, part of the solution that I recommend is taking vitamin D with magnesium. But you don’t need to take calcium as well, because your contractions are already too strong. And now I’ll give you 13 science-backed tips that will help you get rid of cramps forever. I’m happy to present to you our new children’s book. It’s called Lucy, Nora, and Freeman’s Search for Real Food. Lucy and Nora are my granddaughters. I wanted to create a book for them to give them basic knowledge about real food. It’s an entertaining story about the difference between real food and junk food. Here I gave the whole story of Lucy explaining to Nora and Freeman the difference between junk food and real food. Interestingly, this is the second version. of this book. When I sat down with Lucy and started reading her the first version of this book to surprise her, I thought she would be delighted. But in the middle of the book, she stopped me and said: “Grandpa, there are too many words, so  that I decided to revise the book.  I simplified it a little more and removed some difficult to understand parts.  And the result is a very simple book that a six-year-old child can easily understand.  Here I also tell you what you can eat in a cafe.  And there are recipes for parents to make super healthy desserts with their kids, like shortbread cookies, vanilla keto sponge cake, keto pancakes, and yogurt ice cream. If you have young children or grandchildren, this is a great book to give them a basic understanding of real food.  And you don't have to wait until they're older to try to change their habits. It's better to teach them all this at once so that they can distinguish healthy food from junk food on their own.  So, let's get started.  Number one. You need to start taking more vitamin D3.  In a study on taking vitamin D to reduce menstrual cramps.  By the way, there are many such studies .  They are not on Wikipedia.  They are in other places.  I will provide links below.  You need to know this.  We have two vitamin D systems. One is responsible for bones and calcium, and the other is responsible for all other tissues: the immune system, the uterus, muscles, and so on.  And for the second system, vitamin D is needed daily.  You need to take vitamin D daily or get sun exposure every day .  And your daily preventative dose should be somewhere between 6,000 and 10,000 every day.  This is how much we get in 20 minutes in the sun.  Many barriers prevent people from getting vitamin D. Some people don't leave the house, don't get sun exposure, and others are overweight.  If your skin is dark, you need even more vitamin D.  And if you have insulin resistance ( pre-diabetes) or diabetes, this greatly limits the absorption of vitamin D. There are many such barriers, and this is in addition to genetic barriers. The point is this.  In one study, people took 300,000 IU of vitamin D3 once a month.  In another study, people received 50,000 IU every week. Here's what else is interesting about the scientific papers I've read.  In them, the level of vitamin D in the blood was raised to only about 30 nagra per milliliter.  I still think it's too little.  Cofactors needed to be added to make this work better. for example, vitamin K2 and especially magnesium and perhaps even zinc.  I say this because no study does what I just told you about.  In them, vitamin D is given either in too high doses or too rarely, which does not allow for positive changes to be achieved.  So, I recommend taking vitamin D3 20,000 E at least every day with magnesium. I would take magnesium glycinate as this form of magnesium is the best absorbed .  It is absorbed by 80%, while magnesium oxide is absorbed by only three percent.  And it's not very effective.  I would take them every day so they would accumulate.  And then at the beginning of your period you will have maximum vitamin D in your tissues, which will prevent an increase in prostaglandins.  Vozopresin will be low, as will parotid hormone, as will the level of inflammation. Besides this, I highly recommend switching to a low-carb diet, to a healthy diet.  Why?  Because this will remove one of the barriers to the absorption of vitamin D. insulin resistance. If you can improve your insulin sensitivity, you will also improve your absorption of vitamin D3. With insulin resistance, insulin levels are high, so vitamin D is absorbed and assimilated much worse.  For example, people with diabetes absorb much less vitamin D than they need. Along with a low-carb diet, you need intermittent fasting.  Eat not six times a day, three meals and three snacks, but two or even once a day.  After all, the less often you eat, the faster your insulin sensitivity will increase , which will improve the absorption of vitamin D. Number five.  Remarkably, randomized controlled trials have shown that cod liver oil works as well as ibuprofen, but without the side effects.  It reduces menstrual cramps and has been used for a very long time, even by doctors for a variety of health problems in the early 20th century.  Number six.  Vitamin E. Vitamin E can be obtained from leafy greens and from certain nuts and seeds. If you take vitamin E in supplement form, I recommend taking vitamin E in the form of tocotrienols rather than tocopherols, because tocotrienols work much better. Number seven.  I already talked about the B1 study.  By adding nutritional yeast to your greens, you 'll not only get enough B1 to reduce nerve sensitivity and pain, but also B6 and other B vitamins to help improve the condition of the area.  To replenish iron, it is best to eat red meat rather than take pills.  Number nine. Zinc.  Zinc is also necessary for better absorption of vitamin D3, and it also reduces menstrual pain. And you can get zinc from red meat. It's an excellent source of zinc, iron, and some B vitamins. Number 10: Regular exercise has been shown to reduce the risk of menstrual cramps.  Number 11. Fenugreek.  I saw a randomized controlled trial where fenugreek, a natural remedy, was compared to NSAIDs and it had no side effects.  This is another remedy.  Number 12. You can simply take a heating pad, I would use a regular hot water bottle, and place it on the pelvic area where the uterus is located .  This therapy is also comparable to the action of NSAIDs, but without the side effects. In my opinion, it is an excellent remedy. And 13 ginger is also comparable to NSAIDs, as shown by a randomized controlled trial.  I invite you to my course Ovarian Body Type.  This course is for women with menstrual irregularities, menopausal symptoms and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen.  My course will help you restore your women's health.  My unique videos, grocery lists, and exercises for effective workouts await you.  Sign up for the course using the link below.  See you.