Let's look at the best exercise for a condition called spondylolisthesis, a condition in which one vertebra in the lower back is displaced relative to another, usually the fifth lumbar vertebra is displaced relative to the sacrum. This is what happens because of an old or recent fracture, the back of the vertebra has broken off and now the vertebra is slipping forward, because of this, the spinal cord in the spinal column is slightly curved. And sometimes this causes a dull pain in the legs, intestinal problems, many different problems, there are excellent exercises that completely stabilize this area and prevent problems in the future. Realize that the vertebra is displaced forward here, therefore, If you bend back too much, bend your back back. This is bad, so lie on your stomach and bend back, you can't, because the vertebra will shift even more forward, you need to do the opposite. Lie on your back, this is called supine, then pull your knees up to your chest, start pressing them towards you, then you can do the exercise itself, pull your legs towards you, either one at a time or both at once, over and over again to strengthen the lower abdominal press. This is a very, very good exercise. This is  It forces the vertebra to fall into place, also if you lie face down on a large gymnastic ball and lean forward, the vertebra will move up into place and you can perform a stretch, and here's another great exercise: lie on your back and press your lower back to the floor, continue to press it to the floor to begin to feel relief, because we need to hold this vertebra in place so that it does not compress the spinal cord, and it is extremely important to do the plank below, a link about what it is, essentially, you just hold your whole body with emphasis on your arms, just hold your body like this, this is called an isometric exercise, and you can raise your arm and leg, here we do not bend the lower back, but strengthen the muscles of the torso, this is actually the key point, the muscles of the torso actually connect the upper part of the torso with the legs, so anything that stabilizes the torso is very beneficial, and any arching of the back backward is very, very harmful, a couple more things, reducing inflammation in general will help enormously, of course, but before following a healthy diet for beginners, a link below about what it is, definitely with intermittent fasting, this is perhaps the most powerful remedy for inflammation, vitamin D3 is absolutely necessary, I would take  At least 20,000 international units of vitamin D3 per day. This will help with lower back pain. It actually relaxes the muscles. If you have arthritis, you'll also feel better. Stinging nettle root is one of my favorite herbal remedies, which also reduces inflammation. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course on vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you'll learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you'll receive my presentations on longevity and health at the 2019 China Summit. All of this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course.