If your joints hurt and you've tried everything, check if you have a vitamin C deficiency. Vitamin C is important for joint health because it's involved in collagen synthesis, helps produce collagen, and collagen is part of the ligaments, tendons, and cartilage in the joint capsule. Without enough vitamin C, joints will begin to fall apart. Vitamin C also helps reduce inflammation. When it's deficient, various inflammatory processes occur. In addition, the need for vitamin C increases with stress. I'm talking about infections and surgeries, for example, if you had a hip replacement or surgery on something else and are healing, in this case, the body really needs a lot of vitamin C to give the joint what it needs for repair. The body's vitamin C reserves are enough for about 2 weeks, and after that, a deficiency develops. Vitamin C is also an antioxidant and a factor for opioids in our body, which help relieve pain. If there isn't enough vitamin C for their production, this can easily increase pain. But it's also worth mentioning that it's not just about getting vitamin C from  Supplements or food are needed so that the body can absorb it. If you eat foods that contain sugar, or if you have prediabetes or diabetes, your sugar levels will be higher than normal, because of this, vitamin C will not be absorbed well because vitamin C and glucose have very similar molecules. They are not exactly the same, but they are very similar. If you give the body vitamin C and glucose, it will first absorb glucose and only then vitamin C. If you have insulin resistance, like 60 percent of the population, you will have a vitamin C deficiency. It may well manifest as joint pain. Perhaps you spend so much time treating your joints, and the whole problem is vitamin C deficiency. Perhaps it is enough to change your diet. Usually, just eliminate sugar and vitamin C will begin to be absorbed. Another sign of vitamin C deficiency is fatigue, joint pain and constant fatigue. The two main signs of vitamin C deficiency. If you haven't seen my other videos about vitamin C, here they are. Watch them.