Today I will teach you how to determine the internal state of the body and health by the face, but I must say something, how to put it more gently. Don't start diagnosing your friends, especially your family, and especially your husband or wife using this information. The worst thing you can do is start telling people what their problems are. Except in cases where they pay you because you have been practicing for 30 years or you were asked to do so. So, use this information in relation to yourself, because the last thing in the world I want you to start explaining to your husband or wife, dear, I found out why you have a round face and where you get bags under your eyes and why you have flaky, rough skin and then mentioning Dr. Berg is a bad idea. Don't do it like that, it's rude and it's a path to a quarrel. Apply this to yourself. So, let's see what we have here. Let's say you are going bald. Usually, hair loss on the crown of your head means that you have an excess of testosterone. Excess DHT occurs due to an enzyme that converts more testosterone into DHT than necessary. You need to reduce the level of this. Taking certain inhibitors, these inhibitors are found in pumpkin seeds, green tea, zinc reduces the level of this enzyme, thereby reducing the level of DHT. I have a lot of information about this, but in this video I give a general idea without details. If hair loss occurs on the outer part of the eyebrows, this is a sign of hypothyroidism, a slow thyroid gland, iodine is needed. Then, red eyes are usually a sign of liver problems, or perhaps you drank too much last night. And now you have a hangover and red eyes, but this is a sign that something is wrong with the liver. And this is usually related to nutrition. I noticed that in the past, in the distant past, a long time ago, when I ate poorly, ate a lot of junk, I always had red eyes. This is a sign of liver stress, or especially if the eyelids are red from the inside, a sign of a problem with blood sugar, you eat too many carbohydrates. I had this happen to me, and it may feel like there is sand in the eyes. So, if the inside of the eyelids is irritated, you need to suspect that you have a problem with insulin, insulin resistance, prediabetes. You already have it or it is approaching. I will tell you about the cause of dryness.  eyes a little later but for now Next point Dark circles under the eyes if you have such Dark circles are a sign of a problem with pigments caused by insulin resistance Many diabetics have this They also have dark pigment in different places in the folds of the skin under the arms on the neck The reason for this is a high level of insulin which affects melanin So if you have dark circles under the eyes then you need a healthy diet and intermittent fasting to reduce insulin resistance Now let's move on here to bags under the eyes if you have swollen tissue under the eyes or even above the eyes this is a sign of either problems with blood sugar the same problem or something is wrong with the kidneys The kidneys are most damaged by high levels of Saccharin this is associated with insulin resistance because the kidneys are one of the organs that suffers greatly due to a high-carbohydrate diet There are other causes of kidney problems But if fluid is retained in the kidneys this can be seen by the swelling under the eyes Now let's move on to this side oily skin this means that the sebaceous glands secrete a lot of sebum due to excess androgens, while the husband has more zinc to normalize androgens, a woman may also need more zinc, but excess androgens in women are common, a sign of polycystic ovary syndrome, and there may be additional symptoms such as facial hair and acne, which is due to high androgen levels. And the reason here is insulin, and excess insulin due to excess carbohydrates, you are already beginning to see a common feature and the conclusion is that the diet depletes zinc reserves, thereby allowing androgen levels to increase in women. So, many skin problems are associated with insulin: oily skin, acne, and many others. Let's talk about cataracts. With cataracts, the lens of the eye becomes cloudy and a person stops seeing through it. The lens is very, very sensitive to oxidation. And what causes oxidation? It can be caused by looking at the sun or chemicals, or by taking steroids and other drugs, but a very common cause of oxidation is a high-carbohydrate diet. Therefore, diabetics often develop cataracts very often, and there is also a risk of developing  Cataracts Increase with vitamin A deficiency. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, then without antioxidants, without a protective mechanism, you will have a lot of damage from free radicals, oxidation, and other symptoms. You may have peripheral neuropathy of the feet, cataracts, or problems with the retina and heart. There is an excellent remedy that helps get rid of cataracts in the early stages. A fat-soluble version of vitamin B1 called benfotiamine acts as a powerful antioxidant, reducing associated damage due to high blood sugar. If you are diabetic, then vitamin B1 in the form of benfotiamine greatly slows down cataracts and may allow you to get rid of them. There are other powerful antioxidants that you can take. Liquid acetylcysteine ​​drops, which are instilled into the eyes, help protect against free radical damage. The next point: So, you have rosacea or pink acne. This is quite common. This happens with Cushing's syndrome. Cushing's syndrome is a high level of cortisol in a person. Severe stress and red cheeks are one of the symptoms, but medical treatment for red cheeks is that  Why do they give a person an antibiotic? Why does an antibiotic help with this problem? Obviously, there are organisms here. Why not give a person a natural antibiotic, for example, garlic, oregano, thyme, wormwood extract, sage. There are many herbs that are natural antibiotics. Then give the person probiotics. Which probiotic is the best? Sauerkraut. After all, it contains both prebiotics and probiotics. You can take supplements with probiotics. It is very effective. It can help get rid of a red window. If a person has gray or brown pigmentation on the cheeks, this is a little different. It is called melasma. Melasma is an estrogen problem. You are getting too much estrogen anyway, whether it is birth control pills, hormone replacement therapy, or a large amount of plastic in the environment and some chemicals that mimic estrogen. In this case, you need to take something that counteracts estrogen or removes it. A good remedy is Dim, an extract of cruciferous vegetables, or simply Eat more cruciferous vegetables. Also, iodine in kelp can help balance estrogen. What about flaky flaky skin around the nose or in the ears What's the matter here? This is a sign that you have low omega-3 fatty acids and a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. The normal ratio is one to one, but few people adhere to this ratio. There is a very good analysis that you can do. They will send you a kit. There is a link below to order it. They will send you a kit. You will take a drop of blood and then they will tell you how much omega-3 you have. And how much omega-6 you have. For many people, this ratio is very imbalanced. They have a lot of omega-6 and little omega-3. You need to consume more cod liver oil and fatty fish to correct their imbalance. When they are imbalanced, a person's skin is rough, flaky, with dermatitis. There are many skin problems, inflammation, dry eyes and dry hair. What foods are high in omega-6? Chicken and fried foods that are fried in corn, soy, rapeseed oil.  These oils have a lot of omega-6, like peanut oil, safflower oil also has a lot of omega-6, but these oils are much better because they are not g, but a small amount will not harm, and most people need much more omega-3 fatty acids. Vegans can get omega-3 from algae and some other similar sources. Also, nuts, nut butters such as peanut butter, and cereals have a lot of omega-6 and little omega-3, so grain-fed cows have an imbalance of omega-3 and omega-6, like other grain-fed animals, and as a rule, many teenagers eat junk food, they don’t eat a lot of vegetables, they don’t eat fish or cod liver oil, they have skin problems, they have a lot of skin problems. In these areas, they often also have oily skin or windows. They could get rid of it if the Supreme Court knew this. There were many such problems, and it’s a pity that no one ever told me what to do and didn’t give me  The right knowledge to get rid of all this, we have many different symptoms and signs that give us clues and help us understand what lies at the root of this, but unfortunately, if you search for each symptom on the Internet, especially on the first five pages of Google, you will see a lot of medical recommendations for medications and creams, but the root causes are not explained there. Let's talk about blackheads. Blackheads are simply a sign of vitamin D deficiency. If there is little vitamin D, blackheads appear more. Get in the sun. Watch my video on how to make vitamin D yourself from mushrooms under the influence of the sun or take a ready-made supplement from Rena here. I had this before. I had a lot of this. Cracks are a sign of B2 deficiency. Vitamin B2 prevents liver damage. It has many other functions. But one of them is the effect on the skin. When it is deficient, cracks appear and because of these cracks, the lips can become chapped and cracks can also appear on the heels. Cracks appear on the back of the heels. This is a sign of B2 deficiency, which is usually caused by an excess of refined flour in the diet in the form of bread, pasta, crackers, cookies, pancakes, and similar products. More  Cold sores and cold sores are just herpes type 1 it's a virus and the best way to force it back into remission is to take a natural herbal remedy or something that has antiviral properties like garlic or zinc but there is excellent evidence that fasting intermittent long term fasting can get rid of certain viruses the problem with viruses is that many of them remain dormant in the body they wait for the immune system to weaken then they come out and attack when you are defenseless when you are aging when you have a nutrient deficiency and especially when you are stressed one of the strongest stresses that allows the virus to come out of remission is the loss of a loved one sooner or later we all lose loved ones that we love this stress can fall on the body and allow the virus to come out of remission in fact many autoimmune diseases begin with severe stress due to the loss of a loved one you will not find much information about this but in my practice I have seen confirmation of this in almost every case I asked people what happened right before this autoimmune disease before this disease or the coming out of remission of this virus and this  There was always some kind of stress or some kind of loss, then facial hair, we already talked about this. In women, this is due to an excess of genes, polycystic ovary syndrome is possible, and excess androgens arise from excess insulin. So again, a low-carb diet and less frequent meals are needed, more precisely, intermittent fasting. Then acne, I already talked about this, but in both women and men, this is a sign of excess androgens. Acne can also be caused by excess estrogen. But usually, acne is caused by excess androgens, which are caused by excess insulin. There may be other reasons for acne, say, drinking milk, but more often it's insulin. So you just need to eliminate carbohydrates, put your diet in order, and acne will go away. Acne is an excellent indicator of how a person eats, but how I regret that I didn't know what to do when I had a severe acne in my school years. This is very upsetting. The last point, you see this line, a round face. Look at this photo at my son's wedding, as you can see, my head was rounder than it is now.  Because back then I was eating so-called healthy food, but that healthy food included snacking on apples with peanut butter. My food wasn't completely unhealthy, but I ate fruit and a lot of different snacks. So, if you have a round face and want to lose some fat, get rid of puffiness and many of these other problems, start a healthy diet. Stop snacking, start intermittent fasting, and we'll cover these two topics and much more in more detail in my basic course. Sign up at the link below. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.