Today we will talk about pain in the ribs or the so-called costal melancholy. And this is pain in the ribs in front, we have the sternum right in the center, and to the left and right of the sternum, small cartilages extend that connect it to the ribs. So, if you have pain in any of these parts, then this video is for you. What does the term costal melancholy mean? Costal means related to the ribs. Chondro means cartilage, and id is inflammation. The first symptom of this is chest pain. It looks like a heart problem, but it is not a heart problem. You go to the doctor, check your heart, there is no problem, then you are diagnosed with costal chondritis, and you go home taking medicine. This disease is treated mainly with drugs, sometimes steroids, sometimes injections, and of course, Wikipedia says about this disease, the cause is unknown, they don’t know it. I have been practicing for 30 years. I will tell you what cause I found. In fact, there are two main reasons. First, I will talk about the second, it is associated with the old  a rib injury in the front of the chest or more likely an injury to the back of the ribs or thoracic spine mid-back my mid-back injuries countless when you play like this football you get hit in the solar plexus someone hits you in the chest from behind and there were also wrestling injuries once when I was in college a guy said he was a karate coach and that he would teach us karate so we got a group together went to his house in his garage and he basically used us as punching bags we had to hold a small bar above our heads and he tried to toughen us up that is he punched us in the chest my turn came I stood there I had to exhale at the moment of impact he hit me and broke my rib I felt the rib crunch a sharp pain and I what are you doing you broke my rib so I never went to him again I realized that he doesn't know anything about karate and martial arts in general in general in the past I have broken several ribs and they take a long time to heal if a rib is broken or even more so if the thoracic spine is damaged, it takes a long time to form. Scar tissue has a time delay. So sometimes pain in the front of the chest occurs months or years after an injury from the back. All parts of the chest are connected. The back is firmly connected to the spine by connective tissue. There is a lot of it there, and in the front there is much less connective tissue. So, a problem in the back can easily create problems in the front, that is, pain in the front of the sternum. If you focus on the symptom in the front and the problem in the back, you will never fix it. A problem in the chest can greatly affect breathing, cause oxygen starvation, breathing problems. I recently made a video about this. The link is below. This can interfere with expanding the chest during sleep at night and inhaling air. This can greatly impair the ability to sleep and simply achieve a comfortable state of sleep. But many chest problems actually arise from the spine. Problems can also occur in the front. But usually they are in the back of the thoracic spine. This can also be due to asymmetrical sports such as golf, baseball, or tennis. Due to any sport. Where  Only the right or only the left hand is used, the same movement repeated over and over can curve the spine, displace the ribs, affect the thoracic region. Not to mention posture problems, sitting hunched over a computer and the effect this has on the spine, I will show you excellent ways to fix this problem. Something else about the problem with the chest, if it hurts on the right side, lower right, suspect the gallbladder, I have a course about this and a lot of videos. Stagnation is not even a stone, but just stagnation of bile. There may be a buildup in the liver and put pressure on it, and the liver can put pressure on the chest and sometimes even on the rhomboid muscle at the back here and especially higher here. And the first reason for costal is a deficiency of vitamin D. I will explain that vitamin D deficiency in children is called rickets, and very often children have structural malformations due to vitamin D deficiency, such as crooked legs, such as kyphosis, that is, a hunched back, or even scoliosis. Thus, vitamin D greatly affects the formation of the skeletal system. Vitamin D deficiency in a child can lead to structural deformations of the sternum and the cartilages that are connected to it. In fact, the cartilage can grow stronger than necessary and create many imbalances simply due to a deficiency of vitamin D. In an adult, osteomalacia develops due to a deficiency of vitamin D. This is a softening of the bones. There may also be problems with the sternum, as well as sensitivity and pain in the bones when pressing on it and pain in the cartilage near the sternum. Costal chondritis develops due to a deficiency of vitamin D. Quite often, you just need to take more vitamin D. Especially in winter when there is no sun, I recommend taking at least 10,000. Take vitamin K2 with it in the following proportion: for 10,000 IU of vitamin D3, you need to take 100 mcg of vitamin K2. Moreover, K2 should be in the form of MK7. If your costochondritis is caused by a deficiency of vitamin D, then relief should come within a few days. Let's return to the first reason. I said that the problem is in the thoracic spine.  in the middle of the back causes pain in the ribs in this case in the thoracic spine there is old scar tissue from some injury Personally, I had a lot of scar tissue there after twenty poor nutrition and injuries did not benefit my spine I had a lot of scar tissue there there was degeneration there was arthritis and so on And I will show you what I do every day to stretch the thoracic spine I found that I can no longer adjust the vertebrae because there is severe arthritis there the pain cannot be adjusted because the problem is not necessarily in the joints of the spine in fact it is in the articulation of the spine with the ribs that is where the scar tissue is located and manual therapy here apparently will not help only stretching helps here and besides everything else Guess what is in the thoracic spine there is the basis the core the heart of the sympathetic nervous system it is located there the exercises that I will show will have a profound effect on your stress level as well as on your ability to sleep and relax doing these exercises you will feel that you want to take a nap Why Because they relieve tension in the middle of the back which is connected  with the activation of the sympathetic nervous system, I use this technique every night before bed. For this, you need this massager that I developed. It has parts of different widths. Wide, narrow, and medium. I made it according to my thumb. Here is my thumb when working with the thoracic spine. In patients, I used my hands, but for myself, I developed this to work with my back. If you use a massager, use the wide part. If you don’t have a massager, you can ask someone at home to do it. For you, you need to press on the head of the rib. It faces the outside of each rib, moving from the bottom up, press hard on the tightly moving areas where there is scar tissue. You can do this. A massager will help. If there is no one around, I will show you how. I lie on it. I use it to relax and stretch scar tissue from old injuries in the thoracic spine. You see the width of this massager. I place it at the lower part of the thoracic spine and just lie down on it right here, like this, right on this spot, and I will put my head on the pillow and lie there for I do n’t know about 30 seconds, if earlier  I can't fall asleep now I get up, they move it higher, I lie down on it, and these two small branches rest against the joints of the ribs and spine, they press on these points, relax the muscles, stretch the scar tissue so that I can breathe better, and I gradually move the spine, I lie down on it, I lie on it, and sometimes I literally fall asleep because it's very relaxing. I do this every night before bed, here we are again, I want to say a couple more things. I recently learned about a flexibility stick. This is an excellent simple apparatus for stretching and rotating the middle part of the back. As you can see in these shots, you can do many different exercises using this apparatus to tighten and rotate the spine, and thereby restore its symmetry. This is great for stretching the spine, expanding the chest, and improving sleep. In addition, you can do straightening exercises. As you will now see, a man stretches his thoracic spine. For this, you only need a bed or a bench, and you can stretch the middle part of the back to achieve movement in the back, because as far as scar tissue and arthritis are concerned, the main thing is movement. You need to constantly move and stretch, because  Scar tissue, like a weed, becomes denser and affects the chest and breathing. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also provide a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.