Hi all.  Let's start with questions on social networks.  NeoFacebook asks: "What's the best way to get rid of gingivitis? How can we help Neo?" Gingivitis is an inflammatory process in the gum tissue. The cause of this is an acute vitamin C deficiency. This means you need to get it; you need to change something in your diet to correct the deficiency.  The more sugar and empty carbohydrates you eat, the less vitamin C you have, which is why your gums bleed and become inflamed. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. So gums are not something isolated that can hurt on its own .  It is a part of the organism.  And this means that you are not eating exactly what you need. This is what causes gum inflammation. Surprisingly, I was once in Zambia, South Africa.  There, all the people have dazzling white teeth, and they are all even.  It looked like they all just had veneers installed.  What's the matter here?  I think it has to do with diet, right?   The plant roots there are very strong.  The soil is often close in its joints to volcanic soils. This means that it has a lot of micronutrients, so the food is better, it has more nutrients, so the food is less processed, less refined, and people have better teeth and bones.  More vitamin K2 for teeth, more vitamin D. That's all it takes. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Marvelous.  Now for the quiz question.   The floor is yours, dog. This is the question we've all been waiting for.   Is it true or false that herbs can be toxic to the liver? Friends, we are waiting for your answers, and in the meantime, we will answer the questions that have accumulated on social networks. Beth from Facebook asks: "What do you recommend for spot? My daughter was recently diagnosed with this syndrome." Spot is a condition where part of the nervous system, the autonomic nervous system, is not working properly.  You stand up and feel dizzy.  You lose your balance because your body cannot adapt to the change in body position.  This is a terrible condition.   The autonomic nervous system needs everything that heals and strengthens the nerves. And of all the vitamins and other nutrients needed for this , the most important is vitamin B1. So you need to get more B1 to produce acetylcholine.  And thanks to it, energy will be generated for the nervous system, and this will allow you to take control of the autonomic nervous system.  This is why diabetes causes diabetic neuropathy and disrupts the functioning of the autonomic nervous system. After all, with diabetes a person is deprived of B1.  B1 is extremely important.  People also use other ways to increase the amount of fluid they have so that they have more blood and thus compensate for this.  But at the root of this is a B1 deficiency, and you need to strengthen the adrenal glands with B1; it doesn't work without magnesium, so you need to take magnesium as well.  And, perhaps, you need the whole complex of B vitamins, and not just B1, you need B5 to strengthen the adrenal glands. So people get excellent results from therapeutic doses of B1.  And you need natural B1, not synthetic. Roberts Elsrambla writes very well.  My husband has a CV of 1208. He is on a moderately low-carb diet, but without intermittent fasting.  He takes most of your supplements and has been taking Lipitor for 13 years.  It is not said whether he continues to take it.  What should he do right now to lower C?  Yes, we are talking about the coronary calcium index. It should be zero, not 1 thousand something.  The problem is that if he did the analysis once, we don’t know what this index was before. He is on a moderate low-carb diet. This analysis needs to be done every 2 months to understand whether the index is decreasing .  For some, it remains unchanged because the plaques become denser, and this is normal, because it means they are stabilizing. We don't need soft plaques. But the main emergency measure he needs right now is a strict low-carb diet.  Strictly like an adult, and repeat the test in 2 months.  This index needs to be reduced.  This is not a joke.  After all, calcium in the vessels is one of the most accurate predictors of heart problems and heart attacks. He received this, so to speak, a wake-up call, a warning, a serious warning. You have a high risk, you need to cut carbohydrates literally to zero, as much as possible, and everything else of that kind, for example, alcohol. Long walks are needed. It is necessary to strengthen the inner layer of blood vessels with the help of such means as vitamin D3, K2, plenty of magnesium, and it would not hurt to increase the level of nitric oxide. For this, you can use beetroot juice, powder, or arugula.  These are excellent means for strengthening blood vessels from the inside. Great.  Let's find out the answer to the quiz question, which sounded like this.  True or false?  Herbs may have a toxic effect on the liver.  65% of respondents believe this is true, while 35% said: “No, it’s a lie.” The news constantly says: "Be careful with herbs, they can damage the liver, turmeric, green tea, ashwagandha, rasta."  Ah, although no, they don’t say that about milk thistle.  So, here's the data on this. First of all, this happens very, very, very rarely.  I think only one person has died from it since they started tracking it .   There were also 11 liver transplants.  And then they tell us: “Oh my God, herbs are harmful.” Let's compare this with medications.  And this is the main cause of acute liver failure. Last year alone, 56,000 people were hospitalized with acute liver disease due to medications.  Why isn't this being talked about?  It's much more than that, isn't it ?  More people die each year from water poisoning than from herbal poisoning. And again, all reports on this topic were prepared by pharmaceutical giants.  They just scare people.  That's all. And most of the studies that said herbs were toxic to the liver included 20 substances at once.  How do we know it's the herbs?  There could have been heavy metals or mycotoxins. So it cannot be said that way. This happens very rarely, and poisoning with the same paracetamol creates a much higher risk of liver damage. But this is not really mentioned in the news. The bottom line is that if you take quality herbs in the right doses, the risk of liver damage is very low, but the benefits of some herbs, if they are high quality, are very high.  This is my answer.