Let's talk about the best remedy for cramping pain in the lower abdomen. I think you need to contact an expert, someone who is competent and knows their business, and this is a gastroenterologist who will probably prescribe you several drugs, among them will be an antispasmodic, perhaps you will be prescribed painkillers, antacids, perhaps he will tell you to buy Peppa Bismol or Gas X at the pharmacy if this does not help, you can be referred to a psychiatrist for cognitive behavioral therapy. I just can't get my head around the fact that a gastroenterologist does not pay close attention to your diet. Sometimes it seems to me that studying to be a gastroenterologist would be very easy. I would do everything completely differently, but I think I would get amazing results. I would not focus on complex diagnoses, because this is actually just a description of symptoms. I would focus mainly on diet, because the digestive system is actually a mechanism for assimilating food from cramping pain in the lower abdomen. I can argue that it is connected with what a person eats, even if he has a deficiency of bile hydrochloric acid.  friendly bacteria enzymes at some point these problems arose due to poor nutrition usually spasms pain in the lower gastrointestinal tract are associated with malabsorption many different factors can disrupt the digestion process excessive bacterial growth in the small intestine irritable bowel syndrome diverticulitis diverticulosis and mainly bloating possibly diarrhea loose stools malabsorption is a problem with the cells of the colon there are a couple of different types of these cells there are enterocytes there are colonocytes these cells do a huge job helping to absorb food they have hairs sticking out containing enzymes that help digest food they break down food and absorb amino acids glucose fatty acids vitamins electrolytes water and so on when they are healthy they do this when they are unhealthy they do not have enzymes to break down food so some of the food passes further through the intestines especially fructose If you eat fruit Yes and table sugar is half fructose and fructose gets into the large intestine and God  How our microbes love it, they eat this fructose and create a lot of problems such as gases and all that, fats that are not absorbed for some reason get into the large intestine, the reason for this may be a lack of bile or the fact that the large intestine no longer absorbs these fats, so they do not get into the stool, because of this, the stool can float or the stool can be oily and leave small marks on the toilet. This means that the fat that should have been absorbed and the fat- soluble vitamins that should have been absorbed are not absorbed, let's take vitamin A without vitamin A, small brown flaky dry spots appear on the skin, this is called hyperkeratosis, you don't need this name, but if you remember it, you can, if the occasion arises, show off your erudition, and with a deficiency of vitamin K1, dark blue spots may appear on the skin, this may be a deficiency of vitamin D, and this causes pain in the bones, mainly in the lower back, the lower back hurts, it does not bend, other places may hurt too, but usually it starts with  By the way, vitamin K2 also prevents calcium deposits in the joints, prevents calcium deposits in the blood vessels, which is very important. Imagine E. coli. This normal microbe in our intestines helps us, but becomes a pathogen if the environment changes, but when it is friendly, it creates vitamins B1, B2, B6, B12, and even helps break down lactose, milk sugar. So, there are friendly beneficial microbes that can become very hostile in an inappropriate environment, for example, due to antibiotics. Unfortunately, the vast majority of antibiotics are given to animals, this creates a problem with E. coli because the entire balance is disrupted and E. coli becomes hostile, and the more inflammation or other problems you have in the intestines, the more sensitive you are to gluten, the more problems you will have with milk. More precisely, with lactose and fructose in fruits, the more problems you will have with cereals, beans, and other legumes, and even with nuts and seeds. Avoid everything, but here's what will be very useful. You can make a stew, add chopped bones to the enemy, you can buy them chopped so that  eat bone marrow and make a stew with bone broth, you can add meat, a whole chicken, fish, this needs to be boiled to break down collagen, it is very useful for inflammation in the intestines. And if you add vegetables such as cabbage, carrots, etc. to this stew, they will cook and you will not have any problems with them at all. The thing is, to heal the intestines, you need to eat a little more fat, do not eat lean protein. Eat fatty protein, not in large quantities, but in sufficient quantities, and this fat should be low-fat and not from other plants, not corn, not soybean oil, etc. It should be saturated animal fat, it will help the colon heal. So, cook the chicken with the skin. If you cook lamb or other meat, be sure to add trimmed fat. You can also drink lactose-free kefir if you can find it so that there are no problems with lactose. And if you can find lactose-free kefir from goat's milk, this will be best, and the milk should be whole, and if it is organic, it is even better, it will actually help to strengthen  small cells of the colon Eat small amounts of probiotic-rich foods There are a lot of bacteria in raw milk cheese Unfortunately, in the US almost all cheese is fermented milk, but in Europe there are raw milk cheeses You might be able to find raw milk cheese and here in such a court there are a lot of good probiotics and cheese from raw goat or sheep milk is much better than from cow Another fat that is good for the intestines is keef Eat a little bit of it and you will see that it will help you It has a lot of nutrients and of course fermented vegetables because they have much less antinutrients and they are easier to digest Eat a little to see if you tolerate them Most of them bring them well A little fermented vegetables are an excellent replacement for a lot of raw or squeeze vegetables and make a stew or Steam them and you will digest them a little better But of all the vegetables you can eat if you have digestive problems, cabbage is the best There is something very useful in cabbage  It could be the sulfa-raphane that kills Helicobacter pylori or some phytonutrients that are well absorbed. But even people with gastritis or irritable bowel syndrome can often eat cabbage. They can eat other vegetables. There are different levels of digestive problems, from a very healthy digestive system to a very sick one. The worse the condition of the digestive system, the stricter the approach should be, to the point that you can't eat any vegetables, no fiber, and certainly no fruits, no grains, no beans or other legumes. In fact, you need a very healthy digestive system to absorb all these things, but soups and stews with collagen greatly contribute to healing the intestines. Be sure to try them. I think the results will surprise you. Since we're talking about digestion, if you haven't watched my long, detailed video about it, be sure to watch it here.