I want to discuss amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It is not a very common disease and there is little data about it. I found an amazing book on this topic and I want to tell you some amazing things about this disease. What is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis? It is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects different muscle groups and it is fatal. People with this disease live from 3 to 5 years. This disease develops in about 20,000 people a year. It is a rare disease. But if you have it, you need all the information today. If I'm not mistaken, there is only one treatment method and it prolongs life by only 5 months and it costs $ 1,400 a month. So, what I'm going to tell you is very encouraging, very impressive, and this is taken from the book. The mystery of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis has been solved. The author of this book has a completely unique view of things. Very similar to my views, he outlined all the unique features of this disease and began to find out what causes this and what causes that. What is the connection between this and that? He did an excellent job of identifying the relationships. And I'll tell you what he discovered. So, first, this disease  It begins between the ages of 60 and 70, it rarely develops at an earlier age. It’s interesting that it occurs more often in men than in women. Except for menopause, in women, the ratio becomes about one to one. This is very interesting. Is there something connected with menopause or aging that triggers this disease? In addition, there is evidence that there is a potential mutation in certain people with this disease. This mutation is associated with this enzyme, which means superoxide dismutase. But you don’t need to know this. This enzyme is a very powerful antioxidant. This mutation increases oxidation and damage from free radicals. This is called oxidative stress, and this is logical because it affects the nervous system, which affects muscles to some extent. There is no consensus yet on whether this disease is autoimmune, because typical immunosuppressants do not help with this disease. Therefore, I think that this disease is probably not autoimmune and it spreads gradually from one point. There is evidence that the disease may arise due to an old spinal injury. There is evidence of calcium deposits in certain areas of the spine. There is evidence of a connection with heavy metals. The decision is to take  I won't go into detail about certain B vitamins, but I wanted to say this, but in general, with age, there is a clear change in antioxidant levels, and oxidation increases. The book talks about very interesting hormonal changes after menopause, and even in men aged 60 or 70, many hormonal changes occur. In women, estrogen levels drop sharply, and progesterone levels also decrease, and even more than estrogen levels, melatonin levels also decrease. You may know that melatonin is a sleep hormone, but melatonin also works inside cells as an antioxidant, and levels of other hormones decrease. After all, all sex hormones have precursors, one of them is DHA and the other is pregnenolone, and all of them become less. But there are two hormones whose levels increase sharply to a huge extent, one of them is follicle-stimulating hormone FSH, and the second is luteinizing hormone LH, their levels increase. Hormones cannot be considered separately. Look at them as elements of biochemical pathways or a certain chain. So, if LH levels increase sharply and  FSH is usually very low in sex hormones, such as estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone. This seems logical. Now look at progesterone - this is one of the most powerful neuroprotective hormones. And also, during experiments on mice, data was obtained that when mice are given progesterone, their level of autophagy in the spine seems to increase. And if some area of ​​the body is destroyed, autophagy can sort of clean it up and create new cells. Hint number two: Melatonin. You probably know that Melatonin improves sleep, but you may not know that Melatonin is also one of the most powerful antioxidants inside the mitochondria, and with age, melatonin levels decrease, and Melatonin stimulates the same antioxidant enzyme called superoxide dismutase, but the problem is that there is too little melatonin to compensate for this mutation, which is probably why this whole problem arises. With age, we lose the protective antioxidant network and certain hormones that protect the nervous system, and let's say there is an old spinal injury that can  awaken various factors I think the main ones are a hormonal shift that causes a shift in antioxidant and protective factors and firstly you need to replenish melatonin reserves you need to raise melatonin to the level you had at 20 years old because if we can somehow restore the level of these hormones Perhaps we will achieve remission of this disease How much melatonin is needed 75 mg 100 I don’t know this information you will have to find it yourself I would also receive infrared light therapy because infrared light increases melatonin levels but I don’t know if this will increase melatonin enough to change the situation The fact is that melatonin suppresses follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) also melatonin increases progesterone levels that’s the tera but in addition to taking melatonin and infrared light therapy, I also advise taking the progesterone precursor pregnenolone then the body will have the raw materials to create as much progesterone as it needs pregnenolone is available  It's a natural remedy, you can buy it anywhere. You need about 100 mg. It would be good to check your levels and consult someone to determine the exact dosage. It is also recommended to take resveratrol. Resveratrol has many amazing properties, in particular, it is a powerful antioxidant. It can also reduce toxicity in this disease. I recommend taking vitamin K2 to remove calcium from soft tissues that can be deposited there. Take enough B vitamins. But only natural ones. This was a summary, in my opinion, of an amazing book and this discovery, and this solution is definitely worth trying, because we don't have many remedies for this terrible, terrible disease. If you haven't watched my video about Melatonin yet, I think you'll like it. Here it is, watch it.