Hello Today we will talk about dyspareunia, painful intercourse, this is a serious problem for women. Sometimes there is pain when inserting a tampon, during a gynecological examination, while horseback riding and sitting for a long time. All this can cause discomfort. In my opinion, the cause of this problem is usually oxalates. Oxalates can form crystals that are sharp as a razor. Sometimes salads form stones, for example, in the kidneys, and sometimes they get into the joints. They can also cause symptoms similar to gout. Pseudo-gout. Crystals can get into the big toes. They can also end up in other tissues, for example, the vaginal area. If you tell your doctor about this, he may say. Well, there is no scientific research on this matter. Don't fool yourself. But I believe that if something has not been researched, it does not mean that it does not work. You should not sit and wait until scientists research something. What is not profitable and on which you cannot make money, namely, recommendations on nutrition or dietary correction. The lack of research on the advice that I give does not mean that they are not correct. There are many women who  I have achieved success simply by changing my diet and perhaps taking just a couple of supplements. So, here are the foods that I recommend eliminating for a while to determine whether oxalates are the issue: spinach, beets, grains, legumes, potatoes, almonds, peanuts, kiwi, wheat sprouts, soy, selite, a sugar substitute that many use on the keto diet, blackberries, chocolate, eggplant, black pepper, Swiss chard, rhubarb, figs, and the spice turmeric. All of these foods contain a lot of oxalates. Oxalates come not only from food, but the body can also produce them, and together with calcium, they form crystals. But what if you accidentally ate spinach, or, for example, peanuts or something similar? Then, to reduce the effect in the right place with these products, eat something dairy; you will not get rid of the problem completely. However, calcium from dairy will combine with oxalates during digestion. So, fewer oxalates will enter the bloodstream, for example, if you ate spinach. Eat some cheese with it; the calcium from this cheese will reduce the effect of oxalates.  What foods can I eat? Any meat, fish, seafood. You can eat eggs, fats, and also vegetables that are low in oxalates. Arugula, avocado, cabbage, and cauliflower. They all contain low oxalates in a regular salad. There are also a few in saturated fats, their content is also low. So, your diet remains quite varied. Sometimes people say this is too strict a diet, I ca n’t do that. But how serious is your problem? You should probably weigh all the pros and cons. I think it’s worth it if it gets rid of your symptoms. There is also a link between a lack of vitamin B6 and elevated oxalate levels. I have a video about this in my course on nutrient deficiencies. In short, if you take B6, make sure it is in the p5p form. I won’t go into details in that video now. If you take calcium citrate, one tablet before bed, it will help you because calcium binds to oxalates. This way, you will minimize their absorption, especially if the oxalates were produced in the gastrointestinal tract itself, normally.  There are bacteria in the intestines that eat salad. Perhaps you simply do n't have such bacteria for some reason. Maybe you took some antibiotic that destroyed them. I don't know why. Healthy and diverse intestinal microflora is very important for solving this problem. The second recommendation is the drug NAK Enocetyl Glucosamine. It helps build up the mucous membrane of the vaginal canal, which can also reduce discomfort. Perhaps you will get a positive result from this. There is also myristolate. I quote below. I have listed different names; I will not mention brands. You need to choose for yourself. I simply give the general name of the supplement itself. I do not want to drag out this video any further. I simply offer you a choice and give the right direction so that you can study this specific problem and find a solution. There is another important point related to citrates and oxalates, which I recently talked about. If you haven't watched the video, be sure to watch it here.