Over 30 years of practice, I have worked with 40,000 people as a chiropractor, and among those who came to my office, there were many people who had neck pain, although they had no injuries. There was no reason for neck pain. If your neck hurts too. Although there were no injuries, look further, I will explain the real reason. The problem is not in your neck. You are experiencing referred pain. Neck pain occurs because of something in the digestive system. Because you ate something that creates a problem either in the gallbladder or in the ducts going to the gallbladder or in the ducts going to the pancreas. The gallbladder is on the right and the pancreas is on the left and there are ducts on both sides. If there is an obstruction or some kind of sediment or irritation in these small ducts, this creates pressure on the diaphragm, and it is connected to two nerves. These are the phrenic nerves, one on the left, one on the right. The phrenic nerve goes from the diaphragm to the very top on this side.  neck And on the left side it goes here along the left side of the neck if you step on a dog's tail it will bark and it will mouth so here the same thing when you put pressure on this nerve pain tension is reflected to the right side or to the left side this is very common but almost no one knows about it and it is so easy to fix all you need to do is change your diet probably you are consuming too much omega-6 fatty acids this is something that for example was fried in vegetable oil or maybe you ate mayonnaise and it has a lot of soybean oil or corn oil or something fried in oil maybe corn chips it is anything What contains corn cottonseed rapeseed or soybean oil they contain omega-6 fatty acids their excess in the diet causes inflammation in the intestines excess nuts peanut butter or nut butters Why Because nuts also have a lot of omega-6 fatty acids omega-6 fatty acids cause inflammation omega-3 fatty acids reduce it for example fish oil So an excess of nuts will also cause irritation  It could also be refined grains, refined grains and sugars definitely just rupture the gallbladder and intestines, and especially the pancreas. Processed foods don't have enzymes, and the pancreas must work hard to create new enzymes, so an excess of thermally processed foods devoid of enzymes irritates the pancreas and can cause referred pain in the neck. So, on the right, we have the liver, there are ducts going to the gallbladder and pancreas, and here and here the pancreas secretes something that flows here. The liver secretes something that drains here and gets into the small intestine. Bile is also secreted, and that's what happens here. These small tubes expand and swell, which is why the pain is reflected in the neck. So, you can also take purified bile salts on an empty stomach several times a day to open these ducts, but you still need to change your diet. If you are new to my channel and don't know how to eat, I will leave a link below, this will greatly help you not only with neck pain, but also in terms of  Digestion Thank you, I invite you to my healthy chum course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.