Today we will look at one part of the body, the lower back, to identify deeply hidden nutrient-related problems. What is usually done for lower back pain? It is treated correctly, perhaps taking some medication and that's it, but there is no real understanding of what causes this pain, especially if it has become chronic. But understanding the relationship, you can put any part of the body in order. Today we will focus on the lower back, especially on the connection between nutrient deficiencies and lower back pain. Of all the deficiencies that we can have, vitamin D deficiency is more likely to cause lower back pain than any other vitamin D deficiency. It is a very powerful anti-inflammatory, and vitamin D deficiency is likely to be the first to make itself felt in the lower back if the baby has a vitamin D deficiency. Perhaps due to a deficiency in the mother during pregnancy, the baby can have all sorts of structural problems with the skeletal system, such as crooked legs, flat feet, scoliosis, dental problems, and braces may be needed. To correct the consequences of a deficiency, vitamin D also plays a direct role in bone formation, and with its deficiency, osteoporosis can develop, but not only osteoporosis, but also osteopenia, which is, so to speak, a milder form. Osteoporosis and the so-called osteomalacia can also develop. This is an acute deficiency in children, in which the bones become very soft. You need to know that there can be a deficiency of vitamin D itself. A deficiency of two minerals can cause a decrease in the level of vitamin D in the blood. One mineral is magnesium. We actually need magnesium to absorb and metabolize vitamin D. Vitamin D works very well without magnesium. If you have a stiff back or muscle spasms in the lumbar region that do not relax, you should suspect a magnesium deficiency. The second mineral is boron. Boron also increases the level of vitamin D in the body. Its absorption half- life is due to boron. Vitamin D stays in the body longer. Boron also increases magnesium levels and boron is a very good anti-inflammatory agent. Another mineral, calcium, competes with magnesium. If too much calcium accumulates in the lumbar region, this can be called arthritis, which causes bone spurs or calcium deposits, or another ailment, stenosis, is possible. Stenosis is a condition in which there is not enough space in the spinal column, which contains the spinal cord. One of the reasons for this may be calcium deposits.  inside this channel So if you have lumbar stenosis, vascular stenosis or even arthritis, then the main vitamin you need to focus on is vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 helps mobilize and remove calcium from soft tissues and direct it to the bones. That is, K2 keeps calcium where it should be and many people have a deficiency of vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 and vitamin D work together. I just wanted to point this out because if you try to solve the problem without having all the information and not knowing that If you take vitamin D3, you need to take K2 as well, then you may not get the desired results. In the case of a weak back, you should suspect a deficiency of another vitamin. This is vitamin E. You need to know that it is not a vitamin. It may only be part of the vitamin E complex. But if you take only alpha-tocopherol, it is unlikely to help a weak back. You need to take one of two. Either the whole vitamin E complex, for example, wheat germ oil, it contains everything, or you can take only three new complexes. This is a recently discovered part of the vitamin E complex, and only trenols work. Excellent, better than tocopherols. So, take only the trenol complex or wheat germ oil, this is greatly  strengthen your lower back when I was teaching a practice I showed how it works someone with weak muscles especially the lower back muscles took vitamin E and after a couple of minutes the muscles became strong So if you have weak muscles Think about vitamin E A real vitamin E complex vitamin E increases the supply of oxygen to the muscles it helps very well through angina And this is a lack of oxygen in the heart in general you can see empty jars of vitamin E on the tops of most mountains on planet Earth after climbers took vitamin E to cope with the lack of oxygen at high altitudes also vitamin E is great for muscle trophies if someone is losing muscle mass perhaps due to age it is very important for him to take vitamin E vitamin E helps with hot flashes but it is better to take it in the form of wheat germ oil another mineral is actually a trace element that is associated with lower back pain has to do with what happens to the discs manganese Although its name is similar to magnesium but it is a completely different element has to do with problems with discs and collagen all these trace elements help certain proteins work and marganese is extremely important for  collagen, especially in discs, ligaments, and tendons. With a manganese deficiency, a variety of disc problems are possible. Manganese deficiency can also increase the risk of developing scoliosis. Generally speaking, if you consume too many omega-6 fatty acids because you consume a lot of grains, seed oils, and not enough fish oil, which is high in omega-3 fatty acids, this can cause general inflammation in the body. Or if you eat a lot of sugar and other carbohydrates, this can maintain inflammation. So, lower back pain can be caused by many factors not related to vitamin deficiency. Even, for example, kidney stones. If you have kidney stones, you will experience problems in the upper lower back. You will have such a nagging pain. Yes, deep in the upper lower back and it can spread to the front. A similar sensation can also occur with gallstones, especially if it hurts on the right side. Now you better understand how to analyze lower back pain and know about many nutrients, the deficiency of which can be the cause. If you haven't watched this video about how to identify nutrient deficiencies by facial appearance. Watch it here it is.