Let's talk about the seven signs of kidney toxicity. I want to make an extensive video about the kidneys, but I want it to be very simple and without any abstruse terms that you don't need to know. We'll focus on the most important things you need to know to prevent kidney toxicity, as well as what to do if you already have toxic kidneys. Why do we need kidneys? They mainly filter the blood, not like oil filters in a car. Everything is much more complicated. They get rid of toxins and help absorb everything that is useful. The more of this filtering function you lose, the more you begin to lose nutrients and the more garbage and waste you accumulate in the body. All symptoms, both in the early stages of kidney disease and in the late stages, are directly related to damage to the filtration system. Among the early symptoms of kidney problems, a metallic taste in the mouth means that toxins are accumulating, itching throughout the body and the smell of ammonia from the mouth. Some symptoms in the late stages of kidney disease include swelling of the legs; when you press on the feet, an indentation will remain on them; swelling will be noticeable on the lower part of the ankles. and in the feet, this also affects the functioning of the liver, because the kidneys and liver work together, but if your feet and ankles are leaking, then you have toxic kidneys. You can also notice under the eyes, you can see swollen bags under the eyes, this is due to the accumulation of toxins in the kidneys. Another symptom that can appear is bulimic and what is it? Various compounds accumulate in the body, including uric acid, and it begins to accumulate in the skin, usually in the skin on the crown of the head or on the forehead. White particles similar to and appear on the skin. This is excess urea that the body cannot remove and it comes out through the skin. Another common symptom is high blood pressure. If the filter is damaged, this will slow down the flow of blood going through the mail, this will create pressure, and high blood pressure itself can damage the kidneys. If you force blood through the vessels under high pressure and direct it through the filter, it’s like if you put a water filter at home and let too much pressure through the pipes, this will damage the filtration system. The kidneys are a filter and they consist of  Small filters called glomeruli are found in each kidney. There are about a million of them. They act as a filter and recycle some nutrients. Thanks to them, you don't waste some vitamins and minerals. Another common symptom of toxic kidneys is exhaustion and fatigue. The cause of fatigue is urea, protein waste, and excess protein in the blood leads to fatigue. 5. Protein in urine: If you have had a urine test and it showed a huge amount of protein in the urine, then perhaps your kidneys are toxic and damaged. If there is little protein in the urine, then it could be something else. But if a lot of protein passes through these filters, then the filters are leaky and damaged. 6. Very acidic urine: The body has become more acidic. This occurs due to an imbalance of ammonia. Because ammonia is very alkaline, it can no longer balance normally. It begins to accumulate in some parts of the body, while in others it is absent, and the balance is disrupted. Another reason why the body becomes acidic, especially in diabetics, is a lack of insulin.  As a result, blood sugar levels get out of control, if they are not normalized, so-called acidosis develops. I want to note that this is not the same as nutritional ketosis when you change your diet and enter ketosis. Ketoacidosis occurs if you have diabetes and you do not take diabetes medication and do not monitor your blood sugar. Symptom number seven is vitamin D deficiency. If you watched my video about vitamin D, you know that both the kidneys and liver are very important, but it is the kidneys that help convert inactive vitamin D into active vitamin D. Without well-functioning kidneys, you will not be able to convert vitamin D into its active form and you will have a deficiency no matter how much you take it. Also, calcium deficiency can lead to all sorts of problems such as vascular calcification, atherosclerosis, kidney stones, calcium accumulation in blood vessels, eyes, nerves, and so on and so forth. Now I want to move on to the main causes of kidney damage. Reason number one is undoubtedly diabetes, especially when a huge amount of glucose circulates through the vessels through the mail. Letting glucose into the kidney is the same as taking sandpaper.  paper and start rubbing the kidneys from the inside, the kidneys are simply destroyed, the kidneys are one of the four main tissues of the body that are destroyed by high glucose levels, the other three tissues are the heart, blood vessels, nerves, brain, and eyes, diabetes hits the kidneys and simply destroys them, I want to mention something else and I will make another video about this, if you look at normal blood sugar, it will be about 80 milligrams per deciliter, what does this number mean, how much sugar is in the blood at this level, only 4 grams is a teaspoon of sugar, this is a normal level, usually a person eats much more per day, 15 teaspoons of sugar or even more, and this every day, and this sugar gets into the blood, and yes, but often at first this is not reflected in the blood test, the tests show a normal sugar level, all because the body works very hard to remove all this sugar from the blood, it does this with the help of the hormone insulin, it constantly removes sugar from the blood, it tries to cleanse the vessels of excess sugar because sugar damages them, but where does all this sugar go, the body fusses  it in different places, so one of the signs of diabetes is sugar in the urine and the kidneys have to work very hard to get rid of excess sugar. This excess sugar acts like a blowtorch on your kidneys, causing oxidation and extensive damage. It's amazing that the body manages to cope with all this and survive when people eat so much sugar. In general, the main cause of kidney problems is diabetes. The second reason is hypertension, which is often caused by diabetes because glucose hardens blood vessels and blood pressure rises due to loss of elasticity. Two other very serious causes of high blood pressure are a lack of vitamin D caused by kidney problems and a lack of potassium, and all this can further cause kidney damage and hypertension and diabetes. The first problem causes the second, 2, 3, 3, and ultimately a vicious circle. Another cause of kidney damage is rare, but it still happens. This is polycystic kidney disease. This is usually a genetic problem that manifests itself when kidney damage occurs. These genes are expressed, that is, activated, when the body becomes toxic, especially the kidneys, and in the late stages of the disease, these cysts often appear. Another cause of kidney damage is glomerulonephritis.  That is, in the logs of the glomeruli, small filters in the kidneys, the question arises what leads to inflammation of these small filters. If you thought about diabetes, then you guessed right. In general, it becomes obvious that the cause of most kidney problems is high blood glucose levels. What can be done? Maybe go on a low-carb diet. It usually helps. Before moving on to foods, I'll also say about calla lilies. If you have late-stage kidney disease, then you shouldn't consume a lot of potassium and phosphorus, because there are already a lot of both of these minerals. Of course, if you have kidney disease in the late stages, then your doctor will tell you what you can eat and what you can't, but here's what I'll tell you. If you don't have kidney disease in the late stages and you want to prevent it, then potassium is one of the most important minerals that should be consumed in abundance because it protects mail. For those of you who need raw data, I'll leave a link below, and now I don't mean supplements, but foods rich in potassium. I also want to mention vitamin D. If your kidneys are damaged, then there is a deficiency, and due to a deficiency of vitamin D, you will have  and the problem with calcium deficiency is that the mechanism for transporting calcium disappears and calcium begins to accumulate in blood vessels and joints, as well as in the kidneys in the form of stones. We've figured this out now, let's talk about the best foods for kidneys and for preventing kidney damage. Without a doubt, leafy greens are the most beneficial for the kidneys. Asparagus is also very beneficial for the kidneys, it helps get rid of uric acid. Kale is also rich in phytonutrients that protect the kidneys. Celery contains many beneficial nutrients that help remove toxins from the kidneys and very gently maintain the kidneys in good condition. You can drink celery juice sometimes to cleanse the kidneys. By the way, regarding bags under the eyes, celery copes with them very well and quickly. People with weak kidneys should consume celery every day during meals, perhaps for dinner or a little later in the evening. Celery also has a beneficial effect on sleep. Celery is excellent for helping with swelling both on the feet and under the eyes. Of the protein foods, fish and seafood are best, as well as high-quality meat. It should  be organic and grass- fed but you don't need to eat a lot of protein it should be moderately a lot and moderately if more specifically 85-170 grams of protein per meal if you want to avoid kidney problems it is very important to improve the quality of the products before diabetes and blood sugar destroy the kidneys but they are also destroyed by various drugs medications destroy the kidneys many drugs have side effects that affect the kidneys because the kidneys should filter the blood and drugs just get into the blood if you constantly expose the kidneys to them then the kidneys will be damaged you do not need to eat food with pesticides and herbicides you do not need to drink coffee that is not organic because it is treated with pesticides I also want to talk about the fact that many people who have kidney problems are on a low sodium diet and honestly they most likely do not eat salt it weakens the muscles and makes a person feel weak and lethargic there is a very good salt which basically contains very little sodium sea salt which has more than 90 minerals about 95 percent consists of sodium but there is a type of sea salt called Baja gold which has only  70 percent sodium and it still has 90 minerals, it has a lot of potassium and a lot of magnesium, which is good not only for the kidneys but for the whole body and it is quite tasty, it improves the taste of food very well, I will leave a link below and no, no one pays me for advertising, this is a very good salt that will give a lot of potassium and magnesium and will not overload with sodium, it is obvious that refined and fast food, as well as food high in sugar and carbohydrates, damage the kidneys, but there are also so- called healthy foods that also harm the kidneys due to the high content of oxalates, oxalates combine with calcium and together they turn into oxalates, salad stones that harm the kidneys, these are the foods you should avoid if you have kidney problems: spinach, almonds in Kyiv, beet tops and, of course, legumes and grain products. I also want to mention how much fluid you need to drink if you have kidney disease, you should drink at least two and a half liters of water a day, this will prevent the concentration of oxalates and the formation of kidney stones and  Last but not least, if you have kidney damage, I recommend a very good supplement. I don't sell it. You can find it online yourself. It's produced by Standard Process. The supplement itself is called Charona Food. Take one before bed for two to three months. I recommended it to my patients and it showed excellent results. Now that you have this information, you should learn what you should eat and what your diet should look like. You should take a course on healthy ketogenic diets. I created this course and here's the information about it. Sign up right now. I invite you to my Healthy Keto Diet course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does n't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and have achieved very stable results. Join us too.