Here's what you definitely need to know. If you correctly identify the problem, there will be results, but if you treat the wrong problem, there will be no results. Yes, I was surprised, but no matter how simple it sounds, you're amazed at how many people spend years treating completely the wrong thing without result, so you need to be ready to try something new, realizing that your actions are in vain, especially with shoulder pain. I'll show you the best sleeping position for shoulder pain. Of course, I suffered from shoulder pain for many years. In fact, I had a fractured left shoulder, a fractured left elbow, and I had to sleep somehow. I'll show you the best sleeping position, but you need to know something. 80 percent of the time, the cause of shoulder pain is not in the shoulder itself, the pain radiates there. I realized this because over the years of my thirty years of practice, I took money from people who came with shoulder pain and then discovered that there were no results and I had to do everything possible, try different methods, think outside the box, and now I can give some valuable advice based on years of trial and error. Basically, shoulder pain, even if it is on the left, but most often it is on the right.  There may be pain here and there may be pain in the neck. It doesn't necessarily come from the gallbladder. It's a tube called a duct between the gallbladder and the liver. This tube is called the bile duct, and this duct often becomes clogged with sediment or very small stones, but most often it's thick sediment. This pressure is transmitted to the liver, then to the diaphragm and puts pressure on the phrenic nerve, and the phrenic nerve goes straight to the neck. So, irritation from this nerve causes a spasm in the shoulder. This can even lead to a displacement of the vertebra and a pinched nerve in the shoulder. This can also happen on the left side, because the duct connects to the pancreas, so the pressure in the ducts going to the pancreas can also radiate to the left side of the diaphragm. The phrenic nerve also goes from this side. So, if you don't know this and try to get rid of shoulder pain with corrections and exercises, the condition may not improve. But you know why, and here it's a matter of nutrition. If you're unfamiliar with ki, this is intermittent fasting. This definitely needs to be corrected.  To reduce the load on digestion, excess carbohydrates, empty carbohydrates, foods high in omega-6 fatty acids, these include nuts in excess, fried foods, all of this greatly irritates the bile duct and causes ongoing shoulder pain. There is one way to find out if the problem is related to the duct: you need to gently massage the area under the ribs a couple of centimeters to the right of the middle. Massage this area and see if the pain in the shoulder disappears, at least temporarily. If it disappears, then most likely the problem is related to the digestive system. I decided to tell you about this at the beginning because this is a very common problem and few people know about it and this problem is so easy to solve. You need purified bile salts or a formula for the gallbladder. Additional formation at the bottom. Bile salts will begin to liquefy the bile, normalizing the outflow of bile through the duct, which will eliminate shoulder pain. I have a lot of experience here. I suffered from shoulder pain for about twelve years before I realized what the problem is. A malfunction in the gallbladder causes tension in the trapezius muscles, here on either side behind where the rhomboid muscles or bot  The trapezius muscle, giving off energy to the levator scapulae muscle, lifts the scapula at a certain angle, and this tension creates a clamp in the muscle, hard as a knot, and then massage, massage, problems will not go away because the cause here is between the gallbladder and the liver. Well, let 's say the problem is in the shoulder itself, arthritis in the acromioclavicular joint or somewhere else in the shoulder joint. I filmed a video about shoulder pain in which I showed an excellent exercise for this problem and it's simple. One orthopedic surgeon wrote an amazing book about this exercise. He claimed that 80-90 percent of surgery can be avoided if you regularly do this exercise. I do it regularly myself. It works. You just need to find a bar on which you can hang. To begin with, you don't need to hang with your whole body. You just need to stretch your arm, either one at a time or both, and just stand. The main thing is to stretch this muscle, the latissimus dorsi, and you need to stretch it. This will send a signal to the upper region to relax the trapezius muscle. The shoulder joint will also open and the pain in the shoulder will significantly decrease.  It will subside, so if you hang, say, after lunch or before bed for fifteen seconds with your whole body or not, this will significantly relieve the pain in the shoulders and sleep will be much better, but you need to train so that eventually you can hang with your entire body weight on the bar with a straight grip for about 15-30 seconds. You will achieve this result and then do about three sets three times a week. If you can do this, your shoulders will be in good shape. I also want to touch on the topic of inflammation. If you have arthritis or inflammation, especially of the shoulder joints, remember what you ate yesterday. Most likely, that food is causing inflammation. Dairy products or some new ones. This ice cream, which is supposedly good for ketosis, may contain ingredients that cause inflammation. Or perhaps you ate nuts the day before, and nuts contain a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. Maybe this caused the inflammation. It could be some carbohydrates, but you probably ate something the day before that you should n't have eaten. It is very important to reduce the amount of omega-6 fatty acids and increase the amount of omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil or oil. One of the best natural remedies for inflammation from cod liver oil is stinging nettle root. This is a very good remedy for inflammation in arthritis, along with dietary adjustments and, of course, keto, along with intermittent fasting, is very important for beginners. The link is below. This combination immediately relieves shoulder pain by reducing inflammation, especially intermittent fasting, because fasting reduces inflammation. The most powerful vitamin that helps with inflammation is vitamin D3. It works most effectively in combination with vitamin K2 because vitamin K2 removes accumulated calcium from blood vessels and joints and returns it to the bones. This helps remove calcium from where it doesn't belong, and vitamin D3 quickly relieves inflammation. Improvement will occur very quickly if you take at least 20 thousand IU of vitamin D3 and 20 micrograms of CO2 in this proportion. That is, for every 10,000 IU of D3, you need one hundred micrograms of vitamin K2. This is a well-balanced ratio. If your shoulder hurts during sleep, take a mixture of vitamins B3 and CO2 right before bed. This will also help.  fall asleep additional information below the video now let's talk about the positions in which you should not sleep if you sleep on your side all the pressure will go to the shoulder joint it will be very uncomfortable because all the pressure and weight is on the shoulder so you don't need to sleep directly on the shoulder turn your shoulder about 5 centimeters forward this is the first tip also make sure that your head is in a neutral position in relation to the spine it should not be too low or too high place the pillow properly I also recommend taking a small towel or cloth roll up and putting it under your neck this will support and relieve pressure from the shoulder if it hurts you can also roll a small towel or cloth and put it under the chest here and so now there is support from below and above the shoulder so that the shoulder itself is practically not under pressure and it is also important that during sleep the head is not tilted too forward or back it should be in a neutral position on the pillow and it is definitely worth forking out for a quality pillow the choice is very individual you need to go to the store and try out many different pillows until you find the perfect pillow for yourself I wouldn't even look at the price tag, just think about it, we spend a third of our lives in bed. Without a doubt, it's worth getting the right pillow. Some people like it firmer, some like it higher, and what's good for your spouse, for example, may not suit you. Invest in the best pillow you can find. And if you sleep on your stomach, it's terrible. Why? Well, just turn your head to the right right now and stay in that position for 8 hours. That's what happens in your sleep. Yes, you'll lie like this, like that, but sleeping with your face in the pillow is impossible. You need to turn your neck, and holding your neck in that position will disrupt blood circulation in the brachial plexus. And guess where these nerves go to the shoulder? It's not good, so don't sleep on your stomach or even on your arms like that, because you'll pinch the nerves in your shoulder that go down your arm. Another undesirable sleeping position is to sleep on a pillow or without a pillow, putting your hands under your head is not the best position because, again, the nerves that go through the neck to the shoulder are pinched. That's bad, and the best sleeping position is on your side.  A pillow that supports your head in a neutral position, not too forward, not too back. Your shoulders should be slightly moved forward by about five centimeters. Perhaps with a rolled-up towel or cloth under your neck and shoulder, under your ribcage. This will put less pressure on your shoulder. I also recommend placing a pillow between your knees to relieve pressure on your lower back and hips. And of course, turn over from one side to the other at night. In my gallbladder course, you'll not only learn more about how and why the gallbladder can cause shoulder pain, but also learn how to cope with this and other problems. Are you sure your gallbladder is fine? If it's in your gallbladder, should I have it removed? If your gallbladder has been removed, how do you eat right to avoid complications? How do you deal with constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea? I'll talk about this in my gallbladder course. Sign up at the link below. See you there.