Many are concerned about heart attacks and strokes. What about aneurysms? An aneurysm can cause a stroke and you can definitely die from it. So today I'll talk a little about aneurysms, the factors associated with them, and how to prevent them. The first symptom or early sign of an aneurysm is the absence of a symptom. Why? Because an aneurysm is a bulge in the wall of a blood vessel. If the aneurysm does not press on anything, a person does not feel any serious symptoms until it ruptures. A ruptured aneurysm is a hole in the vessel through which blood flows out. If this happens in the brain, a stroke occurs. It is potentially possible to get a person to the hospital in time to get help, but not always. So I think it's important to know what an aneurysm is and how to prevent it. An aneurysm can be in the brain, near the heart, in the aorta, in the kidneys, in many other places. There is a simple test that allows you to very accurately determine whether a person has an aneurysm. It is called the thumb to palm test. To perform this test, press your thumb to your palm like this if you can.  If you can reach the edge of your palm with your thumb, then you may have very loose collagen. And there is a high correlation between loose collagen and aneurysm, which means you have an aneurysm. And if your finger doesn't reach the edge, this doesn't mean it's not there. Just keep in mind, take this test right now and write in the comments. Does your thumb extend beyond the edge of your palm? I'm very curious. Let 's say your ligaments are not loose, that is, you don't have this factor that leads to aneurysm. What else leads to aneurysm? Is smoking? You're probably thinking now. Wait a minute. Smoke gets into the lungs and not into the blood. Where do you think oxygen replaces CO2? When you breathe, the lungs are directly connected to the capillaries through which blood flows. And with smoke, carbon monoxide gets into them. Many different chemicals that can irritate the inner lining of blood vessels. In fact, smokers have a four times higher risk of developing aneurysms than non- smokers. Then, of course, there's alcohol, because the by-products and substances in alcohol irritate blood vessels from the inside. I'm talking about those who drink chronically, and Another common cause is, of course, diabetes, as well as a lot of sugar in the diet if the inner lining of blood vessels is exposed to sugar and hidden sugars, such as in starch. This is modified food starch, maltodextrin, and wherever they are not present, this can cause oxidation and damage to blood vessels from the inside. If you eat all this regularly, another reason is seed oils, which are another factor causing chronic inflammation. Here's a very interesting factor: dental bacteria, for example, bacteria in gum abscesses. These bacteria are found in aneurysms. They were also found in tartar. It seems they can penetrate the vascular system and cause inflammation, because this is an infection. So, this is another cause of inflammation in the lining of the heart. Anything that causes chronic oxidation or inflammation can begin to weaken the vascular system. And if you also have hypertension, then due to high blood pressure and inflammation, the blood vessels are destroyed so much that their walls begin to bulge. So, you really need to see what of this could be your problem. If you have, say, hypertension, you need to take more potassium and magnesium vitamins. These three nutrients will help lower blood pressure, and you also need a low-carb diet.  There is also a less common cause of aneurysms, which is copper deficiency. Copper is necessary for the creation of collagen. Without copper, the connective tissue that holds everything together is not formed. Copper has many other functions, too. It counteracts fungi and bacteria. Copper deficiency can occur if, for example, you take a lot of zinc for a long time but do not take copper. The correct proportion of zinc and copper is needed. So, what actions can prevent the development of aneurysms? Eliminate what causes inflammation. Start using antioxidants. These can be herbal remedies, vitamin D, B vitamins, vitamin C, or foods that contain these nutrients, such as vegetables. To counteract this, we need omega-3 fatty acids from seed oils. Here's what has the most omega-3: shaker liver oil, fish such as salmon. Vitamin D is also very, very important. Vitamin D helps prevent leaky blood vessels. The blood-brain barrier can also be leaky. Vitamin D prevents this. It's interesting. It's a very powerful anti-inflammatory. It's very important to get plenty of sun, but not in winter. Take vitamin D3, at least 10,000 IU. Perhaps one of the most important actions.  This is regular training. After all, it allows you to strengthen the vascular system over time so that it remains elastic for a long time and does not weaken. Training increases the amount of antioxidants that we create ourselves. If you haven't subscribed yet, you need to click the button below to find out about new videos. He spoke in verse.