Let's discuss pain relief in the Ministry of Emergency Situations. I'll tell you about three techniques that can bring great relief. A search for the temporomandibular joint reveals dangerous treatments, surgeries that lead to serious complications, medications, and the use of composite splints that don't help at all. Some people have it adjusted by a chiropractor. I've been working in this field for 30 years, including with jaw problems, correcting people's jaws. I've never seen it help. The issue here isn't that the bone has shifted; it just needs to be put back in place. There's a combination of strong muscle tension inside the joint. There's a small disc here. A lot is going on here. I want to say that the most common cause or the main cause of problems in this area, in my experience, is related to recent dental treatment. The dentist worked on your teeth, and every time you bite or chew, the entire mechanics of not only your jaws but also the muscles around the jaw, the muscles of the upper neck area, and the muscles that run along the neck to the shoulders are disrupted. This can create a series of compensations that can disrupt the body's functioning. So, if you've recently had dental treatment, visit  See your dentist again and let him check again that all the teeth fit together perfectly, because if just one tooth doesn't fit perfectly, it can have a huge impact on your jaw. I'll tell you something else that I discovered, especially if it hurts on the right side. The right side of the jaw is where you should suspect problems with the gallbladder because the gallbladder is located in the right hypochondrium, very close to the diaphragm, and there is a nerve that runs through the diaphragm. If this nerve is irritated, and a slightly swollen gallbladder can activate it, this nerve goes up here along the neck and, through the meridian system in acupressure, it can reach here and it can cause pain in the jaw on the right. Usually, the right shoulder or upper back hurts, but the jaw on the right can hurt. So, if you work on your jaw for the next ten years and the problem is in the gallbladder, everything will be in vain. So, if the jaw joint hurts and clicks as if it's popping out, let's move on to three steps right away. In the first step, you first need to determine which side hurts more, let's say it's the left side, that's where it hurts.  Right here in this joint, here's what you need to do, you need to massage the muscles on the opposite side. In fact, you will massage around the joint. If it hurts on this side, here, massage not this side but the opposite one. In fact, you will rub the area directly above the temporomandibular joint. Massage here properly, then massage under this joint, because there are also muscles under it, massage them properly, and massage even the joint itself, directly opposite the ear opening. Just massage this area here and you will notice that it is very, very, very sensitive, and most people do not know how sensitive this place is. On the other side, where it does not hurt, you begin to massage this area, here, higher, lower, here, and the pain on this side will decrease. This is the first step. I always advise evaluating the intensity of the pain on a scale of one to ten before and after, and then ask yourself whether the pain has shifted, say, it has shifted up or down. Massage from the opposite side. If the pain has moved down, massage a little lower on this side. It is not necessary to follow any pattern. The movements can be any, just activate the opposite side, and this is the first step. Now the second.  and it will probably bring the greatest relief there is a buccinator muscle and a masseter muscle they are located here and they need to be massaged and here's how to do it you need to put your fingers in your mouth or one finger you can use your thumb I'll try to show it better you press your finger to the cheek from the inside on this side you need to push it a little higher and press up and out here then move it to the middle part and press out here then move it a little lower and press out here so we place our finger in the mouth between the cheek and teeth under these large muscles then gently press up and out I will show this on myself it is very painful but it will bring great relief because this muscle is constantly in a state of tension and spasm and you will bring great relief you need to do this on both sides as you can see I press up outward and down you need to hold your finger in this position longer but don't try to press hard because it will be very painful hold your finger in these positions until the muscle relaxes and releases and the feeling in the jaw will be excellent and I will do it on the other side so this is the second step that is we work With the main muscles that clench the jaws, we stretch them slightly so that there is more space in the jaw, this alone will probably be very good for you. This is the second step. The third step is training the antagonist muscles for the muscles that clench the jaws. The muscles that clench the jaws are much stronger than the muscles that open them. Most of the time, we clench and close our jaws, so the balance of these muscles is often disrupted, so much so that this can cause joint pain. In this exercise, we will work with the antagonist muscles that open the mouth. To do this, you need to close your mouth, hold your chin and try to open your mouth like this. Do three sets of ten times. If you do this in public, don't mention me, because it looks strange. In this way, we strengthen the antagonist muscles that were overloaded and give the chewing muscles the opportunity to restore balance. Now, apply this technique and write in the comments whether it brought you relief. Since this area is often associated with the gallbladder, I suggest you take my course on this topic. Are you sure you have a gallbladder? If so, come to me. Do you need to remove it? If it has been removed?  Gallbladder: How to eat right, avoid complications, how to deal with constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea. I'll talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.