I will show you how to clear the respiratory tract of mucus during bronchitis, pneumonia, sinusitis. From any mucus in the respiratory organs with the help of something. What is better than salt? I made a lot of videos about removing mucus with salt. Salt is good, but there is something better. This remedy is NAC. It is also used in hospitals in intensive care units as an antidote for paracetamol poisoning. ACC is useful not only for mucus, but more on that later, but for now, let's discuss its effect on mucus. ACC essentially thins mucus. It makes mucus less sticky. Salt does the same thing by forcing mucus to absorb water, but ACC is not limited to this. It is a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent and a very powerful antioxidant. It thins mucus and blocks its secretion. It strengthens the small villi in the respiratory tract that help move. Moreover, it destroys bacteria, viruses, and can even destroy biofilms, which are colonies of microbes that live in mucus. And sometimes they are protected. There are three ways to take ACC: it can be taken orally as a supplement, injected, or inhaled through an inhaler. I'll tell you how to take it a little later. I'm telling you about ACC because its benefits are enormous. It helps with many problems. It doesn't matter what's causing your mucus: an infection, COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( when the lungs produce a lot of mucus), or even a genetic disorder associated with the lungs and mucus, the so-called cystic fibrosis. ACC can help. We'll discuss the effect of ACC in paracetamol poisoning. If you take too much paracetamol, a chemical is formed that deprives the liver of glutathione. Without glutathione, the liver collapses, becomes damaged, and can fail. ACC helps increase glutathione stores in the liver, thereby protecting it from destruction. You can't just take glutathione; it won't help. You need to take a precursor to increase glutathione stores in the liver. ACC is very interesting.  and also because it improves brain function because it passes through the bloodstream and acts as a powerful antioxidant in the brain. There are good studies on the use of ACC in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, OCD, cocaine addiction, marijuana and even gambling, as well as depression and schizophrenia. By the way, if you know someone with schizophrenia, give him high doses of nicotinamide, this is another remedy for schizophrenia. ACC apparently increases sensitivity to XLI. This means that blood sugar levels will improve significantly, the liver will not become fatty due to excess insulin, blood pressure will probably decrease and the cholesterol profile will improve, that is, there will be less oxidized LDL. In addition, ACC is taken by people with asthma. And by the way, if you have asthma, high doses of vitamin D3 will also help you. ACC even improves immunity. Some people switch to ACC and they have good results, and even with mercury poisoning, ACC seems to act like a hylar, it binds to mercury and removes it from the body. If you compare ACC and salt, how  Salt is good for acute infections, it quickly produces results in the fight against mucus, but ACC works much deeper, eliminating not only mucus but also inflammation as its cause, as well as physical stress, which extinguishes this flame, it even modulates, that is, regulates the immune system in general. ACC is much better at helping with any problems with mucus in the respiratory system. There are even reports that ACC helps with fibromyalgia and alleviates eye problems in some autoimmune diseases. You can take something else with ACC to speed things up. I will list the products that enhance the effect of ACC. If you add vitamin or curcumin from turmeric and a probiotic, it will be very useful. Magnesium improves the condition of the respiratory tract by relaxing blood vessels. You can also add quercetin, a phytonutrient found in onions. I would add vitamin D, one of the most important products, approximately 20,000 IU. Vitamin D is undoubtedly one of the most powerful products for regulating the immune system, it will help prevent infection. And if it does appear.  You'll quickly cope with it. As for the ACC dosage, I recommend taking 600 mg three times a day. This is the dose. The concentration of the liquid form of ACC can be from 10 to 20%. Create an aerosol in an inhaler and inhale it so that it gets into the sinuses, airways, and lungs. But it can also be taken orally. Using an inhaler is not necessary. I wanted this video to be short and to the point. Since vitamin D is so important for respiratory infections, you should probably watch this video.