Let's talk about asthma.  There are a number of interesting facts about asthma.  You may not have heard of them .  What is asthma?  It is a chronic inflammation in the lungs.  In fact, it is a malfunction of the immune system.  The main symptoms are wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath.  They usually get worse in the evening when exercising or if the air is heavily polluted.  Also, the presence of allergies can also trigger asthma.  One of the best remedies for asthma is sunlight.  If your child has asthma, let him spend more time in the sun.  This way he will get the necessary amount of vitamin D, and his asthma symptoms will become less and less severe. Now look here.  397,000 people die from asthma each year.  This data is for 2015.  It usually appears in children under 12 years of age. The word asthma is of Greek origin and means heavy breathing. Close contact with bacteria in early childhood helps prevent asthma. Conversely, living in a sterile, clean environment increases the risk of developing asthma.  Why so? Because the immune system learns through exposure to pathogens.  This is how antibodies are produced.  And without them, the immune system weakens.   The risk of asthma is also much lower for those who live on a farm or have pets. Why?  In the countryside or near domestic animals, there is much more contact with pathogens. Taking antibiotics at an early age also increases the risk of asthma. Imagine a small child, he is constantly sick, and his parents give him antibiotics again and again.  This increases the risk of developing asthma.  Caesarean section increases the risk of asthma by 20 to 80%. Why so?  Because the child had less contact with beneficial bacteria necessary for the development of immunity.  If your child has asthma, I would recommend giving probiotics because gut health is very important.  And, of course , lots of vitamin D. There is also an interesting therapy that I personally like.  It's called the Buteyko method. I left the link below.  The point is that with asthma, a person breathes through the upper part of the chest, inhaling mainly through the mouth.  So he tries to breathe in more air.  The problem is that this heavy breathing through the mouth reduces the amount of carbon dioxide, and this is not at all beneficial. As the level of carbon dioxide in the lungs decreases, the level of oxygen in the blood also decreases.  After all, carbon dioxide and oxygen work together. If the carbon dioxide level is reduced, oxygen binds more tightly to hemoglobin and does not detach. So try to breathe through your nose.  This will help normalize carbon dioxide and oxygen levels.  Try to even out your breathing, breathe more slowly and calmly.  This stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system. Because, just imagine, stress activates the sympathetic division, especially when you start breathing like this .  This leads to narrowing of blood vessels.  and not expansion. But air already has difficulty getting into the lungs, and oxygen into the body's cells.  So calm down, focus on breathing through your nose through your diaphragm, and this will give the desired effect.  There will be links below, I recommend you take a look.  And until we meet again.