Today I will try to answer the frequently asked question: can proof coffee interfere with autophagy? I already have a video about whether it interferes with entering and staying in whales, and now let's talk about autophagy. Autophagy is an amazing state when you abstain from food and the body begins to recover, begins to process damaged proteins, microbes in the body, as well as viruses and Candida, the body begins to clean all this and the need for vitamins and nutrients is noticeably reduced because the body enters the recycling mode and acts very effectively. When our bodies were created tens of thousands of years ago, frequent meals were not part of the idea and we have an excellent survival mechanism that in many cases helps us out, cells, so to speak, similar to a self-cleaning oven. What will interfere with autophagy? At the top of the list are glucose, protein and cortisol, where does it come from? Stress is to blame for everything. You understand, stress will block out of a duel, but 1 2, but stress is certainly not about you and your friends. Eating will stop autophagy, so  To activate autophagy, we fast, avoid stress, and remove glucose and protein from our diet. Fat has the least effect on insulin, and this is good news. Let me give you an example. You drink coffee, and there will be blood. Add coconut oil, M-City butter, or even butter. Don't just add it, but add a lot, say, 300-400 calories. This will interfere with autophagy, and the process will simply stop. But if you add a little, say, a tablespoon of butter or a tablespoon of M-City butter, this can slightly slow down the autophagy process, but it is unlikely to be significant. If you add low-fat cream, remember that it contains one percent carbohydrates and a little less than one percent, so we are talking about carbohydrates, whereas these oils do not contain carbohydrates. In principle, you can add a little M-City butter and this will be, so to speak, the ideal proportion. But the activation of the autophagy process depends on several factors: the amount of calories consumed, as we just said, the more calories, the lower the intensity of autophagy. The main thing here is to find a balance, as well as your health and age. If you are 18 years old and you have a fast metabolism, then Autophagy will proceed much faster than in those who are going through menopause. But let's say a person has diabetes and takes medications. This will interfere with autophagy. So, a lot depends on the state of health. The worse it is, the stricter you should be with yourself. Using all this, with good health, you can get away with a lot. The same with a fast metabolism. If you exercise, it will help, because exercise triggers the autophagy process. Because you put yourself in a stressful state and at the same time, you are also fasting. This only accelerates autophagy. But don't forget about recovery. We don't need too much cortisol, and its level increases from stress due to physical activity. How long your fasting intervals are also important. For example, you eat once a day and that's great. You have many hours left to trigger autophagy. I would say it will take you 18 hours, maybe 16, maybe a little more to start out of a due. It's hard to say exactly. I say 18 hours is a rough estimate of what the fasting interval should be. Let's say, for example, you can withstand exactly 18 or 17 hours without food.  and if you consume all of this, the benefits of autophagy will probably be less than if you maintained, say, a fasting interval of 8:00 PM with a 4-hour window for food. As you can see, there is no simple answer. You need to take all these factors into account and realistically assess the situation. The longer the fasting interval, the better. insulin levels are also important, since insulin also stops you from getting out of a due. That is, you can say I no longer consume carbohydrates, but you may have insulin resistance. insulin resistance leads to your body producing even more insulin, 5-7 times more. Excess insulin prevents you from getting all the possible benefits of autophagy. That is why the benefits of autophagy, for example, longevity, healthy skin, and rejuvenation become visible after some time after observing a healthy ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. Because this is the foundation for better functioning of the body and a significant reduction in insulin levels. You understand, so it's all about the right balance. You should also not forget about the hormone flexibilis, it is produced by the cells of the small intestine and produces a hormone in response to food intake and enhances the action of insulin. So, it is important not only  Avoid carbohydrates but also keep calories low. I think if you're in fairly good shape and add a small amount of one of these oils to your coffee, it's unlikely to cause big problems. But you should try it and see if you notice improvements in your skin, cognitive function, or if you feel younger. There's a separate video on this topic. Vitamin D will help trigger the autophagy process. Sunlight is also very beneficial, so sun plus exercise and fasting will only enhance the beneficial effects of autophagy. So, it seems we've covered everything we need to know. See you again soon. If you liked this video, share it with anyone who might find it useful.