I'll tell you about the benefits of adding ghee oil to Bullet PR coffee. What is the main difference between butter and ghee oil? Ghee is clarified butter. Milk solids are removed, including casein, which many are allergic to, as well as lactose intolerance, which is common. That is, we get the benefits of butter. Without side effects that can negatively affect digestion or cause allergies. Ghee has been used for a long time in different countries, for example, in India. For various purposes for cooking and for health in dishes. Proof coffee. I recommend adding oil to ghee instead of regular oil, especially if you are lactose intolerant. See. It's very simple. You just need to add one or two tablespoons of oil to a cup of coffee and mix everything. Just take the oil to ghee that says A2. This type of cow protein is healthier for the digestive system. Another advantage of ghee oil is that it is pure fat. There are only two things that do not stimulate insulin production. The first is pure fiber, and the second is pure fat. Of course, in addition to a low-carb diet, protein can stimulate insulin. Carbohydrates increase insulin, but fiber and fat do not.  That is, insulin does not increase. Here are some interesting benefits of adding oil to hot coffee or to food or even cooking with it. It contains Lutein, a type of carotenoids beneficial for the eyes, they can help prevent macular degeneration, which many people develop with age. This is a disease that affects vision, this can help to avoid it. Khi also reduces appetite, helping to go without food longer, this is another important plus because the longer the fast, the better for health. Another interesting feature of khi oil is fat-soluble vitamins. It contains vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and vitamin K2. This is a very important fat-soluble vitamin that retains calcium in bones and removes it from the vessels of soft tissues and joints. The digestibility of Hi oil is 97 percent compared to other fats that are not absorbed in this way. It is interesting that ki oil contains medium-chain triglycerides called MCT fats. The uniqueness of these fats is that they are not deposited as fat but are used for energy by turning into titols. They do not cause the release of bile, we digest them much easier. Khiso holds short-chain fatty acids, they are very useful for the intestines with inflammation in the intestines. Khee oil helps well, it also contains conjugated linoleic acid with interesting effects: anti-cancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-allergenic. And now the question is the answer to which many want to know. The question is: will proof coffee or oil take me out of ketosis? Hi, let me explain firstly. No, it won't because it gives ketones. And will it break the fast, let's say insulin won't increase. True fasting is no food. So yes, it can slightly disrupt the fast, but it won't take you out of ketosis. It can slow down weight loss with a slow metabolism, but for beginners, I usually recommend proof coffee. The only thing is, I don't recommend it with a very slow metabolism. If you want to lose weight faster, then I would not recommend any additional fats. The fats that are already in protein foods will be enough. Next, watch a very interesting video about vitamin K2. Here is the link. Watch.