God, as a child, literally Every year I had a sore throat and for 15-20 years my throat has not hurt even once, which is good, but it's a pity. Then I did not have the right remedy, because in most cases, a sore throat is due to viruses. This means that antibiotics will not help here, you take medication, it does not help, and you suffer for a week or two. Sometimes it is really caused by a bacterial infection, but most often it is viral. How do you understand that a sore throat is due to a virus? They are due to bacteria. In the case of bacteria, nausea is possible, digestive problems, for example, a stomach ache may occur. But usually there is no cough. And in the case of a virus, a cough, a runny nose, and severe swelling of the back of the throat appear. A natural remedy that I will tell you about is good because it helps in both cases. This remedy is bay leaf. I will show you how to use it. Bay leaf has both antiviral and antibacterial action, in particular against streptococcal infection. There is an excellent study about this. The link to it is below. Bay leaves have amazing properties in your stew or soup that I  I'll tell you one of these properties that helps with a sore throat is their more soothing effect. Bay leaves help reduce pain, swelling and inflammation. They are excellent for coughs, especially chronic coughs at night. So if children start coughing, you can give them this remedy. Bay leaves contain substances that stimulate the immune system, reduce mucus, reduce headaches, especially from the sinuses. They can be used to repel insects, otherwise, suddenly you are treating a throat and there are insects around. Bay leaves are good for wounds. They have an anti-cancer effect. They are good for all digestive problems, whether bloating, indigestion, or even gas. Bay leaves have a unique anticholinergic effect. What does this mean? It means that they inhibit a certain neurotransmitter. We will not go into this, but it helps reduce overactive bladder. It helps people who cannot sweat, who have dizziness, dry mouth, who have constipation, and who feel nauseous. As you can see, bay leaves have many different properties, which are confirmed by research. I'll leave links to them below. This is a very simple remedy. We'll make tea. Take two large bay leaves. They can be fresh or dried. Boil about half a liter of water. The water should boil for about 3 minutes. It should be very hot. Then put the bay leaves in this hot water. Let them steep for about four minutes. Essential oils and everything else should get into the water and the water should cool slightly. I recommend adding cinnamon in the form of a stick if you have it because bay leaves are bitter and cinnamon will add a pleasant taste. And if you add a couple of drops of stevia, you'll get a delicious drink. If you don't know, stevia is sold in liquid form. It's a natural sweetener. Just sip this tea throughout the day. You can drink as much as you like. There is no caffeine in it. It will soothe the back of the throat, relieve pain, reduce inflammation, help fight pathogens and speed up recovery. And here's what's also very important. There's another method. This is a manual therapy technique. I made a video. This technique can also help relieve a sore throat in about 2 minutes. If you  You haven't watched this video. I highly recommend watching it right away. Here it is.