Let's talk about the real benefits of chia seeds. Let's start with omega-3 fatty acids. They are good for the heart for thinning the blood. That's why it is often recommended to eat fish like salmon and sardines. They have a lot of omega-3. But aren't chia seeds better? They have even more omega-3 if you take the amount per 100 grams. The thing is, they usually don't say that they contain the wrong type of omega -3, which is known as an anti- inflammatory, that is, D. The type of omega-3 that is contained in chia seeds and in them it is most of all called ala, this is a substance that still needs to be converted into the active form of omega-3. The question arises how much of this ala is converted into D, and here is the answer: very little. Only about half the process. Now let's compare these seeds with eggs. A medium-sized egg contains about 7 g of protein. Chia seeds contain 4 g of protein, but are these the same proteins? The answer is no, because eggs contain the most bioavailability. No, I lied. Breast milk comes first, then eggs, followed by meat, and then  They have fish and protein from chia seeds and other plant proteins at the bottom of the list I searched everywhere and for quite a long time to find out what it has but I didn't find anything in chi seeds there is also a little vitamin E and a little vitamin C as well as some B vitamins calcium phosphorus potassium and magnesium studies of chi seeds point to their protective properties for the heart their benefits for lowering blood pressure benefits for the brain and even the ability to thin the blood but the biggest benefit of chia seeds is related to soluble treat here's what I do I take two tablespoons of chia seeds I pour them with half a glass of milk or unsweetened almond milk and then mix until the consistency of jelly then add some berries or kefir It's a little better than yogurt But if you take yogurt then Greek is better plus a little coconut cream and maybe nuts you get an excellent pudding but all the benefits are in the jelly this jelly is soluble fiber great food for the gut microbiome your microbiome loves this jelly it can eat this jelly and turn it into food for the intestinal cells into energy for these cells if you inflammation in the intestines will be useful for you, you will also benefit from this with constipation, some so- called lectins can irritate the intestines and cause inflammation, but there are very few lectins in chia seeds, so you do n’t have to worry about this, this jelly also contains other nutrients such as polyphenols, these are plant substances that intestinal microorganisms also love, the real benefit of chia seeds is the nutrition of microorganisms, what you benefit from and you have a clear connection between your mood, your energy and overall health and the health of your intestinal microflora, so I recommend chia seeds and other foods that feed these microorganisms, including fermented vegetables like sauerkraut, pickles, or kimchi, eat them regularly, and a couple more things will not smear, it is better to soak the seeds whole, from the stack, the seeds were used, whose food, so they have been known for a long time, and I also have a whole course dedicated to similar superfoods, I recommend, you know what superfoods are, these are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body  Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these products and their benefits. Short, concise videos about more than just superfood juices help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. You'll also find notes, recipes, and additional materials. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.