Hello, I'm Dr. Berg, in this video I want to tell you what to do if you have varicose veins. I must say that most herbal remedies and vitamins for varicose veins simply do not help. I have tried so many different remedies and they just pass through and do not help with varicose veins. I will tell you what helps, but first, let's talk about the purpose of veins. Veins carry blood from the extremities, from the fingers and toes, back to the heart. The heart sends blood from itself through the arteries, and the veins return it to the heart. This is the reverse path of blood. One of the biggest differences between arteries and veins is that veins do not pump blood to the heart. Arteries carry blood throughout the body using heart contractions, but veins need muscles to send blood back to the heart. Therefore, if you are inactive, do not exercise and sit all day, and there is a chance that you will develop varicose veins or spider veins. There are other causes of varicose veins, for example, pregnancy, this is a problem with estrogen, when a child is developing in the belly, this large mass can interfere with blood circulation, also, excess weight can press on the veins. Problems with  Estrogen can cause side effects and one of these effects is spider veins and varicose veins, this can also be a reason, in fact, this can be corrected by going outside and playing sports, it's that simple, you need to walk and exercise regularly, you need to take into account the degree of varicose veins if a person has it really neglected, then it is worth thinking about removing such veins, because other veins can replace them, but if the problem is not so serious, then training should help everything esp to correct, but you need to exercise for a year or two, this will not happen in a day, this is the first thing for spider veins, everything is a little different, you will do the same exercises, but it is interesting that spider veins can also occur due to excess vitamin C. I am not talking about vitamin C in food, I am talking about excess ascorbic acid, this is synthetic vitamin C. People who consume ascorbic acid in grams create a deficiency of other components of the vitamin C complex. In general, vitamin C has a complex composition and when you buy vitamin C at a pharmacy, most often you buy synthetic ascorbic acid, especially if you take 500 milligrams and understand that you are buying something made from corn  There is no vitamin C in starch or sulfuric acid. Sometimes ascorbic acid is sold under the name vitamin C, it is not clear why, while this is only a tiny fraction of the vitamin C complex. The best source of vitamin C is food or natural concentrates, so you need to eat more vegetables. In general, if you want to correct spider veins, you need much more vitamin C in your diet for a long time. Avoid ascorbic acid and synthetic vitamin C. And what next? Go outside, start walking regularly, exercise, and this will correct varicose veins. A normal vein is straight, it carries blood directly to the heart, but in a vein with varicose veins, the functioning of the vein valves is disrupted and increases in size, and the blood eventually flows slightly to the side, which can lead to a stroke. In general, you need to straighten the vein, start exercising, and walk. See you soon.