I want to tell you about a very good remedy that helps with problems with veins in the legs, but I'll start with what the venous system is and how it differs from the arterial system. Veins are the vessels through which blood returns from the legs and from the fingertips back to the heart. This is deoxygenated blood, that is, it no longer has oxygen. A unique feature of the venous system is that it does not have a pump. Blood moves only due to the contraction and movement of muscles. Therefore, if you have a sedentary lifestyle and you stand a lot, you may have more problems with veins. We have many arteries that reach all the way to the feet and to the fingertips. Then the blood flows through small capillaries and oxygen with nutrients is given to the tissues. After this, the blood returns to the heart through the veins. There is also a system of veins connected to the digestive organs. These veins transport nutrients from the digestive system back through the liver again to the heart. This is the so-called portal system of the liver. If something in your liver obstructs this flow, for example, scar tissue or Cirrhosis or if the liver is fatty, you will have problems with the veins such as stagnation of venous blood due to insufficient pressure. The liver can basically be compared to a sponge. If this sponge is filled with something that prevents the flow of fluid through it, for example, scar tissue or fat, the sponge stops functioning. It can no longer normally retain fluids and function normally, and your fluid pressure in the system will definitely decrease if such a sponge is connected there. For example, if you have a water filter installed and it gets clogged, this will lead to a drop in pressure. In one part of the house, the water flow will weaken, and in another, on the contrary, it will increase. When the pressure in some part of the venous system is elevated, this can lead to things such as varicose veins and can increase, including in the esophagus, called esophageal varices, and also in the lower part of the rectum, this is called hemorrhoids. The veins in the stomach can also be affected, this is varicose veins of the stomach, and one big reason for problems with veins is the liver, but today my main topic is chronic venous  Insufficiency in this case, the problem is observed mainly in the lower legs where the outflow of venous blood is disrupted, this is called chronic venous insufficiency, which in turn leads to varicose veins, spider veins, phlebitis, which is an inflammation of the vein walls or even the so-called deep vein thrombosis when blood clots form in the veins. Here are some symptoms that occur with insufficient blood flow in the venous system. The first is heavy legs syndrome, 2 swelling of the legs and ankles, then pain in the legs and restless legs syndrome. Skin lesions are also possible. The skin can become shiny or similar to rawhide. Hair may fall out on the legs. Itching may appear and the color of the skin in the lower legs may also change. Many women experience varicose veins and problems with veins in the lower legs after pregnancy. This is associated with estrogen. Thus, estrogen is another cause of venous problems. This phenomenon has not yet been sufficiently studied, but we know that veins have receptors for estrogen, so excess estrogen can affect  venous system, and this phenomenon is observed in men, in women during menopause, estrogen levels decrease, but in contrast, they decrease even more, while the ratio of estrogen to progesterone is high, despite the fact that estrogen levels have fallen, progesterone falls much more, this can be considered estrogen dominance. In men, testosterone levels decrease with age, because of this, the relative estrogen level in them also increases, especially if the liver is damaged because the liver is a key organ that regulates estrogen and softens its excess, and so, taking all this into account, the best remedy for problems with veins in the lower legs is red grape leaf extract. I learned about this from a patent. It describes a large study and the patent is based on the results obtained. This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial on a fairly large number of people with venous insufficiency from mild to moderate. The amount of red grape leaf extract that was given to patients ranged from 360 to 720 milligrams per day for 12 weeks and the results were excellent. Red grape leaf also helps with an enlarged liver, an enlarged spleen, swelling of the legs and hemorrhoids, bruising, bleeding, nasal congestion and enlarged capillaries. In addition, it perfectly relieves inflammation and helps balance capillary permeability. I also recommend doing the rebound exercise simply because it increases the outflow of lymph and helps drive it through the veins. And of course, I recommend regular walks. You need to be active, you don’t need to sit or stand for a long time. If you have liver problems, and this is often found in those suffering from varicose veins, I recommend a supplement called here K. This is a type of bile salt and it is useful not only for fatty liver but also for cirrhosis of the liver. Here K increases the flow of bile through the bile ducts. If you have a problem with estrogen dominance, I recommend the supplement Dim, this is a super concentrated anti-inflammatory mixture of cruciferous vegetables. Since varicose veins are very often observed in women, I suggest paying attention to my course dedicated to I invite you to my course for women's health. Ovarian body type. This course is for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this manifests itself in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore your women's health. My unique videos, product lists, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.