The introduction of magnesium before a heart attack or even during a heart attack prevents the formation of destructive crystals in the heart muscle and thereby protects it. Wow, that's it. Doctors most often ignore this when dealing with heart disease. My grandfather died of heart problems after a bird attack. My father had atrial fibrillation. He was given a pacemaker and now he constantly takes medications. Since there were heart problems in the family, I wanted to know everything about it. To avoid these problems and tell people about it, there are four common heart problems. Number one is plaques. Inflammation occurs. The body applies a patch of calcium and cholesterol, they block the vessel. Oxygen does not reach the heart muscle, which causes a spasm. Then angina pectoris is a lack of oxygen, and then a heart attack. Number two is blood clots. This is something else. In this case, a blood clot forms, it enters the heart, covers itself, creates a lack of oxygen and can cause a heart attack. And if it moves further in the body, it can reach the brain and cause a stroke. Number three is atrial fibrillation. In this case, blood accumulates in parts of the heart.  or the vascular system and then a blood clot can form, which can lead to a heart attack. Number four is hypertension. High blood pressure. In this case, due to high blood pressure, the blood vessels can become very rigid and hardened. Chronic hypertension also destroys the kidneys, because the kidneys cannot withstand high blood pressure for a long time. It's amazing that all four of these problems have one thing in common. Magnesium deficiency. Magnesium deficiency is very interesting because it is almost impossible to detect by tests. By checking the level of magnesium in the blood, we are only dealing with the amount of magnesium in the body. 99% of magnesium is inside cells and not in the blood, so a blood test for magnesium does not allow us to detect its deficiency. If we look at some common heart medications and their mechanisms of action, we will see that they are directly related to magnesium. Let's start with the so- called calcium channel blockers. They block calcium. Why take the drug? Excess calcium where it doesn't belong can cause excessive contraction. That is, calcium causes contraction and magnesium causes relaxation. So, magnesium is a natural calcium channel blocker, but without side effects.  effects like these drugs, many doctors don't know that magnesium regulates calcium, with any problem with excess calcium, magnesium is needed even for titanium, twitching is caused by excess calcium due to a lack of magnesium, another type of drugs - beta blockers, they block adrenaline, the vessels relax and the blood flow to the heart muscle increases. They are used for problems with heart rhythm. And did you know that magnesium naturally reduces adrenaline and cortisol, so many people take magnesium before bed to relax and sleep. Number three, Warfarin takes it. Wash to avoid blood clots, because due to atrial fibrillation, he was given a pacemaker, he can't eat anything that has a lot of vitamin K1, because it provokes blood clots. And he needs to thin the blood. What's interesting in the mechanism of thrombus formation is that calcium is associated with thrombus formation. And as I said, magnesium helps control excess calcium, and number four, there are many drugs to lower blood pressure in the vessels there is a muscle layer, and magnesium is a natural vasodilator, so magnesium and  helps people with hypertension Why do few doctors treat the heart with magnesium? First, its level is almost impossible to determine. Second, they are not taught nutrition, they devote 12 to 24 academic hours to it. And here's what's also very interesting: many studies on magnesium are contradictory in terms of its effect on the heart. Many studies use a form of magnesium from which only 3-4 percent is absorbed. They use magnesium oxide. If you take 400 mg and absorb 34%, will there be any results? Probably not. But another form of magnesium, magnesium glycinate, is absorbed by 80%, greatly reducing the risk of kidney stones. I had a kidney stone, the pain was so severe that I told my wife. Now I understand how painful it was for you to give birth. She objected. You have no idea what it's like to be pregnant. I agreed, and at that time I had a magnesium deficiency. It's a pity I didn't know about magnesium, because it's a universal remedy. And what about calcium deposits in blood vessels? Have you ever heard of a coronary calcium index test? This is a good test, it shows  How much calcium do you have in your blood vessels? This is an expensive test and it accurately predicts mortality. In other videos, I talked about a vitamin that prevents calcium deposits in blood vessels. This is vitamin K2. For vitamin K2 to work, it needs magnesium. Now, let's discuss something very interesting in connection with a heart attack. When someone has a heart attack and the oxygen supply to the heart muscle decreases or stops, this is called ischemia. A precipitate forms in the form of calcium crystals. When you catch the precipitate, you probably think about the rain that clouds bring, but calcium crystals precipitate from something that enters the heart muscle itself. These crystals that we see accumulate inside the mitochondria. Mitochondria create energy using oxygen. These crystals cause irreversible damage to heart tissue. Here are large calcium crystals in a Petri dish. They can be seen without a microscope. These crystals have the same shape as those that are visible under a microscope in tiny mitochondria. In patients with a heart attack, when the oxygen supply to the heart muscle has decreased or stopped, then we see a different outcome. In patients who received  Magnesium before or during a heart attack Taking magnesium before a heart attack or even during a heart attack prevents the formation of destructive crystals in the heart muscle and thereby protects it. Wow, you may have heard about the study that if women take too much calcium, especially during menopause, this also creates a risk of heart attack. Now it is clear why they do not have enough magnesium to regulate the calcium entering the body. I would be careful about taking too much calcium. I advise trying to get calcium from food. I already said that magnesium relaxes muscles, and calcium causes contraction not only of blood vessels, not only of the heart muscle, but also of any other muscles. This is what causes leg cramps. I used to get leg cramps early in the morning and I could not understand why magnesium obeys circadian rhythms. That is, the lowest level of magnesium is early in the morning. If you have a subclinical magnesium deficiency, if you have little of it, you develop symptoms of its deficiency. Perhaps the most important function of magnesium is associated with its participation in the production of energy when we eat, food is digested and enters the cells in  Mitochondria. The mitochondria burns this energy, and at the last stage of this chain is an engine that converts inactive energy into active energy. Therefore, with a magnesium deficiency, people get tired. Especially if they exercise. Another problem caused by magnesium deficiency is migraines. By the way, some people need to take even more than 400 mg of magnesium to get rid of migraines. Here is another very important piece of this puzzle, and this is vitamin D3. If you do n’t have magnesium, vitamin D cannot work. If you take a lot of vitamin D, without magnesium, there will be no results. If you take vitamin D, be sure to take magnesium. After all, they work together. How does magnesium deficiency occur? There are a couple of reasons. From 48 to 57% of people get magnesium less than the RDA. To get it from bananas, you need 11 glasses a day. Almonds are a good source of magnesium. 140 grams is enough, but almonds contain oxalates, and this is another problem. Spinach has a lot of magnesium, and you only need one and a half glasses, but it also contains oxalates. Dark chocolate at 170 grams is enough. magnesium, but it also contains oxalates. You need 7 cups of avocado. This is quite a lot. You need 430 g of fish. You need 800 calories per kilogram of beef. 4 cups. Pumpkin seeds 160 g. 130 g of sunflower seeds. But there are also things that deprive you of magnesium: alcohol, refined sugar, starches, and also problems with genes that impair the absorption of magnesium. Stress, low stomach acidity, medications such as antibiotics, whole grains. But the worst thing is ultra- processed food, highly refined food. Because it essentially has no nutrients at all. And even more so, it has no magnesium, and digestion is ultra- early. Even children under 2 years old sing 45% of their calories from ultra-early food. Adults get 57% of their calories from ultra-processed food. Imagine what kind of magnesium deficiency people live with in general. And as I said, one of the reasons that doctors don't work with this is that there are many conflicting assessments of magnesium in the literature. But if you dig deeper, it turns out that many studies use magnesium oxide, and people  They absorb only a tiny fraction of magnesium from it and do not get results. I think in addition to magnesium, it is important to know about other nutrients. We examine them in detail in this course. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the nutrient deficiency course, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists - everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.