This is fundamentally wrong and we must stop it.  The chemical industry is quietly trying to get a law passed.  If it is passed, the claims of all people who have been harmed by pesticides will be dismissed.  And not only from pesticides, but also from insecticides, herbicides and fungicides.  Article 453 of this bill is pure evil.  But all this is presented as support for farmers.  and that if we don't get rid of the weeds, everyone will die of hunger.  Example. Monsanto's company developed a variety of cereal called RA upp ready, and many people sued them over this herbicide called Round.  They paid out $10 billion to the victims.   There are currently 165,000 cancer-related claims pending.  If this law is passed, all such claims will be dismissed.  It will provide legal immunity to both local and foreign companies.  All claims based on a claim of failure to warn will be dismissed. Bayer's director said the number of lawsuits against Round could make further sales of the herbicide in the US unprofitable unless they had legal immunity. And this is instead of responsibility for the damage caused.  We've seen this many times before.  What was considered safe turned out to be deadly.   The situation is similar with drugs. Manufacturers of both drugs and chemicals are exploiting the loophole.  They are not obliged to publish negative research results.  And 70% of the results are classified and known only to the companies themselves.  I want to show you what I consider to be a kind of front group.   A modern agricultural alliance created by Bayer .  They create mass movements to make it look like everyone supports their position. But I want to show what is written on their website.  The victory of the weeds is our defeat.  Glefosad is an indispensable tool for a farmer.  Due to growing demand, modern agriculture is the only way to effectively supply the population with food.  Glyphosate is a mainstay of modern farming, inexpensive, and safe when used correctly.  It keeps profits high, prices reasonable, and farmers' produce well preserved.  Certain groups within the World Health Organization have listed glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen.  Thanks to this, many victims win their lawsuits.  It is claimed that if glyphosate is not used in agriculture, we will all starve and food will become very expensive.  Yes, glyphosate probably makes products cheaper, but it does come with additional costs.  What about all these medical costs we have to bear because of the health problems this chemical creates? And now an important interview with a person who knows this topic very well. Kelly, thank you so much for agreeing to discuss this extremely important issue with me .  And here is my first question: what will happen if this law is passed? What could be the consequences for literally all Americans and people in general? This is a very frightening situation.  Because what's happening now?  If their producers receive legal immunity, it will mean that they will be free to pollute everything around them, create all sorts of chemicals and bear no responsibility at all when someone's health is damaged because of them. What does this really mean?  There's a lot going on right now.  for example, cancer, Parkinson's disease, Charcot's disease, infertility.  Many different diseases are now being linked to pesticides, and research confirms this.  The environmentalists from IPAA are doing nothing about it, but they understand that people like us can blame them for this and want to create a defense for themselves so that we can’t do anything. Yeah, it's interesting that they've started doing this now.  Take Bayer with their roundup, for example .  The number of lawsuits against them is simply astronomical. Of course they will push this law through, otherwise they will probably have to remove their product from the market. This roundup.   That's right .  And all of this is simply outrageous.  I attended the glyphosate trials in court because I expected fake news about them.  And, by the way, they really were.  The truth is that glyphosate is still allowed on the market because of the lies that are constantly being spread about its safety. Bayer knows time is running out, but they don't want to put cancer warnings on the product.  In fact, they could continue selling it with that label, but they don't want to, preferring to bankrupt the company or prevent anyone from suing them over a list of 57,000 chemicals.  Just think about what we're talking about .  It's not just about the death of experimental insects.  The damage is unimaginably large and vastly underestimated. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Besides, it is ignored, and people who protest are called hippies, and look, they are not against pesticides.  This is madness.  These chemicals damage the microflora, disrupt metabolism, and cause harm to the brain.  We are now enemy number one for pesticide manufacturers. And not only pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, insecticides.  They are part of this too. Yes, that is true.  All these cides that kill something, that is, they want immunity.  OK. What if the law is passed?  How difficult will it be to reverse this decision? This will be incredibly difficult.  For example, over the past 10 years, several nonprofit organizations that work for the benefit of the people have sued the CPA for his egregious behavior.  Let's take glyphosate as the most famous example. The Center for Food Safety accused them of ignoring research showing it causes cancer.  The federal court ordered the ep to look into this issue, but they refuse and are just waiting for this legal protection to appear.  And if the law is actually passed, it will be virtually impossible to repeal it without some massive concerted effort. Government officials will have to be convinced that they will not be re-elected unless they repeal this.  Who can do this?  We are talking about gigantic sums of money that are being fought over.  And we, the vanishingly small, are small in comparison to this agricultural chemical lobby. Everything is connected there.  It's not just about pesticides, it's about the entire agricultural system .  Kulturraun undapredhi, GMOs are the basis of our agriculture, and they protect it.  At the same time, they do not take into account how, frankly speaking, the farmers themselves and everyone who loves to eat are harming their health.   I do n't know, for some reason I thought that's what the Environmental Protection Agency meant and that they were protecting us. But it looks like they're protecting the other guys.  Maybe it's just me that thinks they're not who they say they are? Yes, it looks like that.  And by the way, I want to tell you one story.  My life is essentially a fight against these pesticides.  I'm trying to convey the truth and show what we're up against.  In September, I went to the pesticide office with documents about endocrine disruptors, specifically that glyphosate is found in semen, that it lowers testosterone, and that it can cause infertility.  I presented this to those who deal with VPA pesticides.  They should have been shocked, but they weren't.  They just said thank you very much and just disappeared.  It's absolutely amazing that YOU behave like this.  I don't know what else can be done with such a corrupt organization except to close it down and then re-create it, but under more proper supervision. I have an idea about this.  If you get enough people to fight this, they will turn to the authorities and tell them why this law cannot be supported.   Do you think this might help? I would really like that, and it's the only thing we can do.  We must make a big noise, a really huge noise, so that the authorities fear for their seats if they do not respond to the demands of the citizens. They pretend to help people, but in reality it’s the opposite.  Unfortunately, we have to work for them, even though we are just consumers.  Together we can do something.  What actions can there be, from small to very serious? It won't take much time.  The first thing you can do is call your legislator, your state senator or senators, and your congressman.  Call and say that you are against any formulations that give chemical manufacturers legal immunity.  You don't want to be poisoned, and that bill protects 57,000 different chemicals.  So, the first step. Call him and say: "There is no legal immunity for chemical manufacturers."  Dot. Fine.  This is the easiest.  Second.  You can go to the website stoppoison.org, org and register by filling out the form.  And I will inform you about all the events we organize.  We're not just saying, "Everything goes from the federal level to the state level. You'll find out what's happening in your state."  Third. You can go to the Stand for Health Freedom website.  This is a very good and active organization.  They have links that you can easily follow to send emails to government officials.  These are the three ways.  Information about all three will be in the description.  Please do something about this and tell others.  Everyone needs to take action .  Then we can deal with the problem very quickly.  We must.  This is all very serious.  This is not some small thing.  And this will affect not only ourselves, but also our children and grandchildren.  I can't imagine how this will change if the law is passed.  So this is an extremely serious situation and we all need to act.  I thank you, TV, for what you do and thank you for agreeing to this interview. Thank you for giving me the floor.  Everything will work out. Undoubtedly.  Thank you.