There is one very important nutrient that prevents many diseases, this is vitamin K2. If there is calcium in the vessels, then vitamin K2 will remove it from there. But there are other soft tissues, for example, the hip joint. Vitamin K2 causes the joints to release calcium during arthritis or calcium deposits. It makes it enter the bloodstream. Vitamin K2 also ensures that calcium from the blood gets into the bones. It binds tightly to bones and teeth. With a deficiency of vitamin K2, calcification of soft tissues occurs. Corrosion of bones also occurs, for example, osteoporosis or caries. Vitamin K2 is needed because it is very dangerous to have too much calcium in soft tissues. Calcium should be in bones and teeth. It should not be in other places. The body has a mechanism for directing it to the right places. And here is the question: where does vitamin K2 come from? It can be obtained either from food or as a result of the conversion of vitamin K1 by bacteria in the intestines. Vitamin K1 is found in leafy greens. If you eat little leafy greens, then most likely you do not have enough vitamin K1. The next question: What foods contain vitamin K2?  For example, natto contains the most fermented soybeans. These beans are eaten in Japan and China. It contains the most vitamin K2. Many people take it for heart problems and the risk of stroke. Natto is a rather curious product. It contains a lot of vitamin K2, but at the same time it counteracts vitamin K1. The next product rich in vitamin K2 is goose liver. There is also a lot of it in chicken and beef liver. Unfortunately, I can’t eat liver. I eat cod liver. But I can’t eat other types of liver. I don’t like it. Eel also contains vitamin K2. When was the last time you ate eel? Probably never. These foods contain the most vitamin K2. There are others, more about them later. It’s interesting that most people have a vitamin K2 deficiency because they don’t eat foods rich in it. But you could eat these foods that contain some vitamin K2: butter, cheese, mostly grass-fed, salts, a little vitamin K2 is found in pork, and also in fermented vegetables such as sauerkraut. It’s strange that we have a vitamin that can remove  calcium from the vessels, but it is in fatty foods that we are told not to eat. It is strange that we are told not to eat what contains the remedy for the disease that humanity suffers from, by the way, vitamin K2 is a fat-soluble vitamin. If you do not have a gallbladder or liver problems, you may not have enough bile to absorb it. I mentioned another way to get vitamin K2 from vitamin K1. It only works in the presence of bacteria that perform the conversion. There is a bacterium with this name, it is responsible for the conversion of K1 to K2. Unfortunately, this bacterium is easily destroyed by broad-spectrum antibiotics. Only 30% of the population has this bacterium in the intestine. If you do not have this bacterium and eat foods rich in vitamin K2, then your risk of soft tissue calcification increases. You need to know that there are things that deprive the intestines of the ability to produce vitamin K2: antibiotics, steroids like prednisone, SPIs, also known as antacids, homo products because glyphosate acts as an antibiotic, alcohol, junk food, sugar, blood thinners, liver disease, and also low-fat diets. Because I already said, vitamin K2 is contained  In fatty foods, one of the toxic effects of excess vitamin D is excess calcium in the vessels, but this toxic effect of vitamin D is so rare that to obtain it, you need to take hundreds of thousands of IU of vitamin D3 for many months. But do you know that vitamin K2 can help with this and reduce calcium levels? Vitamin K2 depends on another nutrient, magnesium. If there is a lack of magnesium, vitamin K2 will not work. Think about it: if you have kidney stones or arthritis or calcium in the vessels, and you even take vitamin K2 but it does not work, then most likely you have a magnesium deficiency, and most people have it; it cannot be detected by tests, because almost all magnesium is in the cells; there is only 1% of it, therefore, the magnesium level cannot be determined without a biopsy or expensive tests. So, when calcium is found in places where it should not be in soft tissues or somewhere else, a combination of magnesium and vitamin K2 is an excellent solution to this problem. You also need to know that vitamin K2 comes in two types: one is called K4 and the other is MK7. MK7 is a natural vitamin 4, artificial. I recommend taking the MK7 version. I recommend  Take 100 micrograms for every 10,000 of vitamin D3 in this proportion. That is, if you take 20,000 of vitamin D3, you need to take 200 mcg of vitamin K2 version MK7. I wanted to tell you about vitamin K2 so that you know about it and so that you eat foods rich in this vitamin. Vitamin K2 is often associated with vitamin D. If you haven't watched my video about it, watch it.