Today we will discuss one amazing exercise that helps you live longer. First, I will explain what heart rate variability is in the HR variability test. It is a test you can take and it shows the chance of dying from a heart attack. I regularly conducted it in my office and it gives interesting data. We have heard of long-distance runners who, having reached the finish line far from a chaotic attack, although they did not look sick, this is because of poor heart rate variability. Let me explain what it is. With each heartbeat, the heart contracts and relaxes. The sympathetic nervous system controls the contraction and the parasympathetic nervous system controls relaxation. Continuously, knock knock knock knock. Let's say, for example, that your pulse is 60 beats per minute. You might think that each beat lasts exactly one second, but this is not so. The distance is the time period between beats. Normally, it should vary. This one may be eight tenths of a second, and this one may be 1.1 seconds. This one is 1.3 seconds, and this one is seven tenths of a second. That is, they are all different and this is a normal, healthy organism. If they are exactly the same, this is how  Since it is considered unhealthy, it is interesting who would have thought that the more these intervals vary, the better the heart's ability to adapt, the more flexible it is, but if it is always the same, then the heart is very rigid and is not able to recover normally. Let's show it on another graph. Let's say you started doing exercises, you activate the sympathetic nervous system, then at some point you stop the exercise. When you stop, the parasympathetic nervous system, the recovery system, is actively involved and actively causes the pulse to decrease. That is, the sympathetic and parasympathetic systems are in harmonious balance, especially in the heart. In other parts of the body, the ratio is different, but I take the heart as an example. Therefore, it is very important to correlate exercises with intervals with heart rate and heart rate variability. You cannot do long exercises without breaks. It is much more beneficial to do sets and interval mode. High-intensity interval training. I recommend doing short sets with high intensity and sufficient rest. Repeat this cycle over and over again because it is very beneficial for the cardiovascular system and it can prolong your life. This is one of the reasons why this is so. Most people have weakened  The parasympathetic system is powerful, the sympathetic system is stressful, but the recovery system is very weak. By the way, I once had a patient. When she was exercising, her pulse was about 150, which is quite high. She comes the next day and her pulse is still 150. I think what the hell is going on. It’s as if she has n’t recovered. I conducted a recovery test, nothing at all lowered her pulse. A very good test for recovery is to check pulse recovery. Measure your pulse after a minute of exercise and see how quickly it drops. If it doesn’t drop, you have a problem. Both systems should be working every time you exercise. Don’t overexert yourself. This will damage the recovery system. So, short sets of high-intensity exercises are recommended. I mean one minute and a half of exercise, then rest for two or three minutes. Don’t alternate. This can be applied to any exercise. For example, on a bicycle, I pedal hard for a while, then rest and ride calmly, then pedal again, and so on in a circle. You shouldn’t do anything continuously for a long time because it only harms the heart. So, for the benefit of health and flexibility of the cardiovascular system, interval training is definitely the best option if  If you liked this video, please share it with anyone who might find it useful.