Today we'll discuss how to tone your inner thigh muscles.  If you look at subcutaneous fat, the superficial fat just under the skin, it's actually healthy fat, a safe fat reserve.  And by the way, fat is potential energy.  It helps us survive.  Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. So we have subcutaneous fat and also visceral fat.  Fat around the organs. It is usually in the abdominal area.  If you look at your shoes and don't see them, you likely have visceral fat.  And this is bad fat.  It causes inflammation and is harmful to health.  Fat no longer fits into fat cells.  They are damaged by what is called insulin resistance, so fat accumulates around the organs and also inside some organs.  The third location of fat is the liver.  Fat accumulates inside the liver.  But by the way, this is the easiest fat to get rid of. This can be done very quickly, in days or weeks.  But today we're going to talk about hip fat.  He is different and the hardest to get rid of. This fat is located not only directly under the skin, but also inside the muscle fibers themselves. Something similar to water beef, if you've seen it.  A type of marbled meat.  The same thing happens in the hips. Vodya beef is loved because it is a very tasty and tender meat.  And it’s tender because there isn’t a lot of wood in it. But steak, which has little collagen, is not so healthy. Cows raised for this type of meat have a genetic predisposition to it.  At the same time, they should eat more and move less.  If we compare this to our situation with our hips, we also experience serious muscle loss.   The thing is that fat takes up a lot of space, taking it away from muscles.  It's like he's suffocating them with fibrous scar tissue. When this process has progressed too far, especially with age, a person's muscles gradually break down, and their place is taken by fat and scar tissue.  At the same time, many stem cells, which are supposed to create new muscle tissue cells, are also lost. Muscles contract less, and there is less ATP and energy left. insulin resistance increases. And when muscles are insulin resistant, they can't get fuel.  A situation arises when the fat around the muscles is in an unhealthy state. This is abnormal fat that has accumulated around muscles.  If you're curious about the medical term, this condition is called myostiasis.  This is fat outside of fat cells that has penetrated deep into the muscle structure.  It can also be called intramuscular fat.  So now you know what it is.  Let's discuss a few more points.  Fat that is located near muscles needs to be burned where it is located.  If you take fat from the liver, the liver can transport it to other parts of the body where it is burned as energy.  But muscles ca n't do that.  So all this fat around the muscles needs to be burned using the muscles themselves.  But the problem is that the mechanism that is supposed to burn this fat fuel is broken.  It turns out that we have a huge reserve of fuel around our muscles, but we can’t burn it because we lack the mechanism, that is, the muscles themselves, to burn it.  I will tell you how you can correct this situation step by step.  But you should know that when you start correcting this, you most likely won't see a noticeable decrease in body weight.  The problem is that many people, seeing that they are not losing weight, quickly become disappointed and give up.  And, unfortunately, this is a big mistake.  When you start reversing this, you don't see any loss in body weight. You won't see any visible changes at all because all the changes are happening deep in the muscle cells.  It's unlikely that you'll go get an MRI or CT scan to confirm this.  You just have to go through the healing process before the weight starts to drop and visible changes appear. Now let's move on to how to fix this.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Our goal is to restore damaged muscle cells.  Notice I didn't say the goal was to lose weight. I want you to clearly distinguish between losing weight and repairing muscle cells. Losing weight in this case is not the goal, because the real problem is not excess weight, but damage to the mechanism that helps burn fat.  If you want to get somewhere in a car, it must first have a working engine.  I'll link to one study on this topic to help me stay realistic and not give you overly optimistic goals that will only leave you disappointed.   A twelve-week study of what I'm about to talk about showed no weight loss, but muscle loss was reduced by 15%.  You might say, "Well then, it's not worth trying for such a small effect."  But I want to remind you once again, we must fix the mechanism.  We need to restore muscles that are literally dying.  There are few of them left, and this needs to be corrected.  So I want you to think strategically.  And they waited for changes on the scales every week.  I recommend paying attention to strength. This is an indicator, a change that will manifest itself much faster.  This is how you can measure your progress.  After some time, you will see that you have become stronger.  This means there is a result. You have more muscles.  Another indicator for you is your appetite or feeling of hunger.  They should go down. This means that you change the fuel, switching from burning sugar to burning your own fat. When you burn it, it creates ketones and you essentially lose your appetite.  The feeling of hunger goes away.  This is an indicator that you are burning fat.  However, I will emphasize this again for the third time. Our goal is to restore muscles.  help you build muscle.  After all, the more muscle you have, the faster and easier you can burn fat around those muscles.  Until you can do this, you don't have enough muscle to manage this fat and use it for energy.  And the first root cause of this whole situation is a sedentary lifestyle, a lack of exercise.  lack of movement.  This is where it all begins.  But then other things are added to this. insulin resistance, probably due to diet.  But when there is a lot of fat in the body, this can also cause insulin resistance. There are fewer mitochondria, the energy plants, because insulin resistance destroys mitochondria. Inflammation occurs, followed by scar tissue. Add aging to this and you get an imbalance.  Little muscle and a lot of fat in the hips. Now what to do with it?  Point one - training. But training of a certain type, eccentric exercises. They are done slowly and are aimed at lengthening the muscles.  For example, if you are doing pull-ups on a bar, you lower yourself slowly.  This is how you stretch your hands.  As for the legs, the eccentric exercise looks like this.  Without using additional weight, you squat.  This gives a well-controlled lengthening of the muscles.  And the reason I recommend this is because this is the stimulus that activates the muscles most powerfully. So you actually build muscle with these exercises.  If you don't have enough strength, you can use something to help you get up, such as an elastic band or something to hold on to.  You squat down and then use your hands to help yourself stand up.  Alternatively, hold on to the back of a chair.  The main thing is to do these exercises.  Even walking slowly downhill is an eccentric exercise and is very beneficial.  And, by the way, this is not always easy, but it creates a powerful incentive to start the desired process.  Speaking about all these exercises, I will mention one point.  It is important to understand, especially in the beginning.  Your muscles will be sore for the next day or two.  And it is very important to give your body enough rest between exercises to avoid overtraining.  Keep in mind that if you train every day, you will not recover.  Muscle recovery and growth occurs on rest days and during sleep.  Eccentric exercise is most important for stimulating stem cells and mitochondria.  This was the first point.  Point two.  You have to walk a lot at work. Take the stairs, walk as much as possible .  Plus, walk after you eat.  Even if it takes 5 minutes. You need to burn off the sugar you've received and force your muscles to use fuel from your lower body.  Another recommendation: eat only two times a day: lunch and dinner, or even better, once a day.   Eating an early dinner is ideal because it keeps you fasting for many hours , which creates many beneficial effects and speeds up the process. When you fast, almost all of your survival genes turn on, which is super beneficial.  When fasting, your thigh muscles need to get fuel from somewhere, and they then begin to use the fat around and inside themselves, especially if you increase their fuel requirements by walking.  So you need to walk both after eating and during fasting. This will create a kind of vacuum that will suck out the fat.  The next level is a short sprint or high-intensity interval training, depending on your fitness level and age.  Of course, if you are old or have a fragile body, this item is not for you.  But if you can, I recommend it.  During high-intensity interval training, you work out for a very short time, but at an extremely high intensity. It is the high intensity that activates muscle cells.  Keep this in mind.  The more intensely you load a muscle, the better it responds.  You are sending a signal to that muscle to grow quickly to cope with the load.  And the muscle begins to react to this.  She grows and becomes bigger and bigger.  And this is the growth and mechanics of fat burning in the thigh muscles.  Sprints and high-intensity interval training, such as burpees or some special squats, work the large muscles, which is what you want.  I mean the gluteus maximus and the hamstrings, especially the hamstrings.  It is precisely on them that the emphasis should be placed.  Stepping onto the platform is a good option, I'll leave the links below.   Walking lunges are also a great exercise.  These workouts should be done two to three times a week, depending on what stage you are at and how sore your muscles are.  I have already talked a little about two meals a day or one meal a day, which is even better.  Plus you need a low-carb diet.  There will be a link below with nutrition information.  We don't want a lot of carbohydrates to enter the body, because they turn into fat.  There are key nutrients to support mitochondria. You can take supplements or get them from foods that are high in them.  It is magnesium that directly powers the motor in the mitochondria.  Vitamin D is the most important anti- inflammatory vitamin, which is also beneficial for metabolism and mitochondria. and omega-3, which is excellent at reducing inflammation.  Number six.  Dream.  He is irreplaceable.  If you don't sleep, you won't burn fat.  Most of the fat is burned during sleep.   Let me emphasize once again the importance of recovery.  It is necessary on days when you do not train, just walk with moderate intensity.  Number seven. Intermittent fasting.  This is also very useful.  For example, once every two or three weeks you fast for two days or even three days.  During such periods, the muscles really pounce on this intercellular fat and burn it to the fullest.  In addition, you will go through what is called autophagy, when, among other things, scar tissue from the muscles is sent for processing.  During periods of prolonged fasting, moderate walking is suitable, but not intense exercise .  You will get more benefit by cleansing your body of damaged proteins. You don't need to activate your stress response when you fast.  Another option is ice baths or, alternatively, cold showers.  When you cool down the lower legs, you can create a situation where the mitochondria become much more active. After all, the body must maintain 36.6. To do this, it has to generate a lot of heat.  It has to produce more ATP to keep warm. So you spend a lot of energy on heating.  And that's what you need to use up all that fat.  Diving into icy water is much easier if you only go waist-deep, not completely.  What are we trying to achieve?  We are actively rebuilding the internal structure of the leg muscles.  Deep down we are forcing our muscles to grow again. And this takes time, several months, and sometimes even a couple of years.  But remember, the measure of your improvement is strength. You will become stronger and stronger. This means that the process is ongoing. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy ket.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.