I was asked what the rumbling in my stomach is because of hunger. What's the matter? Such sounds happen when a person is hungry, but it's not hunger itself that causes this rumbling. It's a thing called the migratory motor complex. What is it? Figuratively speaking, the body cleans itself up, so the intestines get rid of waste and excess food. The intestines contract in waves, this is the so- called peristalsis, pushing the contents from the small intestine into the large intestine. Why is this so important? One of the most important goals of this is to prevent bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine. By the way, many people suffer from this and don't even know about it. With this syndrome, too many bacteria live in the small intestine, although most of them should be in the large intestine. When bacteria enter the small intestine, they steal nutrients from you: fat-soluble vitamins, vitamin A, vitamin D, and also potassium, vitamin C, zinc. As a result, a deficiency develops. In addition, fermentation of vegetables and other fiber that gets here begins. Because of this, a person begins to experience severe bloating. So, if you eat vegetables or fiber or even probiotics and you are getting worse, perhaps you have this syndrome, this mechanism does not work, the intestinal contents are not pushed through, in the case of fiber, the intestines will constantly rumble, it will make a lot of sounds trying to cleanse itself but to no avail, let's discuss how to stop this rumbling, it will stop during meals, but with this syndrome, due to additional food, you will bloat even more, bile salts have antibacterial properties, usually people who have siber have a severe lack of bile, think for yourself, the gallbladder releases bile into the small intestine, bile passes through the small intestine, very little bile reaches the colon, almost all of it is absorbed in the small intestine and is reused, excessive bacterial growth means that there is less bile and it does not kill enough bacteria, taking purified bile salts will help solve the siber problem, and will also stop rumbling in the stomach, and as a result, the body will produce more bile, reducing stress levels will also reduce rumbling in the stomach, you can get rid of excess bacteria by taking bile salts and betaine hydrochloride, as well as correcting  Stomach acidity is the last thing on your list, and this is very important. Start intermittent fasting and give it time to work. The thing is, this mechanism starts after one and a half to three hours, so if you eat too often, you won't give this system a chance to turn on and do its job. Therefore, the stricter the intermittent fasting, the better the intestinal cleansing will be and the less stomach rumbling you'll experience because the body begins to produce more bile, and bacteria will leave the small intestine. Eating stops this process, so you need to fast for long enough to give the body a chance to cleanse itself of waste. You need to fast for sixteen to eighteen hours, then the cleaning will take place. If you want to learn more about bile salts, watch this video.