Hello everyone, in this video we will talk about five healthy habits that help with bloating and belly fat. Remember, firstly, avoid snacking, what does this mean? You need to eliminate all snacks between meals. Why is this because every time you eat, you stimulate the hormone insulin. insulin causes inflammation in the colon and your stomach bloats. You should eat no more than three times a day, and if you can, then only twice because instead of three meals, the body will burn belly fat. Fat should be burned. insulin is a switch. If insulin is low, there will be no bloating. If it is high, you will have bloating. Take snacks. Secondly, avoid certain vegetables. For example, I can't eat broccoli. I love it, but it causes bloating. Everyone is different. You may experience bloating from kale or cabbage, so avoid vegetables that cause bloating, despite their benefits, there should be no bloating. Thirdly, avoid grains and sugar. This is obvious. You most likely already know this. Gluten, a protein in grains, causes Inflammation in the colon is the underlying cause of irritable bowel syndrome, diverticulitis, Crohn's disease, and other digestive problems. Avoid this. Not to mention that grains turn into sugar, which raises insulin levels. In addition, sugar in the diet creates an insulin surge, which causes bloating, especially if you combine sugar with protein or even fat. Sugar is harmful on its own, but when combined with other foods, it's even worse. So, avoid grains and sugars. Fourth, avoid overeating. Another obvious point: very often, in certain situations, especially in a restaurant or at an event, you can eat a lot. You eat and walk, or when you watch TV, you just walk without stopping. I advise you to be mindful of what you eat and not fill your stomach, because it will take a lot of time to digest all this. Fifth, don't eat if you're not hungry, and there's a whole philosophy about the importance of breakfast. I myself have promoted it. They also say that you need to eat little by little 6 times a day, even if you're not hungry, because this  It will speed up your metabolism. No, no, no, if you're not hungry, don't eat. Why? Because the body burns fat if you give it more food, and what you ate before hasn't been digested yet, it will remain in the stomach and cause bloating, so eat only when you're hungry. I hope this was helpful. Try it and let me know your results.