If you have HPV, you should take dim. What is Dim? And what is HPV? Human papillomavirus? One is one added methane, a compound found in cruciferous vegetables. Why is it used and what does it do? Some phytonutrients are very unstable and difficult to produce as supplements. Therefore, this substance is converted into this. It is stable and can be dried and used as a supplement. It is very useful for people with estrogen dominance. I have a video on this topic, but today we will talk about how Dim can help with the human papillomavirus. I don’t know if you know, but 80 percent of sexually active adults have been in contact with this virus. It is much more common than you might think. HPV is the most common sexually transmitted disease. It is the cause of cervical dysplasia, when uterine cells change abnormally. It can provoke breast cancer, genital warts, as well as cancer of the throat, mouth, and tonsils. What’s interesting is that the National Institute of Oncology is conducting a very thorough study of Dim in terms of its use for treatment.  HPV results are encouraging, you may ask. Where do you, Dr. Berg, get all these ideas for the video? This information is obtained from a patent. I spend a lot of time studying patents because there is a lot of summary data on various drugs, as well as on studies. All the information is compiled in one document. You can see interesting relationships between various means for solving different problems. Obviously, someone is patenting the use of Dim for HPV, but not only are all these advantages listed there, there are also study results showing potential benefits for other types of herpes such as herpes simplex and shingles. If you have herpes simplex or shingles, try Dim to solve this problem in this video. I wanted to show you what other benefits you can get from cruciferous vegetables that go far beyond simply cleansing the liver. They can help eliminate the effects of some viruses and also reduce the risk of genital warts and other problems. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other problems.  Skin problems are not just skin defects; these signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.