I want to explain the differences between the two forms of vitamin B3. There is niacin and neocinamide. These are two big differences between them. Niacin causes skin flushing, a reddening reaction, and vasodilation. Acinamid does not cause this form of B3. That is, there is no reddening reaction. The second important difference is that niacin is fully beneficial in terms of lipids. It has several advantages: it lowers cholesterol, lowers LDL, increases HDL, and reduces inflammation in blood vessels. Acinamid does not bring all these benefits. So, if you want to lower cholesterol, you need niacin. In terms of chemistry, both of these vitamins act similarly, especially when it comes to converting food into energy. So, niacin has a very effective effect on fatty liver, and not only on fatty liver, but also on inflamed livers. On livers in which scar tissue forms, as in cirrhosis. Niacin is very good at removing fat from the liver. What is interesting about vitamin B3? Both niacin and niacinamide are the number of studies conducted on this substance. Their number is shocking, and I'm just wondering why so much research is conducted on any vitamin. He Niacin itself is found to be effective in controlling cholesterol levels much cheaper than some medications, and doctors used niacin before statins were available. But if you dig a little deeper, you can find quite a few articles and links online about the dangers of neither from my son, I want to discuss this, we are being urged not to drink niacin because it can be dangerous for the liver, it can cause liver poisoning. If you had read these articles, you would never have become Friday. But if you dig even deeper, we learn that this is rare, usually it happens in a certain percentage of people, about 20 percent who take very large doses for a long time, neither from my son, with a slow release, this does not happen that often. As you might think, but when we watch advertisements for medications in the US, we hear that it can cause projectile vomiting, suicide, who you can die from. Compare the side effects of drugs with the rare side effects of a vitamin, they are not comparable. Do you know any drug that does not cause side effects? I often want to talk about one article: That niacin increases the level of liver enzymes. Which, again, is rare, but one doctor made an interesting remark on this matter. After all, when we increase  dose of niacin and increase the level of this cofactor for energy production not only in the liver but also in all other organs, then, as is obvious, the need for liver enzymes to produce energy increases, the level of liver enzymes can increase because more energy is produced that the whole body receives. Okay, we figured that out, now let's talk about the benefits of niacin. Apparently, niacin was effectively used in schizophrenia. There is some data on certain genetic variations or problems that can cause schizophrenia and, apparently, the gene in question. That's what it's called. It's an enzyme for creating Neo. An interesting coincidence. If you know someone with schizophrenia, be sure to show them this video. I want to mention another ailment called drug-induced dyskinesia, this is when involuntary abnormal movements occur. There is an excellent study on taking niacin and manganese for this ailment. So, if you have dyskinesia, perhaps you should take them. Now let's talk a little about neocin mide. For what other conditions has its effectiveness been proven? Well, number one and even  Psoriasis can be taken and used in capsule form as a cream, it helps a lot, I will not list, but essentially it reduces the level of distamines of some immune factors, inflammation helps reduce flaking of the skin, skin plaques, it reduces the amount of sebum in the glands that are inflamed, neocinamite is also effective for arthritis. It is widely used in creams to combat aging, excess pigmentation, neocinamite is also useful for people who are hot-tempered, it can be given to children who have attacks of irritation and they will calm down, it helps with anxiety, like vitamin B1. Here they are similar. When I read about the side effects of niacin, I thought, and if a B3 deficiency occurs, what will be the symptoms? This is not particularly talked about, but it is called an illness. Diarrhea also occurs, depression occurs, a fatal outcome, dementia and very serious skin problems are possible. B3 deficiency can occur due to large amounts of alcohol, large amounts of refined food, especially from corn. It seems that corn binds tryptophan, an amino acid that is converted into niacin in the old days by Indians who ate corn.  and corn soaked them in lime juice, so they alkalized the corn, and thereby released neocin, which is necessary to prevent pelagra. But today, of course, we don’t do this; we just grind corn and the whole thing in the form of chips and so on, but if you eat only corn, you will probably develop pelagra. So, niacin causes redness of the skin, not niacinamide. No, niacin is an excellent remedy for cholesterol, for all problems with cholesterol, for lipids. For fatty liver and all that, it also helps with schizophrenia, dyskinesia, and neocinamide is excellent for all skin problems, for inflammation, for arthritis, and for anxiety. Since we’re talking about lipids and cholesterol, I have an excellent video that shows in more detail how niacin consumption affects cholesterol. You should watch it here.