Today we will discuss very interesting information regarding autoimmune diseases. If you have such a disease, from this video you will learn about a treatment protocol that you may not have known about. This information is about the Coimbra protocol. Its author is Dr. Coimbra, a Brazilian neurologist, and here is what he writes: all or almost all patients with autoimmune diseases have increased resistance, that is, resistance to the action of vitamin D. Today we know that there are thousands of peer-reviewed scientific studies linking vitamin D levels with autoimmune diseases. If you have an autoimmune disease, you most likely have low vitamin D. But Dr. Coimbra went one step further and discovered that there is not only vitamin D deficiency but also resistance to vitamin D. He noted that to increase vitamin D, patients with autoimmune diseases require much higher doses of vitamin than the average person. For example, if a healthy person needs to maintain vitamin D levels, 10,000 IU may be needed. These figures are based on quite a few reliable sources. For example, Dr. Michael Holick, an authority on vitamin D, says that taking  10,000 IU of vitamin D does not entail the slightest chance of overdose, unlike the healthcare system that recommends only 600 IU of vitamin D per day. If you give a patient with an autoimmune disease 10,000 IU of vitamin D3, you can notice only a slight partial improvement and this topic is extremely important, especially considering that 50 million people in the US alone have autoimmune diseases. Vitamin D is not actually a vitamin, it is a hormone. Its chemical structure is close to steroid hormones, so its effect is similar to the effect of cortisol. It is a very strong anti-inflammatory. It helps calm an overactive immune system because one of its amazing functions is its immune regulatory abilities. It regulates the functioning of the immune system. If the immune system attacks its own body, this is a loss of control. This is what an autoimmune disease is, be it multiple sclerosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and Hashimotos or anything else. All these diseases have common features: inflammation and low levels of vitamin D. But I have a question if so much is known.  There is information about the connection between low vitamin D and autoimmune diseases. Why doctors don't recommend it more often. Let's look at the example of vitamin C and scurvy. In 1595, the world faced a serious problem in the navy. Sailors were dying from a disease that had no cause and no treatment. Then, in 1601, a few years later, Captain James Lancaster decided to give a certain group of sailors a teaspoon of lemon juice a day. All of those sailors survived, but many, about 40 percent of those who didn't drink the juice, died. That is, even then it was known that something in lemon juice prevented scurvy, a very severe, fatal disease. And in 1753, James Lind published a study on scurvy, where he noted a quick and visible improvement in scurvy patients when feeding sailors oranges and lemons. Do you think this idea spread and people accepted it, and doctors welcomed this remarkable discovery. Not quite. Even James Lind himself said that the problem was not primarily in the fruits; they were secondary. He said that scurvy is caused by dampness and that sailors needed to be kept dry, then in 1795 Dilbert Bain convinced the Royal Navy to give sailors lemon juice, but another 70 years passed, and only in 1865 was lemons finally recommended for the prevention of scurvy, but even this did not convince everyone. The idea was considered untenable for another 60 years until vitamin C itself was discovered. Vitamin C was discovered in 1932. Even during the Civil War in the 1860s, 7,000 Union soldiers died from scurvy, another 45,000 people died indirectly from cyndi and dysentery, an infection affecting the digestive system and causing diarrhea. In 1849, during the California Gold Rush, 10,000 people died, and during the Irish Potato Famine of the 1840s, more than a million people died from scurvy. The reason I say all this is that professional medicine takes a long time to accept new ideas, and it will take another hundred years for the idea of ​​a link between vitamin D deficiency and autoimmune diseases to be accepted. Fifty or I don't know 200 before it is fully recognized in our time, people adhere to the generally accepted opinion even knowing about the many side effects because autoimmune diseases are treated mainly with steroids asteroids have huge side effects and vitamin D does not have the effect of vitamin D similar to the action of the steroid cortisol but without the side effects with the use of high doses of vitamin D, hypercalcemia can theoretically develop and the most problematic side is kidney stones However, if we talk about the protocol, Dr. Coimbra put forward a solution to this potential side effect, but we must understand that you need to take vitamin D in high doses for many months to develop hypercalcemia and so vitamin D is not actually a vitamin but a hormone it acts like a steroid has no side effects but it differs from most hormones in that they have a specific tissue on which they act for example hormones such as testosterone cortisol and others even estrogen act on specific tissues and vitamin D, which I try not to call a vitamin, its receptor its target is in every single cell of the body there are 229 different genes  which are directly affected by vitamin D and which are responsible for 25 thousand different functions it is the most important vitamin simply because it does so many things and so many people suffer from its deficiency this is all very interesting but there is something even more interesting that I will tell you now remember I talked about resistance to vitamin D one of the common causes of insensitivity to vitamin D is a problem with receptors to vitamin D this condition is called polymorphism of vitamin D this is a disorder in receptors to vitamin D in other words, if there is this defect of receptors, the body will resist the absorption of vitamin D and will have to take much higher doses than someone who does not have such a problem for ease of understanding this phenomenon, you can consider polymorphism as a mutation some change in genes and here is what is very interesting polymorphic changes or mutations in genes can appear either as a result of inheritance from parents or spontaneously develop during life under the influence of environmental factors drugs severe all-consuming stress this explains why so many people develop autoimmune diseases after the grievous loss of a loved one or serious  a stressful event or injury, and the stronger your resistance to vitamin D, the more predisposed you are to developing autoimmune diseases, diabetes of both types, cancer, osteoporosis, and even urticaria, not to mention other factors that cause resistance to vitamin D. For example, skin tone: the darker the skin, the more difficult it is to absorb vitamin D because the pigment melanin blocks UHF radiation, which is necessary for the production of vitamin D. There is also metabolic syndrome or insulin resistance in the skin, it can block the ability to absorb vitamin D. Obesity: the more fat you have, the less vitamin D you will absorb. Age: the older you are, the less vitamin D is absorbed. And of course, diet: vitamin D is even more difficult to get from food, and because there are not many foods where it is, unless you eat fatty fish, salmon, cod liver oil, and the like. And besides everything else, there is simply a lack of sunlight. People constantly sit indoors and do not go out in the sun, and when they go out, they apply whole tubes of sunscreen to their bodies to  Protect yourself from ultraviolet radiation. Okay, all this is very interesting, but what is this protocol? I'll tell you everything now. When using this protocol, it's important to find a doctor who will work with you. I'll explain why I'll give a link in the description to a website where you can find a doctor in your city who knows how to work with this protocol. Before starting, you will need to take a vitamin D test, but the dose of vitamin D taken will not be determined by your test. Why? Because you have resistance. The dosage is determined by changing something else. This is called parathyroid hormone or parathyroid hormone. Vitamin D, once in the body, suppresses parathyroid hormone. The more vitamin D you absorb, the less parathyroid hormone there will be. The goal of the entire protocol is to lower your parathyroid hormone to the lower limit of the normal range. If parathyroid hormone is high, this usually means that vitamin D is low or there is resistance, that is, it is not absorbed. As for the dose, how much vitamin D you will take, it can vary from 40,000 IU per day.  up to 200 thousand m.e.  per day, depending on a couple of factors: your body weight and parathyroid hormone levels. The starting dose of vitamin D is usually calculated as approximately one thousand IU. I weigh 185 pounds per kilogram of body weight, which is approximately 84 kilograms, which would mean approximately 80 4000 IU of vitamin D per day to minimize the main side effect of this protocol, which is kidney stones. Coimbra recommends avoiding calcium as a supplement and in hard water and in nuts, since nuts have a decent amount of calcium, in tofu and other soy products containing calcium, and in all dairy products, in milk, yogurt, and so on. In addition, you will drink two and a half liters of fluid per day, so you will get the benefit of vitamin D without getting its main side effect of kidney stones. Coimbra says that it usually takes about 2 months to see stable changes in blood tests, but then over the next two years, you will need to check your thyroid hormone levels four times and make adjustments, then within two years of stabilization, you will be on a maintenance program. Repeatedly, this may seem difficult, and so on, but if you have an autoimmune disease and you want to weigh the risks and benefits of long-term  Sitting on the day zone compared to this protocol, everything is obvious. The information will be in the description. You can follow the link. I am in no way affiliated with this doctor, but this is excellent information for those looking for an alternative to conventional treatment for autoimmune diseases. If you want to learn much more about vitamin D, I have a whole course about it. The link is below. I invite you to my course on vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 Te To Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you at the course.