Let's talk about vitamin number one for mental health, thinking - This is good. This is an important ability, but when thoughts spin in your head for too long and obsessively, it can create problems with sleep. When thoughts take hold of you and you can't turn them off. Trying to solve all the problems of the world, this is a problem. It raises the level of cortisol, the stress hormone. Thoughts about stress activate hormones in the body that put the body into stress mode. The question arises: do hormones affect thinking or do thoughts activate hormones? I think this influence is mutual. People often get stuck in such a loop of endless thoughts. They focus strongly on some problem or some thought and then cannot turn their attention away from this. They scroll through different scenarios or ways to resolve the situation in their heads. These thoughts sometimes create stress that does not exist, but this is just a problem. Something unresolved arises, so to speak, analysis paralysis. The thought gets stuck in your head. Everything that I described is also called anxiety, restlessness, or nervousness. I want to talk about the nutritional imbalance that is associated with this. It's all about a serious deficiency of one nutrient, which can cause such obsessive thoughts that seem to get stuck.  Unfortunately, one of the common ways to cope with this is to take it with OZS. This is the abbreviated name of a drug that blocks the reuptake of serotonin, that is, it keeps serotonin in a certain place in the body so that it does not go somewhere else. But this has many consequences, many side effects, as well as deterioration of the serotonin receptor, as a result, a growing serotonin deficiency. Now it is not just insufficient, but extremely low. And one of the main symptoms of serotonin deficiency is obsessive thoughts that do not go away, the inability to free your mind from a certain problem. These drugs also affect other neurotransmitters, such as dopamine. One of the serious side effects of SSRI drugs is called zombie syndrome. If you take such things and you have such side effects, I will give a solution. But if you are just thinking about taking such drugs, you know that they have terrible side effects. This particular symptom means a serious deficiency of serotonin and dopamine. What big pharma is doing is releasing other drugs that manipulate other neurotransmitters. The medications decrease for several reasons.  Chronic stress, junk food and lack of sun can reduce dopamine levels. The main reason for low dopamine is a lack of vitamin D, and its source is the sun. That's why many people get blues in the winter months. They lack vitamin D, and vitamin D helps serotonin work. If vitamin D deficiency is severe, not only anxiety but also depression occurs. One interesting study showed that vitamin D works exactly like depression medications, but without side effects. Another piece of this mysterious puzzle is a healthy microbiome. If you took an antibiotic and suddenly developed depression, the reason is that certain microorganisms help increase serotonin levels more than others, and these microorganisms are very sensitive. Broad- spectrum T1M often dies irreversibly, and now the person is stressed and has no idea what the real reason is. He takes the medicine, but it gets worse. I strongly recommend two things: immediately start taking high-dose vitamin D. This means at least 10,000 or more daily. There are something else equally important. You need the right microbiome in your gut, especially those  Microorganisms that are associated with serotonin, and bacteria that most affect serotonin levels, are practically absent in 96% of the population due to an antibiotic taken at some point, and this is El Roite, but I do not recommend that you take these bacteria in probiotic form instead. Take this bacteria from a supplement and prepare it yourself to get a sufficient concentration. To solve the problem, this bacteria not only helps with anxiety but also increases oxytocin levels, which significantly reduces cortisol levels, and this is exactly the antidote that should be used if you took SSRIs, which is why you have lost your emotions and you no longer experience pleasure. You can recover if you eat yogurt with such bacteria for some time. This is really very important information, and I have a separate video where I show how to make such yogurt yourself. The link to it will appear here and will be below in the description.