Vitamin D is very, very important for the nutrition of microflora and is extremely necessary vitamin D, which we get either from the sun or from supplements or from food, which by the way is almost impossible unless you eat a lot of fatty fish, but in general, gray vitamin D is very difficult to get and few people are often in the sun, so getting this vitamin is really not easy if you feed the beneficial bacteria, this significantly increases their diversity, the diversity of bacteria increases thanks to fiber from vegetables, but also thanks to a sufficient amount of vitamin D, which is actually quite surprising, the ratio of beneficial bacteria will be normal with the intake of sufficient vitamin D, additional microorganisms will also appear, they are the main producers of butyric acid, a short renal fatty acid that helps normalize blood sugar levels, nourish the cells of the colon, the production of this acid gives the body energy, helps improve insulin levels and sensitivity to it, many people have this problem, these vitamin D-dependent bacteria also help produce vitamin B, they exchange B vitamins with us and replenish their reserves in the body, that is, due to a deficiency of vitamin D, a deficiency of B vitamins can occur, this can provoke  Stress can affect sleep quality, skin condition, and much more. The vast majority of people have a hidden vitamin D deficiency. This means that a blood test may not reveal it. The problem may be with the conversion of inactive vitamin D to active vitamin D. But in reality, the deficiency is at least 40 percent. I think even 50-60 percent of the population of the United States and Europe have a vitamin D deficiency. In Arab countries, this figure reaches 85 percent. What is the danger of such a deficiency? The risk of developing cancer, diabetes, heart attacks, and autoimmune diseases increases. Why? Because vitamin D is directly related to the integrity of the intestinal epithelium, and since 80 percent of the immune system is located in the intestines, if there is a problem with the intestinal walls ( leaky gut syndrome), some proteins and food particles can leak in. The immune system will react and produce antibodies to your own proteins. Some proteins mimic our cells, meaning antibodies are produced against our own tissues. This is where autoimmune diseases come from. By the way, vitamin D in large quantities is a really good remedy for autoimmune diseases, especially when it comes to inflammation. I have a video about this.  The intestines can also become inflamed. Allergies are an immune problem that usually arises from intestinal problems and again there is a connection with vitamin D. Further, asthma in children with asthma who play in the sun and get a lot of vitamin D goes into remission. Dermatitis and psoriasis are also associated with vitamin D deficiency. Obviously, vitamin D deficiency is a very serious problem in the winter months when the body experiences a serious deficiency. People become depressed and get sick more often. This deficiency makes the body more vulnerable to viruses and bacteria. Many people gain weight in the winter due to vitamin D deficiency. There can be many reasons. Perhaps there are problems with the microflora that affect blood sugar, and this provokes cravings for carbohydrates and food in principle, but there may be other reasons. So try to get more sunlight per month and when possible. In winter, I strongly recommend taking vitamin D supplements daily, 10,000 international units a day minimum, and start feeding your microflora so that bacteria can produce more B vitamins in exchange for vitamin D.  I invite you to my course on vitamin D, the health vitamin. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many illnesses. During the course, you'll learn how to get rid of these illnesses and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you'll receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 Te To Summit. All of this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you at the course.