Let's talk about the seven insidious strategies of viruses. These viruses, I'll tell you, are very devious. Viruses are much smaller than bacteria. They are alive and not quite dead. Not quite. This thing is a sac with a tiny copier inside. It's like a genetic copper that can copy itself over and over again. But it can only do this if it invades your cells' nucleus and attaches to it. It will suck the life out of the cell. And so it multiplies. A virus can't do anything with cells that don't contain DNA, for example, with red blood cells. In general, they begin to multiply and cause enormous damage to your immune system. Because your immune system now sees an invasion of strangers, it creates inflammation, and this causes collateral damage. So, first, viruses are capable of infecting your immune cells, B and T cells, monocytes, and even the thymus. Virus- specific T cells are found in the thymus, which is located directly above the heart. This gland acts as a training camp for white blood cells. It trains white blood cells. How to defend against pathogens in general, viruses can now invade the thymus and other immune cells. The fact is that the virus seems to become part of the cell and now the immune system considers them its own. This is one of the insidious strategies. They pass below the radar line and remain undetected. Fourth, viruses are able to bypass the immune response of antibodies. Imagine that a virus has a protein on its shell, it’s like a flag that the immune system can see, detect, and pursue. So, the virus can hide these special proteins, these flags, so that our immune system cannot find them, and the immune response is delayed until the infection has already taken hold. Very insidious. Here’s another scenario number 5 to 2 viruses can capture one cell and they jointly reorganize proteins outside the cell to evade the attack of the immune system. Number six, avoidance of cytokines. These are such signalers of the immune system. They participate in inflammatory reactions, and viruses can sometimes avoid cytokines, as a result, inflammation does not occur and nothing indicates to the immune system about the invasion of the virus. Seventh, some viruses can weaken receptors for vitamin D, which  This means that they block your ability to absorb vitamin D. Vitamin D is very closely linked to the management of the immune system. Without vitamin D, you will be more vulnerable to viruses and will no longer have this protection. That is, viruses have a strategy for suppressing the immune system by blocking vitamin D. This is why so many diseases are included in this list. That is, they are associated with a lack of vitamin D. Perhaps this is because such a disease is associated with this virus. If you haven't seen my video about how to strengthen your immune system, here it is, watch it.