You should know this today there will be a fascinating story about viruses a virus is dead there is no life in it but it can destroy our body look I have a model of a cell in my hands we open it and see all sorts of things inside all these different things are called organelles these are small parts of a huge factory that produces something mitochondria are energy stations the ribosome is essentially a factory for producing proteins and in the center is a nucleus and you know that viruses have none of this at all viruses are not actually even cells a virus is a kind of template packed in a shell it has no energy or mechanisms it can not do anything outside the cell there are different theories where viruses come from this is a very interesting question on the one hand they can kill us but on the other hand they can help us we will also talk about this but to understand viruses you first need to figure out what they are and what they are not viruses are not cells they are much smaller than cells viruses the cell interacts like a key and a lock for example a spike protein enters the cell activates something there and this starts a chain reaction in the body essentially viruses take control  It turns out that the body's mechanisms use our energy, our resources, and not their own for their own survival and begin to reproduce, making copies of themselves, and then they explode the cell. Not good guys. They are classified as parasites. Before we talk about the various theories of the origin of viruses, this is a huge secret. I want to talk about how viruses invade the immune system. One type of virus ruptures the cell membrane; these are lytic viruses, and another type of virus is called latent viruses. They also destroy the cell. But soon after infection, they penetrate our DNA and sit there quietly. And sometime in the future, during stress, they suddenly come out of hibernation, becoming active. Simple Herbs, small PPH, lip. This is one example, another example, HIV, and also the Epstein- Barr virus. The trouble with latent viruses is that they sit in the body for a long time and do not go away until you experience great stress and while you are healthy. Everything may be fine. Lytic viruses cause damage to the body, but the immune system eventually destroys them. It seems very strange that viruses exist at all. Where did they come from and why? They are here first theory. - this is the hypothesis of the primacy of viruses. According to this theory, viruses appeared even before cells arose. There is also a regressive theory. It states that a virus is a certain fragment, the remnant of something, some living cell. It has lost the ability to survive on its own and needs another cell to take energy from it. The next theory is giant viruses and the fourth kingdom. This is a challenge to the traditional theory of viruses, since the giant virus is much more complex. The theory states that viruses are a kind of fourth kingdom. There are different types of cells, bacterial and other cells. But it is rather a certain entity. The next theory describes the contribution of viruses to the evolution of life. Here is a brief description of it. There is the so-called horizontal nose of genes. This is the transfer of knowledge that helps to survive. For example, you can pass on knowledge to your children. In fact, 8% of our genes contain fragments of viruses and the latest theory states that viruses are a necessary tool for survival. These are the theories that I am familiar with. There are a couple more, but I want to add my two cents. What is the benefit of viruses for our immune system? There are two types of immunity. One is that you have innate immunity from birth, you get it from your mother, and  The second part of the immune system, the so-called acquired immunity, needs to be developed, but this is impossible without viruses. They force the immune system to adapt and gain strength if you allow this to happen. That's why I have a video about this. A child is sick and has a fever. You don't need to try to bring it down right away. Because when he goes through illnesses, his immune system learns. If you don't let the immune system learn, it will never get stronger. Viruses put evolutionary pressure on us to develop a strong immune system. It's like training. If you don't train at all, will you become strong? Will you have a physical reserve? No, without training, no, so viruses create their own survival strategies. And our body develops its own strategies. Viruses sit quietly and wait for the doors to open for them. When you weaken, some viruses, for example, the Epstein-Barr virus, although other viruses do the same. The Epstein-Barr virus impairs the functioning of vitamin D receptors. Somehow, it knows that vitamin D is essential for your immune system. To explain something extremely important about vitamin D, many  Even doctors don't know this. Most people don't know that there are two different vitamin D systems in the body and there are three different types of vitamin D. Vitamin D that we get from the sun, vitamin D that is in the blood, and the last type of vitamin D that is activated inside receptors where it goes. So, two vitamin D systems, one associated with bones and the other with everything else. These are functions not associated with calcium. The most important of them is immunity. That's the main thing you need to know. Vitamin D in the blood is an inactive form. And it is mainly needed to nourish the bones. Only a tiny part of it, about %, is used by the immune system. You want strong immunity. If you don't get vitamin D daily from the sun or supplements or food, your immune system will suffer because its half-life is 24 hours. For bones, about 600-800 IU a day may be enough, but the immune system needs at least 10,000 IU. This is how much you get in about 20 minutes in the sun. 10,000 IU is the average daily dose to support healthy immunity. There are also many viruses, including  Rhinoviruses that cause colds require zinc, just like our immune system, because zinc, among other things, suppresses the proliferation of viruses. There is also the HIV virus, which targets one very specific type of immune cell. These cells are essentially the central link of the entire immune system, and it knocks them out. By the way, one way to combat this is to get Selenium, which is abundant in Brazil nuts, shellfish, and crustaceans. When Selenium grabs these cells, they can recover. Now I will briefly tell you what it reactivates. It reactivates some latent viruses that are dormant. Over the years, you become weaker. In addition, the more stress you have and the higher your cortisol, the weaker you are. Cortisol suppresses the immune system. From my experience, I know that many people with viral infections right before they get sick, or severe stress, other viruses can activate ultraviolet light. Sunlight, but the main thing in this whole presentation is what we can do with all these viruses. There are two specific types of immune cells that kill viruses: cytotoxic lymphocytes and natural killer cells. Both can be significantly strengthened.  Let's go through the list of what can be done for this. Vitamin D is without a doubt the most important nutrient for the immune system, it is a natural immunomodulator. That is, if your immune system is overactive or reacts too weakly, it brings it back to normal. Number two, zinc. I have already spoken about it. Zinc improves immunity in many ways. Firstly, it prevents viruses from shutting off the body's supply of zinc. Secondly, it stops the reproduction of viruses. Then, of course, vitamin C. The best source of vitamin C is unpasteurized sauerkraut. One glass will give 700 mg of vitamin C. Sleep is another important factor. Try to sleep 8 hours. There was a time when I bragged that I could sleep little. I get up very early and that's enough for me. Now I see that it was stupid. 7-8 hours of sleep is a necessity. Number five, reducing stress through physical labor, walks in nature or stretching is extremely important. Also, if you have a fever, you don't need to try to bring it down faster. Why? Because the temperature is frying. Aspirin or something else. With this, you prolong the illness. You don't allow the body to go through its learning cycle.  and learn to cope with the disease if your temperature rose above 104 Fahrenheit, this is 40 Celsius, then you need to do something, but not at a lower temperature. Number one is garlic, it is very important. Number one is elderberry, an amazing remedy for viruses. Intermittent fasting is a powerful thing. Magnesium also helps increase the number of T-killers. I learned about this recently. To strengthen the immune system, drink 800 mg before bed. Surprisingly, laughter can also increase the number of killers. Viruses are helpless, they just float around doing nothing, they have no energy, no mechanisms. It is important to understand that you need to go through the disease. To build your immunity, you need key nutrients to support and strengthen it. There is another incorrect point of view, according to which the virus is something living. Although this is not so. And that it controls your body more strongly than it penetrates it and you must suppress and destroy it at any cost. There are a lot of drugs that ultimately only weaken our immunity. In general, apply this data in your life. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with  The adrenal glands and can also be the cause of excess weight. In the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package you will find a gift - a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give a list of the best means for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.