Hello, today we'll talk about how to keep viruses in remission. The first thing you need to know is that viruses are not alive. They are genetic material enclosed in a shell. It lies dormant and waits for your resistance to decrease when you feel ill, get tired, or get old. Then it wakes up, penetrates the body's cells, hijacks the division mechanism, and begins to multiply in order to spread and destroy the body. The immune system needs to work harder to repel this attack. That's why sometimes it takes a week and a half, sometimes longer. Because antibiotics don't work against viruses. Viruses are everywhere in the environment. They are even in the sea. There are more than a hundred billion viruses in a liter of seawater, and they are there to break down bacteria and inhibit their growth. They break down bacteria and other microorganisms literally to atoms. They help get rid of excess microorganisms. But my main point is that viruses cannot harm you if only your cells themselves and me allow it. That is, you must be vulnerable to the virus. The barriers or walls must be weakened, and the virus is activated mainly by stress or poor nutrition.  Even radiation and many other things, but stress is the most powerful stimulus for most infections. Before a person contracts an infection, or I would even say, it allows the virus to invade cells. A person experiences stress. Stress activates herpes or lichen. So many viral infections occur immediately after stressful events. This tells us that the health of the adrenal glands must be at its best. It is impossible for the adrenal glands to be sick or not working, as with Addison's disease. Addison's disease is a condition when the adrenal glands burn out. Adrenal fatigue cubed. With this disease, many problems with the immune system and many viral infections appear. This is very important. You must do everything possible to keep your stress level to a minimum. Take a daily walk. Eat right. Don't communicate with those who irritate you. Many people have constant problems in life. Do everything possible to reduce these problems. If you have relationship problems, try to solve them or find yourself a significant other because the previous ones make you extremely vulnerable to viruses. A lack of nutrients is another factor, especially trace elements, such as zinc or selenium, which makes you vulnerable to  Viruses grow because cells weaken, immunity depends on these microelements. There are enzymes that help the body protect itself. Radiation is another activator for virus penetration into the cell. There are a couple of very important nutrients against viruses. Perhaps, of all the vitamins, vitamin C protects best against viruses. Sauerkraut, bell peppers, leafy greens. All this is very important. And where would we be without orange juice? Yes, just kidding. Pasteurized orange juice is a dummy. Pasteurization is a high temperature. Vitamin C kills juices. There is a lot of glucose in it. There is no vitamin C. If it is not added later, they usually add synthetic vitamin C. You ask, isn't it possible to survive and drink fresh juice? It will contain vitamin C, but not as much as you think. But there will be a lot of sugar. High sugar content in the diet also activates the virus. It is important to maintain vitamin C levels. Vitamin A is also very important for containing viruses. It is fat-soluble. Vitamin D also fights viruses and helps the immune system. A good remedy would be to take these two vitamins together in equal proportions: 50 percent vitamin A and 50 percent vitamin D.  d is cod liver oil your grandmother might have given you when you started getting sick now you know why because it has a lot of vitamins A and D of course you can go out for a walk in the sun this is also very important it is also interesting that many people get sick in the fall it is called flu season and flu is a virus why the most logical explanation is a decrease in vitamin d levels because summer with its abundance of sun ends and suddenly darkness comes and with it a sharp drop in vitamin d if you do not take it as a result you can become vulnerable to viruses that enter the body and I do not recommend getting vaccinations with a vaccine like the flu vaccine my patients who got the vaccine still got the flu personally I have never had a flu shot and I have never had the flu calcium lactate is also good at returning viruses into remission especially in children babies who have a fever or a virus and you are not sure whether it is bacteria or a virus give them calcium it is cheap safe and you will immediately see a rapid retreat of the virus especially if there is a fever or a cold even in adults if it appears  Herpes appears on the lip. Calcium lactate will quickly send it into remission. Of course, a combination of calcium and vitamin D will work even better because vitamin D increases calcium absorption in the small intestine by 20 times. So, this was a brief explanation of what needs to be done to return the virus to remission. Thanks for watching. I want to know what you think of this video. Please share your opinion in the comments.