Let's discuss 5 reasons why you should avoid synthetic vitamins. Keep in mind that there is a huge difference between synthetic and natural vitamins. Some say that they are the same molecule. There is a molecule, but this is not true. There is a different focus in nature. Vitamins are included in complexes, they are accompanied by trace elements, factors, enzymes, associated factors, and other vitamins. When you buy a natural vitamin, it can be part of a whole complex of substances, which is much better than synthetics, but there is always an exception. Synthetic vitamins have their time and place. They can be used for short-term detoxification, and this is normal because then vitamins are used for another purpose: removing poisons and toxins. They have an important role, but you should not take them on a regular basis. You should not try to maintain the body's function because they can be toxic. Many studies show that vitamins can even cause cancer. We are talking specifically about synthetic vitamins like beta-carotene and other phytonutrients, but there is evidence that even vitamin E can cause problems. So when you hear in the news that vitamins allegedly cause cancer Fifthly, remember that these studies involve synthetic vitamins. We are not talking about natural vitamins obtained from food. Another synthetic vitamin exception is the synthetic version of vitamin B1. Benfotiamine is a fat- soluble version of vitamin B1 that seems to have no side effects. Benfotiamine is excellent at breaking down the fatty layer in the brain. I'm talking about the myelin sheath now. It helps, for example, with peripheral neuropathy, and it is not toxic. Some water-soluble vitamins are not toxic; they simply pass through the body. I'm not saying that all synthetic vitamins are toxic, but some are, especially fat-soluble ones. The next problem is that taking powerful synthetic vitamins can lead to a deficiency in other nutrients. In nature, vitamins always come in complexes, and taking a large amount of one substance in isolation can create an imbalance. The body uses different combinations of nutrients. It needs not just one component, but a complex of different substances. Synthetic vitamins are essentially obtained artificially. Some vitamins are synthesized from mineral oil, tar, and sulfuric acid.  Corn starch acids, synthetic vitamins are very cheap, but look how much they charge for them in health food stores, you will be shocked. The markup is simply huge, but the quality is not what it seems. Synthetic vitamins are absorbed worse than natural vitamins. I mainly mean vitamins like vitamin E. Synthetic vitamins also have a thread of factors, enzymes, or microelements, about almost everything is lost. Therefore, I always recommend getting natural vitamin complexes from food. To find out if a vitamin is natural, read the label by the list of ingredients. You will see that the product is obtained from herbs or other natural sources. If not, it will simply say vitamin B1 100 milligrams, B2 100 milligrams, B3 100 milligrams. All the numbers are the same. In nature, it does not happen that all vitamins are in the same proportion. The numbers will differ if you eat liver concentrate or the liver itself. Keep in mind that many people already have excess iron, so even if you eat natural liver, this concentrated iron can be harmful. Moreover, the liver has a very high iron content. Vitamin A concentration is high, so you can overdo it with iron and vitamin A if you eat too much liver or tablets with the concentrate. Another exception: although the liver is a natural product, it can be harmful. Synthetic vitamins can be taken for detoxification. Benfotiamine is also possible. Otherwise, look for natural vitamin complexes. If you have to take synthetic vitamins, take them for a short time. Thanks for watching.