Did you know that chronic stress deprives us of the ability to experience pleasure? When we experience short-term stress, cortisol rises, but in addition, dopamine levels initially also increase. Dopamine is a hormone associated with pleasure. In this case, it protects us from the effects of stress. If stress continues for a long time, dopamine is constantly produced. As a result, dopamine receptors lose sensitivity and it completely stops working. The same thing happens with the constant use of sugar, drugs, and some medications. The effect is the same. If stress and elevated cortisol persist for a long time, you may notice that it is more difficult to feel pleasure. Motivation decreases. A person becomes less attentive, less alert. In fact, stress intensifies because there is no longer a hormone to alleviate it. What can be done about this? I will give you a couple of tips. Firstly, you need to sleep more. Sleep is one of the best ways to cope with stress. If you can't sleep all night, try to find a way to nap during the day. However, it is the amount of sleep that will help fight stress. Due to lack of sleep, cortisol levels will be high all the time. Secondly, remove everything that causes fear from your life. The most important thing is to stop watching the news. There was an idea to conduct clinical trials with a large number of people to document this fact. I just know that it is a fact. I wanted to measure people's cortisol and dopamine levels and the state of their immune system for two weeks while watching regular news. I was going to compare this with the indicators of those who did not watch the news at all. I guarantee that the experiment would show significant improvements by giving up the news for just 2 weeks. You can try this yourself. Don't watch the news for 2-3 days and evaluate how you feel. Then start watching them again and feel the difference. Then decide for yourself which option is better. The third piece of advice is physical exercise. It will saturate the blood with oxygen and reduce stress. Go for a walk where you will be surrounded by nature. This is excellent therapy. You already know this. I'm just reminding you. My fourth piece of advice is to determine what causes stress in you. What is the main source of stress in your life? Don't delay. Write in the comments. I invite you to my adrenal course and body type. This is the most common type because of such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, get back a beautiful body and get rid of a physique. Adrenal gland type 1 stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen immunity awaits you in the package. I'll tell you how immunity works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course. You need to understand the source of stress, do what you can to eliminate it or at least reduce it. If you find yourself in a situation where you feel like you're between a rock and a hard place and can't do anything about it, find at least something you can change in this stressful situation and change it. When the stress subsides, find something else you can influence and influence it, and so on until you can control it. I have quite a few videos about stress, here are some of them to watch.