I think you should here before I tell you how much vitamin D affects different organs and different tissues. We usually remember its benefits for guests, well, maybe also for immunity. It's surprising that vitamin D doesn't affect anything. It's amazing. There are receptors for vitamin D in many, if not every cell in the entire body. And since vitamin D is fat-soluble, it penetrates the membrane and reaches the very center of the Daedra cell, and it greatly affects this cell. Generally speaking, vitamin D is n't even really a vitamin, it's more of a hormone. It's been widely studied on the PubMed website alone. A quick search yields over sixty-four thousand different studies on vitamin D. Many people are carefully studying this vitamin. I believe it's the most important of all the fat-soluble vitamins. Three to four percent of the human genome is affected by vitamin D. What is denon? It's the totality of all our genes. They are very tightly packed. If you take all the genes, untangle their sequence and pull it into some kind of thread, you can stretch it to the moon and back. We have a lot of genes, and 3-4 percent of them depend on vitamin D.  d so look, I'll go over all the possible tissues and organs of the body and briefly tell you how vitamin D affects these organs. Let 's start with the brain. With a vitamin D deficiency, you will sleep poorly at night. Vitamin D maintains circadian rhythms. It helps the sleep center in the brain. This center is called the somatic nucleus. No need to remember it. Just a clever word. If you have sleep apnea or just insomnia or you wake up in the middle of the night, it's about 2 o'clock from high cortisol. Vitamin D will help you a lot. I advise drinking it before bed. Vitamin D seriously affects the parts of the brain responsible for cognitive functions. These are the areas responsible for memory and concentration. With Alzheimer's, Martin Sony, and dementia, there is always a vitamin D deficiency. Then, our mood. Vitamin D greatly affects it. What happens in winter, seasonal affective disorder, and depression? Where do you not see the sun? You don't get vitamin D, and now you have depression. Sadness and melancholy. Imagine how important vitamin D is if our skin  Under the sun's rays, it produces its own vitamin D from the cholesterol layer of its tissues, you don't even need anything. To get it, you just need to expose your skin to the sun. If you have anxiety or especially depression, take vitamin D. It will definitely lift your mood and support memory. And what about hair? With a vitamin D deficiency, your hair will be very dry and brittle. You will no longer be able to maintain its previous number because hair growth depends on vitamin D. You can sit early. Stress-related baldness can begin. This is a disease. Baldness also occurs during menopause, or you can develop autoimmune alopecia. Because of this, patches of hairless skin will appear. If you control inflammation, you control the disease. Vitamin D is perhaps one of the most powerful natural anti-inflammatory agents. There is also skin under the hair. With a vitamin D deficiency, you are more vulnerable to the development of psoriasis and even eczema. Now, let's discuss the skin in general. People suffering from this usually have a lack of vitamin D. It can reduce inflammation on the skin. It can prevent  Vitiligo is a skin condition characterized by a lack of pigmentation. People with vitiligo always have a vitamin D deficiency. A lack of vitamin D significantly increases the risk of developing skin cancer, such as melanoma. What about the sinuses? All sinuses have receptors for vitamin D, and a deficiency can cause nasal congestion and sinusitis. The reason vitamin D is needed for the nasal passages is to protect against viruses that enter the body through the nasal passages. So, vitamin D is needed for immunity. This is our next point. The thymus gland, located directly above the heart, is a training ground for T-cells. With age, our thymus shrinks and immunity weakens, so the thymus gland desperately needs vitamin D. It is needed for almost every component of the immune system. All parts of the immune system have receptors for vitamin D. B cells and T-cells require vitamin D. Both the innate and acquired parts of the immune system require vitamin D. Vitamin D helps restrain cytokines and suppress the development of certain autoimmune diseases, and restrain the body's attacks on itself. It's an immunomodulator that occurs in autoimmune diseases. It helps soften the immune system's overreaction, which is good for allergies. It also helps keep viruses under control, reducing the risk of viral infections. Vitamin D is the most important nutrient in the body. If you're predisposed to cataracts, vitamin D can slow their development. Vitamin D deficiency leads to macular degeneration, glaucoma, and especially dry eyes. Regarding the thyroid gland, which is located here on the neck, it's 67 centimeters wide. The most common thyroid disease is Hashimotos. 90 percent of all cases of hypothyroidism are autoimmune in nature, meaning it's a disease called Hashimoto's. As I already said, vitamin T is the best natural remedy for any autoimmune disease in general, because it reduces inflammation. If you haven't had inflammation, then with any autoimmune disease, complications and side effects will be minimal, because side effects occur due to the body's autoimmune reaction to itself. Hashimoto's and other diseases Graves' disease, they are both autoimmune type 1, and the other is hyperthyroidism, and vitamin D brings relief. What about teeth? With vitamin D deficiency, you will not be able to deliver calcium to the bones, and teeth are also bone made of calcium. Vitamin D is needed to regulate this calcium. With vitamin D deficiency in early childhood, or even if an unborn child had a vitamin D deficiency, then unfortunately, all sorts of skeletal disorders can develop in adulthood, or even in childhood, there can be problems with the maxillary bone, upper or lower bite, or braces may be needed because the teeth will be crooked or there may be missing teeth, but this affects not only the teeth but the entire skeleton in general. The risk of developing scoliosis increases, this is a lateral curvature of the spine and hunchback, that is, kyphosis or excessive lumbar arching, that is, lordosis, or even flat feet or rickets, bowing of the legs, that is, without vitamin D, the bones become soft and curved. For a child, this can be traumatic. Appearance affects confidence, and then at some point in life, if  They do bite correction surgery, it's traumatic, I recently saw these surgeries, it's not a sight for the faint of heart, the surgeon literally cuts bones, removes the face, rearranges things and screws them back in place, trying to make the face symmetrical and the bite straight, not to mention the fact that you have to wear braces for years. Most of this can be prevented if the mother gets enough vitamin D during pregnancy and breastfeeding, and the child during its development. I had an interesting case with a patient who was a doctor himself. He came, though not of his own free will. In fact, his wife forced him to come because his symptom was hot flashes, and his wife got rid of hot flashes by coming to see me when I was practicing. In general, my husband had hot flashes and he came to me for help. He was a doctor himself, or rather an obstetrician. I asked him about vitamins for pregnant women. Do you recommend supplements made from natural products or, as he said, that synthetics and natural products make no difference anyway? I said, "I see, but where did you learn that?" He replied that they were taught that way in medical school. I asked if it was possible.  Is this information incorrect? Is it possible that it is false? He thought for a moment and said, I don't think they would teach us anything false. I'm saying, did you know that most synthetic vitamins are produced by pharmaceutical companies? He said, no, I didn't know. I'm talking about the possibility that pharmaceutical companies can, without knowing it, influence the curriculum when applying to medical school. Oh, is that possible? He replied, yes, of course, it's possible. I'm saying, there have also been studies on antioxidants. They always use synthetic versions of antioxidants, and it was found that taking antioxidants increases the risk of cancer, but they did n't pay attention to the type of antioxidant. They didn't use naturally occurring antioxidants. They used synthetic substances. You read studies and think antioxidants cause cancer. I won't recommend them, but they don't distinguish between where these antioxidants come from: from foods or from laboratories. As we talked, he began to look at the difference between synthetics and natural remedies from a different angle. I think this is the most important factor that requires attention for a pregnant woman: getting the right nutrients because with a deficiency of just 1 vitamin, vitamin D, the child can experience severe bone development problems later in life. All of this  This can be avoided with a proper diet, ensuring that the nutrients are high quality and not some synthetic stuff made from petroleum products. In general, we solved his hot flashes problem and he began recommending high-quality vitamins to pregnant women. Vitamin D, like calcium, has a great effect on teeth. I remember that as a child, I constantly wanted butter. I could eat half a kilo of butter in one sitting. I had no idea what was in butter, but it contained vitamin T and also vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 works together with vitamin D, especially in processes that ensure the strength of teeth and bones. Unfortunately, I ate a lot of sugar and not enough butter, as a result, I developed cavities in almost every tooth. This example shows the importance of proper nutrition for a child's development. As for the lungs, vitamin D is also important for them. Asthma goes away very quickly in children if they play in the sun. Vitamin D helps open the lungs. In asthma, it is excellent for pulmonary infections, pneumonia, bronchitis, and any inflammatory process in the lungs. Vitamin D should be first on the list of medications. Vitamin D also prevents viruses from coming out of hibernation.  and this is great news for patients with COPD or even lung cancer. Now let's move on to muscles. Muscles desperately need vitamin D. If there is not enough of it, muscles will not be able to recover after training, muscle cramps will begin. Why? Because vitamin D controls calcium, and calcium is involved in the processes of muscle contraction and relaxation, so the cause of cramps may not be in electrolytes. About a vitamin that helps absorb one of the electrolytes. And when taking vitamin D, magnesium is needed. They work together. Magnesium is also very important for muscle physiology. So, to get rid of muscle pain, cramps, or muscle weakness, you need vitamin D. And what about the adrenal glands? The main hormone produced in the outer layer of the adrenal glands in their cortex is cortisol. Cortisol is similar in its action to vitamin D. They are both powerful anti-inflammatory agents. They both help the immune system. And if you have high cortisol levels, you also need more vitamin D. That is, vitamin D is very important for the participants. It helps their work. With high cortisol levels, you will lose  Vitamin D and the need for this vitamin will jump sharply, and what about the pancreas? Yes, it is especially needed by the insulin-producing islets of Langerhans. These beta cells need vitamin D to produce insulin. And if you have some kind of autoimmune disease, for example, type 1 diabetes, then the disease itself or a predisposition to it can be caused by a lack of vitamin D. And if the disease already exists, then vitamin D is necessary to keep inflammation at the lowest possible level. And what about the heart? Coronary heart disease and a lack of vitamin D are very closely related. Vitamin D prevents the development of inflammation inside the coronary arteries. I also need to say about hypertension. Vitamin D is one of the best remedies for lowering blood pressure. If you have hypertension, I guarantee that you lack vitamin D. This is one of the big benefits of taking vitamin D. It helps lower blood pressure, which in turn helps reduce the risk of stroke and also reduces the risk of developing other diseases, such as kidney disease. What about the liver? Without vitamin D, the risk of developing insulin resistance increases. It develops in many people. Vitamin D helps provide insulin. absorption of other nutrients, especially calcium, vitamin D deficiency is directly related to fatty liver disease and there is undoubtedly a direct link between liver inflammation, say hepatitis, or low vitamin D. So, if you have inflammation in any organ, especially in the liver, do not take more vitamin D. With a lack of vitamin D, the predisposition to kidney stones increases. One of the last stages of vitamin D conversion occurs in the kidneys and if you have diseased kidneys, you will not be able to convert vitamin D normally. In fact, all cells in the body are capable of converting vitamin D into its active form, but the kidneys play a very important role in converting the inactive form of vitamin D into its active form. Many people suffer from irritable bowel syndrome, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, and diverticulitis. Vitamin D helps a lot with any intestinal inflammation, and if the inflammation continues, leaky gut syndrome develops. This is like a crack in the intestinal lining and you develop autoimmune diseases, allergies, and sensitivity to various factors such as Vitamin D deficiency can increase your risk of developing problems with your ovaries or testicles. Another great property of vitamin D is that it's good for your joints. If your joints are stiff, movable, sore, and inflamed, you need vitamin D. It's a natural anti-inflammatory. It relieves pain, which is especially important for various conditions, such as arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and osteoarthritis. Of course, I initially talked about the importance of vitamin D for bone health. A vitamin D deficiency can lead to osteomalacia, a softening of the bones that can cause bone curvature, especially in childhood. Be patient. It precedes osteoporosis, and osteoporosis itself is when bones become brittle, losing their density. You can tell if you have a vitamin D deficiency by pressing on your sternum, this breastbone, or on your shin. If you feel pain, this is a direct indicator of a deficiency. Because a lack of vitamin D can make your bones hurt, especially your lower back. I had the same thing last winter. I remembered how my lower back hurt. I remembered about vitamin D and took it.  Vitamin D and the pain completely went away in about two hours. I hope you now understand the importance of vitamin D for almost every organ in the body. Besides vitamin D, there is also vitamin K2, which is also necessary when you take vitamin D3. I'm talking about how they work together. In this course, I invite you to my vitamin D course. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 China Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you at the course.