Let's discuss how stress can affect your immunity. When we talk about stress, we mean the hormone cortisol. As written in the medical atlas of the encyclopedia from the publishing house Seba, volume 4, endocrine system, in the section on cortisol, Dr. Frank Meter writes about the relationship between cortisol and immunity. Cortisol's purpose is to suppress leukocytes, that is, white blood cells, the army of your immune system. Cortisol suppresses their function, blocks it. That's why if you get sick and go to the doctor, I don't know what you have, an allergy or some kind of rash, an autoimmune disease, they give you prednisone, that is, artificial cortisol, and it copes with this rash, an allergy, or even a reaction to poison ivy. It also copes with inflammation, that is, it suppresses this overreacting immune system. This is exactly what cortisol does, and stress activates cortisol. So, in theory, stress should improve immunity. So let me explain. There are two types of stress. Stress can be short-term and can be chronic, it is the latter that causes so many health problems when cortisol rises from stress chronically for years or months, or even due to a sudden severe shock, something can develop that can be called cortisol resistance, very similar to insulin resistance in the sense that the level of cortisol in the body may look normal in a blood test, but it does not function, that is, the cells have stopped responding to it, they do not find a common language, and no matter what happens in the blood, cortisol does not work, and for the immune system, this is not good, or the level of white blood cells will sharply increase, which can cause all sorts of problems, for example, cardiovascular diseases, or you can deprive your immune system of protection and you become much more vulnerable to various diseases and especially to microbes. When you get sick, be it some kind of virus or microbe, almost always something happens before you get sick, something that weakens your immunity and makes you vulnerable. This can be a combination of stress and nutrient deficiencies, or just stress, but few people talk about this, however, if you think about the last time you were sick,  Remember that just before this you experienced some kind of stress. Over 29 years, thousands of patients have passed through my care. I encounter this again and again and again. Those who got sick before this were in a stressful environment. Stress is an important factor in all this, but this is not given importance. Nutrient deficiency also plays a role. And when you get infected with something, I recently made a video about this. A virus will cause a nutrient deficiency. A virus can block vitamin D. An infection leads to a nutrient deficiency, and this interferes with healing. Because microbes also try to survive, so they do everything possible to weaken your immune system. In conclusion, if you want to learn more about how to reduce stress, watch these videos. Thank you for watching.