Let's talk about what sugar does to arteries. Probably the biggest damage from high blood sugar in a diabetic is the vascular system. I want to talk about what happens in this condition: there are two systems: macrovascular and microvascular. Large blood vessels and small capillaries form the large blood vessels. You have a coronary artery, which supports the heart muscle. You also have peripheral arteries throughout the body, and there is a microvascular system that goes to the retina of the eye. It also goes to the kidneys. If you think about what they do, they filter the blood, and the entire vascular system is filtered through the kidneys. There are many capillaries in the kidneys, and there are also small nerves in the legs and arms. High blood sugar can cause damage called peripheral neuropathy. In this case, the feet or fingertips become numb and either hurt or burn. This develops into a condition in which an increasing part of the nervous system suffers, and this can potentially lead to necrosis, which is literally tissue rotting, and that's why this happens because of sugar. The vascular system  Sugar rusts, causing all kinds of oxidation. This can be compared to rust on an old car. The same thing happens inside the arteries. They begin to oxidize and damage the body. The layer inside the blood vessels is called the endothelium. The endothelium controls the tone of the blood vessels. It prevents foreign bodies from entering the vessels by acting as a barrier and is extremely sensitive to excess sugar. High glucose levels are regarded as a signal for the onset of inflammation. That is, glucose causes inflammation in the arteries. This is only the beginning of a series of events that will end in blockage of the arteries. The sequence is oxidation, damage, inflammation. Cholesterol appears later, but people focus on cholesterol, while in fact it is only trying to cure the inflammation of the endothelium. Oxidation has direct and indirect effects. I will not go into detail, but it causes many serious effects in the body that you will not even know about until later when you have problems. It also causes thickening of the blood vessels, they become stiff, and due to high blood sugar, insulin resistance develops, which slows blood flow. Diabetes or high sugar causes neurological damage largely due to damaged blood vessels that drain the nerves. Here's what also happens: sugar creates something in the arteries called advanced glycation end products (AGEs) they are very toxic to the arteries and the entire body as a whole, including the nervous system, brain, and pancreas. What also happens is that when you have hyperglycemia or high sugar, you begin to produce excess sorbitol. sorbitol is, by the way, alcohol, which begins to accumulate in the cells, accumulate fluid, and damage the cells of the retina themselves, which leads to cataracts. This can gradually lead to vision loss. The myelin sheath is also damaged, the nerve is destroyed, which is why diabetics develop peripheral neuropathy in the arms and legs. It begins to spread further, destroying the vascular system and the nervous system. If oxygen and nutrients do not enter the tissues, they will begin to die, necrosis will develop. Otherwise, you are completely healthy. Also, understand that the body can produce sugar itself, and if  He needs it, it's called gluconeogenesis. Does anything happen and z? And when the body itself produces sugar, no, it doesn't happen because the body also produces antioxidants. They protect the body from complications due to high blood sugar. The body produces these antioxidants because glucose causes oxidation and free radical damage. This is another reason why you need to eat foods rich in antioxidants and not take them in pills. You should eat a lot of antioxidant-rich foods. You should increase the amount of vegetables in your diet to prevent complications due to high blood sugar. Therefore, diabetics who eat properly have an additional source of antioxidants and have fewer complications from diabetes. There is one very good remedy for some of these conditions. Benfotiamine is a fat-soluble form of B1 and is excellent for the prevention of peripheral neuropathy due to high blood sugar. It also protects the kidneys or retina to some extent. Just so you know, research on the retina and kidneys was conducted on animals, not on humans, but I still recommended benfotiamine for peripheral neuropathy to many clients and received simply  Great results. To summarize, learn from other people's mistakes. Use the knowledge of what happens to the body if you eat a lot of sugar. Don't wait until you develop this condition because many symptoms don't appear for years, and then it's too late. If you want to learn more about blood sugar and diabetes, I'll leave links to videos here.