Today we will talk about 8 signs that it is time to see a doctor. I do not give medical advice and do not make statements. This is just my opinion, so consult a doctor before following my advice to go to the doctor. This is some kind of nonsense. I know what you will think. All this is obvious and clear, everyone knows this, but everything is not so simple. The first sign is if you faint or pass out, go and get checked. This happens after exercise and fasting. It happens if you do not take electrolytes. If this is the case, take electrolytes or sea salt. But in any case, if you have regular fainting, consult a doctor. There may be a problem with the autonomic nervous system. The second sign is if you have lost a lot of weight, but you are not on a diet. Are you still eating unhealthy food, but suddenly you start losing weight quickly? Go to the doctor and find out what is the matter. The third sign is chronic constipation. When I was still practicing, I had a patient from the suburbs come to me. She wanted to lose weight. She was very overweight, and it turned out that she suffered from terrible constipation. She  She goes to the toilet once every two weeks and at the same time she thinks about losing weight. You need to deal with constipation because it distracts attention from a less important problem. In general, I gave that woman advice, and when I went to have lunch, I left the building and walked past and cars, and you know, her car was just littered with packages from various fast food places and other garbage. So, if you have chronic constipation, consult a doctor and get a colonoscopy, find out what is happening. The situation can be very dangerous. Also, with chronic diarrhea, you can lose a lot of electrolytes, this can also be very dangerous. They are lost zinc, potassium and sodium, even vitamin D. This can be dangerous for the heart. 4 signs: frequent urination or excessive thirst. I hope you watched my video and know that a healthy diet and intermittent fasting can solve the problem of diabetes. But if you often run to the toilet and you are thirsty, there is a possibility of high blood sugar. You need to get tested and understand what is going on. The fifth sign is chest pain in the left arm or in the jaw. This could be indigestion. The cause may be different, but not  It will interfere with getting tested and do a kg more thoroughly understand the causes to rule out heart problems. 6th sign: if speech becomes slurred, one corner of the mouth drops, vision is lost on one side, or half of the body is suddenly paralyzed, call a doctor immediately. This looks like a stroke. By the way, one more note: if you go to hyperbaric oxygenation immediately after a stroke, this will significantly reduce the damage caused to the body. 7th sign: if you have blood in your urine, in your mouth or nose, consult a doctor. Coughing up blood can appear due to an infection or for another reason. If blood comes from the nose, this can be for some simple reason, for example, due to an allergy, but I am now a more serious problem in which a lot of blood is bad. 8th sign: you have symptoms that do not change when changing your diet. You started out great and some kind of intermittent fasting, but chronic symptoms remain. To tell the truth, when faced with a problem, especially a chronic one, it is better to seek advice to get more data. Get tested, figure it out, and so I will summarize. In order not to encounter these symptoms, it is better not to encounter them, switch to  Healthy chum intermittent fasting ( link below the video)