Of course, we all know for sure that training improves cardiovascular function, they can prolong life, but if so, why do some die from heart attacks because of training? This is our topic today. Is there a real danger in training and the answer to this question is yes and no. It's not so clear-cut here. Training is a body movement characterized by its own intensity, duration, recovery period and purity of repetitions. There are a million workouts based on these four factors. Exercises can become both beneficial and harmful stress. It all depends on these factors. Beneficial stress forces the body to adapt and become stronger, and harmful stress destroys your body. You do not recover, you get injuries and other problems. We'll get to them too. First, I'll tell you about this and the link to these studies is below. I just deeply studied the topic of high-intensity training. I learned some interesting data and I want to talk about it. Apparently, long-term workouts from moderate to high intensity can weaken the immune system, at least temporarily. Apparently, training from suppress the immune system because they can weaken cells. After all, this is a type of stress. Something very interesting from one article. Just one intense workout is enough to weaken the immune system, but the immune system can remain weakened.  several days, but it all actually depends on several things that I'll talk about, mainly on the ability to recover from the health reserve and other things. Also, long-term high-intensity training increases the risk of viral infection, especially in the lungs. Another side effect is an increased risk of heart attacks and blood clots. We're talking about high-intensity training. I'll make a couple of reservations in this regard, for example. It depends on the duration of the high-intensity workout, so I recommend high-intensity interval training, and the main thing in hit is short duration. So hit is intense but not very long workouts, and this significantly reduces side effects. And in this video, we're talking about high-intensity long workouts. High-intensity long-term endurance training. Some sports that require endurance. And this is cycling and running. They increase the risk of heart rhythm disturbances. Why is it that when training from medium to high intensity for some time, the heart gets stronger and gets bigger? You might think that this is good, but here's the problem with the heart. The heart has pacemakers that control the rhythm, and when the heart gets too big, the work of these pacemakers is disrupted. That's what This problem is caused by heart rhythm. And although the heart is enlarged not due to infection. This is called cardiomegaly. It is still cardiomygaly, but it is caused by training and it affects the heart rhythm. Of course, with high-intensity training, the risk of injury increases. Inflammation inside the vessels can increase. This is called endothelial damage. Because a lot of oxygen enters the body and this oxygen causes oxidative stress on the inner surface of the vessels. There is even so-called vascular endofibrosis caused by physical activity. What is it? This is inflammation inside the vessels, due to which fibrosis develops. This leads to a kind of narrowing of the vessels and even to their spasm. This is not so common, but it happens to very trained cyclists and endurance trainees. When you run, the phone or cover long distances during training, this creates enormous stress on the body, so you need a long recovery. Even the CrossFit training program is great for young people, but at my age it is not good because very little time is allocated for rest. I love CrossFit. I just wish I could increase the rest time a little. It's a great workout, but I almost had a heart attack when I tried it.  It was about five years ago and I'm 57, the intensity of CrossFit requires good shape and a long rest. And besides, high-intensity training increases cortisol levels, I talked about this in one of the recent videos. Cortisol paralyzes the immune system. In fact, it turns off the immune system, but low- intensity exercise actually increases cortisol levels. Therefore, long walks are useful during stress. In general, here is an important conclusion from this information: you need to adapt your training to your recovery rate. Everyone has a different rate. Here is a small example: a long time ago, a lady came to me in the office. There was a small corner for assessing the speed of recovery. I sat her on an exercise bike and her pulse rose to 158. The next day, her pulse was still 158. That is, there was no recovery at all. Recovery is not a passive process, it is an active process in the nervous system. This is when a wave is transmitted downwards. If you now run down the stairs, your pulse will quicken, then recover and check your pulse, it should begin to decrease. What makes it decrease is an active process. In fact, the parasympathetic nervous system is activated and reduces the pulse. I had a device for  assessing the state of the parasympathetic nervous system. This is called heart rate variability. It actually allows you to evaluate both the parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems. Number one, recovery rate. If you can find someone or buy a device, perhaps for a phone, that measures heart rate variability. Then you will know your recovery rate and get an objective criterion. If you do n’t have something like this, you can check your heart rate and measure the recovery time after training. Does your heart rate decrease to the purity it was at the beginning or not? I mean after a minute. There is a link below on how to check this. The whole goal is to avoid pre- workout. Another example from my practice. A lady came to me and couldn’t lose weight at all. I’m not kidding. She trained 6 hours a day, seven days a week. I’m not kidding. She was wondering why she wasn’t losing weight. This is undoubtedly crazy. Before training, another example. I worked with another lady who couldn’t lose weight even under threat of death. She started going to the gym and trained every other day for a whole year and she lost less than half a kilo in a whole year. I learned that  She slept worse than ever. So we improved her sleep without her even exercising. We simply changed her diet and she started losing weight much better than half a kilo. It's all about recovery. It's very important to take one nutrient if you have a slow recovery if there is a risk of heart problems, it's vitamin D, because one of the first signs of vitamin D deficiency is muscle weakness. This applies not only to skeletal muscles, but also to cardiac muscles. That is, vitamin D protects well against heart attacks and at the same time it strengthens the immune system. Number three: omega-3 fatty acids, fish oil, sardines, cod liver oil. All of this is very good for recovery. If you want to speed up recovery after workouts, omega-3 can help you. Number 4: increase the rest time between hit workouts. If you do intense exercise, 1 minute 30 seconds of rest is not enough. Rest two to three minutes before starting this intense exercise again. The number of workouts per week. This also applies if you are over 45 or 50 years old, like me, then it may be useful for you to rest a couple of days more between workouts, say.  You train two days a week or three days a week, then you will rest for a long time, and for some, depending on the intensity of training, I advise resting for 3-4 days, and my God, they feel better, they start to lose weight, everything gets better for them. After all, they had mild inflammation, but they simply did not give the body a chance to fully recover between workouts. Why do people die from heart attacks due to training? Healthy young people have different reasons. If they train at medium or high intensity for a long time and at the same time something affects their system, then they can fail because their immune system already creates a predisposition to heart problems. I have different videos on this topic, I will not go into this too much now, but any extra stress on the body during intense training can become a failure. Also, lack of sleep increases the risk of additional problems. High carbohydrates increase the risk, because excess carbohydrates excite the sympathetic nervous system and interfere with sleep. A nutrient deficiency without which the heart is worst. The worst thing, especially in terms of angina and heart attacks, is without vitamin E. So  The more stress you have, the less you sleep, the more vitamin E you need. Especially for the heart, I recommend taking only triols and not tocopherols. The next factor is age: the older you are, the intensity available to you. This factor itself creates many risks. There are always exceptions. I had another patient, he was 80, he looked young, I checked his recovery rate, and his recovery rate was like that of a 28-year-old. I was shocked. And here's what's interesting: he was walking his dog in the dark, fell into a hole, lost consciousness, he was bleeding, and in about a day, everything healed amazingly. This man was an Olympic champion in water polo in his youth, and since then he has always maintained his health through training, and at 80, he could still hold his breath underwater for 3 minutes. There are always exceptions to the rule. If you can exercise constantly without excessive strain, you can make your immune system bulletproof. Altitude, apparently. The higher you are above sea level, the higher the risk of heart problems during training. I now live together at 900 meters above sea level when friends come to visit me.  Or relatives and we are going up the mountain. They immediately start to get out of breath. After all, they haven’t adapted. If they train here, it will be even more difficult for them. I just wanted to draw your attention to these factors so that you can train and avoid more serious problems. If you want to know more about training and recovery, here’s a video about it, watch it.