! Convitellidotra, narex, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotidot, viadotid and then answer questions in the communicate communicate. Amen. Alright. Well, or the truth is that the exercise exercise is going in the exercise exercise to survive. What an interesting question. We will answer your questions. We will answer questions in the social media. Amanda from Facebook. Can you make a cold oil? It can cause a cold oil? I'm sure it can cause a cold oil. It can cause a cold oil. It can cause a kind of... not just a cold oil and a cold oil, but sometimes a cold oil, if it can cause a cold oil. So, perhaps, it can cause a little less I know, that there are people who who eat olive oil with a cold oil. I don't have a cold oil. I do it like a cold oil. I put it in my salad. But I think that olive oil extra virgin, especially in European countries, it's just a new level. It's so good. It's so good. It has not been useful for you. Even if you communicate in the belly, it's interesting, that the continuous continuous continuous continuous to ask the question Dr. Bergh, and we will talk about it. Yes, Dr. Bergh. And thank you. Yes, my question is, how do you get the consequences of the vaccine from the virus of the papillom of a person, which caused the syndrome of polycystosis, the deficit of estradiol and luteinzine hormones, and all the other hormones are in normal? And are there ways to get the disease from the cells that could get the disease from the virus? I watched all your videos about SPK. I did all your advice, including using the vitamin of the virus. But I don't know, in which solution. I want to know, how many cells have been affected? Endocrine or the blood cells with hypofizum? Yes, yes. In many cases, there are metals. They are called adjuvantes. They are called adjuvantes. They are arduous. I'm sorry. Arduous, I'm sorry. Arduous, they used to be used before. They are used to now. But aluminum. So how do you get it? Cillin. Cillin. Cillin. Cillin. Cillin is a month. It's the best way to get aluminum from the body. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome, which is too many of them. They create problems with women. Because you have a voice, you have a voice, you have a voice. Androgen is a problem. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. Cillin is a syndrome. first, you need to reduce insulin, exercise cells, and then the second, you need to suffer suffer interval exercise exercise exercise will be less and less. And so you can reduce the level of anandrogens, and you can get rid of SPKIA, syndrome of polycystosis. One important ingredient, which they take in the syndrome, is anazitol. It's actually a sweet vitamin, but there's no sugar. It's a sweet vitamin, and it's a sweet vitamin. It's a sweet vitamin, but you can take anazitol, so you can take it away from the syndrome polycystosis of the яичников. Dрузья, прямо сейчас subscribe to the channel and click on the bell, to turn all notifications. If you don't choose all notifications, the platform can not forget about new videos. This simple way you will help you to the future development of the channel. And we continue. Thank you very much for your call, I hope this information helps you. And I invite you to hear the answer to today's question of Victorino. He's like, it's true or a lie? The training is in the way with the intention of the organism to survive. 72% said that it's a lie, and 28% said that it's true. Who is correct? It's true. It's true. We're in our biology the training is aimed at the survival of the survival. Now, a minute. Wait a second. How is it possible? Well, there are a lot of our evolution that has been two factors, which have been put in the our, so to speak, the the the the the the the the the the the the the the by you, having exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise exercise But with another purpose, not to be able to get away from the tiger, but to be able to get the food. That's their purpose. That's survival. But not to be able to run for the race or for the race. So, of course, when we train, we feel good, we want to continue. But deep inside something that's what's going on, is it necessary to run this energy? But this is on the level of physiology. You can overcome it, because you have a logic. But I'll just talk about biology. Thank you.