Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about what causes liver spots. They're also called age spots. The liver has nothing to do with it, of course. If your liver is sick, then yes, it can lead to many skin problems, but the spots we're talking about appear due to a vitamin C deficiency. Vitamin C protects the skin from the sun, this is called photodamage, damage from sun rays, and so vitamin C protects the skin from the sun. The skin contains collagen. The epidermis is solid collagen, and vitamin C is actively involved in the formation of collagen. If you look closely at the composition of natural creams, they contain serum for age spots. What is its basis, vitamin C, but the cream acts from the outside, and you need to act from the inside. Eat foods rich in vitamin C. They just smear something on your skin. After all, everything will return under the influence of the sun. Let's say an elderly person is in the sun and has a vitamin C deficiency. All this leads to the appearance of brown spots. So why does vitamin C deficiency develop with age? There are 2 reasons: not enough vitamin C in the diet. I'm not talking about vitamin C supplements now; most of the bases are synthetic. This is ascorbic acid, and it's made from cornstarch and sulfuric acid. If the dosage is more than 100 milligrams, it's definitely synthetic. It's artificial. It's of no use. Natural vitamin C is a complex. It has many components. You need to get it from food, from natural sources. You need vegetables, such as kale, bell peppers, chili peppers, and parsley. All of them have a lot of vitamin C. Leafy greens have a lot of vitamin C. Pasteurization is when vegetables are cooked by heating. Vitamin C is destroyed in store-bought orange juice. There's little vitamin C because it's pasteurized. That's the first reason, and now the second. It's more likely that vitamin C deficiency isn't related to a person consuming little vitamin C. The problem here is insulin resistance. I have a lot of videos on this topic. With insulin resistance, the body's cells are resistant to insulin due to an excess of carbohydrates, and as a result, either a person eats too often, which results in the pancreas receiving a command to produce more insulin. So, with insulin resistance, the body produces a lot of insulin, which depletes vitamin C reserves. You see?  When there's too much insulin, the body can't absorb or use vitamin C in the right amounts. When you go out in the sun, liver spots appear on your skin, although the liver has nothing to do with it. Here are the causes of these spots. If you want to get rid of them, don't apply serums to yourself. Solve the problem from the inside. Get rid of insulin resistance and consume vitamin C. Below is a link to a video about this. This is the real cause of age spots. Thanks for watching. You may have already subscribed, but if not, click subscribe to receive notifications.