You feel sleepy after eating. Let's discuss the reasons for this and what to do about it. It's called a food coma. A post about ideal sleepiness or even sei with that. But you must realize that fatigue after eating is not normal. You get fuel and energy should increase, so why does fatigue occur? Mainly due to excess carbohydrates and I ate carbohydrates to overcome drowsiness. Because this was a big problem. I ate a half-liter bucket of ice cream right before bed every night for many years. I immediately passed out. Of course, I woke up all swollen, not myself, irritated. I repeated this over and over again. Because every time it affected my blood sugar and in the evenings I had a craving for carbohydrates. I made a lot of videos about this, but I decided to make a video specifically in connection with ketogenic diet. You started ketogenic intermittent fasting, but the fatigue does not go away. What's the matter? Perhaps your stomach lacks hydrochloric acid. Just take apple cider vinegar or betaine hydrochloride with meals. This can help, but usually it doesn't.  It's also possible that due to insulin resistance, your cells are simply unable to absorb nutrients and fuel. Apparently, this is the case, but this is n't the reason for your fatigue. If you don't get nutrients and fuel, you don't feel full and want to eat something else, but you usually don't feel tired. The real reason for fatigue is insulin resistance, but it's high insulin. High insulin blocks substances in the brain that help you stay awake. So, the real reason for this problem is high insulin. But I thought that by cutting carbohydrates, I would lower insulin. I just started ketogenic diets. That's true, but insulin levels rise for two reasons: the first is carbohydrates, and the second is that you just ate, which in itself activates insulin. The problem is that you've had insulin resistance for a long time, so it takes some time to lower elevated insulin. insulin resistance still exists, so even if you don't eat carbohydrates, eating activates insulin. What can you do first? You need to start intermittent fasting. If you eat less often, you'll be more alert. Food causes hunger.  and provoke fatigue, so skipping breakfast is a very wise action. Eat twice a day and slowly reduce the interval between meals to fast longer. You will see that you have more energy when you fast when you don’t eat, because you don’t trigger this mechanism, and so intermittent fasting is extremely important. Many people who started the Tetta diet have little intermittent fasting, so they still feel tired and carbohydrates should be low. Just remember this and make sure not to eat more carbohydrates than allowed. Third, a moderate amount of protein. The more protein you eat, the more fatigue you feel, because a large amount of protein eaten causes fatigue. If you eat a lot of protein and carbohydrates, fatigue will completely overcome, as happens on holidays. Eat starch with protein and immediately switch off. It’s not about the trepts, but the combination of starch and protein. Excess protein can cause fatigue. Eat it in moderation. Fourth, patience is needed from 1 to 3 months to adapt to ketosis. You can really reduce insulin resistance and not feel hungry between meals, and this is a good sign.  The process is ongoing, insulin resistance can be reduced faster. Here's one way. Since drowsiness occurs, just try to sleep more. An extra half hour will help. A simple way to do this is to go to bed earlier and take vitamin B1. I usually take one of the nutritional yeast right before bed, as well as vitamin D3. Especially in the winter, taking vitamin D3 before bed improves sleep. Try it and see for yourself. Thanks for watching, and see you soon. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.