A lot of people think that walking is complete nonsense. Sometimes they think that it's a waste of time that could be spent on something more useful. Today's video may change your mind because walking is one of the most healing activities. It seems to me that you've never heard of most of the positive effects of walking before. We know that walking helps you lose weight and reduce stress, but how exactly they help is the question. So, here's the first benefit of walking. Even a 20-minute walk significantly reduces cortisol levels in the body. What does it mean when you have high cortisol levels, the body goes into such an adaptive mode. It adapts to the environment under stress. Walking turns off this mechanism. You will switch from the sympathetic response. Bailey Run paired with the sympathetic response. Thanks to the body's exit from stress mode, you will be able to relax when the level of cortisol and adrenaline decreases. You will feel better. There is even a certain gene in your DNA that makes the body retain adrenaline longer. Exercises can help get rid of excess adrenaline. They don't necessarily have to be high-intensity. You can just go for a long walk. The second point is related to the first. You will improve.  creativity By this I mean creative thinking. Think about what kind of creativity you can have under stress with high cortisol levels. Almost none at all. With high cortisol levels, it is almost impossible to be creative. This is also related to problem solving because it requires a creative approach, and under stress, everything doesn’t work out as well as without it. When you are calmer, long walks will help you look at things more easily. They will give you more space. The space between you and the problem will not sit right in your head. This will allow you to consider the problem in more detail and find a solution. The third point is related to the second. Walks affect your mood. You will have less anxiety and depression. 4. Walks affect mitochondria. The body’s energy station can help with diseases associated with mitochondrial damage, as well as with metabolic problems. It all depends on whether the cells are well saturated, what fuel they use, and so on. So, long walks improve the quality of mitochondria. They increase their number. The mitochondria will produce energy more efficiently. The better the condition of the mitochondria, the less you will be sick. 5. This is interesting. Exercise, especially walks, increases the diversity of bacteria. You will have more  different bacteria, this is useful for immunity, digestion, and energy. Energy 6 walks improve or increase endogenous antioxidants. What does endogenous mean? It means that it comes from within. In other words, the body will be able to produce more antioxidants. When you walk, the body produces more of its own antioxidants. This has nothing to do with diet. The body will begin to produce more antioxidants. This will help fight free radicals, increase life expectancy, and help prevent many diseases. 7 walks increase the number of natural killer cells. They are part of the immune system, they destroy cancer cells and viruses. Walks increase the number of these cells. 8 walks improve sensitivity to insulin and glucose. If you have insulin resistance or problems with glucose, walking can help by significantly reducing insulin resistance. This will lower blood sugar levels. If you have diabetes or severe diabetes, walking will help you. If you have high blood sugar in the morning, a long walk can burn this sugar. The first 25-30 minutes of walking, you will burn excess sugar in the body, and then you will begin to burn fat. 9 this is very interesting. Yes, when walking, you get more oxygen, but it  It's not just that there's more oxygen in the blood, the process of oxygen exchange between blood cells and tissues improves. You'll begin to absorb more oxygen due to blood saturation. When you exercise and breathe frequently, it seems to you that you're absorbing all this air. But it's the same as taking a full glass and trying to pour more water into it; it's already full; the water will just spill out. The same thing happens when you breathe frequently during exercise; you inhale oxygen, but it doesn't reach the tissues, and it seems to you that you need to breathe even more often so that the tissues receive more oxygen. But here's the kicker. Yes, the body needs oxygen, but to transport this oxygen, carbon dioxide is needed. Carbon dioxide is not a by-product, not a waste product. It's needed to deliver oxygen to tissues. High- intensity exercise is beneficial, but walks are necessary because oxygen can reach the tissues during it. After all, you don't breathe too much; a balance arises between oxygen and carbon dioxide, which is needed to deliver this oxygen. Especially if you breathe through your nose while walking, you get 20 percent more oxygen. Those who walk quickly produce lactic acid. This acid  Usually, oxygen blocks. We have some alkaline compounds in our blood called bicarbonates. They help neutralize lactic acid quite quickly, and this reaction has byproducts, water and carbon dioxide. So, your body receives carbon dioxide as a result of this process. 10. Walking strengthens bones. Interestingly, eleventh, walking reduces inflammation. Mobility also increases, but walking and the flow of oxygen to tissues help reduce inflammation. Finally, walking can help improve vision in different ways. Firstly, the brain will receive more oxygen. And the retina is the part of the brain that is located in the eye sockets. And your sensitivity to insulin will increase. What is good for the eyes, kidneys, and nerves because it helps with blood sugar. You should make frequent walks your important habit. And the next video you should watch is a video about the importance of high-intensity interval training. Here it is, watch it.