Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  Please, Dog.  True or false? The body produces vitamin D when exposed to sunlight that passes through window glass.  Friends, what do you think about this?  We look forward to your responses. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com.   A Facebook case asks how much magnesium to take before bed and how long before bed to take it.  I would also like to add what form of magnesium it is.  It depends on how much magnesium is in your food.  I take 350 to 400 mg per day. But if you take magnesium oxide, it's a waste of time, because only 3% of it is absorbed.  You won't get 400 mg of magnesium.  Even from a full measuring spoon and from magnesium oxide tablets you will get 20 milligrams. And if you take more, you will get sick. Magnesium oxide is a laxative. Magnesium glycenate is much better.  It is 80% absorbed. Let's say you take 400 mg of magnesium glycerate, you will only absorb 80% of it. Consumption standards have been established for magnesium. approximately 380 to 400 mg per day. But these standards are already 100 years old, and they were intended for prevention, not to create a therapeutic effect in case of severe deficiency.  And I know that if you have arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, or other problems that require much more magnesium, or even migraines, then you need to take two to three to four times more than these norms to eliminate the deficiency, and not the minimum dose.  The same thing with vitamin B1.  Resn for B1 - 1.2 mg. Seriously, minimal doses will never eliminate the deficiency. Some people will tell you, "Well, you can get all the nutrients you need from food." And if you have a health problem, will what you eat be enough? Can a health problem caused by a deficiency be corrected by taking the RDA?  Answer: No, you can't.  After all, this is an insignificant amount, which is barely enough. Oh well.  There is a concept of therapeutic doses.  But that's a completely different topic. Great.  And we have another topic.  The quiz question was as follows .  True or false?  The body produces vitamin D from sunlight that passes through window glass.  95% answered: "No."  5% said: "Yes."  No, it doesn't. After all, a window blocks almost 100% of ultraviolet B. And it is precisely rays of this spectrum that are needed to synthesize vitamin D. So, if you're sitting by a closed window and thinking, "I'm getting enough vitamin D from the sun."  This is wrong.  Unfortunately, I have to leave the house.  So, at the beginning of the 20th century, there were sanatoriums where people, in essence, received real therapy with vitamin D and ultraviolet light.  People were in the sun.  These sanatoriums were all over the world.  People sat there in the sun for medicinal purposes. But then people started sitting behind glass there, and it stopped working.  Interesting.  So, this is just some interesting data about the need to spend more time in the sun.   " Friends, let's go out in the sun," asks friends. Subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos. This simple action will greatly help the channel's further development. And we continue. Everis YouTube. How to effectively help a child get rid of excess mucus? Poor child. Na oh, I need to go buy some. And some people also need to clean up their diet. I am categorically against homogenized skim milk. Yes, because this is the lowest quality milk. It is better to consume fermented high-quality dairy products such as cheese, yogurt, and kefir. But or whole milk. Raw milk is best, not skim homogenized milk. Such milk is especially harmful to infants. After all, there is information that the body can confuse the proteins in milk with pathogenic proteins, and this can provoke autoimmune diseases. I talked about this in a recent video about paracetamol and Robert Kennedy. Watch it. Very good. Question from Claudia from YouTube. Can Kitoz help with thyroid problems? She didn't specify whether it was hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. Yes, I think it can. But there are some. It happens too. You know, I think that any thyroid problem requires high-quality protein. Especially protein and everything else too. But you need high-quality animal protein. If you have hypothyroidism and you start eating plant protein, good luck to you. It's unlikely to help. You need a complete, healthy low-carb diet to get your body back in order. After all, it's all about hormones. But you don't need a low-fat diet, because you need cholesterol as a raw material for hormones. But the thyroid, of course, also needs trace elements: iodine, selenium. Yes, I have everything. Steve writes excellent HVvible. My wife's pancreas stopped working after cancer treatment . Can you recommend something to get it working again.  Will intermittent fasting help? I think it will. After all, it triggers autophagy and increases the number of stem cells after a prolonged fast for 3 days. This is very, very important. There is another remedy. Pancreatrophin PMG from Standard Process. You can take one capsule before bed. It is an excellent remedy for people with autoimmune diseases of the pancreas, especially with type 1 diabetes. And for those who have depleted their islets of Lunderhans - these are the cells that secrete insulin. But I just had another great idea. Steve, anyone who has a problem with the cells that secrete insulin, whether it is diabetes or prediabetes, should also take tutka. After all, it has a very interesting effect on something in our cells. The so-called endoplasmic reticulum. This is a small part of the cell that creates hormones. When a cell or this part of the cell is stressed, and this usually happens before the mitochondria fail. If you strengthen the endoplasmic reticulum with tutka, it  It strengthens it like anything else. It can improve hormone production before the mitochondria fail. Basically, that's what happens to the pancreas. People eat a lot of carbohydrates, and it has to make a lot of insulin. This puts it under stress, stress, stress, stress. And this is how you reverse it. You have it because of chemotherapy, but I'd still try it. Great, friends. Thanks for your questions, which make our program so interesting. Any final words, Dr. Berg? Yes. Thank you all. Don't forget to subscribe to our channel, and we'll see you again soon . Adrenal, thyroid, ovarian, or hepatic. What's your body type? This determines the cause of your excess weight and poor health. Take the free test, find out your body type, and get recommendations based on it.