 UNRace, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UNAM, UN not only what the means to put on the skin, but also how to put the reason out. I will show you both methods. The original BAD Dr. Berger has not on Ozon & Wildberries. There are products that are sold out. The original product in the USG can only buy on drbergstore.com. If you look at your face or face in the mirror, you can see the green green green. They are called hyperpigmentation. But once, the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, and the leaves, so that we will do so, and the leaves, There is a substance called melanin. Melanin is a pigment. He produces особous clutches, melanocytes. This pigment is, in fact, something like a protective zone. He protects the things like the sun and the sun. So it's your protection. It's because of melanin you're burning on the sun. So your skin is dark. The skin is dark. And it protects you. So when you see the dark side of the skin, it's the same shield mechanism in the body. So the better you will understand this, the more evident will be the solution. The problem is not the same melanin. The problem is not the same melanin. It's not the same melanin. It's not the same melanin. It's not the same melanin. So the cells, which they produce, do this not the same. so that we lost the system, so that we alliquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiquiqu is the name of the glutation. There are two main tasks. First, to regulate melanin. And second, to reduce the level of acidation. So, in the scheme of the glutation, there was a problem if melanin began to create dark spots on your skin. So if there is a glutation, melanin is going to be used to be a non-alarmic reaction. And now, subscribe and press the bell to click on the bell. If you don't choose all the notifications, the platform may not forget about the new videos. This simple action will help you to develop the channel. And we will continue. So, what is important to understand. If you don't have enough glutation, you will not regulate melanin. So, then it happens like that. You have to adapt to this. And how does it do it? He produces more melanin. Melanin is also an antioxidant. And the reason for the skin is the use of melanin. But it happens not to be done. That is the case. You have the same amount of glutation and the lack of glutation and the lack of melanin. So many questions, what are the ingredients I recommend? Now, I have no more than a couple of my products. But if I have a quality added, I will show you the description. I will show you the description. The link is in the description. The question is in the description. Why? Why glutation and glutation have not enough? Now, it is true that with the age of his population, his population is reduced. Not necessarily not because of the age of the but because of the age of the and the other factors, which are the impact of it. And what is it? Selen. The deficit selena is many people, but they don't know about it. Even if the blood is not aware of it, selen is not there. You need to do a special analysis. Selen is also an immune system, and is also an immune system for the skin of the cell, for the change of T4 to T3. Selen is also an immune system for the skin of the skin of the skin. and so, the insurance insurance insurance, and so, In the world, the problem is almost always a deficit of the selena because it's because of its connection with the immune system. But selena is a precursor to thisylation. Our selena is a source of the selena. In the land of the selena, the selena is a source of the selena. Also, many of the fields are a lot of so-called glyphosate, which also is a source of selena. And this is only one of many factors. If you have two brazilian eggs a day, you will get a selena. He has a lot of in the selena and in the selena. The next thing is needed for the glyphosate is a glyphosate. Many people have changed from the glyphosate to the glyphosate, which is a problem in the synthesis of glyphosate. You will return to your dish, the eggs, the fish, the fish, and also glyphosate. You will not get a lot of glyphosate from the обычного steaks or hotline, because people like a more nеж like that. If you don't eat a lot of glyphosate from the glyphosate, you will not get a lot of glyphosate from the glyphosate. Because people like a more nеж like that. So if you don't eat a glucose, is because they have more estrogen, which protects the DNA of other parts of the body. So women after menopause have more age-in, and it's not only in the age of age, but also in this mechanism. The stress is also a person's weight loss. The need in gluten is higher during stress, and I'm not only in the mental health, but also in the physical health, for example, when there's a lot of training and a lot of sleep. Also, the toxins in the body, chronic consumption of carbohydrates, the food, the food, the food, the food, the food, all this creates stress and a lot of gluten. Another big element of this puzzle is the moth. Now, I'm going to say, moth is another micro-element, which helps to make melanin. You can have a problem with melanin and by the effects of melanin, and by the nephatum of copper. And one of the factors that regulate moth is zinc. So zinc and copper are all-in-one. A person may have a deficit of zinc and a lot of zinc, or, on the other hand, a lot of zinc and a lot of zinc. So, as a result, принимая more zinc, many times you can improve balance of zinc, which helps in terms of melanin. And принимать добавку, где есть и цинк и медь, тоже хорошо, потому что они там в правильном соотношении. Итак, всё это поможет решить проблему с глутатионом, а он уже отрегулирует производство меланина, что в итоге избавит вас от возрастных пятен. Это может занять от месяца до полутора, потому что тёмные пятна находятся внутри слоя кожи, который нужно заменить. Но через месяц-полтора вы увидите значительные улучшения. Можно ли сделать что-то ещё, пока идёт этот процесс? Да, можно. Есть много разных средств для кожи лица. Некоторые с побочками, их мы пропустим. Одно из лучших средств — сыворотка для лица с витамином С. Можно найти вариант хорошего качества. Просто наносите её на кожу. Витамин С реально поможет регулировать уровень глутатиона. И я не слышал ни о каких побочных эффектах этого средства. Итак, я дал вам два решения. Одно — корректирующее, оно занимает больше времени. И другое — наружного применения, которое действует быстрее. Но не ограничивайтесь лишь вторым средством, ведь тогда проблема вернётся. Вся эта тема связана с пигментом, а пигмент — это адаптация к Солнцу. Есть ключевая, крайне важная информация о пользе Солнца для вашего здоровья. Зная её, вы не будете совершать ошибку, избегать Солнца. Об этом и о многом другом в моём популярном курсе. Вот он. Приглашаю вас на свой мини-курс «Диагностика здоровья по коже». У вас акне, папилломы, сухая кожа, перхоть или другие кожные проблемы. Это не просто дефекты кожи. Такие сигналы говорят о проблемах внутри организма. На своём курсе я покажу, как диагностировать проблему и исправить причину. Записывайтесь по ссылке внизу. До встречи! Продолжение следует...