Let's discuss how to get rid of a mustache and beard. If you are a woman, in medicine, the phenomenon is called hirsutism. Hair grows in a male pattern. A mustache and beard on the face. Hair grows on the back and also on the chest. The main and most common cause of this phenomenon is, while I have polycystic ovary syndrome. There are other reasons, for example, it could be a tumor of the adrenal glands or a tumor of the pituitary gland. There is also a disease called Cushing's syndrome, in which the adrenal glands secrete too much cortisol. You have the following symptoms: periods are difficult or absent, excess weight on the body, the timbre of the voice becomes lower, infertility. And if you look on Wikipedia, who else is insulin resistance? All this is due to high androgens. Normally, women should have androgens, but there shouldn't be a lot of them. Usually, there are few androgens and a lot of estrogen. You see this. You probably have hair growing on your face. You want to solve this problem, but everything is incredibly confusing here. I'll tell you why everything is so confusing and what to do about it. If you google about beards in women, you will find information about  SPK, you'll probably want to look for truly reliable scientific data on this topic to figure it out for yourself, and of course, you'll go to Wikipedia, which I'm quite sarcastic about, because it's like reading the news on a fence. Who filters the information there? Who lets some information through and doesn't let others through? So, Wikipedia is a dump, especially if you're looking for medical information. In the article about SPK, Wikipedia says that this disease is hereditary or caused by environmental factors. And part of it is true that the environment has an effect, but it's unlikely that high androgens are caused by plastics. Chemicals are hormonal disruptors, but they mainly increase estrogens. If you increase estrogen, androgens will decrease, so the proportion may even improve, although it's unlikely. It goes on to say that it's incurable, but you can take birth control pills. Why would this work? Because you're increasing the proportion of estrogens, androgens will probably decrease. And why would metformin work? What if it helps lower insulin by increasing sensitivity?  tissues to insulin because its target is insulin resistance. It has side effects, because it's a drug. They also recommend drugs that increase insulin sensitivity. What kind of diet is recommended there? They recommend foods with a low glycemic index, and this is completely logical, because it's about insulin resistance. But the product recommendations themselves seem strange. Fruits, and how can fruits help lower insulin? Not how do they increase insulin because they are sweet. They recommend vegetables and whole grains. I hope one day someone will enlighten me as to why whole grains are useful for fighting excess hair with while I am or for lowering insulin. I want to know because these grains very quickly turn into carbohydrates and increase insulin. But now, wherever you look, whole grains are recommended everywhere. While I am also observed. Hyper insulin mia is associated with it. Let's see what Wikipedia tells us about hyperinsulinemia. It says that its cause is either, but in education, that is, cancer, pancreatic cancer, trans fats with while I am, which is confusing. Basically, they say that SPK is the cause of elevated insulin in the blood. This makes no sense. It only makes things even more confusing. What's the connection? How can SPK and high androgen levels cause hyperinsulinemia? It's not logical. Further, it says carbohydrate malabsorption. Whatever that means, you don't digest carbohydrates well. I have no idea what that means. Fortunately, it says how to treat it with exercise. There are no pharmaceuticals for us. And again, they recommend consuming whole grains, whole grains, beans, and of course, soy. That's what you should eat with excess insulin. If you listen to Wikipedia at this point in your search, you'll be completely and utterly confused simply because you're drawing conclusions based on bad sources. Wikipedia is n't the best source of data to judge this problem. I'll give you links to good sources in the description, but here's what Wikipedia is missing. When insulin levels rise, androgens rise. High insulin leads to increased androgens, which then lead to a feeling of restlessness, which then  A mustache and beard are growing. What's the connection here? High insulin is the root of the problem with facial hair. So the solution here is obvious: lower insulin. If you do this and look at this, everything becomes logical. Because as soon as insulin decreases, androgens will decrease, and guess what will happen, the cycle will return to normal. Reproductive function will be restored. You will also get rid of insulin resistance and lose weight. In addition, fat cells will begin to produce the aromatase enzyme. Aromatase is an enzyme that converts testosterone to estrogen. That is, it increases estrogen. This is likely the cause of menstrual irregularities and infertility. But of course, ester dean, which occurs due to excess fat, does not necessarily have to cope with elevated androgens because you need to change your diet to fix this. How to lower insulin is very simple: you need to reduce carbohydrates and clean meals, and eliminate snacks. To better understand the topic of female hormones, I suggest taking this course. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with menstrual irregularities, symptoms of menopause, and other gynecological External problems are expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore your women's health. My unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.