Hello everyone Today we will traditionally start with a quiz and then we will talk with Jonathan So today's question I ask you Do which of the symptoms of vitamin D deficiency is the most dangerous Dear viewers, we are waiting for your answers And here is Jonathan How about a short question Hello do Thank you for this opportunity Demons media diet with intermittent fasting thanks to you somewhere in a month I lost almost 11 kilos my problem is - This is a couple of side effects I wake up every 3-4 hours and it is difficult for me to fall asleep and I am constantly in capsules but I can not take any electrolyte powders I have severe heartburn from them What can be done about dehydration electrolytes and sleep so I have a question How much salt do you currently consume I consume a lot of salt per meal I try to eat 1-d times a day about amat and I try to keep amat every other day when I cook I salt food as usual And when I feel that I am very dehydrated Clear I think you are doing the right thing because a lack of salt completely dehydrates Of course you need a good  sea ​​salt about magnesium was mentioned, and you can't take potassium because of your stomach. Perhaps you should take electrolytes in tablets. This is one idea, because you really need to get what you need on a diet. Especially in your case, you lose a lot of glycogen, stored sugar in the liver. The ability to store glycogen is limited, and you simply lose it, but at the same time, glycogen binds several nutrients, especially potassium. So, you deprive yourself of potassium. This disrupts balance, dryness occurs, you feel dehydrated. Complications. I would do this. You can take more potassium in tablets. I would also try changing your diet. Sometimes when people consume a bouillon cube without MSG, the body is also well saturated with moisture thanks to the spices and other things in these cubes. You mentioned something else: your sleep, what happens at night when you wake up? What you were talking about? I just wake up every couple of hours, and when I wake up, I feel like I have a surge of energy, clearly, and I can't fall asleep again. I understand. So, I would try a couple of things. First, I would take a little salt right before bed. Try one.  If it doesn't help, then I would work on your intestinal microflora. I think changing your diet has disrupted your intestinal microflora, and one of the best ways to get your sleep back is to get it in order. Especially considering the influence of the intestines on the brain. I recently made a video, it seems to be called a microbe that saves from depression, or something like that. Watch it and grow it yourself. It's a yogurt-like culture of bacteria. They populate the small intestine and are very beneficial in many ways. They reduce stress and improve night sleep. I think this can help you. Drink half a glass a day before bed or during meals. I would do this, and then Call us in a week. If this doesn't help, there are many other things, but for now I'll stop at a couple of tips so as not to confuse your body. Excellent, by the way, Jonathan, I'll leave this line open for you. So save this link and Call us next week and we'll find out how you're doing. Thank you for your great call and we hope to see you again soon. Don't lose the link. Writes: Miles P 1310 Rambla, I'm getting cortisone injections in my elbow.  but I want to give them up I take 2000 mg of vitamin D but it doesn't help what else can Millie do You can use a topical medication on the skin you can rub many products that can help you I think magnesium oil for topical application should be rubbed into the joints I think 2000 mg is not enough to reduce inflammation you probably need at least 20,000 vitamin D3 every day to change the condition of the elbow I agree with you I was also injected with cortisone I don't like it you can inject it if you only need it for a short time After all it destroys the joint but there are many options and is it true Denny inflammation or is it calcium deposition in the tissues Do you need vitamin K2 there can be many factors but I would make sure that you don't eat anything that causes joint inflammation for example gluten grains you will be surprised how much inflammation is reduced if you just don't eat I had a patient he just stopped eating fruit and all the inflammation went away experiment with diet to understand what causes this excellent quiz question was as follows Which of the symptoms Vitamin D deficiency is the most dangerous 85% answered that it is heart damage or heart disease 10% answered that the risk of fractures increases and 5% answered that it is an increase in the level of calcium in the blood So I think everyone is right It's all about the seriousness of the problem because it can cause an autoimmune disease create a lot of problems including heart hypertension but there is something else that I think everyone should know and this is the effect of vitamin D on a special T cell of the immune system Killer cell without its protection we cannot kill Cancer and viruses, but especially cancer there is a lot of interesting data on the relationship between Cancer and low levels of vitamin D I think this is the most serious problem especially in terms of colorectal cancer and other types of cancer including breast cancer Yes low levels of vitamin D just read the research on the connection between vitamin D deficiency and cancer you will find a lot of amazing information and but again the usual recommended doses are not enough they are useless the level of vitamin D in the blood should be 80 90 100 and more nanograms per milliliter I made a video about how low mine was Vitamin D level 10 years ago, so I decided to raise my vitamin D level above 100 and now I have 115 and I like it because it is excellent protection. Especially since I had Lyme disease, Steinberg's disease, and other nasty things, but for this I take 50,000 every day. Yeah, it seems to be working.