There is one nutrient for which over 2,000 studies have been conducted, and thirty of these studies included clinical trials on humans. When something is studied so intensively, it always attracts my attention. In general, I want to talk about sulforaphane. It is not a vitamin, not a mineral, not a trace element, and it is a non-fatty acid. It is a phytonutrient. The question is why investigators are studying this compound. An incredible amount of time and money has been invested in studying this nutrient. Before talking about its effects, I will tell you what it is contained in. Sulforaphane is found in many plants. But most of all, it is found in broccoli sprouts. If you compare a broccoli sprout or even broccoli microgreens, I will also explain what it is with an adult plant, it turns out that there is 10 times and sometimes 100 times more sulforaphane in this young Pobeda than in a mature vegetable. This is a lot, this is not a hundred percent. We are talking about the fact that this nutrient, sulforaphane, is 10-100 times more. So, here is the cycle.  The transformation of a seed into an adult plant, the sprout phase begins in 2-5 days, the next phase is the microgreens phase, these microgreens can be found in stores or at a farmer's market, it takes 10-14 days to obtain microgreens, then young greens, say, lettuce leaves, appear after 15-40 days, and the mature vegetable phase occurs after 40-150 days. If you take the entire cycle of this plant, it contains the most nutrients, especially phytonutrients, in the period from day 7 to day 14. It is interesting that the average person eats only a glass and a half of vegetables and practically does not eat microgreens and sprouts at all, but at the same time eats a lot of grains and the huge difference between a grain or seed, which is the same thing, and a sprout or microgreens is that sprouts and microgreens have much fewer antinutrients than a seed or a mature vegetable. So microgreens are not only extremely rich in vitamins and minerals, but also phytonutrients and antioxidants  helping to prevent cancer, but at the same time, there are no less antinutrients that irritate the intestines and create problems for people, but many more people eat grains and get a lot of antinutrients, a lot of phytic acid, and it blocks minerals such as zinc, calcium, iron, and so on. People have no problem eating grains, but they don’t eat much microgreens and vegetables in general. But if you think about it, due to the concentration of nutrients, we need much less microgreens or sprouts than mature vegetables to get enough nutrients. So you can eat less of them, and for many, this is a plus because it’s difficult for them to eat 7-10 cups of vegetables. So if you eat very little microgreens, you can get a lot of phytonutrients and the benefits of these phytonutrients. Pharmaceutical giants spend a lot of money on studying sprouts, as well as phytonutrients in sprouts and microgreens, because they contain a lot of substances that have certain effects. Unfortunately, the principle of action of medicine is one magic pill for every symptom. Isn’t it better to eat food with a whole complex of substances that have an effect?  The broadest spectrum of action on the body, let's consider the actions possessed by microgreens and sprouts, as well as phytonutrients in general, and sulforaphane in particular, the first prevention of chronic diseases. All such diseases with inflammation can be alleviated. Sulforaphane activates the NRF2 compound, which creates a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. There is nothing similar to this gene in itself, but it turns on something that is already in the body, and this something then eliminates inflammation. It is amazingly suitable for chronic reproductive diseases. We are talking about arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, any chronic inflammatory disease. In addition, the effect of sulforaphane on cancer was studied. It has a powerful anti-cancer effect. Hopkins tried to obtain a patent for this. But they were sued and they abandoned this idea. But if someone applies for a patent, spends money and follows, it means it is worth it. Sulforaphane has the ability to block carcinogens like benzene. This is a chemical. Sulforaphane is a very powerful antimicrobial agent. If you have some kind of virus or bacterial infection, Infection, say, Helicobacter pylori, sulforaphane can help. Sulforaphane normalizes blood sugar. So it is good for diabetes. Sulforaphane affects the inner layer of blood vessels, it is called the endothelium, so it is very useful for the prevention of heart disease. The effect of sulforaphane on autism has been studied, although there is usually a lot of damage from free radicals. Sulforaphane acts as an antioxidant and eliminates all this. Sulforaphane helps to some extent slow down the aging process. Sulforaphane is also useful for the brain, it promotes its repair and protects it from oxidation. So, with Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's, you need to regularly get these phytonutrients. You can eat sprouts or broccoli microgreens. You can also eat radish microgreens or sprouts, cabbage microgreens or sprouts, kale microgreens or sprouts. They are all very useful. Sprouts and microgreens of almost all cruciferous vegetables contain a lot of sulforaphane, but sprouts and broccoli microgreens contain the most of it. We hear about it from time to time. coli or salmonella outbreaks are usually associated with growing these plants hydroponically. The problem with hydroponics is that it may not have all the microflora that is in the soil. And this is the immune system that resists pathogens. So, if you can, grow microgreens and sprouts in real soil. This is much better, yes, more work, more dirt, but if you find a farm where they grow them in soil, it will be ideal. Especially in terms of suppressing pathogens, in addition to the fact that all this contains useful phytonutrients and does not have many antinutrients, there are also nutrients here and I will list them. 100 grams of microgreens contain only 4.4 grams of carbohydrates and 2.2 grams of fiber. So, there are only two and two tenths of a gram of digestible carbohydrates, that is, practically none. There are two and two grams of protein here. I would not be satisfied with the protein from sprouts. But they do have a little protein. 11 mg of sodium is very little. 298 mg of potassium is a good amount because we need a lot of potassium. 4700 mg per day. 66  mg of magnesium, 88 mg of calcium, 7 tenths of a milligram of zinc, and 66 micrograms of phosphates. Overall, there are more vitamins, nutrients, and especially phytonutrients in sprouts and microgreens. Since we're talking about sulfa-raphane, it's best for you to watch an excellent video about it. There's even more data there, and it will be very helpful. Watch this video.