Here's the question: Why are 95% of bile salts reused? I know you've been thinking about this for a long time, and I finally recorded a video just for you. There's an opinion that the gallbladder isn't needed. Bile is associated with a lot of confusion. It's greatly underestimated and ignored, especially when it comes to the gallbladder. Many doctors say that the gallbladder isn't needed. Well, it's not needed. Only if you don't understand what it does. The gallbladder concentrates bile. The gallbladder concentrates bile so that it has the effect it should have. In fact, bile performs six very important functions. So, the body actually reuses bile because it is vital and important. In fact, this happens 6 to 10 times every day. In addition, the liver produces it. It's called primary bile salts, and the intestinal microflora produces bile. It's called secondary bile salts. I'll come back to this later. I'm just trying to show you how important bile is in the body and how many diseases are caused by problems with bile. There are a lot of them. Let's discuss the 6 functions of bile first. These are not all of its functions. But these six are the most important. First, it helps.  To digest fats, bile is needed. To digest most fats, if the gallbladder is removed, bile will not concentrate and there will be a bile deficiency. 2. Bile helps to digest fat-soluble nutrients. Note that I did not say vitamins because fat-soluble nutrients include not only vitamins A, D, E, T1K2, but also omega-3 fatty acids, which are very, very important, as well as phytonutrients, many phytonutrients, for example, all carotenoids. And these phytonutrients are provitamins, and fat-soluble ones, and bile is needed for their absorption. For example, Lutein is a carotenoid that helps prevent macular degeneration. So, bile is needed to digest many nutrients. Bile also helps prevent small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. There shouldn't be bacteria in the small intestine, or rather, there shouldn't be a lot of them. After all, if there are friendly bacteria in the small intestine, they steal from us. They compete for nutrients, therefore.  Fewer nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine. After all, these bacteria need them to survive. This causes a nutrient deficiency, a lot of gas is formed, the stomach bloats, pathogens and harmful bacteria grow, and bile salts have antimicrobial properties. In fact, they enter the small intestine, kill microbes so that they do not grow there, and are absorbed at the end of the small intestine before reaching the large intestine, and the whole cycle is repeated. This is very important to avoid SIBO, and many people have this syndrome. If fiber or probiotics cause you bloating, you probably have SIBO. Bile salts help regulate cholesterol. There is nothing wrong with cholesterol, but there is a type of cholesterol, dense, small particles called LDL, which can penetrate blood vessels and damage them. So, bile regulates cholesterol levels. If you eat too much cholesterol or the body produces too much of it, then its excess is excreted with bile. Without bile, it is impossible to remove its excess cholesterol. It can accumulate in the skin. For example, people have small cholesterol plaques on their eyelids. They also need bile salts.  Bile salts help remove toxins and poisons, heavy metals, pesticides, and this is very important. Bile also helps the immune system. If there is not enough bile, or it is not reused due to liver damage, say you have fatty liver, liver inflammation, or cirrhosis, or you have absorption problems in the small or large intestine. There is a bile deficiency, then these problems may occur. Cholesterol can become high. The problem is not in the cholesterol itself, but the problem. Perhaps if cholesterol is bad, number two, the formation of gallstones or bile sediment in the bile ducts or gallbladder. Because of this, the liver can become overloaded and cause pain on the right side here, or on the right side in the neck, or in the shoulder, or fibromyalgia on the right. Pancreatitis is even possible because sediment or a stone can get stuck in one of the ducts and cause severe pain in the digestive system. Bile salts help maintain the movement of fluids. Number three, a lack of vitamin A can cause various problems with the sinuses, vision, inability to see in the dark, dry eyes, foggy vision, weak immunity. Vitamin D. Vitamin D is needed for the heart and it is a very powerful antioxidant. It also Improves fertility, it is needed by the pituitary gland as a prohormone for some hormones, vitamin K1 stops bleeding, removes calcium from where it doesn't belong, from blood vessels and joints, and directs it to the bones, a deficiency of omega and fatty acids, many people have it, a huge number of people simply don't have enough omega-3, they have too much omega-6, because of this, they have a lot of problems with inflammation, and if you have little omega-3, this can aggravate blood sugar problems and add problems with insulin resistance, number five, no feeling of satiety after eating. So, you ate but don't feel full. After all, you don't have bile to digest fats, which would turn off hunger signals in the brain ( sibir). We have already discussed constipation, because bile lubricates the colon. And if there is little bile, congestion is possible. Bile also helps convert T4 to T3. So, a lack of bile may be the cause of hypothyroidism. Something is wrong with this conversion. Are you taking syndroid or T4?  And you are surprised that it does not work, but the problem is that it is not converted to T3, that is, to the active form, and since bile helps remove toxins, you cannot remove toxins from the liver, toxins accumulate and there are a lot of them. And the last thing I want to talk about is primary and secondary bile salts. This may be something new for you, but I will explain. It is very simple. The difference between primary and secondary bile is conjugated. This means that we attach an amino acid such as Taurine or Glycine to bile to improve its solubility in water so that it can be transported throughout the body and also absorbed in the intestine. And when this annihilated bile enters the intestine, at the very last section of the intestine, certain microorganisms attach these amino acids, the solubility of bile in water decreases and it is used again and is more easily absorbed. This is the difference between primary and secondary bile. Thank you for watching. Are you sure that everything is ok with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, should it be removed? And if the gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly and avoid complications?  How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea. I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.