No lifestyle will protect you from injuries and re-injuries. I quickly realized that there is this nonsense. Conservative treatment and recovery of the spine after injuries focuses on the entire core except the lower back. We will show you amazing ways to get your lower back in order. I have had lower back pain for many years since college. I foolishly tried to squat with a weight of 190 kilos and I popped a disc. Since then, I have been tormented by lower back pain like with and Chessie. Recently, I came across great information from a man named Brandon Backstrom. He discovered something that I never thought of and I invited him so that you could find out about it too. Because if you have lower back pain, you should know this. Thank you for responding, Brandon. Thank you very much. I am familiar with your back problems and become a deadlift that showed you how much pain this can turn into. I only needed 140 kilos to encounter the same thing, so your experience was more vivid, but the essence is the same. Yes, you were in the same situation as many others, in essence, told you. You will never be able to completely fix it You have to deal with it as best you can Yes, just accept it And you said no, I'll see Can I figure it out Yes, in general, I thought my situation was unique I have a unique case and I only remembered that I have a lower back when I injured it And when I went to the doctors, I began to understand well the existing attitude, the generally accepted approach to the lower back, is that the lower back should be protected and not strengthened And it's all about age, with age, lower back pain Just becomes a part of life And if chronic back problems started When you're 21, you're just unlucky, you started this downward spiral early So you have to be careful And I was a little familiar with this I studied to be a physical therapist and I thought I knew well how to be extremely careful in terms of mechanics It turned out that No lifestyle will protect you from injury and re-injury I quickly realized that there is this nonsense in a complex scientific approach that has many advantages and copes well with the initial injury and initial pain, but many, like me, fall into a vicious circle you  you feel more sensitive and vulnerable and then powerless and lost and I thought that it was only me and then I talked about it online it turned out that many people of all ages live in this condition and just want to know that there is hope to strengthen the back if you read about lower back pain it's the same everywhere if you injured your back you should take care of it squat very carefully not to injure it again Tell me about the moment when you said wait a minute something is missing from the lead there is clearly something missing here good So standardly the core is considered to protect the lower back and I completely agree with this approach works well I don't know why I began to doubt this but I began to look at the core as the core of an apple this is the core of everything that protects us protects our vital organs and spine but in sports medicine by core they mainly mean that in front the abdominal press lateral muscles oblique muscles and deeper perhaps transverse muscles that stabilize us and they are important but then I saw I never had pain in the oblique muscles never hurt the sides but only the weak spot in my armor hurt that is directly lower back And when I looked at the core through the prism of an anatomy textbook and not how to train it, I saw that the core is more like a barrel that surrounds us from all sides. And it has a lid and a bottom. So, there are the anterior abdominal muscles, they are trained a lot, everyone did sit-ups, there are the oblique abdominal muscles, deeper lateral muscles - these are stabilizers. But on the back there are layers of large muscles, there are spinal erectors that hold the body upright, but there are still many segments with small muscles, they almost cover the spine, providing true stability and blood flow to all problem areas, and so, for the most part, conservative treatment and restoration of the spine after injuries is focused on the entire core except the lower back. I understand why this place is the most scary to touch. After all, it is the most sensitive and the safest thing is to just leave it alone for a short time, but in the long term, it guarantees accelerated destruction. That's how I developed this approach. I will explain for the audience. In fact, you discovered that the back of the core related to the spine is very, very weak, because of this, the body remains very vulnerable, and your program is simply excellent. After all, you  found a way to make the back very strong while acting very gradually. As you said in your video, it's very easy here. Let's discuss this: when we, so to speak, with an area of ​​the body that you've been masking or avoiding for so long because of this, we don't know how an effective stimulus for the lower back will feel. In practice, this means that many have done bicep curls and know how it feels. Someone pumped up their legs and their quadriceps got sore. They know this feeling, but after many injuries, the lower back has become more sensitive and now there's more damage in it, so you need to train it more slowly than you think. It needs to be trained based not on muscle strength, but on the principle that I teach, which is tissue tolerance. The pace of such a workout is set by the lowest sensitivity of the most vulnerable tissue. When I show back workouts, I often show the later stages of what I've achieved and want to inspire people with injuries, but the initial stage looks practically nothing at all. As a workout, it can be simply holding the torso at a certain angle for 30 seconds and you slightly tense the lower back muscles without moving and you look at it with  In terms of results, was there any pain, did the symptoms get worse the next day, if not, then this is what you can do now, you now understand a little better that your back is capable of this, that is, all or nothing, this is not my approach. I want people to understand that it is more like, so to speak, not the flick of a switch, but the turn of a dial. The question is not whether to train the back. This is the spectrum this week a little more than last week and, frankly, sometimes an exacerbation is quite possible, which means you overdid it, crossed the line and now your back hurts and you know, sometimes this can be useful, although not unpleasant, but sometimes you need to cross the line to find out where it is and you will understand this is what I can really do. Most people avoid all sensations in the back, good and bad, and they feel the lower back only with an awkward movement when they stretched for some reason and their back grabbed as a reminder that your lower back is vulnerable. I teach people to re-acquaint themselves with their lower back, gain experience, be convinced of something, this is a very slow process, in fact, someone who has no connection with the lower back at all establishes full communication with the back and now he knows  What's going on? Show some exercises so people understand. What I'm talking about. Of course, the most direct stimulus for the lower back is any movement in which the shoulders are in front of the hips. The lower back muscles simply hold the body upright. Without the lower back muscles, we would simply collapse. So, you don't do any scary lumbar extensions, but simply hold this body position on the machine. It looks easy. But many people, even after half a minute, may have severe pain the next day. If half a minute is a lot for them, it's not the most basic level. You can go lower, raise the platform very high. The chest can go lower. So, essentially, the more of your entire body you hold, the further your body is behind the platform, the more weight your lower back holds. Hold your body in any of these positions for 30 seconds calmly. Try to relax your nervous system, breathe deeply, and get out of the Fight or Flight mode as much as possible. You can increase the time, perhaps up to a minute or two. It's like putting money aside every day in reserve. As if you have debts and very little money for investments, and you buy bits and pieces, and a month later, someone who couldn't stand it for 10 seconds can reach  2 minutes and then we begin to bend and straighten the lower back, use the vertebrae with another half amplitude, usually there are handles here, you can do 10 repetitions, slightly rounding the back after 8 weeks, a couple of months, you can bend lower. Try bending all the way down, this leads to decompression of the spine and, as many know, to relief, but recom siya is also needed, and when I bent all the way down, my discs begin to move apart, there is more space at the vertebrae, but when I bring the vertebrae together again with the help of small muscles, I get strength for recom siya. So we begin to create a direct stimulus for the spine, for the small muscles around the spine that I talked about, you Step by step return the stability that you did not have, perhaps 10 years, I showed in minutes, but most people with chronic pain need about 2 years to go from holding the body to what I showed. 30 repetitions with your own weight is an excellent goal for those who want to live actively or play sports, and even to live long, you need to have a strong back, this is the best protection in any situation when you can get injured. Lift if you  something scares this is the best criterion of how protected your lower back is you can create your own corset like this My motto is that by doing so you create a lot of effects in addition to strengthening the back blood circulation increases provide blood flow to the discs and stretches the fascia fascia envelops the body like a scuba suit but the fascia envelops the nerves and nerve roots I think even I have a lot of scar tissue in the fascia and when I move I bend This scar tissue pulls on the nerve that is not necessarily the disc pinching the nerve directly because an MRI can show that the disc is not pinching the nerve but some soft tissue is visible And thanks to these strength exercises and stretching if you do them very well as you said in the video the fascia slides along the root of the nerve and friction around the nerve decreases Yes especially squats yes IS is very insidious because this is it we immediately think that the root cause of our pain is the source of our chronic problems but often this is not so primary disc herniation sometimes occurs more often than a fungus in every sixth or  seventh, after a disc protrusion, chronic back pain occurs due to secondary dysfunction due to damage to the supporting muscles due to fascial memory, the fascia can hold tissues in the position they were in at the time of injury, eliminate the disc protrusion, eliminate inflammation, but if you do not move, the fascia will remain like this, it can even give the tissues this position, now the body assimilates in this part, the back is very tense and the fascia reflects this, and in general, this can only be controlled by what we do with the body. So Isha has a difficult problem. After all, when this tissue works correctly, we do not feel it, we should not feel the nerves, this is our goal, we can work out the entire path of this nerve, essentially from its root in the back to the buttocks to the back of the legs to the calves and big toes, and in my program, I teach people to very gradually strengthen and try to activate the muscles along the entire path of the sciatic nerve. I like your program. After all, with you, the Patient does not need to do what causes pain, he moves to the next level only when he knows that there will be no more pain, and otherwise it is impossible. This is what I try as much as possible  It's better to teach people with a video, and it would be very difficult to explain in 60 seconds how to achieve this, because many nuances depend on your sensitivity, your level. This applies to all aspects of health and medicine. It's all about the dose. It's all about how you do it. The lower back is a very complex area due to its structure and the number of nerves in it, and when they are irritated, a person is very likely to feel their nerve tissue. Unlike, for example, the elbow, you need to act in a coordinated manner and very slowly. Never overcome the pain. After all, the body will decide that this makes me worse. But you need exercise most of all. Exercise is a powerful means of healing, but exercises can both heal and harm. Depending on how you do them, let's say a person injured his back and developed scar tissue. The worst thing you can do for the fascia is to do nothing, as happens with people in nursing homes, they are in this position because they do not move. And also because the person does not move and is possibly ossified, perhaps someone is doing abdominal exercises according to some program or training something else.  but the back muscles are his Weak link correctly noted that Nani does not have chronic pain in the abdominal press or sides, her back always hurts and it was very difficult for you to really strengthen the back muscles because during the most difficult period you were in pain all the time Yes, if you interviewed me 3 years ago, I would sit on this side and then on that because of chronic pain in the sacroiliac joint where the base of the spine connects to the pelvis in the sacrum area The problem was not even in the disk, it covered a large area of ​​​​the body so avoids some positions compensates that my hips shifted to one side and I had constant chronic pain deep in the buttocks in this joint, so I sat on one side and my hip joints were skewed And I continued to train with weights, it is better than inactivity When like this and then I began to have a pinched right hip joint because of its skew, the head began to rub On the swivel well and  I also had an inguinal hernia on the right, but it turned out that during hernia surgery, doctors find traces of impingement in the hip joint capsule in 7 percent of patients. A typical scenario is a problem with the disc, joint misalignment, a problem with the acetabulum of the abdominal muscles, and an inguinal hernia. Dozens of people write to me. I had exactly this scenario. It was so serious that it affected my entire body. I thought I was the only one until I talked about it. In some of your videos, you do hyperextensions with a barbell. This barbell weighs 110 kilos. And you essentially bend your back with a barbell. To do this, you really need to strengthen your back extensors. This is an insane weight, and you've gone from not being able to do it at all to being able to do it with such a weight. And if I'm not mistaken, you do squats. Yes, I traditionally work with weights, only now I never skip a back workout, and I want to be a product of my product. The best compliment is when they write to me that you had no injury, otherwise you would never have been able to achieve this. It's ironic, but  How nice it is when you have such a good lower back, although for many years it was the weakest point of your body. Our health is entirely in our hands. It's amazing to sum it up. You have a whole range of exercises and this is one of the exercises that people do, moving very gradually from their level to what they need to achieve over time. And do you have an explanation of why you do this? Yes, each exercise is a path from step one to step 10 and each has a level suitable for both your grandmother and for someone who wants to become an Olympian, and you will find the right level and we have training modules. I didn't want to create a course so that there was no need to teach too much. I like to vary the amount of training, create a plan, but the context is very important for each exercise. So, in parallel, I teach people to perform these exercises. This is not a 6-week program, at least. You need from a year to two. This is a restructuring of the deep part of the body. The exercise plan is very thorough. There are easy forms of their implementation. In the training part, I try to consider all possible problems and all the nuances that fundamentally change the matter. We have an excellent group, thousands of people in the chat share stories. I myself needed encouragement 5 years ago when  This didn't happen. I think the most amazing thing is that you charge people as much as they want to pay. Yes, the motto is pay what you want. The subscription is for a month. You can cancel at any time. One pays $2.00, another $200. You decide for yourself and can change your mind. I don't expect you to trust someone you don't know online who asks for thousands of dollars. Years ago, I was also looking for something for myself and they asked for $000.00 for it. You have a completely equal exchange with clients. Because people pay a lot for many programs without even knowing whether they will work. I think this is an excellent way of equal exchange with people. Because they will appreciate it. Yes, this is anti-martingale - setting a higher price to make the product seem more valuable. Oh, this is an excellent program since it costs thousands of dollars. But if you have something real without pitfalls and you are not afraid to give it away, people themselves will tell you what it is worth and they often write to me. At first, I didn't believe it, but after 8 weeks, I am delighted and I will pay more. People want to support me so that I can support others. There are many sophisticated programs. That's right, and if you have something real, I don't think you need bells and whistles. I never thought I could help people, even for free, much less pay them. I want to build a bridge across this chasm of ignorance. This is my main long-term game, so that as many people as possible can change their relationships and get rid of hopelessness. Excellent. I'll leave your link below, and I highly recommend everyone sign up. You can upload videos. This is great. This is a new approach, and then write how this program helped you. I don't do interviews like this very often. But when I think something works, I definitely advertise it. Thank you. Thank you for taking the time. It's an honor for me. I'm very grateful. I hope this will help people. I'm very impressed by your openness. You're so young and healthy. I'm half your age. Stay open to new knowledge, it's admirable, and that's why people look to you as a beacon on the path to health. You take personal responsibility for this. Thank you so much. Thank you for such words.