Correct information about health problems, especially about stroke, is so important that it determines whether you fully recover or not at all. Today I will give you very important information about what to do during a stroke and what nutrients to take. I will also tell you about the best remedy for stroke recovery if it happens. There are strokes and microstrokes. A microstroke lasts from 15 minutes to a day, and the symptoms eventually go away. A stroke leads to permanent damage to one half of the body. If you have had a microstroke, your chances of a full-blown stroke within a year are quite high - about one in five. So this is a clear signal that it's time to change something and quickly. If you have had a microstroke, this video is especially important. There is a very simple way for you to understand that you have a remote control. Certain signs have been combined into the abbreviation bifast. The first sign is balance - balance and coordination are disturbed. The second sign is associated with the eyes. One eye may begin to see poorly. The third sign is the face - half of the face may sag and the person will not be able to smile. The next sign is you cannot raise your hands.  one hand is another sign speech becomes a little slurred and the last point means time you need to call an ambulance as soon as possible they will give you medicine if you take it within 4 hours it will help dissolve the clot And what is this important nutrient it is a type of vitamin E but not the usual vitamin E which is called tocopherol it is a different type of vitamin E3 and each type of vitamin has its own subtypes they are designated Yes gamma and Delta they are present in both types of vitamin E while alpha-tocotrienol is a thousand times stronger than alpha-tocopherol It protects against non- radiation that occurs due to stroke a very small dose is required To avoid the death of brain cells provoked by glutamate suppose you notice that you have problems with speech or with your hand or you have a full-blown stroke in this case immediately take only trinul so that it does not get worse And even if you do not have current trinul other on hand it is worth purchasing to use for rehabilitation after a stroke I would look at the recommended dosage and multiply it by 4 and take it  In parts throughout the day without mixing with stokoferol, I recommend only this mixture, which contains both Alpha and Beta, gamma and delta. Apparently, only trenols and tocopherols compete with each other, and we do not need anything to weaken the effect. Only trenols are suitable for stroke prevention during a stroke to mitigate the consequences, as well as in the recovery phase after a stroke. Only trenols have a special property: they protect the cell membrane of neurons. So they are useful for Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, as well as for dystonia (involuntary contractions of individual muscles). They also help well in the case of a taxi, a condition when coordination of movements is severely impaired, their balance, a person falls and has problems with balance due to damage to the posterior part of the brain, the cerebellum. In addition, they are useful for administrative dysfunction, which is essentially a disorder of the autonomic nervous system, the sympathetic and parasympathetic. One of these two systems is either too active or not active enough, and vitamin E is what you need. Here is an example of such a disorder: you do not sweat.  Regardless of physical activity, the opposite problem is that you sweat all the time and can't cope with it. This is autonomic dysfunction. There is also a syndrome called postural orthostatic tachycardia. This is when you can't even stand up without losing consciousness. This is a serious system. I have a video about this here. Vitamin B1 is very important, as well as vitamin E in the form of toquenolas. The last area where only toquenolas bring a lot of benefit is associated not with the brain but with the heart. For example, a natural analogue of nitroglycerin. They effectively deliver oxygen directly to the heart muscle. Vitamin E is generally necessary for the brain so that omega-3 fatty acids, especially dietary ones, can work there. If you have a vitamin E deficiency, you can take a lot of fish oil or dietary foods directly but not notice big changes. One of the main causes of vitamin E deficiency in humans is an excess of refined grains in their diet. Refined grains are an important cause of vitamin E deficiency. Or you simply eat few foods with vitamin E. As for toquenolas specifically, it is difficult to get them from food.  Products where they are found, which you probably haven't heard of, then palm oil, which many don't eat, they are also found in rice bran oil, which few people know about, and in olive oil. But there are very few of them. A stroke is something you wouldn't wish on anyone. How to prevent it? Drinking aspirin daily can help you talk to your doctor about this, but recently information has emerged that aspirin can cause harm, especially with hemorrhagic stroke after a ruptured blood vessel. Aspirin can cause bleeding in the stomach and other parts of the body. I'm not discouraging you from taking prescribed aspirin. Just talk to your doctor. Learn all the information about this. There are natural blood thinners, garlic, and a ketogenic diet. Eliminating sugar from the diet. Sugar consumption is one of the underlying causes of blood thickening and the formation of plaques and blood clots. Omega and fatty acids, fish oil, cod liver oil, are very useful. You should also avoid omega-6 fatty acids, which are very abundant in restaurant food, are hidden in soy, corn, rapeseed, safflower, and sunflower oils. They They stimulate inflammation in blood vessels and can potentially lead to stroke. Regular exercise supports blood circulation and reduces the risk of stroke. But if you develop symptoms of a stroke or know someone who has had a stroke, it is very important to take vitamin E in the form of tocotrienols. Here is a video about how you can reduce the risk or even prevent heart attacks and strokes.