Today I'll tell you why lemon water is necessary for fasting and some genes and diets. Usually, when you think of lemon, you think of acid. That's right, but citric acid, lemon juice, and lemon reduce the risk of kidney stones because they help bind oxalates, and most kidney stones are calcium oxalate. Lemons contain vitamin C, but not pasteurized ones because heat treatment destroys vitamin C. You also need to know that when you eat something with vitamin C or take the vitamin itself and at the same time you eat sugar, your body will ultimately absorb the sugar but not vitamin C because their chemical formulas are very similar. The body always first takes up sugar, they take up vitamin C. As an example, I can give lemonade. People take lemons and sugar and think, "Now I'll get vitamin C." No, you won't. Lemons and lemon juice have other benefits. You can survive. 1 lemon is 30 milliliters of juice, or you can buy recommended juice in the store. In general, in citrus fruits, be it lemon or lime. What's interesting is that  An hour after you consume them, this acid turns into an alkaline substance, that is, an alkali, therefore, lemons are useful for people with acidosis. This is when the pH is too acidic, that is, when the pH is lower than it should be. Usually, your blood should be in these ranges from 7.35 to 7.45. Anything above seven is already an alkaline environment, that is, in the blood there is an alkaline environment, but if the blood drops below 7.35, acidosis begins to develop. Here are some symptoms of acidosis: shortness of breath, this affects breathing, difficulty breathing, deep breathing, headaches because excess carbon dioxide is formed, fatigue, confusion, tremors, drowsiness, arrhythmia, rapid heartbeat. All these are symptoms of acidosis. What is interesting is that some people think that if the pH is too acidic, then you need to alkalize the body. Supposedly, alkalization is always good, even with cancer, but this is not true. Yours should be normal, not too alkaline and not too acidic. In this video, I wanted to talk about the symptoms of excessive acidity and what it causes, and the remedy Lemon juice, add it to water. What causes the body to be too acidic? Fasting can do this. If your body is healthy, such and such, and fasting will not cause acidosis. But in general, ketones are acidic, and when you are on a ketogenic low-carb diet and fasting, you will have more ketones, which means acid. Lemon juice can help get rid of excess acidity. If you have kidney damage, you can develop acidosis. If you have excess iron, you can have acidosis. Alcohol can cause acidosis. There is such a condition called lactic acidosis. I made a video about it. I will leave links in the description. This happens when you take metformin, a diabetes medication. One of its side effects is lactation. Doses, but this occurs mainly with vitamin B1 deficiency. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates or refined grains, this depletes vitamin B1 stores. So, if you have acidosis, vitamin B1 can significantly alleviate this condition. Keith acidosis is a very rare phenomenon. It only occurs with diabetes type 1.  like if you forgot to inject insulin in this case lemon water won't really help if you want to know more about this I'll leave a link in the description but this happens very rarely and it won't happen to a healthy person if you're on a diet or fasting and you don't have type 1 diabetes the dose won't be a damaged liver can lead to acidosis and excessive exercise can also cause acidosis other things can cause it for example if you consume a lot of apple cider vinegar or you drink kombucha it's a tea mushroom I remember I could drink a whole bottle of tabucha it's very very acidic and I definitely had acidosis because my pulse jumped very strongly my heart was pounding like crazy I had some of these symptoms were breathing problems I couldn't sleep all I did was drink some lemon juice bam and everything went away know that after about an hour the lemon juice turns into an alkali and balances your BH there are conditions that cause alkalosis there are conditions that cause acidosis better  Just stick to the middle if you're fasting, if you're on the right track, I recommend this even during the fast itself. Take 30 milliliters of lemon juice, dilute it in water, drink it, and then you'll minimize acidosis and some of its symptoms. Thanks for watching. Here we are again with new amazing recipes. No grains, no sugar. Ideal for a whale. No need to suffer, that's what the Koran says. It strengthens the immune system. It's definitely worth trying. Don't rush. Look at the recipes and cook some yourself. It's very easy and simple. We hope you like these recipes as much as we do.