There are quite a few reasons to eat two to four eggs every day. An egg is truly considered an ideal food. It's not only the perfect protein, but also low in carbohydrates, high in fat, and a moderate amount of high-quality protein compared to other protein sources such as beef, chicken, fish, lamb, and pork, which are all muscle proteins. Eggs contain a completely different type of protein, which is the most bioavailable of all proteins. It is best absorbed by the body, leaving a minimum of waste, which is then converted into glucose. So, of all the types of protein found in food, eggs are definitely the champions. Not to mention that eggs contain a full range of essential amino acids. Today I'll talk about the benefits of eggs, mainly for your skin and hair. I'll also talk about which is better: raw or cooked. We'll talk about allergies and other things. Let's start with the fact that protein, despite its name, is found not only in the egg white, but also in the yolk. Moreover, there is more protein in the yolk than in the white if you compare its content in the same amount of yolk and white by weight. If you don't eat the yolk, you  You are not only missing out on protein but also a lot of other nutrients. The yolk contains an excessive concentration of fat-soluble vitamins that really help your skin and especially your hair. It is very difficult to find such food. Where is the active form of vitamin A found? Retinol. Egg yolk is the best of these products. Vitamin A is very important for healthy skin and its deficiency can cause the skin to become dry and rough. Vitamin A is also very important for the eyes, sinuses, the immune system, and many other things. An interesting point about vitamin A is that beta-carotene is also included in it. Beta-carotene is a precursor to vitamin A, not vitamin A itself. It is not retinol. So when you analyze the amount of nutrients in your food, you can often see that spinach or kale lists vitamin A, but in fact, it is its precursor, beta-carotene. So when we talk about the benefits of vitamin A, we mean its bioavailable form. Retinol, not beta-carotene, is found in eggs. Vitamin D is also found in eggs, and it is at the top of the list of vitamins that are important for the skin. If you are looking for vitamin A, you may see that vitamin A is listed in the ingredients list for spinach or kale. However, it is actually its precursor, beta-carotene. So when we talk about the benefits of vitamin A, we are talking about its bioavailable form. Retinol, not beta-carotene, is found in eggs. Vitamin D is also found in eggs, and it is at the top of the list of vitamins that are important for the skin.  You have a vitamin D deficiency, your skin can have all sorts of problems: various rashes, increased sensitivity to the sun, age spots, psoriasis, and other problems. In addition, vitamin D deficiency increases inflammation and acne. As for food, it’s not so easy to get vitamin D from them, but eggs are a product that contains vitamin D. Now, is vitamin E important for the skin? Without a doubt, it protects the skin from ultraviolet radiation, helps heal scars, and acts as a powerful antioxidant both for the skin and inside the body. Eggs contain vitamin K1 and vitamin K2, as well as a lot of choline. Choline is a nutrient that prevents the formation of fatty liver. It is also essential for the brain and nervous system health, including improving mood and memory. Eggs contain quite a lot of omega-3 fatty acids, which are also beneficial for the skin and have an anti-inflammatory effect. Eggs contain a lot of lecithin, an antidote to cholesterol. If you are worried about cholesterol in eggs, don’t worry. Eggs will increase your high-density lipoprotein levels. And if you have excess cholesterol, Ukraine. Lecithin and Choline will help cope with this. Eggs contain a lot of B vitamins, especially  B2 B3 B12 and biotin which is good for hair and since we mentioned biotin, we need to clarify something about raw eggs, can you eat raw eggs. Here's what I think in the egg yolk there is a substance called avetin, avetin binds with biotin, which is why the body cannot absorb this biotin. So if you eat raw eggs in large quantities and for a long time, you will create a biotin deficiency, which will affect your hair, but only if you eat raw eggs for a long time and in large quantities. It is also important to know that raw eggs contain enzyme inhibitors, they can potentially interfere with the digestion of protein. I think that a little raw eggs will not hurt, but I would not eat them for a long time and in large quantities. And what about salmonella in raw eggs in particular, the chance of this is about 1 in 30 thousand. You would need to eat 5 eggs every day for 15 years to eat that many eggs; salmonella can be caught from sick chickens, those with unhealthy microflora.  But if you eat the eggs that I recommend, that is, not those sold in stores. I recommend buying pastured organic eggs, the chances of salmonella in them are much lower than the chances of hitting the jackpot in the lottery. English speakers may experience confusion due to two similar words in English: pasteurized and pastured. The difference is two letters. Although you can find pasteurized eggs in the store, what does this mean since there is some possibility of the presence of a microbial infection on the surface of the eggs, such as salmonella, on the shell. They are heated to a certain temperature not to cook such an egg, but only to sterilize its outer shell. So pasteurized eggs mean exactly this. When we talk about pastured eggs, it is implied that the chickens roam the open ground and grass, feeding on insects, worms, and grass. These are the eggs you need when a person is allergic to eggs. It is an allergy to egg whites, not to the yolk. If you have such a problem, just eat only egg yolks from them you can get the proteins you need, as well as all the other nutrients I talked about. Another one. The thing that people mention when talking about raw eggs is the fear that boiling eggs oxidizes cholesterol. No, you won't get oxidized cholesterol. Even if you make an omelet, you will get oxidized cholesterol if you pass an egg through some device under high pressure, breaking it into very small particles. This is the only way you will get oxidized cholesterol. Eggs contain quite a lot of minerals, including potassium, magnesium, and iodine. This is a very important micronutrient that is not found in much food, but in eggs. Eggs also contain selenium, which is very important for the thyroid gland for converting the hormone T4 to T3. Another beneficial nutrient in eggs is carotenoids. Carotenoids include hundreds of different compounds. The two most powerful of these are lutein and zeaxanthin. Both are antioxidants and provide many benefits to the skin and eyes, protecting them from cataracts and macular degeneration. They also reduce sun damage. The bioavailability of carotenoids found in eggs is much higher in vegetables. By the way, I mentioned the thyroid gland and its hormones here.  This is a fairly extensive topic and I have a course dedicated to it. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Enlarged goiter. Cysts and thyroid nodules. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid gland, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.