The American Heart Association is committed to preventing heart disease, the world's number one killer.  They came to the Texas commission and spoke out against a bill that would ban the use of discount cards for items such as sugary soda, candy, and similar unhealthy foods.  It's amazing that the American Heart Association is against it. I was shocked that among the people speaking out against it was the head of government relations for the American Heart Association.  I understand that this may come as a surprise.  It's no secret that this association makes a lot of money from the junk food industry.  But from a PR perspective, she shouldn't oppose such bills. But they spoke out and were shamed.  Our association is concerned about the possible impact of this bill on public health.  I was shocked that the American Heart Association opposed our reform, which would have prohibited spending benefits on sugary drinks, chips, and cookies and encouraged people to buy more healthy, nutritious foods.  And now they say they don't mind.  I understand that this may come as a surprise.  Did you know that of all the products purchased with benefits, sugary soda is the most popular ?  There's a lot at stake for the soda industry .  After all, their income received from taxpayers through the benefit program is equal to 10 billion.  Not millions, but billions of dollars a year. Sugary sodas lead to obesity and type 2 diabetes, which plays into the hands of the pharmaceutical industry.  After all, they treat their side effects.  Yet the supports their funding.  Lobbyists for soda companies have gone to great lengths to get the word out.  One of their latest slogans says that it is a question of freedom.  Freedom to choose what you eat.  The American Heart Association has many conflicts of interest. What do I mean?  Money from pharmaceutical giants, from food giants.  The American Heart Association has a whole section called the Food Industry Forum, which includes Pepsi, General Mills, and so on.  And on cereal boxes they put these seals that say, "American Heart Association approved. Because these are healthy cereals. But you can just buy this seal."  There are also these glazed flakes.  And on the package it also says: "Helps lower cholesterol."   The only thing I don’t see here is the AK seal.  Although both versions of these cereals have the same amount of carbohydrates.  Both contain whole oats, corn starch, sugar and corn syrup.  The soda industry has also taken social media seriously.  They pay influencers a lot of money to speak out against the bill.  Some influencers were paid $1,000 per post expressing opposition.  Their other campaign is to promote the idea of food security.  They say there should be cheap food at the market.  The idea of such subsidies arose after the Great Depression, when farmers needed help.  It's become a very corrupt scheme where we make the junk food industry rich by paying them for their raw materials.  Did you know that 1 ton of subsidized dent corn costs around $180?  Do you know how many packages of cornflakes can be made from one ton of corn? Essentially, we pay the junk food industry to make it .  We also pay for the government's benefits program, a subsidy, to make it easier for people to buy this food.  Remember, we already paid for the raw materials for the junk food.  Then we, as taxpayers, pay a second time so that people with discount cards can eat this junk food.  And it causes 90% of chronic diseases. The pharmaceutical industry produces medications to combat the side effects of junk food.  As you can see, the system is not broken, but works perfectly.  Just not on you.  Who benefits from the benefits program?  You?  No.  And who?  Food giants and pharmaceutical companies.  This is what I think about it.  I think the benefits program should be limited to healthy, nutritious foods and eliminate ultra-processed foods.  This will not only reduce the number of chronic diseases, but also save a huge amount of money on medications for them.  There's a PR war going on right now, with the junk food industry trying everything to avoid losing profits.  There's an insane amount of money at stake.  Subsidies for the sugary soda industry alone amount to $10 billion .  Sodas contain high fructose corn syrup.  It gets into the liver, causes fatty liver, increases blood pressure, and leads to diabetes.  It also inflames the walls of blood vessels and leads to heart disease.  But what just kills me is that, of all the organizations, it was the American Heart Association that spoke out against the bill .  It's important to understand that the junk food industry will never speak out against this.  They use other organizations or groups to do this work.  Anyway, I'm interested in what you think about this.  Please share your opinion in the comments.  If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.