I want to talk about an inflamed liver. The problem with people who have liver inflammation is that they often don't know about it. The inflammation progresses, scar tissue forms, then fibrosis begins, and then cirrhosis. But the good news is that the liver has a small margin of safety; it's the only organ capable of completely regenerating. But you need to understand that a huge number of people have an inflamed liver, but they do n't even know about it. This inflammation develops and many symptoms appear much later. One of the important symptoms is slight lethargy and fatigue, but you don't know that this is due to liver inflammation. I had liver inflammation for many years, but I didn't know about it. I had many symptoms in my right shoulder and on the right side of my neck, and I didn't know that it was because of the liver. If someone had told me about this back then, I would have been able to do something about it. Now the liver is my weak point. So, if you have inflammation in the liver, scar tissue, or even fatty liver, this can lead to many other problems such as arthritis, decreased thyroid function, many digestive problems, and a weak gallbladder. Because the liver creates bile, and if the liver doesn't work well, there will be no bile.  for the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins and so the first thing you need to know is the most typical causes of liver inflammation the first reason is sugar 2 empty carbohydrates 3 alcohol fourth vegetable oils they are found in most store products soybean oil corn rapeseed cottonseed oil they are very harmful to the liver abundant and frequent snacks can increase insulin and cause severe inflammation in the liver also there are people with various autoimmune diseases that is their immune system attacks its own organs in people with autoimmune diseases almost always and inflammation in the liver if you are watching this and you have an autoimmune disease this video is for you that's the problem with inflammation in general cancer usually spreads to those areas where the inflammatory process is going on so your goal should be to reduce inflammation as much as possible just so that cancer does not spread there with liver inflammation and and function slowly fades over time but this happens very slowly and you may not even know about it until liver function almost completely fades interestingly the liver is able to work even if there is little of it left this organ can do a lot you keep it fully recover if you  Don't neglect cruciferous vegetables too much. Perhaps one of the best products for supporting the liver. Let's talk about what to do with liver inflammation. Milk thistle is very important to take 500 milligrams per day. Milk thistle is a hepatoprotector that protects liver cells. Next, vitamin D is the best natural anti-inflammatory with almost no side effects. I would take vitamin D in doses of 10,000 to 20,000 or even more per day. I mean international units and more for severe inflammation or an autoimmune disease. The next recommendation, and it's very important, is fasting for at least 18 hours without food. You can drink water, but no food during these 18 hours. A 6-hour window for eating and 18 hours of fasting greatly activates the process of autophagy. It helps restore liver function due to the fact that these damaged proteins in scar tissue of the liver are processed and converted into new tissue. This is very, very important. Another remedy is folic acid. Taura is my secret remedy for many problems, especially with liver inflammation. Taura is essentially pure bile and  They get it synthetically, but even so, it has a very beneficial effect and I have never seen any negative effects when taking it. I would take 2 capsules in the morning on an empty stomach and 2 capsules in the afternoon, also on an empty stomach. This will increase the flow of bile and will have an excellent anti-inflammatory effect. An excellent remedy. Further, tocotrienols are a type of vitamin E, one of the best and most powerful varieties, 50 times more powerful than tocopherol. Take 300 milligrams a day with food and only three milligrams. Vitamin E will truly cleanse free radicals. It is a very powerful anti-inflammatory. It is also very useful for heart problems with coronary arteries. Lastly, it is Silene. Take 200 micrograms, not milligrams, but micrograms. Silene is a very good antioxidant for the liver. It also helps reduce the risk of cancer. It is good for the thyroid gland and converts the T4 hormone into T3. Let's summarize: milk thistle, vitamin D, fasting, taura, tocotrienols, Silene, and cruciferous vegetables. All this  It's very important for liver inflammation and prevents liver scarring. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver- type body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.