Let's talk about excessive wearing of masks.  I can understand if you wear a mask in a crowded place, especially if someone coughs on you or something like that, but it often happens that when I'm walking somewhere in the woods or in a park, I see people wearing masks, although there is no one around.  Someone is driving a car, there is no one else in the car, but the driver is wearing a mask. So I want to talk about whether this is beneficial or harmful. Here's what I want to tell you about wearing masks.  The mask restricts the flow of air into our lungs. Depending on the type of mask, a different volume of air will reach the lungs.   The mask strains the respiratory muscles located around the lungs. Especially if you wear the mask for a long time.  You may have seen that in the thumbnail of this video I am wearing a mask like this.  This is equipment for hypoxic training. I deliberately periodically restrict the flow of air into my lungs for two minutes while I do the exercises. I breathe with effort, then take it off, then put it back on.  This load creates the so- called hormetic effect.  We give the load and then let the body recover.  This strengthens the muscles around the lungs.  So that's different.  This is where you train.  It is unlikely that people in masks are doing the same.  Although sometimes it is. Why am I saying all this?  If an elderly person in poor health wears a mask 24/7, this will create a problem because it puts strain on already weak organs.  At the same time, the body, which is already vulnerable to the virus, is weakened.  Keep this in mind when you are alone in a car or outside, remove your mask to avoid restricting air flow.  Unless you are healthy and exercise.  But even then, don't wear a mask all the time.  It needs to be removed from time to time .  If you cover your mouth with something that blocks the flow of air, less oxygen will enter your lungs. That's how it is.  Different types of masks provide different degrees of filtration.  For example, the N95 medical respirator provides 95% filtration.  Its pores are 3 microns.  This is very little.  95 is not 100%, but not bad.  The filtration rate of a typical surgical mask is between 60 and 80%. If you take a piece of 600D fabric and fold it four times, it will provide 60% filtration.  Now let's look at bandanas.  100% cotton, four layers. They have a particle filtration rate of 19.5%. So the best indicator for standard masks is 3 microns, and the size of virus particles is 1 micron.  You ask, what does this mean? The virus can easily penetrate the mask because it is three times smaller. This is true.  But the higher the filtration level, the less air passes and the more difficult it is to breathe.  On one side of the scale there is enough oxygen, and on the other side there is virus filtration.  You can put a bag on your head, so the filtration will be 100%.  But, of course, this is poorly compatible with life. Other factors should also be taken into account. First, the virus itself is usually spread within droplets.  Usually, if a person sneezes, coughs, breathes on you, or talks to you.  The size of the emitted droplets is much larger than the size of the virus itself, because the droplets consist of liquid, a small amount of protein, salts, trace elements, electrolytes, and even microbes.  So a whole cocktail in the form of liquid droplets is thrown into the air.  And in this volume of liquid in drops there is a large number of viruses.  And these drops will be filtered by the mask.  But there is still a chance that some amount of viruses will penetrate through the mask.  Okay, but here's the thing. Different people have different vulnerabilities to the virus.  It depends on the health of the immune system and the viral load.  that is, the concentration of the virus.  If only a few particles of the virus enter the body, and the body's immune system is strong enough, it can easily cope with the virus.  The worse a person's health and the higher the viral load, the more important it is for that person to wear a mask.  But if you are healthy and there are no other people coughing or sneezing on you, and if the concentration of the virus near you is low, your immune system will cope. Very mild symptoms are possible.  There is a relationship between the severity of the infection and this indicator, the viral load.  The worst conditions are experienced by doctors and nurses working in hospitals and in areas with high concentrations of virus particles.  Another factor is the speed at which the droplets of liquid containing the virus fly.  When you sneeze, these droplets are quite capable of flying 7 to 8 m. That'S-23-26 feet.  Depends on how hard the person sneezed. And when someone coughs on you, the droplets travel 5 to 6 m. 19 feet. Quite a strong cough.  When a person simply breathes, droplets can travel only 2 m, 7 feet.  This is how far the virus can travel.  Of course, the further from the source, the lower the concentration of the virus. The next factor is the drops themselves.  When a person sneezes, there will be about 40,000 of these droplets .  When a person coughs, there are about 3,000 of them. If you talk for 30 minutes, you will end up using about 3,000 drops.  As you can see, the concentration of the virus, that is, the viral load, will be much lower than when a person sneezes.  I just want to give you an idea of ​​the different factors: droplet velocity, vulnerability to viruses, viral load, filtration rate, and mask wearing time.  If you are debilitated or have a weak immune system, especially if you are a chronic smoker or have COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or asthma, you should not wear a mask all day.  Here's what I think about it.  I want to know what you think.  Share your opinion in the comments below the video.