I have a question, would you eat gray salmon? Would you eat gray salmon? But if you take this gray salmon and dye it pink with food coloring, would you probably eat it? That's right. If you eat farmed salmon, in a recent video I talked about the healthiest food in the world, and salmon, but there's a big difference between wild salmon and farmed salmon. Just because they're similar doesn't mean they're the same. But today I want to point out one huge difference. Farmed salmon gets its pink color from synthetic astaxanthin. This pigment compound also occurs naturally, but natural astaxanthin has extremely beneficial properties, but synthetic astaxanthin hasn't been subject to credible safety studies. I bring this up because there have been many studies on synthetic antioxidants and the increased risk of cancer because of them. Because it's also a synthetic antioxidant, you know, there have n't been any safety studies. The thing is, if someone were to find a problem during the study, it would probably take twenty years before they ban its use. That's why some companies have synthesized a compound from petrochemical products and even sell different shades of pink they have a palette very similar to the color palettes in a paint store there are different colors the color itself is called salma fun you can choose the color of the dye yourself people will pay more money for dark pink salmon also made from yolks to give them a rich orange or gold color this is achieved with the help of synthetic carotenoids and chicken is also colored because people prefer to buy meat of a beautiful pink color so this is another reason to buy wild salmon organic pastured eggs and organic chicken that is not dyed especially not flavored chicken also add flavorings because without them it is tasteless next time you go to the store look at the label it will say flavoring additive chicken add flavoring to make the chicken taste like chicken I am researching antioxidants phytonutrients and experimenting with plants to enhance the production of certain phytonutrients or pigments by adding nutrients to the soil I use different types of lighting this is a fascinating topic because Some pigments have very beneficial properties, and so I want to run through the list of advantages of natural astaxanthin. Firstly, it resists oxidation 50 times more strongly, it fights free radicals 20 times more effectively, I compare it to a synthetic analogue, as I already said, it is very beneficial for health: for the eyes, for the brain, for the heart, for the immune system, it protects the skin from ultraviolet radiation and even has anti-inflammatory properties. Salmon gets astaxanthin from krill and shrimp, acri and shrimp get it from microalgae, there is a lot of this pigment in microalgae. By the way, an amazing fact about this substance in microalgae when algae are stressed, whether it is heat, cold, or lack of food, they absorb a lot of astaxanthin, this process is called be accumulation, but in hyper mode, they can live up to 40 years in extreme conditions, in extreme cold, extreme heat, without food and water, an amazing defense mechanism for survival, so people get huge benefits from consuming this substance, but of course, farmed fish is a different matter, there is a completely different  Chemistry and one last point about astaxanthin. In nature, it is always present as a complex with at least five other carotenoids, but when synthesized in a lab, it only exists in one form. So, in addition to the obvious reasons not to eat farmed fish, for example, the fact that I am fed GMO soy and corn, the harm of the synthetic version of astaxanthin may surface if its safety is decided to be studied. I think the next thing you need to watch is a video about what I consider the healthiest food, namely, commercial salmon. Take a look.