Hello everyone. Today we'll start with our quiz. Please, doc, lycopene in tomatoes is useful for which I'm sure the viewers know, and now questions from social networks. Ducky from the tube. Which eggs are better to buy, certified organic from the store or from a local farm where the chickens graze on an open pasture, only from the farm at me about how he keeps the chickens, you can ask him, but the range in quality is simply huge. If the eggs are organic, it doesn't mean anything. You need now many large egg producers have entered the organic market to raise prices. But there is almost no difference. The chickens are there on the same concrete slabs outside the poultry farm, but this is simply not the environment in which to keep chickens. It is very important to understand local farmers and support them. They have everything much better. So yes, I would definitely pay a little more for higher quality eggs and would not buy them in the store to save a dollar. Well, let's go back to YouTube. Nala from YouTube asks. Can coffee harm the thyroid gland in large quantities? Probably it can. But if the coffee is organic and you don't drink a lot of it, say one cup, I don't think it's at all.  It's harmful, but some are sensitive to coffee. So it depends on the individual, but you can definitely drink too much coffee and it's harmful for everything. Decaf coffee. This also applies to the caffeine or something else, or everything at once in coffee. Dev, there are chemicals that remove caffeine, this is not always better, but there are different methods. Caffeine can be removed with water. This is probably normal. It can be different for those who are more sensitive to caffeine, decaf is needed. But understand that the really big problem with coffee is the amount of pesticides in it, which is why organic coffee is needed. Great, let's get back to YouTube. Ra from YouTube asks what you can advise. I have an interview with an endocrinologist from India who has an excellent diet protocol. It's a vegan program. There is a way to do this. But it's more difficult, but she succeeded. Wait for this interview with her. We will get all the information and I think it will help very, very much. Orlina asks again from YouTube. What remedy is good to take to eliminate wheezing and allergies? Vitamin D. Vitamin D. I would take it.  20,000 with magnesium and it is very useful for everything related to breathing, number D zinc, but vitamin D is number one, a proud Pakistani from YouTube writes very well. Please share your thoughts on how to solve problems with the sinus and throat caused by the flu. I have been suffering for six months. Oh, thank you, what is this? It’s a long time. If it really is the flu, then it’s a virus. In this case, I would definitely take vitamin 20 and good doses of zinc. So, don’t forget magnesium. If we look at where in the world there is perhaps the biggest problem with vitamin D deficiency, these are certain places in Arab countries and in Asia, although there is a lot of sun, not much of it gets on people’s skin because of certain traditions and the clothes they wear there. Therefore, the average level of vitamin D in the blood is less than 10 nanograms per milliliter, and this is terribly low, thereby making people vulnerable to chronic infections. Especially for the flu, sinus problems, allergies, asthma, diabetes. So you need to greatly increase your vitamin D levels and these problems will go away. Six months is a long time. I hope this helps. We received answers to  The quiz question was: "What is lycopene in tomatoes good for?" 1% of viewers said it's good for the prostate, 94% for the eyes, 2% for the skin, and 3% said it helps with cancer. Everyone is right, but most studies focus on prostate cancer and prostate enlargement, but it's also good for the cardiovascular system. But I'd say lycopene is best known for its benefits for the prostate. If you have prostate problems, start eating tomatoes from your garden.