I want to tell you my little secret related to health. If you want to be healthy, find out what traditional medicine completely agrees with and do exactly the opposite. What we are told about health is often the opposite of the truth. Often, these experts in these institutes are like some kind of sacred cows. They are beyond criticism. You can’t criticize them, because in this case, you are an opponent of science. Unfortunately, the health sector is politicized and some of the data that I will share with you today was obtained from the NFS website. This is the website of the National Health Service of Great Britain. 50 million people visit the site every month. It’s crazy, but at least they are transparent. After all, if you look at the board of directors and who they are connected with, many of them are connected to pharmaceutical companies. Here is list number one. Everything is possible in moderation. There is no such thing as unhealthy food in a healthy diet. The main thing is balance. I know. The problem here is that each product is given equal importance. Thus, we are told that there is not much difference between a chocolate bar and a galette or between wild salmon and muffins. If you observe moderation, you will be healthy. I apologize, but  this is the wildest blatant stupidity some foods are much healthier than others I need a moderate diet where you eat a little of everything that's the problem you go to a diner with a buffet and just take a little of everything you can't choose healthy food there is too much unhealthy food and you can't tell where there are a lot of carbohydrates and where there are not enough to become healthy you need to not count calories but be able to distinguish healthy food from unhealthy so such a diet is completely unbalanced okay number 2 don't skip meals and under no circumstances skip breakfast I myself recommended this in my first book I no longer recommend it I found that without breakfast I become very healthy and we are told that we need to eat regularly because then somehow we will not snack during the day this is just killer advice because every meal causes a surge in insulin and most people have very high insulin levels due to frequent meals meals should be skipped skipping meals is one of the most beneficial actions especially skipping breakfast is a big problem for people frequent meals our bodies are not designed for This is completely unnatural and extremely harmful to health. I think this is the worst thing you can do to your health. Number three, you can only lose weight by consuming fewer calories than you burn. You need to create an energy deficit. You spend as many calories as you consume. Sorry, but if I hear this again, I'll be sick. This idea is so outdated it doesn't work. People have been trying to do this for decades, and whoever came up with it didn't see the difference between different types of calories. Certain hormones greatly affect some calories, but affect others differently. insulin is the main hormone that makes you fat. Carbohydrates greatly affect it, but pure fat has no effect at all. Pure fat doesn't activate insulin production, but protein has a moderate effect on insulin, and so carbohydrates cause a strong surge in insulin. Protein is moderate, and fat is 0. To lose weight and be healthy, you need to keep insulin at a minimum. It's obvious that the experts advocating this idea of ​​calorie balance haven't worked with any real patients for a single day; otherwise, they would n't have any patients. If you follow this idea in working with people, you won't get any results. Number four, eat low-fat, low-fat foods, and lean protein.  Less saturated fat and cholesterol, because we all know it's so bad for the heart. We know that this was eventually disproved. We used a low-fat diet for a very long time. It doesn't work if you eat little fat, you just replace it with carbohydrates. Saturated fats are absolutely healthy, provided you eat few carbohydrates. Regarding cholesterol, if you now study the cholesterol in your body, it turns out that 75 percent is produced by your body, only 25 percent of the cholesterol in your blood comes from food. When you eat less cholesterol, the body produces more of it, and vice versa. High cholesterol is not associated with heart disease. The American Heart Association acknowledged this but buried it in its archives. This is not particularly advertised. In fact, a low-fat diet depletes bile reserves in the gallbladder, and this creates the risk of gallstones. In fact, eating very lean and low- fat protein causes a much stronger surge in insulin number 5, and everyone is sure that this is true. High-salt diets are very, very dangerous for the heart, because everyone knows that a high-salt diet causes high blood pressure, when in fact this is absolutely and completely untrue.  There is amazing data that puts doctors in an awkward position. This is a very extensive study. There is a link to it below. It proves that the risk of heart disease is higher on a low-salt diet than on a high-salt diet. The absolute minimum consumption, even for people with high blood pressure, is at least a tablespoon of sea salt every day. I said sea salt. They call it table salt. Table salt is a refined product. They even find particles of plastic in it. It contains aluminum. Sometimes it contains sugar. Eat only high-quality sea salt. As for blood pressure, you need not less salt but more potassium. Even if you eat little salt but enough potassium, the balance will be correct and the blood pressure will be much better. Well, okay, number six, this will be from the category. Everyone knows that obesity is a health risk and you need to lose weight to become healthy. In fact, many who try to lose weight and lose weight gain it again and many of them destroy their metabolism. Frequent diets that are repeated again and again, like something else, slow down the metabolism literally to a snail's pace. So, if someone has lost weight, this does not mean that they have become even a little healthier. Let's say you  Are you losing weight with appetite suppressants or are you losing weight with low-calorie and low-quality nutrients? You may lose weight temporarily, but the weight will return, and after losing weight, you won't look healthy. This doesn't solve the problem of weight loss. Truly, become healthy and then lose weight. Weight loss is a natural consequence of creating health. Truly healthy people don't gain weight. Okay, number 7, and the brain prefers carbohydrates and glucose. This is also a lie. In fact, the brain prefers ketones. In fact, feeding the brain carbohydrates and glucose can lead to dementia and Alzheimer's. This is type 3 diabetes. Ketones bypass damaged areas of the brain and carbohydrates and feed neurons directly. This is why, on a ketogenic diet, the human brain begins to function much better. Their mood improves, their cognitive functions improve, their memory, their concentration, all of this improves. If a person has Alzheimer's disease, the best diet for them is a ketogenic diet. If the brain has a choice between glucose and ketones, if both glucose and Ketones the brain always chooses ketones and only then glucose if you don't believe me start the keto diet and you will see how much better your brain will be 8 you need to eat vegetable oil instead of saturated fats this advice has caused more heart disease more eye problems more diabetes problems and more inflammation problems than anything else I know about if you want macular degeneration eat a lot of omega-6 fatty acids they have a strong pro-inflammatory effect vegetable oil sounds like something very healthy but this oil is not derived from greens this oil is derived from grains and grains and seeds it is genetically modified corn soybean canola oil cottonseed oil all these crops are heavily sprayed with glyphosate am I believe that if you want to get arthritis eat a lot of omega-6 fatty acids no you need more saturated fats in both cooking and in your diet if there are few carbohydrates you will be completely fine number nine this is another stupid advice be sure to get complex carbohydrates from whole grains firstly I doubt that I even know Someone who eats whole grains usually eat refined grains. Whole grains contain phytic acid, which blocks the absorption of a number of minerals and microelements, such as zinc. It is very important. Many people have a zinc deficiency because they eat too many grains. Grains cause a surge in insulin, and we already have a lot of it, so don't eat grains. Not to mention the gluten in grains, which destroys the intestines, causing various inflammations, which is fraught with autoimmune diseases due to leaky gut syndrome. And number ten, you don't really need vitamins if your diet is well balanced. I always want to ask what people consider a well- balanced diet. Is it a balanced healthy diet, which I talked about in the first point, or is it the main thing to know when to stop? Eat all food groups. If you think about what nutrients you need, for example, potassium. Few people eat enough vegetables to get the required amount of potassium. Very few people get even close to enough potassium and even magnesium. What about vitamin D? Very few people don't get it from food. sun how do you get vitamin d not to mention the food itself which today has so few nutrients especially when compared to food 20 years ago so it is almost impossible to get vitamins and minerals from food unless you start growing your own food and know how to cultivate the soil it is very, very difficult to get nutrients from food even from organic and here's what I'll tell you a huge number of things that were considered safe and healthy as it turned out later are not very safe and healthy look at the chemical ds which was given to women to prevent miscarriages until they found out that it causes miscarriages forty or fifty years later and what about ddt there was an advertisement ddt is suitable for me and in seventy-one it was banned and sugar was advertised as something healthy that can be given to babies now we know that this is a complete lie about smoking it was believed that there is nothing bad in smoking for pregnant women but now we know that it is just the opposite what about trans fats in foods are they a risk they were advertised for 80 or 90 years I think and then it turned out we found out They're not very useful, sorry, and banned. The author was considered a useful component of tap water, but now we learn that fluoride causes a lot of problems in the thyroid and the rest of the body. So, the secret to being healthy is to find out what everyone else is doing and go in the exact opposite direction. If you want to know exactly what you need to eat and do, take my basic course. I'll guide you step by step. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.