The pharmaceutical giants are hysterical about Robert Kennedy and what he is revealing to the people. And also because he is searching and trying to find out.  Billions of dollars on the eve. Today we will discuss vaccines, paracetamol, and a new drug for autism.   There's so much they're saying about Robert Kennedy in the news these days.  and that he is irresponsible, and that he is an obscurantist. Because Robert Kennedy is trying to revive already debunked myths about vaccines.   What the hell is he doing?  The question is closed. We already know that there is no link between vaccines and autism. We have been using paracetamol for many years. It's quite safe even for children, isn't it?  Well, on the one hand, there is the status quo.  Mainstream medicine doesn't want you to know that paracetamol causes autism and is fighting tooth and nail to cover it up.  On the other hand, Kennedy calls for studying everything.  Especially because not long ago, autism was diagnosed in one child out of 100,000, and today it is one in every thirty-first. This is madness.  A huge jump in autism rates.  The opposition claims: "Autism has always been around. We've just learned to diagnose it better now . If that were true, every nursing home would be filled with people with autism."  But this is not true.  If your child had autism, wouldn't you want someone to deeply explore all the possible causes?  It's just common sense. After all, big money, conflicts of interest, and collusion between officials and pharmaceutical companies are involved here.  And pharmaceutical companies have no legal liability for vaccines. In their studies, they do not compare the vaccine with a placebo.  They compare one vaccine to another vaccine and see if one vaccine is safer than the other.  You know, it's like comparing Pepsi-Cola, or more precisely its effect on blood sugar levels, the effect of caffeine in it, with Coca-Cola. There is not much difference between Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola .  And they somehow decide that Pepsi-Cola is no more dangerous than Coca-Cola, that is, it is safe.  This is exactly how vaccines for children are given.  And during the course of the research, a link was found between paracetamol and autism.  But Kennedy did not say that paracetamol causes autism, but it can certainly be one of the factors that provoke the development of autism in those who are predisposed to it.  You need to know that paracetamol is taken for fever, headaches and other pains, and menstrual cramps.  You will say: "It has few side effects."  Did you know that paracetamol is the main cause of acute liver failure? More than 80,000 people are admitted to hospital each year due to paracetamol overdoses.  unintentional. Why?  Because the active ingredient in paracetamol, acetaminophen, is also found in more than six hundred other drugs.  Acetaminophen deprives the body of glutathione, depriving the liver of its main antioxidant.  And if there is not enough glutathione, the liver is destroyed. That's why even hospitals use something called NAC, which increases glutathione levels.  and thus protects the liver in case of paracetamol poisoning. But there is a problem with NC in terms of its penetration into the brain, where it might be able to help with autism.  When NC is taken orally, it does not cross the blood-brain barrier. Research is currently underway into different forms of NC that could allow glutathione to enter the brain. The results are not yet known, but we will know about them soon.  But the point is this.  When different factors come together, say a child has a genetic defect that makes them vulnerable, and they take paracetamol and are frequently vaccinated, causing aluminum to accumulate in the body.  The combination of all these factors creates a perfect storm that leads to the development of autism.  I made a video about Dr. Caimbra's work on this topic.  He is a neurologist.  He gets excellent results in this area.  He recommends that children with autism take silicon, among other things, because silicon slowly degrades aluminum in the brain over a period of several months to a year.  So why not explore all this a little deeper?  Why do n't we look at cumulative effects, doses, timing, overall effect?  You may be taking a couple of doses without knowing it.  Official circles do not want us to even think about this and see this connection.  There is big money involved here.  And Robert Kennedy says: "Be careful when taking it. Do not take it as a standard preventative measure. Take it only when needed, under a doctor's supervision, and as little as possible. If paracetamol destroys the liver of an adult, how do you think it affects a child? Parents give paracetamol to children for fever. This is one of the main reasons. I will say a few words about fever. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you do not select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you of new videos. With this simple action, you will greatly help the further development of the channel. And we continue. What is the purpose of a high fever? I'm not telling you not to take fever medications. Just understand its purpose. And its purpose is this. It is a natural immune response to infection. To heat the body so much that the microbes literally cook. This is one of the mechanisms that helps the body cope with the infection faster. The problem with taking paracetamol and other drugs that bring down the temperature is that the duration  The incidence of infectious diseases is increasing. And although I hated it when I had a sore throat as a child, I'm glad I got through it, because now my immune system is much stronger. There are many ways to reduce a fever. Here is one of the most researched methods. You just need to bathe your child in lukewarm water. Then the water will evaporate from the surface of the skin and cool the body. It's very simple, and it reduces the fever. There are other remedies, such as willow bark. By the way, aspirin was derived from it. Nature has given us many medicines. Vitamin D is an extremely important regulator of immunity. It strengthens it and helps the child get through all this. You can give your child liquid vitamin D3. Of course, zinc is also important for strengthening the immune system. It helps fight off the infection faster. There is also elderberry. It is especially good for viruses. And also vitamin C. All these remedies are very important. They will help the child fight off the infection. This is how I treated my children. I am not urging you to do the same. When they had a fever, I warmed them up  in a hot bath, put them to bed and covered them warmly so they could sweat. And usually they recovered within a day. So I help the temperature do its job, so the pathogens cook and disappear. Let's discuss a medication that was recommended to reduce the symptoms of autism. I want to point out that no one is saying that it cures all forms of autism. It seems that autism has different causes. One of them has to do with genes. Two different genes are associated with autism. First, I'll talk about a very common gene problem that can reduce our ability to detoxify. This problem has to do with a gene called this. This gene is responsible for the ability to metabolize and use folates. If you have a problem with this gene, and 40% of people do, then you have an increased risk of folate deficiency. And this means that if you're very young and you have a fever due to an infection and you take paracetamol, then this alone can make you more  vulnerable to developing certain problems in the brain, including inflammation of neurons, which can lead to various manifestations, such as symptoms of autism. This leads to a deficiency of folates in the brain, and the brain can no longer get rid of toxins as easily . And now compare what was 40 years ago with what we have now. Today, there are all kinds of pollution, microplastics. And today, children are given many more vaccinations with different vaccines. And these vaccines contain substances like aluminum. These substances weaken the child, making them more vulnerable to toxins, which then affect their brain much more severely than the brain of someone who does not have this genetic problem. In double-blind, randomized, controlled trials with placebo, a certain type of folate improved children's speech and reduced the associated symptoms. You could say that this drug helps a small subgroup. Those who have a genetic problem associated with folates. I say this because one drug was recommended for autism. Not  for all types of autism, but this type of autism is very common. This medication is called leucovarine. And it's essentially synthetic folate. In general, I'm categorically against synthetic vitamins, but there is an exception. I think leucovarine is a very interesting drug. After all, the effect of this synthetic folate compared to natural methylphalate, which I recommend to the average person, makes me very happy. Methylphalate, the natural form, involves only one metabolic pathway, and synthetic folate involves many metabolic pathways and bypasses many barriers that prevent people from absorbing folates. If you take this medication, take ecofactors to optimize the results, such as B12, B6, B2, magnesium, zinc. One study found a folate deficiency in the brain for 56-75% of people with autism. In another study, this synthetic folate increased IQ by 20-50% compared to placebo. I have  There are two books about the connection between vaccines and autoimmune diseases. Robert Kennedy says something else that answers the question of why a child might have a folate deficiency in the first place. 71% of children with autism have antibodies to folate receptors in the brain. Vitamin D regulates the immune system. It is needed for 2,400 genes to function, which means it improves the absorption of folates in general. If you have low levels of vitamin D, you will have extremely low levels of folates. I found some data about cow's milk. There are many different proteins in cow's milk. And one of these proteins is a folate receptor. And it seems to be almost identical to the human folate receptor. And because of this, our bodies can form antibodies against our own folate receptors. Did you remember to press the bell? They are trying to convince people that autism is just a hereditary disease and nothing can be done about it. But at the same time, we know that  Phalates play a huge role here. And I fully support the use of this drug, because it has minimal side effects. And this form of Phalates bypasses the autoimmune problem in children with autism. But there is another factor here, and that is a genetic problem. There is another gene that can be affected. It has been found that certain genes can increase the risk of developing lupus, multiple sclerosis, Hashimot's disease. The pharma giants don't want you to see the huge amount of research that is out there. They say, "The science has reached a consensus." But they never speak for their organizations. They use PR companies. That's why you have so many corporate stooges in the media telling you about the benefits of vaccines, how evil Robert Kennedy is, and how crazy he is. For example, Dr. Ding. Well, he receives grants from the pharma company through Harvard and Hopkins. Dr. Gupta, a former consultant and speaker at conferences for medical technology companies, Dr. Peter Houtes, a professor at Baylor University. He appears regularly on CNN and makes his money from  vaccines. Dr. Paul Offit, a vaccine developer, is getting royalties from a patent on some rotavirus vaccine and is blaming the Make America Healthy Again movement for disturbing the peace. There's also Dr. Lina Wen. And, of course, Bill Xisedi, who has taken over a million dollars in bribes from drug companies. And then there's Dr. Mike. He was a big promoter of mask-wearing and was seen without one at a crowded party . And then there's Scott Gotlip, a former FDA commissioner with extensive ties to the pharma giants, who was on the board of Pizer and other biotech companies, and a paid consultant in the pharmaceutical sector. So, when you see these attacks on Robert Kennedy in the news, realize that almost all of them, over 95%, are coming from the pharma giants, not from ordinary, real people. These are the pharma giants attacking, using various PR companies. How can anyone claim that vaccine safety is impressive when regulators and pharma companies are connected?  financially, independent research is needed.