Today I'll tell you about a special drink that helps cleanse blood vessels.  This will help avoid the consequences of vascular damage, high blood pressure and blood clots, which can cause a stroke or heart attack. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. When you go to see a doctor, you encounter a problem.  The thing is, doctors don't really try to find the root cause.  They look at later events, like high blood pressure or high cholesterol, and treat those symptoms, but they don't get to the cause.  One of the main causes of plaques in blood vessels, as well as heart attacks, is damage to the endothelium.  What is this ?  If you look inside the blood vessels, you can see a layer one cell thick called the endothelium.  And when it gets damaged, a whole series of events happens, and many different consequences arise.  And one of the first things to occur is inflammation.  The body then tries to make repairs, and a plaque is formed, which consists of calcium, cholesterol and protein.  That is, a plaque is nothing more than an attempt to eliminate damage at the site of inflammation that has arisen inside the vessel.  There is one more piece to the puzzle.  It's called nitric oxide.  When endothelial damage occurs inside a vessel, nitric oxide levels decrease. This causes loss of blood pressure control, as nitric oxide dilates blood vessels. It increases blood flow, and when the body lacks it, not only does blood pressure increase, but also the risk of blood clots.  By the way, 90% of heart attacks occur due to blood clots.  Often it all starts with damage to the endothelium.  At the same time, nitric oxide levels drop, the risk of blood clots increases, and these can damage the heart or brain.  In addition, inflammation increases, blood pressure rises, and the walls of blood vessels become thicker and stiffer, their elasticity decreases, which creates more problems with blood pressure.  As for doctors, they focus on blood pressure but do little about endothelial damage.  Unfortunately, it is important to know that there are natural remedies that can help keep nitric oxide levels high.  And the first thing is just to be in the sun.  The sun gives us vitamin D, one of the best nitric oxide boosters , and also infrared light. Half of the sun's rays are infrared light, and they also help increase nitric oxide levels.  So the sun gives us two powerful tools at once in this regard.  Nasal breathing also increases nitric oxide levels. Magnesium has the same effect.  Okay, our task is to clear the blood vessels.  Let's say there are plaques in the vessels , how can we get rid of them?  So , it turns out that there is something called RCT, reverse cholesterol transport.  That is, there is a mechanism for removing cholesterol from the vessels and delivering it back to the liver, where it is processed. In general, this is a complicated topic.  Doctors and others often say that dietary cholesterol is a big problem, but we must understand that most cholesterol is created by the body itself.   We need it, hormones are synthesized from it .  It has many functions.  As for plaques in the vessels, they appear later in the chain of events.  This is not the root cause of the problems.  The substance that helps turn cholesterol around so that it returns from the vessels to the liver is neacin, vitamin B3.  Neacin is very helpful in removing cholesterol from blood vessels.  HDL, which is considered good cholesterol, essentially takes cholesterol from the peripheral areas of the body and delivers it back to the liver.  Training produces this effect, as does fasting, that is, not eating too often.  And finally, low-carb diets.  By the way, I'll say a few words about them.  One person said to me, "Dr. Burke, your program didn't work for me."  And I replied: “Well, wait a minute, you told me that you lost weight, and even your cholesterol tests got better.”  Could you explain what you mean? I was on a low carb diet for a couple of weeks and then went back to eating normal food and the problem came back.  It was funny to hear that.   A huge number of people consider a high-carbohydrate diet to be the norm, but, unfortunately, everything is just the opposite. If you look at your blood sugar level , its normal level is 4.4 mmol /l.  This is equal to one teaspoon of sugar for your entire blood volume.  But the average person gets 45-65% of their calories from refined sugars and refined starches.  And this is also sugar.  It turns out that the average person consumes from 50 to 100 teaspoons of sugar daily.  This is based on 2,000 calories per day, and many eat even more.  So this is a modest estimate.  But why do all these people who consume huge amounts of sugar still have normal blood sugar levels?  How is this possible?  It's illogical.  And all because sugar is so poisonous for blood vessels, it acts on them like rust on metal, that we have a protective mechanism - insulin.  insulin, like a vacuum cleaner, sucks sugar out of the blood vessels as soon as it gets there.  Therefore, people can eat a lot of carbohydrates, but their sugar levels are still normal.  It's just that their insulin is working at full capacity.  But this only lasts for 15-20 years.  Then the pancreas becomes so tired that it stops working.  After this, insulin becomes less and less, and blood sugar becomes higher and higher.  The person develops pre-diabetes and then diabetes.  This is what diabetes is. High blood sugar because insulin can no longer compensate for it. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell.  to enable all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Among all the methods to eliminate fat from the liver, a low-carb diet comes first; you can remove 40% of liver fat in just 2 weeks with a low-carb diet.  But here's what you need to know. All this refined sugar is converted into cholesterol.  This sugar also creates inflammation and damages the endothelium, triggering this whole cascade of events.  This is why it is so important to be on a low-carb diet to keep nitric oxide levels high. Bile salts help remove most of the excess cholesterol from the body and from the liver. So we need a lot of bile to remove excess cholesterol.  When the gallbladder is removed, cholesterol can begin to accumulate.  Basically, we need bile salts to remove excess cholesterol.  A couple of points about calcium in blood vessels. Magnesium is the primary regulator of calcium.  So the antidote to this calcium problem is to increase magnesium levels.  After all, if you think about it, blood vessels are controlled by muscles, and muscles contract with calcium and relax with magnesium.  So, if you have problems with blood pressure, the main mineral for you is magnesium.  Polyphenols are a very powerful protector for the endothelium. And the drink I'm going to tell you about will contain a powerful polyphenol. Finally, vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 may help prevent vascular calcification.  This vitamin takes calcium from soft tissues and transports it to bones and teeth. This is a vital vitamin for vascular health.  So, here's a drink that will help you.  Its base is cocoa powder, rich in flavanols.  It is important that this powder is not from roasted cocoa beans. You need raw cocoa powder, which is what chocolate is made from.  It is natural, almost unrefined.  It contains a lot of flavanols, plant substances, and powerful antioxidants.  They have many beneficial properties.  I'll tell you about them. Interestingly, a cup of cocoa powder drink is equivalent to a workout.  There was one study that compared vasodilation and blood flow after cocoa powder and after moderate exercise, and the results were similar.  The reason is that cocoa powder is able to trigger an enzymatic mechanism that helps create more nitric oxide, which dilates blood vessels and increases blood flow. It's amazing that you can drink something and get the same effect as a workout. Amazing.  Personally, in the morning I add one more component: one measuring spoon of beetroot juice powder.  It creates an interesting flavor.  Personally, I like it. Beets are one of the richest sources of nitric oxide.  So I combine the two powders together to get an even better result.  Sometimes I use warm water, but not boiling water. Everything mixes better in it, and sometimes I use cold water.  I would like to explain the difference between cocoa powder and beetroot powder.  Beetroot powder gives you nitric oxide.  It is found in beets themselves, and cocoa powder stimulates the work of enzymes in the body that create more nitric oxide.  Below is a link to a study, here is its name, which found vasodilation, similar to that seen during exercise. Surprisingly, another study found that cocoa powder reduced arterial stiffness. When the blood vessels are stiff and hardened, the pressure will increase.  This usually happens to older people, but age is getting shorter and that's not good.  Cocoa powder can help make blood vessels less rigid and more elastic. Surprisingly, cocoa powder has another advantage.  Research shows this. This is a cumulative effect, meaning it builds up in the body and can help train blood vessels to produce nitric oxide again and again.  So its effect continues as it accumulates in the body. Another study tested people aged 50 to 50 who consumed cocoa powder for 2 weeks. As a result, the stiffness of their blood vessels at a certain age became comparable to the stiffness of blood vessels in people 20-30 years younger.  So it's just a super anti-aging product.  And one more thing about cocoa powder.  It is beneficial not only for the heart and blood vessels, but also for the brain, skin and many other organs and tissues of the body.  So, here are a couple of drink options.  Simply dissolve cocoa powder in warm water and drink it in the morning.  But just don't drink it at the same time as coffee.  Sometimes I add it to my coffee, but most of the time I don't because the caffeine from the coffee, unless you drink decaf, prevents you from getting all the benefits of nitric oxide.  Caffeine causes blood vessels to constrict, and we strive to dilate them. So, if you want maximum benefits for your blood vessels, drink this drink 2 hours before coffee or 2 hours after coffee.  But if you're looking for cognitive enhancements rather than heart health benefits, you can add it to your coffee.  Sometimes I add beetroot powder, sometimes I don't. I might add a pinch of sea salt or even some magnesium glycerate.  Magnesium is a nutrient that I personally benefit from.  It is good for the heart.  And the last point.  There is no need to dissolve cocoa powder in boiling water.  You can use warm water.  Pouring boiling water over it will overheat it, but it should remain raw.  I also recommend using organic powder, it's a little better. Inorganic, may have been sprayed with chemicals.  Anyway, try it and write about your results in the comments. Don't know what to drink with chum salmon? Wondering if a drink will break your fast?  Diversify your diet with the book Healthy Drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar or harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes.  There is benefit in every ingredient. Order the book Healthy Drinks using the link below.