Perhaps after this video you will stop eating cereal I warned you keep in mind everyone knows that cereal is healthy and it is a great start to the day, right? There are many wonderful healthy cereals in the stores. After all, there is little fat, no cholesterol at all, they have so much fiber that is good for the heart and they have a lot of nutrients, the daily requirement is as many as 8 vitamins and minerals. Today I will take a closer look at cereal to understand if they are so healthy. As we are told in advertising, I will give all the figures based on one serving and of course in America we measure the amount in glasses for my friends in Europe. Especially for Denis from Germany, here is the volume of a glass or cup next to the camera. It seems huge, but I will bring it to my head. This very glass is about the same volume. Like my coffee cup. This is the volume of my coffee mug, it is about the same. One cup is 36 grams of cereal. Now I will take a bowl and pour cereal into it. You see these cereals. Even a child will not limit himself to such a small amount of cereal. This is an extremely small portion. So, the average person and even the average A child will eat at least 4 servings of cereal, they are one such serving. So, the numbers that I will quote are multiplied by 4. So, let's start with the cereal. We look at the composition. There is ground corn, sugar, malt flavoring. This is in these cereals. And in these cereals there is whole grain wheat, raisins, wheat bran, sugar and brown sugar syrup. The cereal is the most popular cereal in America and the second ingredient in these cereals is sugar, then cornstarch and brown sugar syrup. In general, these cereals have a huge amount of added sugar. I'm not even talking about very sweet cereals now, but only about these two types. In these cereals, there are 17 grams of sugar per serving. We multiply this by 4 and get 16 teaspoons of sugar. We are not even talking about other carbohydrates now, we are talking only about sugar. 16 teaspoons. Then, the total carbohydrate content in one cup is 47 grams. Multiply by 4 and get 188.  grams of these carbohydrates will cause a spike in your blood sugar levels will rise and then insulin will have to rush into the blood to lower blood sugar and then you will feel very hungry and very tired after an hour and a half or two When the sugar level eventually gets low and you need a snack otherwise you will be terribly hungry During lunch And this is not the largest amount of sugar and other carbohydrates there are cereals where there is more of them in some cereals the volume of sugar is half or even more than the volume of the cereal itself, that is, many people eat just a huge amount of sugar in the morning this is the worst time of day for consuming sugar, which I will talk about soon one of the most vulnerable areas of the body to sugar is the brain the brain does not store sugar It depends on what is happening in the blood if you constantly pump the brain with sugar you will develop insulin resistance this is a protective mechanism over time your sensitivity to insulin decreases As a result, it becomes increasingly difficult for brain cells to receive glucose After all, you developed insulin resistance for the sake of protection, so brain cells simply do not receive fuel and their work begins to be disrupted and then you  You lose cognitive functions, your concentration and memory deteriorate. You have difficulty focusing and are easily distracted. This is attention deficit disorder and it is especially destructive if the person consuming these cereals is studying somewhere. It will be incredibly difficult for him to study. I went through this. I lived on cereal until I think I was 28. I recently turned 32. That is, I haven't eaten sugar for several years. Because of all this excess sugar and other carbohydrates, the liver becomes fatter and fat appears around the organs in the waist area. A diabetic condition occurs. Inflammation occurs. Cholesterol levels rise. Although there is no cholesterol in cereals, it's just that the body converts carbohydrates into cholesterol. Cognitive functions suffer, as I said, mood suffers, anxiety appears and of course, teeth also suffer from this. They develop cavities and even the heart. For some reason, people think that this sign is good for the heart, meaning the presence of fiber, and they eat cereal without a second thought, thinking that it is good for the heart, because eating fiber supposedly lowers cholesterol. Although this idea has been completely debunked, low cholesterol is not something that will save your heart. Now let's talk about the fiber itself. How much fiber is in these cereals in one serving? Only one.  gram I don't think that's a lot of fiber one gram of fiber Maybe I'm missing something but in my opinion this so-called food has a low fiber content, it's a little fiber Maybe in the comments below they can enlighten me about the fiber in these cereals, but here it says 1 gram of fiber That is, there are a lot of carbohydrates, a lot of sugar and a drop of fiber I'm trying to understand How this will help the heart There are two things that help soften the effect of a surge in sugar and insulin in the blood One of them is fat, which is practically absent here, and the second is fiber, which is negligible here, so there is nothing to restrain the surge in sugar in the blood, so sugar rises and quickly Now let's discuss whole grains and refined grains, because at least in these bran with raisins we have whole grains And in these there is just ground corn, that is, refined grains Well, okay, whole grains, what is so useful about whole grains? They are rich inside with all these vitamins and minerals, they contain fiber and everything else, but they also contain phytic acid If you don't  I know this is a very powerful substance that binds essential nutrients such as iron, zinc, magnesium, manganese, and calcium. Phytic acid in whole grains binds these nutrients, making them unavailable to you. Millions and millions of people, even children, have zinc deficiency. I am convinced that the reason for this is in cereals. After all, there are countries where they eat a lot of cereal and little red meat, and so on, everything that has a lot of bioavailable zinc. Iron deficiency anemia is also very common in pregnant women. In a large part of the population, with iron deficiency, the blood does not carry oxygen as it should, and there are also fewer red blood cells. An excellent way to identify iron deficiency is several, but a good way is to look under the eyelid and see if it is red or pale. With iron deficiency anemia, it is pale. At least in half of the cases, not always, there is a craving for ice. A person wants to chew on ice. There are dark circles under the eyes. Nails also curl upward. In general, this iron is a manifestation of magnesium deficiency: calf cramps, fatigue, difficulty sleeping.  Calcium deficiency anxiety has many different manifestations, and leg cramps are also possible, because it's an electrolyte, and bone loss is possible. What about refined grains? They have less phytic acid. The problem with refined grains is that you deplete the same nutrients, but in a different way. When you eat a lot of refined grains and/ or refined sugar, your body depletes potassium, calcium, zinc, and magnesium. So, whether you deplete these nutrients with phytic acid or just refined grains, you will still have a deficiency. Why do manufacturers say that cereals are so rich in nutrients? Because absolutely all the nutrients in these cereals were added to them during the fortification process, and the label lists additional calcium carbonate, iron phosphate, an iron compound that has no place in the human body. There is palmitate, which is an artificial vitamin A, and sodium ascorbate, which is an artificial vitamin C. In addition, during processing, these grains are heated under high pressure, and this destroys all the natural vitamins, and at the same time, everything. Artificial, but adding artificial vitamins here, can we claim that there are nutrients here? I'm not even talking about artificial colors and flavors, or other chemicals like BHT and BHA. They can affect the endocrine system and cause cancer, but there are loopholes that allow them to be added to cereal. So, if you eat breakfast at all, I highly recommend, especially for children, eating eggs as a main course: eggs with bacon, eggs with avocado, eggs with sausage, or others like cutlets or steak with tomatoes. But if you start the day with cereal, your blood sugar will rise and fall all day long, and in the evening, you'll have a terrible craving for sugar and a desire to constantly snack on junk food. As I said, I have a lot of personal experience on this topic. After all, I ate a lot of sweet cereal for years. This whole cereal issue was started by John Harvey Kellock. He was a doctor and nutritionist who promoted vegetarianism. He set the course for soy milk, muesli, and meat substitutes. He was involved in another wild thing called eugenics.  Eugenics is the study and practice of improving the genetic quality of people. Its goal is to eliminate the inferior gene pool. There were those who practiced forced sterilization of heifers unfit for breeding, sold, and weeded out people with lower IQs. He co- founded an organization called the Race Improvement Foundation. It seems that this whole practice of eugenics has died, and thank God. In my opinion, this is still madness. The best way to improve genes is to lead a healthy lifestyle and eat well. This is especially important during pregnancy. In general, Kellogg promoted that children should eat cereal, although in fact, cereal causes nutrient deficiencies, which lowers IQ, since highly processed foods create all sorts of problems such as iodine deficiency, which is directly related to a decrease in IQ. That is, Kellogg was trying to improve genes, when in fact, he was worsening them. Since we are talking about food that does not improve health. If you haven’t watched the video yet, and the most dangerous foods, here is a link to it, take a look.