You get up several times a night to pee. This video is for you. It's mainly for men, although it applies to women as well. You can skip the part where I talked about the article. The first thing you need to understand is the mechanism of this disorder. It's very easy to fix. You don't need to get up several times a night. This is completely unnecessary. If you do what I'm going to show you, you can sleep all night and you won't have to get up at all. The mechanism is that the bladder is surrounded by smooth muscles. There is a muscle there that contracts and relaxes. This problem is due to the fact that you can't get rid of all the urine. The muscle tone of the bladder doesn't allow it to contract completely. To get rid of all the urine, it contracts partially and some of the urine remains in the bladder. After an hour or two, it reactivates the sensor, which forces you to get up to get rid of this residue. This repeats over and over again. The problem here is not actually in the muscle. The problem is in the nerve that is connected to this muscle. This is a problem of the sympathetic nervous system. Let's digress for a moment. This is important. The sympathetic nervous system regulates the response to  Stress fight or flight and the parasympathetic nervous system is engaged in rest and digestion when you rest you are under the control of the parasympathetic division and the smooth muscles that produce contraction of the bladder are subordinate to the parasympathetic division I will explain why I talked about this you may think that the contraction of this muscle is controlled by the sympathetic division, but this is not so, it is subordinate to the when urinating it is impossible to be tense or stressed, this would be quite difficult you need to be completely relaxed and calm to release urine from the bladder when the bladder is full and it has normal tone, then it is under the control of the sympathetic division and for the bladder when the sympathetic division is too active it can no longer contract we cannot completely squeeze it and empty it so the problem is the dominance of the sympathetic division and causes it excess insulin insulin excites the sympathetic division of the nervous system activates it and this is the reason for problems with urination insulin increases prostate very often people think that the problems are caused by the enlarged prostate itself this is not true because often when a man has prostate removal problems with the urinary  The bladder remains simple, it may be part of the problem because it is located directly under the bladder and exaggeration, it can block this channel through which the match actually comes out. One of the drugs that are used to cope with this problem are alpha-blockers, they act on the sympathetic nervous system. If you have these symptoms: difficult or strained urination, incomplete emptying of the bladder or urine leakage, then you need to lower your insulin, which leads to high insulin. insulin resistance needs to be explained. I'll try to explain it in simple words. insulin is a hormone that lowers blood sugar. insulin binds to a receptor in the cell. The body does not like high insulin levels, it likes normal levels. If there is too much insulin for a while, the body will defend itself by blocking these receptors and resisting insulin. insulin resistance is a defense mechanism against excess insulin. The problem here is that there is a sensor inside this If it detects that insulin is low, it sends a signal to the pancreas, ordering it to produce more insulin. With insulin resistance, you have 5-7 times more insulin than a normal person and the whole  Excess insulin will lead to the same problem of loss of bladder tone, enlargement. Now the question is what to do about it. insulin can be reduced by limiting the consumption of sugars and other carbohydrates. If you eat candy during the day, if you eat popcorn, sweets, exclude all of this. There is a link below that I strongly recommend following to learn how this is done. It is called healthy chum, but what is even more important is fasting, intermittent fasting. Why? Because fasting reduces the influence of the sympathetic nervous system. It eliminates sympathetic dominance. This is a very powerful tool. Honestly, it is unlikely that reducing carbohydrates alone is enough to solve the problem, but a combination of both techniques will work. But of course, you don't need intermittent fasting. Give it without reducing carbohydrates. You need both. How to fast is very simple. Don't eat if you are not hungry. If you don't want to eat in the morning, don't eat. Usually, people eat breakfast in the morning, considering it the most important meal. This is false information. In the morning, try to go without food as long as possible. If you are not hungry, don't eat. Most people, as a rule, can when they are just starting out. That's what they eat for the first time, say, at 11 am. Here is your first meal. A video is available at the link. I  I'll tell you exactly what you need to eat, so take a look and you can download the necessary materials there, eat the first time, then hold out until 6-7 pm and eat the second time, that is, you eat twice a day, the main thing is not to snack, you can't snack, why because every time you eat, insulin rises, that is, it's not only about carbohydrates but also how often you eat, this is the first step, do this for several days or weeks, then move on to the second stage, during which move the first meal as late as possible until about half past 4 or even until four, this will be the ideal scenario, when you first go to half past 4-4 at the very beginning you will think, God, I'm eating less, I'm going to die of hunger and all that, everyone goes through this, it's not scary, you can eat a lot at once, because it's not about calories, eat the first time and then by the second time you may not be hungry, but in the first couple of days, eat the second time a few hours later, that is, you eat twice and that's it, when you eat a lot at a later time until  By the end of the day you won't be hungry anymore. It would be great if after this you ate only once a day, because this way you will solve not only the problem with the bladder but also get rid of excess fat on the stomach. It would be super, but some people, it's hard to believe, have a habit of snacking in the evening, they need to eat something in the evening. I suggest such people eat their first meal at 4:4 pm, eat well, and turn the second meal into a snack with pistachios, not popcorn, but pistachios, let this be the second meal, eat a little of them, even at seven or eight in the evening. That is, you essentially eat one and a half times a day. This will be your diet. So you will not feel like you are missing out on something and it will be much easier for you. Ideally, it is better not to do this, but if you really can't do without it, let's say you ate at 9 pm and then fast all the time until 4:30 pm the next day. This is how this problem is solved. Try it for two weeks and see what happens. Write in the comments about the progress and thanks for watching. If you liked this video, share it.  to them with those to whom it may be useful