I want to give you very important advice. What to take during dinner so that your sleep is deep and you recover well. I had problems with sleep for many years. They began during my service in the Army. I had to get up at 4 am for 3 months and my body got so used to it that for many years I could not sleep after 4 am, so I went to bed earlier, but still only slept 6-6 hours a day. I somehow managed, fell asleep during the day, tried to sleep more. But only when I began to constantly sleep 8 hours a day, I finally realized how important it is to get a good night's sleep. As for sleep, there are different situations: someone cannot sleep, someone often gets up in the middle of the night to go to the toilet, sleep apnea, restless legs syndrome, every single problem that I listed can be solved. I think there is one remedy called vitamin D, but taking vitamin D in normal doses does not improve sleep. Researchers who found that vitamin D does not affect sleep used very small doses. People are worried that vitamin D can be poisoned. However, this problem has a simple solution. In addition, vitamin D  Oddly enough, it can solve many intestinal problems. Not to mention its connection with the immune system. Vitamin D also works together with magnesium. They are kind of partners and work together. A lack of magnesium leads to many problems: spasms, a feeling of palpitations, restless leg syndrome and high cortisol, which interferes with sleep. Many people sleep better when they drink magnesium before bed. If you have restless leg syndrome or spasms, but magnesium does not work, the reason may be a lack of vitamin D. In addition, vitamin D is a powerful remedy for inflammation, it is one of the most powerful anti-inflammatory agents, and if you sleep better, blood sugar also normalizes. These are the most useful things for health. A good diet, exercise, and sleep. I think that sleep is the most important element. This is essentially the circadian rhythms of the body. They are controlled by a small bundle of nerves deep in the brain in the hypothalamus, and in this bundle of nerves there are receptors for vitamin D. That is why, when changing time zones, when this rhythm is disrupted, remedies for this vitamin D in obese people, the concentration of vitamin D decreases and they need  Three times more vitamin D than thin people, the same thing with diabetics, with age, the doses also increase to check your vitamin D level, you can purchase a special kit below there will be a link to the one I use. I buy this kit, take measurements and if the result you get is below 40 nanograms per milliliter, you will have a lot of problems. You need a level of 70, 80, 90, or even 100, or even a little higher for a therapeutic effect. Vitamin D is not actually a vitamin A hormone. If you are deliberately taking it to make this hormone work better, you need to know that a blood test for vitamin D measures its inactive form, it will not give you an accurate and confident understanding. Does vitamin D get into the cell? Many people have resistance to vitamin D. They need to drink much more vitamin D to overcome it. I recommend taking at least 30,000 vitamin D3 over a period of time to raise vitamin D to a level where your sleep will really improve. I take 50,000 daily. But here's what's very important: every day I drink at least 2 s to l water to exclude any toxic side effects, that is, an increase in calcium levels in the blood. There are no other side effects here, for example, you can eat less dairy but drink more water and also take cofactors. I always take vitamin D together with vitamin K2, this is very important, it does not allow calcium to accumulate in the blood. In addition, I take magnesium and zinc, both cofactors. I take another cofactor, vitamin B6, and a couple more recommendations for better sleep: take vitamin D with cofactors during your last meal so it will be better absorbed. Some people take vitamin D at night, but it invigorates them. I think they just do not drink cofactors, magnesium, zinc, vitamins B6 and K2. Reduce the air temperature in the room a little. Personally, it helps me. I also open the window about 2 hours before bed. I put my phone aside, do not turn on bright lights and reduce the lighting in the room. The question of vitamin D poisoning comes up very often and perhaps you should learn more about it. I made a video about this. Especially for you.