Did you know that caries is the second most common disease in the world? The first is a common cold, but the second is caries.  With caries, voids appear in the teeth.  Essentially, these are holes. Holes in the enamel covering the tooth.  She's rotting.   In other words, the bone dissolves and breaks down until a hole forms.  The unique feature of teeth is that they are supposedly indestructible.   There are no constantly renewing cells in the imal .  The outer shell of the tooth is not restored. Fossil remains speak for themselves.  Skulls were found containing preserved teeth.  That is, the enamel should not be destroyed.  But there is still something that can destroy it.   A certain bacterium. The bacterium Streptococcus mutans has been found to be responsible for causing holes in tooth enamel.   The human mouth is home to a lot of harmful bacteria, and when you eat sugar and other fermentable carbohydrates , the number of these bacteria begins to grow very quickly.  Their numbers grow until they outnumber everyone else. When they ferment sugar, they produce acid that dissolves or demineralizes the enamel, creating holes in it .  By consuming some empty carbohydrates and sugar, you feed these bacteria that form tartar, and the acid causes your teeth to decay. Of course, this problem can be solved by brushing your teeth, right?  And the toothpaste must definitely be original.  And you also need to drink water with the second one, and everything will be fine.  Yes.  But here's the problem. Karis is not going anywhere.  90% of the population has it.  Why?  If you research the issue, you will see that the role of bacteria is emphasized, you will see advice that you need to brush your teeth, keep them clean, and be sure to expose them to the second to kill bacteria.  What about food?  What about the food that these bacteria eat and cause the problem?  They don't talk about this. This is missing data.  The question is, why is this information being ignored? Something was recently discovered that sheds light on this subject. Some documents were found.  There is no need to quote me , but it seems like it happened in the basement, the library of Harvard University, maybe in some other basement, but they found an interesting document.  It was drawn up by a sugar trade organization founded by sugar producers.  And this is what this document revealed. Fifty years ago, sugar manufacturers paid a leading Harvard researcher to downplay the role of sugar in heart disease and tooth decay, blaming it on fat.  That study didn't mention its funding source, and we're still pretty sure you just brush your teeth with the second toothpaste. to prevent caries, but it doesn't work.  Moreover, there is such a disease second.  If you google it, you will read that this is a cosmetic problem with teeth.  Part of the tooth becomes very white, as if from bleach. The truth is that if a child has too much contact with the second one, it weakens his teeth.  This affects the body's calcium metabolism and leads to white spots on the teeth.  In fact, the tooth itself becomes weak. It turns out that this happens very often.  Between 40 and 60% of children suffer from this.  It's simply astounding how corrupt the so-called scientific community still is. We all know that science is like a sacred cow.  It cannot be criticized, the conclusions cannot be discussed, but what about the deep-rooted corruption? Unfortunately, there are many scientific concepts that end up being false after 30, 40, 50, 60 years, unfortunately. So, if you have children, just stop feeding them sugar and the problem of cavities will go away.  It's all very simple.  Thanks for watching.  Yes.