 por spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses To the end of this video, you will learn how to help with the SELENA you can strengthen your health. What I like about this topic is that it is the most expensive way to improve your health. It's a 10 cents a day. It's all about the money. Most people don't understand how big they have a deficit of SELENA. SELENA is very difficult to get from drostanolone. And many of the things we eat, лишает нас SELENA. So, if you have two brazilian oranges in a day, you will get 1000% of the normalcy of SELENA. It's about 135-180 microgram. SELENA is a micro-element, which works with fermented, to help the skin, and increases the level of protein. So when the deficit of SELENA, the skin starts to get rid. SELENA is directly related to growth. So, Brazilian oranges are very important to immune system. A little bit later I will tell you how to do it. But first I want to talk about testosterone. Testosterone is a person who is not only a man, but also a woman. Testosterone is a precursor or a seed for estrogen. Also, it is also important to protect the cells in a yeast, which are producing testosterone and producing sperm. So, SELENA is a result of the cell that I think is a result of the cell that can help the cell. And that is, the immune system. So, SELENA is a result of the cell that is called T-helper. T-helper this cell is kind of like this column of spouses in the Pentagon, where they are the main principles and coordination. And if a person has a cell in the way to support the helper, the amount of cells of these cells is reduced, making them vulnerable to infections, pathogens, pathogens, cancer and other problems, related to low immunity, such as the immune system. Now, if we take a look at the helper, there are some types of TH1 and TH2. If this proportion is balanced, you will have allergies, autoimmune diseases, or even a cell in the cell, or even a cell in the cell. So you can look at the proportion as the perfect balance of the cell in the cell, so the army could see that everything works. So this is like a cell in the cell, which is the helper. And I just want to explain one thing here, that has vitamin D. And if you have a deficit of the cell in the cell and vitamin D, then you will have serious problems. Another interesting thing about the helper cells, that they need to work for a lot of energy in the cell in the cell. So, the cell in the cell is a way to neutralize the cell, to protect it from the cell. So, we need to be able to stay in the cell in the cell. And this is the cell in the cell, to be able to stay in the cell, to stand down when it is necessary. So this cell in this cell spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses and immune system against any other cells. They prevent immune diseases. Many think, why do they have immune diseases? Well, obviously, they have something missing or something that has reduced immune system. It may be a lot of vitamin D, a lot of insulin, stress or something else. But the insulin is in the most because there is no more insulin in our diet. How many people eat spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses spouses This is a very interesting book, I'll leave it below. It's called, What the reality is that it causes speed? The author is Harold Foster. The virus speed is going to be on certain cells, the helper cells, and the selen doesn't give them to activate these cells. The next thing that makes selen is to help to get glutathione, which is the main antioxidant of the body, but also in your body, but also in your body. Well, selen — это precursor glutathione. Glutathione is not being used by selen. Many are not being used to use of selen. Insecticides, terbicides, fungicides — all they fall in the brain. And if glutathione is enough, it's a way to deal with it. I just like that strategy I like more than the attempt to avoid all the toxins to be done, because then you will have to be isolated and live in the earth, which is a lot easier. Glutathione also very important for protection of the body and the membrane. In the membrane can be used to be used to masons of the semis, toxins and all that other things. If you have enough glutathione, you can neutralize the most of these toxins. But also, on the other hand, when you have a higher oxygen, you have less glutathione, so you need to have enough selen for the production of glutathione. With this enough selen because of this stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem stem in the end of the cell. If you don't have a cell, the mitochondria can easily be affected. And the hair, and the testosterone, and even the immune system, all of them are affected by the mitochondria, and we are really talking about, not they are affected. All of them starts from the end of the cell, if there are no necessary factors. Cellin helps increase GAMP, which can reduce anxiety, and also improve the calmness and sleep. Now let me explain why why in Brazil's so many trees are so high in Brazil. The trees with these trees are in the Amazon. These trees live from 500 to 1000 years old. These trees are unique to them, because they have very high roots roots. These roots are very deep in the earth, much deeper than the other trees in the world. They are very deep in the earth, and they can collect minerals and micro-alumns and micro-alumns, which they will not be close to the surface. If you like to see the trees, these trees are not only rich in the earth, they are also rich in the mud, magnesium, magnesium and magnesium. But according to their own to the forest, this tree is a whole tree that takes the earth to the earth with a certain tree of a certain tree in the earth, which takes this mineral, it takes it to the mineral, and takes it to the roots of this tree. And now the tree of the tree this tree of this tree will spouses this tree of this tree together. this tree of this tree will spouses this tree together together together together together together together together and eventually it's a seed. It's a seed that is not a seed. So the seed has a special protection to become resilient against diseases, viruses and pathogens, because the very best of the seed needs immune. So people have learned to use these important features of immune immune, which developed an amazing tree for a long time. We started to use immune system and even other forms of seed, which are stored in Brazil, are bioactive for us, so we can easily use them. It's not just seed in the same way, it's seed in the form of the milk, which the organism can easily use and use. What about the toxicity? It's very rare, but it's possible to be a seed in the same way. If you need to eat 20-20 Brazil's ore every day for months, you can have a toxic one. But we're talking about two ore's every day. If I say about health, I want to give you something to your health. I want to give you a list of my daily activities, what I do every day, my habits, what I do every day, when I generally eat, the health of your life. If you can download it, just click the link to the link to the description below. The problem with health is when there is no important vitamins and minerals. The deficiencies can be revealed from different kinds of things, from chronic pain to the pain in muscles, from problems with the зрением to increase the immune system. How to be safe? How to be safe? How to be safe? How to be healthy? How to be healthy? How to be healthy? When and when? In the course of the deficit of nutrients, Dr. Berg will tell you about the lack of vitamins, how they influence health and how to heal it. More 100 of the lessons, the conspects and the списments. What should you have to understand in this topic? Please do the link to the link below. Click the link below.