Would you agree to eat two of these a day to help your thyroid gland? I'm talking about Brazil nuts. There is a very specific reason for this. Most often, hypothyroidism is the problem of a slow thyroid gland, which is Hashimoto's disease. This is an autoimmune problem. It is usually not associated with iodine deficiency, but Hashimoto's disease is the most common autoimmune disease in the United States alone, 14 million people suffer from it. And when a person has Hashimoto's disease, the risk of developing other autoimmune problems is higher. Hashimoto's thyroiditis, that is, inflammation of the thyroid gland does not always cause hypothyroidism, but most often it causes an amazing feature of Brazil nuts. The amount of selenium in them and the effect of selenium on Hashimoto's disease is incredible. Selenium is a trace element. That is, it is needed in very small quantities. Selenium is involved in the work of more than 25 genes associated with antioxidants and reducing inflammation. Selenium is also found in shellfish, crustaceans, seafood, and organ meats. Brazil nuts contain the most selenium.  A nut a day will give you about 200 micrograms of selenium. In randomized controlled trials, it was shown that selenium reduces the number of antibodies that attack the thyroid gland. Selenium is able to slow such attacks. When diagnosing hypothyroidism, they check the hormone that the pituitary gland sends to the thyroid gland, this is thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). When its level is elevated, this means that it does not reach the thyroid gland and this may indicate the presence of hypothyroidism. Selenium helps solve this problem. With Hashimoto's disease, the body produces a lot of hydrogen peroxide. Taking selenium, you help neutralize the effects of hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide, even on its own, can cause an autoimmune disease. In addition, selenium controls helper cells that manage the body's immune response, as well as regulatory cells that protect against autoimmune diseases. Since the brain, immune system, and reproductive system of the body are very dependent on selenium, it is likely that the thyroid gland is no longer sufficient. It does not work as it should. As a result, a person develops Hashimoto's disease and begins to get tired.  I'm freezing, gaining weight, and my hair is falling out and becoming brittle. So, I recommend eating two Brazil nuts a day. A little more is fine for my daughter, but no more. The problem is n't just a selenium deficiency, but also an excess. You need to get as much as you need in addition to Brazil nuts. I also recommend getting enough sun or taking large doses of vitamin D3. Vitamin D3 also helps regulate overactive immunity. I invite you to my course. If you have a thyroid body type, hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, goiter, cysts, and thyroid nodules, or excess weight evenly distributed throughout the body, this course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, food lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there. L