I decided to talk to you about the dark side of birth control. What's surprising is that birth control pills don't contain estrogen or progesterone. They're a synthetic version modified to mimic estrogen and progesterone, but it's not that simple. There are plenty of helpless side effects, including an increased risk of heart attack, high blood pressure, stroke, blood clots, breast cancer, dementia, depression, acne, and mood swings. Autoimmune diseases like lupus can be activated. Birth control pills can also cause weight gain because cortisol and insulin levels rise. Zinc, selenium, magnesium, and vitamin B12 are also depleted. Another side effect is melasma, a hyperpigmentation of the skin when the skin pigment darkens in the form of a rash. Birth control pills can also alter the microbiome, not only in the intestines but also in the vagina. As for the reasons why women take birth control pills, in addition to the obvious reasons, they are also taken to avoid heavy periods. So, there are different reasons, essentially, birth control  They trick the brain and stop ovulation. Ovulation occurs somewhere on the 14th day when the egg is released. By taking birth control, you stop ovulation and menstruation so that there is no bleeding, although some still have it, but many people do not understand that taking birth control stops estrogen and progesterone. You see, in the monthly cycle, somewhere on the 14th day, there is a surge of estrogen and in the second half of the month, there is an increase in progesterone. In men, everything is different. They produce testosterone without a break, while in women, their two hormones, estrogen and progesterone, are released in two large surges, and not every day. The problem is that if these surges are removed, a woman does not think about long-term effects, and these long-term effects can occur after menopause and affect bones and longevity. You see, women live longer than men because they produce estrogen. Estrogen can act as an antioxidant, but all this will not happen if you take birth control pills. What to do then. Let's look at how well Contraceptives are effective in preventing pregnancy. Birth control pills are 93-99 percent effective, depending on how well you follow the instructions. Then there are cervical caps, which are 93 percent effective. Next, there are intrauterine devices (IUDs). There is a hormonal version that is 94 percent effective, and a copper-containing version that is 99 percent effective. Copper IUDs, which I made a video about, are better than hormonal versions because they have fewer side effects. But they still cause complications. Condoms are 87 percent effective. The next remedy I like is called natural cycle pregnancy management. This is an app, you don't need to use any creams or pills, and it's quite effective, from 93 to 98%.  It all depends on how well you follow the instructions. Considering the side effects of other medications, this app deserves attention. The link to it will be below so you can see everything for yourself and try it. Perhaps this method is the safest. If you decide to continue taking pills, I highly recommend doing something to counteract these chemicals that affect the liver. I recommend increasing the amount of cruciferous vegetables in your diet, as well as fermented vegetables like sauerkraut and kimchi, and taking good probiotics. It is also worth getting more zinc, selenium, vitamin B12, and magnesium to counteract deficiencies caused by birth control pills. I invite you to my course for ovaries and body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, food lists, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.