Aren't you afraid to find out what sausages are actually made of? Do you want to know or is it better not to? Let's face it. I'm not talking about the streets and not about what they pour on it all, let's talk about the sausages themselves. Let's start with what they put in the so-called trimmings, what kind of trimmings are these? This is low-quality muscle meat, fat, meat from the head, feet, skin, blood, liver and edible offal. Let's see what this means. Edible offal, blood, brain, intestines, kidneys, liver, mechanically deboned meat, pork legs and tail, skin, spleen and tongue. It is also written here that it is mainly the non-meat part of the animal carcass that is edible from a biological and nutritional point of view. It can be made microbiologically safe for human consumption, this means that it is made safe and through long enough heat treatment to kill germs. Mechanically deboned meat is ingredients that are turned into a paste and sausages are made in a huge crusher under pressure, but there are problems here. Firstly, what did these animals eat, most likely GMO grain, in what conditions did they live? Were they given hormones, antibiotics, etc.  Next, let's look at the ingredients. By the way, 20 billion sausages are sold in the world every year. Many people eat a lot of sausages. So, let's look at the composition. The first point is salt, not sea salt, but simply sodium chloride. There are spices, but they don't write what preservatives there are, plus most likely monosodium glutamate and other chemicals. And here's the problem: corn syrup. Why add corn syrup at all? Sausages and dextrose are synthetic sugars. Sometimes it's made from corn. Of course, the problem with GMOs is that when you boil or fry these proteins, with this carbohydrate, or rather with these carbohydrates, so -called advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are formed. These are sticky proteins that create all sorts of problems in the body. There are a lot of diseases associated with these AGEs. Below there will be a link with information about this. So, if you buy sausages, I'm not even against eating them with all my heart. Get them from grass-fed meat. Organic, grass-fed sausages with sea salt and celery powder instead of preservatives. Make sure there is no sugar in the ingredients. Thanks for watching. Don't know what to cook for? Keto will help you with a two-week menu book for three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from affordable products, the basics of keto and fasting, follow the link below