Why is systolic pressure much higher than diastolic? This condition is called isolated systolic hypertension. Normal blood pressure is 120 over 80. The upper systolic number is an indicator of heart contraction, and the diastolic number is an indicator of the relaxation phase. Isolated systolic hypertension is when the upper number exceeds 130. Sometimes it can be much higher than 160 or 180. This is the most common type of hypertension among people over 65 years old. According to the Mayo Clinic, what is the cause of this phenomenon? If you read some studies, you can find out that it can be due to hypertension and hyperthyroidism, diabetes, but you will not find high cortisol among the causes unless you look in other sources. For example, in this book, the medical atlas from the CIBA company, volume 4, endocrine system, page 86, and this is from the chapter that talks about high cortisol levels. I will read to you that cortisol can be a cause of moderate hypertension, which most typically begins with high systolic pressure and gradually moves to high diastolic pressure. This information is difficult to find.  Just a regular search for high systolic pressure, but by entering high cortisol and pressure, you will get much more information, but without knowing about their connection, you are unlikely to even search for it. So what is the big deal with high cortisol? First of all, it causes significant sodium retention and also creates significant potassium suppression. Every time potassium is suppressed, this alone can lead to high blood pressure and affect the sympathetic nervous system. This part of the nervous system controls upper pressure, the upper sympathetic, and the lower parasympathetic. Here is another possible relationship. High cortisol also causes nitric oxide suppression. Nitric oxide is a natural substance produced by cells like vasa bellator that relaxes blood vessels. To lower blood pressure, cortisol suppresses it. You can also eat certain foods that are rich in nitric oxide, for example, beets, garlic, meat, and dark green leafy vegetables. Here is something else you can try: start taking more vitamin D, at least 20,000 international units of vitamin D, of course, when you drink  You also need to drink 200 micrograms of vitamin K2. They need to be taken together. And here's another thing: vitamin D is one of the most wonderful substances for lowering blood pressure. And the connection between vitamin D and high cortisol is this: people with high cortisol almost always also have a vitamin D deficiency. When you take vitamin D, it will help you lower cortisol. This is the connection between them. I think the reason is that vitamin D is not actually a vitamin but a hormone. Its effect on the body is similar to cortisol to a certain extent. It eliminates inflammation, is very helpful for autoimmune diseases, and definitely helps with hypertension. In addition, I advise you to start taking potassium and consume more leafy greens to get more potassium and nitric oxide. I think this alone will help you a lot. Try it and write about the results. If you want to know more about how to make your body healthy, subscribe now and receive daily notifications.