The medical community does not recognize adrenal fatigue as a disease. Their solution is unclear because the adrenal glands exist and can burn out due to excessive stress, resulting in excess cortisol, which is called Cushing's syndrome. A lack of cortisol and other adrenal hormones is called Addison's disease. So why ca n't a person's adrenal glands wear out or become tired? The two most important symptoms of adrenal fatigue are chronic fatigue and chronic inflammation because cortisol is generally an anti-inflammatory hormone. But if the adrenal glands are weak and cortisol runs out or if it no longer works, that is, you have cortisol resistance, then inflammation occurs. Of all the things you can do to get rid of adrenal fatigue, the most important and effective thing is to sleep more. One hundred percent of people with adrenal fatigue sleep poorly and cannot replenish their energy. Sleep alleviates stress in the body, so it is not always about diet. In this case, you need to restore the quality and quantity of sleep, because as soon as this happens, the body will begin to replenish  Energy will be restored and you will be able to withstand more stress. What could be preventing you from sleeping normally? It could be pain or inflammation. You will hardly be able to sleep when your back hurts or when something is inflamed. Take vitamin D. I recommend about 40 thousand international units. You will find that the pain goes away after a few hours, but even if not hours, then after a few days. The more active the adrenal glands are and the more tired they are, the less vitamin D you have in your body. With adrenal fatigue, in most cases, a deficiency of 2-3 occurs. Then, nightmares, strange dreams, thoughts, analyzing everything and everyone to the point of exhaustion, can interfere with your sleep. This is a B1 deficiency. Here you need nutritional yeast. This will get rid of nightmares and help you sleep peacefully. Other things that can also affect you include: Electromagnetic fields, I'm talking about electronic devices, computers, phones. You'll be shocked if you check all of this and discover how far electromagnetic fields can reach from outlets next to your bed, from a laptop, even from a spare laptop battery, from a printer, and from Wi-Fi devices. I recently removed all of this from my home and was amazed at how it changed my physiology. I have much more energy and have started staying awake longer. MT is becoming more and more of a problem lately because of this whole 5G situation, which I can't talk about otherwise this video will simply be deleted. But take at least the regular electronics around us, this is a very important factor. It can affect the adrenal glands and interfere with sleep. Just buy a tester to measure mp. and check your bedroom, you'll be surprised that this could be one of the reasons why you can't sleep. The following: your heart beats too fast and you have a high pulse due to a deficiency of potassium or magnesium, this will keep you from sleeping. High blood pressure will also keep you from sleeping. If you have problems with blood pressure, you need more potassium, magnesium, and vitamin D. If you have arrhythmia, it can prevent the body from entering a relaxed state. At night, the heart pounds, jumps, beats faster, or, on the contrary, sometimes dies. Usually, this is due to a deficiency of potassium or magnesium. You'll have to work on this. This could very well be the case. I can recommend three excellent remedies for arrhythmia. Berberine is known to help with arrhythmia. The second remedy is quinine, you can only get it as a supplement. The third remedy is forskolin. A combination of these three remedies can help a lot if you have problems with arrhythmia. Another cause could be an irregular heartbeat, which can also be scary, because many people think that this is abnormal. Most people have it and it is quite normal.  If it doesn't go beyond certain limits, you can monitor your heart for a couple of days with monitoring devices to see if there's a problem. So many people think they have problems when it's not, because their heart rate stays within normal limits. Long walks are very important for sleep. Exercise is also very, very important. I walk at least 45 minutes a day. Reducing carbohydrates in your diet relieves a huge amount of stress on the sympathetic nervous system. If you can't get out of the fight- or-flight stress mode, fast and reduce carbohydrates. This will get you out of that mode. Reducing carbohydrates can help the parasympathetic nervous system. Then, go to bed when you're tired. Many people go to bed on a schedule. Sometimes they can get tired at 8:39 or at 9:30, but it's too early for them to go to bed and they endure it. Then suddenly they can't sleep a wink. They were tired an hour ago and now they can't. And if you sit up past midnight, it becomes very difficult to fall asleep and it sometimes takes a whole hour to fall asleep because the body has circadian rhythms. You need to catch this wave and enter delta sleep.  I go to bed when I'm tired quite often. I go to bed at nine thirty. This suits me when my body is tired. If you don't sleep at night, use this: The Dream Fly During the Day. This will help with adrenal fatigue. Most importantly, if you have tired adrenal glands, most likely something is causing stress. Find out what and do everything possible to fix it. This will also help. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my adrenal course. Body type is the most common type. Thanks to such a thing as stress, during the course I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.