Let's talk about the plant-based meat scam. Believe me, nothing makes my blood pressure jump as much as this topic. It's complete nonsense to say that plant-based meat is healthy, clean, and helps save the environment, but real meat harms not only our health but also the environment. This is a complete lie. In fact, meat, especially red meat, is one of the most healing foods. It not only contains a huge amount of protein, but also B vitamins, iron, selenium, zinc, and many other nutrients. What's in plant-based meat? Plant-based meat is impossible to subsidize. Bill Gates first takes genetically modified yeast, and this yeast creates a type of heme that is found in blood protein. Moreover, they create it from soy, and this substance is used as a coloring additive. This is not all that is in this meat. There is also soybean oil, and in its production they use the solvent xane, corn oil, modified food starch, cultured dextrose, which is a synthetic sugar, isolates from soy protein, and methylcellulose, which is in  It's impossible to have anything even remotely similar to the nutrients in red meat in plant-based meat. As far as I know, no tests have been conducted on this GMO heme. That is, they sell it without conducting any tests. And what about safety studies? There is such a formulation as "Generally recognized as safe." The manufacturer of this meat requested that it be recognized as safe in PM in 2011 but was denied. In 2017, the company reapplied, but instead of a ninety-day safety test, this company conducted a twenty-eight-day test. It itself tested the safety of its own product, and this loophole allowed it to recognize the product as safe. If I'm not mistaken, I read that this test was conducted on only ten female and ten male rats. Is this a sufficient sample for such a test, of course? This meat was recognized as safe, but if we look a little deeper, we will find interesting information: these rats lost weight, their blood biochemistry was disrupted, there were reproductive changes in the uterus, but it was said that there were no harmful effects. Incredibly, let's move on to the environment. Let's talk about why beef is so harmful to the environment. We are told that a lot of water is needed for beef. A lot of resources.  But if we look closely, we will see that rainwater is taken into account in these calculations, but if we compare honestly, and not warm with soft, then we must take into account that 70% of fresh water reserves are used to irrigate crops, and 53% of this water is used to irrigate rice, wheat, and cotton, and it turns out that less fresh water is needed to produce beef. This is if we subtract rainwater, because it complements fresh water. For example, growing almonds in California takes 10 times more fresh water than raising cattle, but almonds from California do not bother us. Oh, this is a useful product, very interesting. And the next point about cattle consuming resources. The resources consumed by cattle are 85% made up of things that people cannot eat. For example, field corn, people do not eat it, as well as beet pulp, the entire stalk of corn, cattle eat it, soy, the entire plant, and all this material that people cannot eat, animals turn into excellent protein products that we can eat. So, in reality, only 16% of agricultural crops that we can eat go to  cattle feed no one is now speaking out against chickens and pigs, they are mainly attacking cows. If we take agricultural crops in general, then for every 100 kg of grown agricultural crops there are about 37 kg of by-products that people cannot eat but which can be used as cattle feed. But if we talk only about those by-products that people can eat, then only 2 kg 800 g of them are needed to get half a kilo of beef and only 3.2 gma of such grains are needed to get the same amount of chicken or pork. If we replace cows with only plants and all become vegetarians, we will not be able to use about 2/3 of the land that we use now because certain plants cannot be grown in certain areas because there are either too many stones or rocks where you can’t plant a garden, you can’t grow anything or the soil is too bad. But imagine that cows can live in such areas. They can eat not only grass but even weeds. I have a lot of cows and they eat weeds all day long and the land on which crops are grown is fertilized. If there are no animals, where will we get fertilizer from manure? Let's discuss cow burps. There is methane. 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions are methane, and all the methane from the burps of all farm animals makes up only about 2.7% of all emissions. This is not much methane. Grasses and other plants absorb carbon dioxide, it enters the ground and accumulates there as carbon. Animals eat plants, eat these carbohydrates, receive carbon, release methane, which enters the atmosphere for about 10 years and remains in the atmosphere and turns into water and carbon dioxide. Water and carbon dioxide again enter plants, trees, and this whole cycle repeats over and over again. So, if we consider the situation as a whole, farm animals do not add carbon to the atmosphere, they only ensure the carbon cycle of this chain during this cycle. That's why this video is called the Plant-Based Meat Scam. If you haven't watched my video about the most useful product that can heal the body, here it is. Watch it.