I warn you, you might quit snacking forever after this video, and here's why snacking is a very interesting and important topic. Why do people snack so as not to overeat later, so as to curb their appetite. Here's the thing: snacking increases insulin, which provokes hunger after just an hour and a half or two. That is, snacking increases appetite and promotes overeating. Why do people snack always because of hunger? Maybe they are drawn to something. Maybe people snack for various reasons: stress, depression, anxiety, just for the company. After all, others are constantly sharpening something at some meetings. Sometimes people eat only because food is nearby and available, and sometimes people snack because their previous meal eaten earlier in the day or yesterday causes a craving for a certain food. For example, I used to be addicted to Doritos chips. If I ate Doritos, I couldn't eat one piece, I ate the whole bag. It would be tomorrow, and I wanted Doritos. The same thing happened when I got hooked on Benny Jerry ice cream, I ate  I drank a half-liter bucket every night before bed and couldn't wait until the next evening when I would eat more. I have a question for you, what is worse, snacks or a high- carb diet. When I talk about these two phenomena, I compare a high-carb diet without snacks and snacks by themselves. I think that if you compare these two things, snacks are worse than a high-carb diet. 7 years ago, when I weighed 96, I had things going on and a round face, problems with blood sugar, and I ate pretty well, but I ate an apple with peanut butter for my second breakfast and for an afternoon snack, and that's the only thing I changed. Later, I removed this snack and lost weight to 82 kilos. I still think that the problem was precisely in that snack. I think you can conduct an experiment. If you are new to the channel and you snack, just try to conduct such an experiment. Don't change anything in your menu, just combine snacks with main meals, eat only three times and nothing in between and see what happens. My hypothesis is that snacks are worse than a high-carb diet. Of course, I recommend  a low-carb diet without snacks, but I think if we compare only this, then snacks are more harmful. There is an interesting study (link will be below) showing that snacks are the only independent factor causing excess weight in children. At first, I thought, well, probably the fact that they eat a lot of unhealthy things and so on, but the more I delved into the issue, the more important snacks became. My childhood fell in the 70s. I remember that we all ate all sorts of unhealthy things in huge quantities, but we definitely did not have as many snacks as they do now. The popularity of snacks began to grow after 77 in the eighties and nineties and has grown to the current situation when 97 percent of children constantly snack on something, but in the early seventies, people did not snack so much, we ate three times a day and there were not even close to as many people with obesity as there are now. There are two main factors that stimulate insulin in general. 3, but we will discuss 2. 1 is a high-carbohydrate diet. 2 and yes, in principle, the meal itself activates insulin, and so many carbohydrates and food intake  We'll also include snacks here, because if you add two snacks to three meals a day, your insulin will spike several times throughout the day, and your pancreas won't have the opportunity to calm down and rest. It's like exercising 6 times a day instead of a couple of times a day, or even once a day. Anything that excessively activates insulin ultimately leads to resistance. insulin resistance is a condition when the pancreas produces even more insulin than necessary, but the receptors don't accept it, so in some places in the body there is little insulin, and in others there is too much. If people with insulin resistance checked their insulin, they would see that they have too much of it. This is hyperinsulinemia. With insulin resistance, there is usually too much insulin, unless you are a long-standing diabetic and the pancreas is already burning out, then insulin becomes less and less. Normally, insulin suppresses the process of sugar formation in the liver, it is called gluconeogenesis. When insulin increases, the liver stops producing new sugar. You can get sugar from food, and blood sugar will increase, or sugar can be produced in the liver from non-carbohydrates. sources of proteins, fats, or even ketones, that is, the liver can produce sugar although you do not consume sugar at all. Now the question is how is this possible? There is excess insulin in the blood, but the liver still actively produces new sugar. This is all because of insulin resistance. It does not work. Feedback informs the pancreas. We do not receive a signal to add more insulin. In people with insulin resistance, of whom I think the majority, gluconeogenesis works hard. The liver produces a lot of sugar, and this explains why, on that diet, someone's blood sugar is still elevated. You eat few carbohydrates, but in the morning, sugar is too high. What is this? It's all about insulin resistance. Let me briefly go over this because it happens that with excess insulin in the body, cognitive functions deteriorate, memory weakens, confusion occurs, attention is scattered, mood changes, depression begins, anxiety and irritability doubles. The risk of developing cancer doubles, excess fat is gained, especially on the waist, on the stomach and hips, the risk of cardiovascular disease, stroke, diabetes, hypertension, polycystic disease increases.  Ovarian muscles weaken, appetite increases, food intake provokes hunger after an hour and a half, as I already said, amyloid plaques appear in the brain, this is a harbinger of Alzheimer's disease, fat appears in the liver, vision changes, you begin to see worse, kidney problems and neuropathy are problems with the nerves in the soles of the feet, two types of food do not activate insulin, carbohydrates activate, excessive amounts of protein increase insulin, two types of foods do not activate it, this is fat and fiber. I am not talking about all these new synthetic fibers in ketogenic sweets, I am talking about fiber from vegetables, I am not talking about fiber from cereals that are full of carbohydrates, I am talking about fiber-rich leafy greens. Here's what I recommend in this video, of course, you need to stop snacking. In the first stage, you can add a snack to lunch as a dessert. Try it, I promise, it will be easier later, you will at least start moving in the right direction. In the second step, you can switch to a low-carb diet, it will lower insulin and reduce the urge to snack. Secondly, start eating more fats, especially at the end of a meal.  To keep your body full and help you go longer without food and not snack, trying to give up snacking on a low-fat diet is very difficult, but remember, fat does not activate insulin, and this can help against insulin resistance. Third, start increasing the fiber in your diet. I'm not talking about added fiber, which is added to the diet but is not part of the product. I'm talking about vegetable fiber. Eat more lettuce before eating, which can weaken the insulin response because it weakens the glycemic index of carbohydrates. You can also add fats to the fiber. Let's show you on the next slide. Let's say a green salad with olive oil is an excellent combination against insulin resistance. Or celery with peanut butter. You can eat it right after a meal. This will help with insulin resistance. Celery is mostly water with fiber, almost no sugar, and nut butter with it. Heavy cream with berries. If possible, use whole cream from raw milk. It's good, it's much healthier. I recently released a video about this. The link will be below. If you mix whole cream in a blender with berries, it's a great dessert. Or you can whip heavy cream and add berries. Vegetables can be eaten with butter, cough, or butter. This also reduces insulin resistance. Another way to reduce insulin resistance is training. Physical exercise has been proven to reduce insulin resistance. This will also burn excess sugar produced by the liver through gluconeogenesis. I want to mention one thing. Sometimes people eat because of low blood sugar. What do you think caused the low blood sugar? High insulin lowers blood sugar. When you snack to compensate for low sugar, insulin comes into play and now you have low sugar again. It's an endless cycle. You need to regulate your sugar levels by cutting carbohydrates and doing what I just talked about. To speed up the process, you can do something else. Vitamin B1. I prefer nutritional yeast as a source of natural B1, but not fortified potassium. Potassium is a very important mineral for this problem. Chrome is a trace element that will help regulate sugar levels. Zinc is very important for the pancreas and the cells that produce insulin. Finally, magnesium and vitamin D. I hope I've enlightened you a little about the dire consequences of snacking, but there are  I'll tell you about other useful information about imbalances, and I'll talk about this in this course. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.