Today I'm going to talk about a version of vitamin B12 that I recommend avoiding, it's called cyanocobalamin. It's a molecule that contains cobalt, which is the basic structure of B12. There are different versions of B12, cyanocobalamin, a synthetic version, it's very cheap, it's found in almost all fortified cereal products, in bars, it's found in most synthetic vitamins. If I'm not mistaken, it's also added to baby formula and the like, and it's definitely in energy drinks. And sometimes it's added in very large doses, sometimes from 8,000 to 14,000%.  from the daily requirement and the problem that I don't like is that there is cyanide bound to cyanocobalamin, a cyanide molecule. But people often dismiss it. It doesn't matter. There's little of it there. Our liver copes with its removal quite well. But what if you drink these energy drinks and vitamins, eat a lot of refined grains and receive huge amounts of cyanocobalamin? Cyanide blocks the flow of oxygen to the mitochondria. And this destroys its engine. It's interesting. In case of cyanide or carbon monoxide poisoning, doctors use one remedy to help a person, which I talked about in recent videos. It's called methylene blue. Methylene blue is an antidote to cyanide because it bypasses damage to the mitochondria and supplies them with the oxygen they need. When injecting B12, a synthetic version is also often used. There are side effects such as vomiting, stomach problems, potassium deficiency, which can lead to arrhythmia, headache, fever, dizziness, and so on. But personally, I think the main problem with cyanocobalamin is cyanide to the body.  You just don't need a lot of cyanide. Our liver is indeed capable of removing small amounts of cyanide, but I'm talking about large amounts. Now, let's add to this what I see in quite a few DNA test results: an inability to completely remove toxins. That is, many people have mutations or problems with the genes responsible for removing toxins. If you have this problem and you take a lot of cyanide, it can be difficult to remove it. In addition, a very common genetic problem is related to methylation. Methylation is essentially adding something to a chemical in the body. It helps remove toxins and improve processes in the body and our health. You may have heard of a problem with a gene called methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase. It sounds like a spell, but don't be afraid. If you have a mutation in this gene, then you will have problems with methylation. This means that if you take the wrong form of B12, you will have even more serious problems. If you have this genetic problem, then you need the natural form of B12. I said amethyl cabalamin. By the way, I would always take it in combination with methylfolate. After all, if you take synthetic folates, they are found in fortified cereal products, then there may be more problems. I advise taking methylcobalamin. It will help. If you have these problems with genamine, this is the active form of B12. It stays in the body much longer than the synthetic version. It can greatly improve sleep and reduce the need for it. It helps you wake up alert and fresh. It helps those who do not feel tired in the evening and just lie in bed until 2-3 am fall asleep. It is good for the nerves. Especially for the myelin sheath, because its deficiency leads to numbness, tingling, paresthesia and other degenerative diseases of the nerves. Methylcobalamin also greatly improves the accommodation of the eye, that is, the ability to see without glasses. Often people start taking methylcobalamin and notice that their vision has improved. Methylcobalamin increases melatonin levels, apparently that is why it improves sleep. It also reduces homocysteine ​​levels, which creates the risk of heart attack and stroke. It even normalizes cortisol, the stress hormone. It is also important to say that  Many people have B12 deficiency for other reasons than because they do not take the correct form of B12 or do not eat foods rich in it such as liver, red meat, and so on. They may have inflammation in the stomach, active Helicobacter pylori, lack of hydrochloric acid, gastric shunt, or even inflammation in the intestines, especially in the lower last part of the small intestine where B12 is absorbed. If there is inflammation, irritable bowel syndrome, Crohn's disease, diverticulitis, or something else, then you need to take more of the correct form of B12. B12 is very, very important for red blood cells. With B12 deficiency, anemia is possible. If we take the wrong form of B12, cyanocobalamin, which directly reduces the level of oxygen in red blood cells, then this is illogical. We do not need to add cyanide to the diet. There is also a form of B12 called hydroxycobalamin, but it must be converted. Another form of it is adonazyl, it is active, it can be taken. But it does not have a methyl group, which is needed for many problems with genes. In general, I wanted to talk about how  It's important to take the right form of B12 and avoid the wrong form. I hope you're not one of those people who drinks a lot of energy drinks or cereals. But if you are, watch this video.