I have seen many times how when a temperature rises, people immediately try to bring it down. But this is a big mistake. Let's look at the basics. Normal body temperature is in the range of 97.8 to 99 degrees Fahrenheit or 36.5 to 37.2 Celsius. These values vary slightly depending on age, gender, and so on. Babies and children usually have a higher temperature. The normal temperature of a newborn baby is 99.5 Fahrenheit or 37.5 Celsius. With age, we get colder. After 80, the temperature can be 34.2, and the person will be completely fine. The problem is that when he has a fever, his temperature may be normal for someone who is younger, and the purpose of a high temperature is to fight pathogens and help reduce the duration of an infectious disease. And if you immediately throw in ibuprofen and paracetamol to bring down the temperature, the infection lasts much longer than necessary. The temperature also helps mobilize white blood cells and increase their number. It's just amazing. There are many ways to speed up the course of an infectious disease. One of them is taking the right nutrients. Regarding children, I have found that if you give them calcium, for example, calcium lactate, it seems to help them overcome the infection very quickly. I have recommended this as a natural means of reducing fever. In fact, it simply increases the ability to fight infection. And in addition to calcium, it is very important to take trace elements. It is also very important to fast. During an infectious disease, people lose their appetite, and in this case, you just need to not eat for some time, because this will actually strengthen the immune system to a great extent. Let's consider at what temperature you should call a doctor at a given age if a baby under 3 months has a temperature above 38. It may be worth calling a doctor if a child is from 3 months to 3 years old and has a temperature above 39, call a doctor if at the age of up to 18 years the temperature rises above 4. It may be worth calling a doctor. And if you are over 18 years old and the temperature rises above 4 and 5, call a doctor, but at a lower temperature. I would usually take measures to strengthen the immune system and would not try to automatically bring down the temperature with drugs. Instead, I advise immersing yourself in a hot bath and putting on lots of clothes when going to bed.  To make someone sweat, it seems to always work great. There is some interesting data about temperature: when a person lies, the temperature of their forehead, eyes, and neck rises, while the temperature of their nose decreases. So, if you suspect that someone is lying to you, put your hand on their forehead and let them answer your question. Are you eating something you shouldn't eat? Just don't say. What is it that I advised? When someone eats red hot chili peppers, their temperature rises, and that's why I particularly like red hot chili peppers. And in general, any pepper not only helps raise the temperature, but is also very rich in vitamin C. So, any hot pepper is very useful. When you have some kind of infection, by the way, people usually sleep better when the room is cool. When you smoke, the temperature usually rises. I don't recommend smoking with a fever. But when you have a fever, you need to maintain it by staying warm.