Hi all.  We're back with answers to your questions about everything related to the tetogenic diet and nutrients. Whatever I say, it is not a diagnosis and not a replacement for treatment.  Please consult with a qualified healthcare professional to ensure our advice is consistent with your needs.  Thank you. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. Steve, let's get started.  Many people have questions.  Undoubtedly, the question is from Ata Akash from YouTube from the vast country of our fans, India.  You have a lot of videos on how to lose weight, but no videos on how to gain weight.  In India, many young people are underweight.  I am 23 years old and I am a vegetarian.  Please tell me in a separate video or in this program about how to gain weight. Thank you.   It's all very simple.  Watch my videos about losing weight and do everything the other way around. No, to gain weight without harming your health, you just need to consume more calories and train more with heavy weights to stimulate muscle hypertrophy and growth.  You don't want to gain fat, right?  two factors, more dense meals, but I would still do without snacks.  I would just eat three or two times a day and get more calories.   There is no need to turn into a wrestler, eat a lot of rice and drink beer. I think the method I described is the most useful. Great.  We wish you good luck with this.  Sheren from YouTube.  I'm 63 and my hair is thinning a lot in the front of my head.  Could this be a side effect of hormonal changes?  What do you think about hormone replacement therapy?  Is there a better alternative?  So, there are some very interesting things about hair loss. We have a hormone whose level increases with age.  It's called DHT. This is a very potent form of testosterone.  This occurs in both sexes.  In men, hair thins on top. Men experience more hair loss on the crown of their heads. This is due to the more potent form of testosterone, DHT. There is a lot of information about this, but I will outline it briefly. And check out recent videos about it. If a person is going bald, and the skin on his head is slightly shiny and there is no hair on his head, someone is trying to restore hair.  The fact is that scar tissue forms in the place from which the hair grows.  It's called a follicle.  A follicle is like a small sac.  It ensures the supply of hormones and blood nutrients to the hair.  When follicles become damaged by excess DHT, hair begins to thin and stops growing. There are many medications that block DHT. These are enzyme inhibitors.  But there are also natural inhibitors.  You can read about them. When it comes to hair loss, there are some other remedies you should know about .  Number one.  Microneedling. This procedure breaks down scar tissue in the scalp.  An intensive massage with rosemary oil can help break down scar tissue and stimulate hair growth .  This is one of the best oils.  This remedy is similar to the one that has been researched. You can also stimulate hair growth with red light.  It stimulates mitochondria. This fabric has a couple of combinations that will help speed up hair growth.  But one very simple remedy is the nutrient zinc.  After all, zinc is needed for hair and can block DHT.  In general, there is a lot of data about this.  I have stated the essence.  Great.  We wish you good luck with this.  This question comes from Nazim from YouTube and it sounds alarming.  Why does a child's skin turn bluish and become short of breath during exercise and running?  He did not indicate how old the child was.   It is imperative that an examination be carried out, because this is not normal.   He has a serious problem with his blood circulation somewhere.  There could be many reasons.  Yes, if someone starts turning blue, it's time to get checked out by a qualified doctor who can determine what's going on. Yes, we wish you good luck with that.  Don't joke about this for God's sake.  Asks Natanbuk. What is the best way to build muscle and lose fat at the same time?  You have already touched upon this topic with this question. So when we are dealing with something like this, we need a combination of diet and exercise.  Diet provides 85% of the results, and exercise 15%. So diet is extremely important.  Start cutting carbs.  Eat enough animal protein. You can take creatine monohydrate. It helps your muscles grow bigger and gives you more energy for your workouts.   A good type of training for muscles is intense, high- volume training.  I'm not saying to train for an hour a day, but 40 minutes of strength training plus a low-carb diet, and then the muscles will break down, recover, strengthen and adapt. Over time, the situation will improve, but do not overtrain, and then the muscles will begin to grow.  The whole purpose of training is to induce muscle adaptation. There is a whole system for this purpose. Learn it and apply it while following a low-carb diet.  This way you will kill two birds with one stone: lose weight and build muscle.  Excellent question from en on YouTube.  What dietary supplements are best for a teenager with multiple allergies? Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. He needs to strengthen his immune system. Good remedies for this are colostrum, high doses of vitamin D3, and selenium.  Don't forget about magnesium when taking vitamin D. These are important factors for strengthening the immune system.  The immune system, part of the immune system, we get from the mother.  This is innate immunity. There is acquired immunity.  It is formed when we are sick, which allows the immune system to learn. If you place a child in an environment that is too sterile in early childhood, he will develop worse than a child living on a farm full of germs. Such a child develops a very strong immune system. Among other things, I would advise playing in the dirt more if you are a child, to build up your immunity. And if you get sick, you don’t need to bring down your temperature right away. Let your body go through this naturally so that your immune system becomes stronger. Excellent, writes Kristina from YouTube.   Please tell me how to improve metabolism during menopause.  Thank you. I'll make a video about it.  Some very interesting things happen during menopause.  Estrogen is greatly reduced . And very curious things happen with metabolism when estrogen decreases, and the problem of insulin resistance worsens. This is why during menopause your diet should be even healthier.  I'm talking about cutting carbs. Secondly, when estrogen levels drop, you can't activate vitamin D as effectively as before. Vitamin D receptor function deteriorates, so you need more vitamin D, which will directly and indirectly improve your metabolism. These are the two things I advise you to do until you watch my full video about this.