Today I'll tell you what happened when I followed the carnivore diet for 2 weeks. I think it's very important for everyone to experiment and try different diets because not everyone does well on the same diet. You can't put everyone under the same brush. All people can't be on the same diet. It's unrealistic because people's bodies are very different. We have different genes. We have different living conditions and different body problems. What's good for one person may not suit another, but at the same time, many people get simply amazing results on the carnivore diet. I'm talking about everyone who has intestinal problems, autoimmune problems. So, what I ate on this diet: beef, pork, eggs, seafood, shellfish. I ate dairy products. On this program, I ate a lot of sheep's cheese. I drank a little kefir. I didn't eat a lot of offal, I just don't like them. I ate fish liver, for example, cod liver. I didn't have the goal of taking a blood test before and after this two-week experiment. The main goal was to see how I would feel, and here's one of the effects that I really liked. It turned out that I had a small bloating And I didn't even know about it and here's what caused this bloating it wasn't caused by vegetables it was caused by nuts I was able to determine empirically when it's better to eat in the morning or in the afternoon and so on and so forth and simply put I came to the conclusion that I will eat when I'm hungry what else I noticed did I notice big changes in my energy level actually no because I usually have a lot of energy did I notice changes in my stool Yes I noticed actually in the first couple of days I didn't go to the toilet and then I started going I think that my intestinal microflora needed to adapt a little and that's what always People are very interested in if we don't feed our bacteria fiber what they eat well the topic of microflora is extremely complex Time will tell we haven't figured it out yet there are people who have been living on a carnivore diet for many years and they are doing great As for vitamin C where do I get vitamin C I think that on a carnivore diet the need for vitamin C is greatly reduced I have never heard of the development of scurvy and similar problems or of vitamin C deficiency in people on  The Root Diet actually has a lot of energy and huge improvements for people like these. I know people who don't eat dairy on the carnivore diet. I ate them because I love them and I don't have any problems with them. I love European cheeses, I love goat cheese, and sheep cheese. I don't like processed cheeses and I don't eat them. I do n't eat cheese in excessive quantities. I think high-quality cheese is very healthy, but many people have reactions to dairy products. Perhaps this isn't the best food if your intestines are inflamed. Some will say that dairy products have too many carbohydrates. The carnivore diet has zero carbohydrates, but you can argue about seafood, because, say, shrimp, crayfish, and other foods like this contain carbohydrates. There are carbohydrates, and offal has a little bit, but on the carnivore diet, the amount of carbohydrates is as close to zero as possible. There are also people who follow the carnivore diet and then add honey, fruit, and so on to their meat. I'm not going to do this and I don't recommend it to most people. I don't see the point in recommending it to everyone. Diet should be something individualized. If the mitochondria are healthy and can use different types of fuel, then if a person eats more carbohydrates, the mitochondria use this fuel. And this does not create a problem, but most people will have a problem if they start overloading with methacholine. Considering several blood biomarkers, you can see a holistic picture of biochemical processes. You can visually represent the crepe cycle. Each stage of this conveyor that converts food into energy can be represented. You can identify specific bottlenecks and, based on this, determine what is actually happening. This allows you to much better understand whether a person is eating right. This is a personalized test. You can test yourself in comparison with yourself over time. Using a lot of data, you can look at your biochemistry and see what is happening. This allows you to predict different things. You can even predict diabetes decades before it occurs instead of checking blood glucose and thinking about it. Glucose is normal. So, I am not at risk of diabetes at all, and my insulin was checked. Yes, they did n’t look at insulin, only at glucose. So, I think metabolomics is the future of medicine and healthcare. Here, it’s not about determining only the level of p or other lipids but let's get back to the carnivore diet will I stay on this diet No, I will not stay on this diet I will eat the same proteins but I really miss greens some have reactions to greens but I will not eat a lot of broccoli which makes me terribly bloated or those vegetables that increase bloating but I will eat arugula high-quality salad I grow myself And I miss fermented vegetables sauerkraut pickles kimchi and so on in greens I like to add extra virgin olive oil I like oil from Italy and I really love to add real Parmesan I think it's called Parmigiano Reggiano probably I sparkled pronunciation I also like to add nutritional yeast to greens I love to add feta cheese to greens In addition, when we add cheese to greens the calcium from the cheese binds all the remaining extra-virgin salads and they are excreted through the digestive system I will also include berries in the diet but I will not eat nuts anymore in general this is a short story about  I 'd love to hear about your successes. If you're on this diet, please write about them. Since we're talking about the carnivore diet, I think it's very important to understand how healthy red meat is. If you haven't watched the video about it, take a look here.