Today we will discuss how to stop hair loss.  I will also tell you about the best foods that promote hair growth.  Most often, baldness is caused by androgens.  I'll explain what this means. Androgenetic alopecia is either male- pattern, where hair falls out on the crown here, or female-pattern, where hair thins more here.  How is it even possible that hair grows on the chin but falls out here?  By the way, I have a perfect example of this here, as you can see.  Oh, I'll just take off my baseball cap. He has a lot of hair here and there.  There's nothing here.  Today we will answer why.  Let's start with the call. This is our hair, and this is the scalp. Around the hair there is a so-called follicle.  What is a follicle?  A follicle is not a hair, it is a small structure around the hair that contains a tiny factory that helps the hair grow. The follicle is unique in that it requires a huge amount of oxygen, and it also requires power plants.  These are the so- called mitochondria.  As we age, our hormone levels decrease.  In particular, testosterone levels decrease in both men and women. But there is another hormone, and it is a more potent form of testosterone. And it usually increases with age.  This hormone is called DHT.  And many hair growth medications work by blocking this form of testosterone called DHT and lowering its levels.  These are the so-called DHT inhibitors.  In the body, testosterone is converted into DHT. At the same time, with age, our testosterone levels decrease, and the level of DHT becomes somewhat higher. We need DHT, it affects our libido, but we don't need excess DHT.  If there is too much DHT, hair stops growing, oxygen deficiency occurs , scalp inflammation increases, and more scar tissue develops due to this lack of oxygen and inflammation.  And when scar tissue forms around the follicle , the hair stops growing, and the scalp even becomes shiny because of all that scar tissue.  This is the basic mechanism of androgenic alopecia.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  But that doesn't really explain why DHT levels get so high.   Is it a matter of age? No.  I'm 60 and my hair isn't falling out.  The man you saw may be a little older, but he lost his hair years ago.  Maybe it's a hereditary thing.  When we talk about the influence of genes on all of this, we are talking about greater activation of the enzyme 5 alpha reductase, as well as the fact that some people have more sensitive receptors to the hormone DHT .  Therefore, it is important to understand the mechanism of action of all factors that can increase DHT levels.  After all, even if you have a problem with your genes, there are things you can do to keep your DHT levels as low as possible. There is a problem with DHT-lowering drugs.  Yes, they can help grow hair, but they do have some minor side effects.  Your libido begins to decrease and rectal dysfunction occurs. After all, these drugs completely block the DHT hormone throughout the body. What is the main reason for increased DHT? In addition to aging and genes that increase sensitivity to this hormone. What is it?  Well, the main reason is insulin resistance. And this is not surprising, because insulin resistance is the root cause of many health problems.  With insulin resistance, the enzyme 5 alpha reductase is more activated and more testosterone is converted into DHT.  Moreover, insulin resistance affects the liver so severely that you cannot effectively regulate testosterone levels. As a result, there is more free testosterone, from which more DHT is formed.  And all this is because of insulin resistance. Now let's look at perhaps one of the most underrated methods of hair loss therapy.  The question is this.   Will reducing or a natural enzyme inhibitor that mimics drugs but without the side effects help?  And the answer is: probably not.  There is something much more important, and it has to do with the follicle I was talking about.  You need to tidy up what is around the follicle, everything that is around it.  After all, today you can have hair transplanted from the back of your head. to the top of the head or from other parts of the body to the top of the head.  But this is only possible with a follicle transplant, not the hair itself, but what it grows from. It is like the soil through which the root grows.  It's a whole ecosystem, an environment.  This is what you need to look at.  Yes, excess DHT starts this chain of events, but then a lot of other things happen.  the oxygen level decreases and hypoxia, that is, a lack of oxygen, occurs.  This can cause inflammation, and this whole ecosystem becomes inflamed.  Then the repair process begins , scar tissue forms, and the skin becomes shiny.  And now you're bald. One of the most underrated therapies that is very effective is number four.  Mechanical stimulation of the scalp.  After all, you need to awaken the stem cells. You need to break down the scar tissue. There are many ways to do this.  Many people use intensive scalp massage .  But in fact, the most effective method is microneedling.  Microneedling is very similar to what I did in one of the pastures on my farm.  I needed to loosen the soil so that water could get into it, so that oxygen could get into it, so that the seeds could get into it. Microneedling, so to speak, loosens the scalp, allowing oxygen to penetrate and repairs to begin. We stimulate the restoration process by activating stem cells at the cellular level, deep in the follicle. We have mitochondria, but the problem is that the mitochondria are kind of destroyed, they don’t work.  So we need to stimulate the mitochondria, both with microneedling and with another therapy called red or near infrared light therapy. This is an excellent therapy supported by extensive research.  The thing is, when light with a wavelength between 630 and 850 nanometers hits the scalp, it actually helps restore the mitochondria. Red light therapy is now being used for the eyes to improve vision.  After all, this light stimulates mitochondria.  What do we need to achieve?  We need to get more energy from the mitochondria so that there is energy for hair growth.  Many hair loss medications block the enzyme I talked about to reduce DHT. The exception is Regaine.  This is a very common medicine.  Regaine does not block DHT, it works differently. Regaine dilates blood vessels and improves blood circulation. After all, for hair to grow, the scalp needs oxygen.  Of all the products that imitate the action of Ridane or at least come close to it, rosemary oil is in first place. The phytonutrients in rosemary oil significantly improve blood circulation.  They also lower DHT levels, reduce inflammation, and help protect mitochondria. That is, we combine different products to increase their effectiveness and restore hair.   Did you remember to press the bell? If you only follow points 4, 5 and I think it will still not help unless you eliminate the underlying cause of hair loss. And these are points 1, 2, and 3. That is, we must not forget that insulin resistance also needs to be eliminated . There are very important nutrients that help speed up hair growth.  These are zinc and vitamin D. These two nutrients are undoubtedly the most important for stimulating stem cells and hair growth factors. I recommend taking at least 10,000 IU of vitamin D3 every day and recommend taking 30-40 mg of zinc.  And number three is additional inhibitors of this enzyme.  You can add them if you want.  I'm not saying you have to do this, but I'll just list all the natural 5 alpha reductase inhibitors. Seriennoa palm extract is a common remedy. pumpkin seed oil, a phytonutrient in green tea, EGCG. Peppermint oil is a powerful remedy, as I already said, zinc.  I will provide links below. But I also want to tell you what are probably some of the best foods you can eat to strengthen your hair in terms of nutrients. And this is the liver.  This is number one, of course. Onion is number two.  Who would eat liver without onions?  What is it about liver that strengthens hair?  It is a very bioavailable iron, heme iron, and hair needs it.  Liver also contains zinc and copper and other microelements such as selenium.  Onions contain a lot of quercetin.  It is a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent. Next, sauerkraut.  Why sauerkraut?  It not only helps improve gut health.  It has more vitamin C than anything else.  It contains about 700 mg of vitamin C per half cup. Sauerkraut contains over 600 different nutrients.  They provide many benefits to hair, including lowering DHT levels.  And let's not forget about pumpkin seeds.  They not only contain enough magnesium and other microelements. Pumpkin seeds and pumpkin oil are a fairly powerful 5- alpha reductase inhibitor, which helps reduce DHT levels.  However, the basis of this problem is still insulin resistance.   This is probably where this whole problem started.  I also have a whole course dedicated to solving hair problems. Once you've addressed insulin resistance, there's still a lot you can do to keep your hair healthy. Follow the link below.  I invite you to my course: Health Diagnostics by Hair.  Dry, brittle hair or oily hair, dandruff, hair loss, baldness, and premature graying are all signs that indicate problems within the body.  In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause.  Sign up using the link below.   See you.