Hello everyone. Today we will start the show with a live chat with Paf from Vancouver. Pav, you can ask the doctor one question. Hello, Dr. Berg. Thank you for asking a question. So, I am following a keto diet to heal my brain because I have been having seizures for 12 years. I no longer take medications, but I am losing weight. And I don’t want to lose weight because my weight will become lower than normal. I lost 5 kg in 2-3 months. In general, what can be done about this? Yes, you understand, you are in a vicious circle. After all, if you have seizures, you need deeper ketosis than the average person, which means you even need to take ketones, exercise, and intermittent fasting, but all this causes weight loss. And what should you do? Between two fires. And by the way, before I forget, magnesium glycinate is one of the remedies that you should read about. It will help resist seizures. There is excellent data about magnesium, but I would just experiment with fats. Try eating a little more fat, and you don’t need it to use up all your fat reserves, because they are needed. So Eat fat to burn it and not your fat, this can help, strength training will help you gain muscle mass. Try different intermittent fasting schemes. Maybe you just don't snack, but eat three times a day to get enough food. But this is not easy to do, because Naki is like your appetite disappears. So, experiment as little as possible to have a lot of ketones. Try all this and maybe even take ketones in the form of Bado. Maybe this will help your brain. I usually don't recommend taking ketones unless you need more energy. If you are an athlete, but in your situation, this can be an excellent solution to feed your brain with ketones. If there is a choice between carbohydrates and ketones, the brain prefers ketones over carbohydrates. And this is good, good. Thank you very much for the call. I hope this helps, and now let's move on to questions from viewers on social networks. And here is a question from Elizabeth. I have high calcium levels. How can I lower them? So you have too much calcium. You can do a couple of things. You can decide. I take too much vitamin D3. There is a mineral that controls calcium levels. There is a vitamin. I would take a dose of magnesium. This is the first thing and I would take it. Vitamin K2 and I would take zinc. I would probably reduce the amount of dairy products and if you look at the causes of hypercalcemia, you will see that there are many of them and we need to figure out what is the reason in the diet or is it in something else. I think you need to quickly consider the situation. Find all the causes of hypercalcemia. I have a video about this. Go through the list and see. What could be the problem. Calcium is very, very important. Yes, it is needed by bones. And not only. But mainly it is needed for intercellular communication, cells, hormones and everything else. The situation is kind of twofold. If there is not enough calcium, then there are no communication signals for hormonal structures. There are a lot of problems, but excess calcium kills the cell. So we need the right amount of it and we have different mechanisms that maintain calcium balance. This is an extremely complex system that is not coordinated. Calcium is the most common mineral and it seems that our bodies use it for communication and much more. That is, I would do what I said. Okay, and now a quiz question for our viewers. A second, what's going on here? Some kind of slowdown. Let's get back to the viewers' questions for now. I'll figure it out. So, from YouTube, here's a question that just appeared. Okay, if Steve, you accidentally ate too much sweets. How can you neutralize the side effects? Dear viewers, you can answer and we'll return to social networks. Angela wants to know what helps stop the growth of polyps in the colon. So, polyps are one of the mysterious things. This is a neoplasm in the colon. I have observed a connection between polyps and a couple of factors, usually not a very good diet, as well as low levels of vitamin D. So, I would start increasing my vitamin D levels and eat cruciferous vegetables. Most often, polyps are benign, but a small percentage of them can turn into an enemy. Watch my videos about this, there is more data in them, but you also need to make sure that you do not get constipated. In general, probiotics are also useful. Fermented foods such as sauerkraut. Many things can help you, including turmeric. Much has already been said about it. So I would do well. A question from Carrie. Is it possible to do something about spasmodic dysphonia or dysphonia? I don't know how to do it correctly. I would increase the dose of magnesium. Magnesium regulates calcium levels, which causes muscle contraction. Both flight and Smooth muscles including the heart So take more magnesium regularly sometimes changes do not occur immediately it may take weeks and the problem is that the magnesium level is almost impossible to detect its level in the blood has little relation to the level in the cells 99% of magnesium is in the cells and not outside them not in the blood it is difficult to check without a biopsy there are a couple of tests but they are very complex and most people have magnesium deficiency and this is a very important nutrient because it is present in more than three hundred enzymes that is the problem with magnesium well While the viewers answer the quiz question we will chat live with Malu I introduce you to Malu I ask you please ask one question to Dr. Berg Hello hi I learned about intermittent fasting 3 years ago my insurance covered the costs and I lost weight from 102 to 78 kilos yes yes and I participated in the fatty liver study for 10 years oh you have stage three this is terrible And after 5 years I came again to all these examinations Where they do an ultrasound they poke you in the ribs and all that and I They said and they do a blood test and they told me everything has passed, you don't have any signs of fatty liver Wow, this is at the University of California in San Diego, it's just wonderful, so then, but I knew that I had reached a plateau and the excess fat in my body was only for chewing and that's it, and it looks like sagging fat. I watched all your videos and Yes, it is sagging fat. I always knew about cortisol and all that. Oh well. The question is, during the World Cup, suddenly, for the last two or three weeks, my blood sugar has jumped terribly, and I wake up and it rises. This morning it was 123, and that's cool, because just recently it was around 150 in the last couple of weeks, which is very upsetting, and this morning it was 123 from 9 am until the morning, it rose to 183 today, and I didn't eat anything. Nothing at all, and I brewed a cup of green tea. So, yes, the liver creates glycogen, or whatever it's called, yes, but so it's upsetting. Yes, you don't eat sugar, so where does it come from exactly?  And if I eat anything, it jumps to 150, as if something is pulling it up, as if something is pulling it up, yes, yes, amazing. So, I would look at a couple of things, since it is obvious that there is some insulin resistance, but what is curious here is that this happens in the morning, and the morning differs from part of the day, especially when it comes to the mineral magnesium, its level changes. According to the circadian rhythm, it is lowest in the morning, and the need for magnesium increases with age if you have a subclinical magnesium deficiency. If you are on the verge of deficiency, then it intensifies in the morning. This mineral magnesium is necessary for enzymes in the liver so that they can restrain gluconeogenesis. So, I think you can eliminate this if you take it. Although it is not easy, 800 mg of magnesium glycine, one dose of 400 mg is five capsules, 10 a day. It is difficult. Perhaps you can find it in powder form, take it in the morning and always in the evening, even take it before bed. Read the label on the can and take 400 mg, but not magnesium oxide, but magnesium glycine.  Yes, and we'll see what happens tomorrow morning when you wake up, I'll be very surprised if the sugar is not normal. Then I'll tell you what micronutrients you need to speed up this process because all this is connected with biochemistry with cofactors and the cause of what you are facing cannot be identified with the help of tests, it is very difficult, so you just need to know about this mechanism and try it. This is a fairly inexpensive way to find the cause. Thank you very much Mal for the great question and for showing the audience an example of discipline. Let's move on to the answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this: If you accidentally overate sweets, how can you neutralize the side effects? One person, only one answered, smoke a hookah, I think this is unlikely to help. 90% said you need training. 2% said fiber. 5% said apple cider vinegar and let's see. 3% said water. So, there are a lot of options. Yes, you can do several things. You can burn it during training. Well, that's obvious. You can also add fiber, but not psyllium seeds and not fiber in the form of psyllium seed paste, but real fiber from these, like And from vegetables, you can eat fiber from vegetables. This way, you will also get phytonutrients, and this will curb the spike in blood sugar and reduce complications. You can also add fat to slow down the absorption of sugar, and imagine that even protein reduces the spike in sugar. In general, there are many ways, and also cinnamon. So, Steve, you can sprinkle cinnamon on your toast with sugar. This will curb the spike in sugar. Of course, this is a joke. You can do a lot of things. If you accidentally overeat sweets. Although, of course, you won’t do this, but suddenly one of your friends...