I'm sure you've heard a million times that you need to eat fruits and vegetables, fruits are lumped together with vegetables. What's interesting is that I want to make a distinction and separate them from each other and tell you something interesting about fruits. Firstly, when it comes to vegetables that most people eat, especially in the US, it's not lettuce, but corn, peas, and potatoes, and there are problems with these vegetables. But today's video is not about that. I want to focus on fruits. The last time I made a video about fruits, I literally stirred up a hornet's nest; many were unhappy because they love fruits. I'm just providing the data. Well, then see for yourself, but I want you to know something. Firstly, fruits have at least five times more sugar than vegetables, and this usually surprises people that 85 percent of the fruit is sugar, which makes up most of the fruit itself, and yes, there is vitamin C in fruits, no question about it, it's there, there's quite a lot of it, and there are phytonutrients, which is great, and there's even fiber, which is wonderful, but there's very little protein, so you can't even get close to the amount of protein you need.  Eating fruits there is very little Protein in them, very little fat, some people think that this is good, but fat We need very little iron and very few B12 vitamins at all, there is little calcium, young zinc, little omega-3 fatty acids, if they are there at all, and little vitamin D, if it is there at all. If you eat fruits and think that it helps health, supposedly. So you will get nutrients. Perhaps it is worth looking for a better source. Among fruits, there are some where there is little sugar, they can be eaten but in small quantities, say, half a glass, a glass a day, for example, berries in 100 g of raspberries are only 5 grams of sugar, quite a bit. Blackberries have 5 grams, blueberries have 12 grams a little more, but it will do, strawberries have 6 grams, if you eat berries, giving preference to raspberries, blackberries and strawberries, this will be the best. And what about kiwi? I am constantly asked about kiwi. In 100 grams of kiwi there are 14 g of sugar, I wouldn’t say that it’s prohibitive, if you eat a little, it’s normal. And what is unique in Kyiv is that in  It has a huge amount of vitamin C, it has a lot of vitamin C and it has more nutrients than other fruits, but I will warn you in Kyiv there are a lot of oxalates. If you are sensitive to them or predisposed to kidney stones, you should not eat kiwi. It seems I'm stuffy today. Bore. Let's also discuss the sugar in fruits. They contain fructose. They contain glucose, but now about fructose. Fructose is a unique sugar because only the liver can metabolize it. Other cells do not metabolize fructose. They can metabolize glucose but not fructose. And since fructose has a low glycemic index, you might think that it is safe, but this is not so because it overloads the liver. What is unique about fructose is that it suppresses ghrelin less, that is, the feeling of satiety will be reduced. And as a result, you will eat more fruit, like glucose-fructose syrup, you can drink a lot of it and there will be no satiety. Also, excess fructose can cause a surge in cortisol and  Through it, you will indirectly increase insulin. You will also cause a decrease in insulin sensitivity, and this leads to the end of linoresistance. This also leads to fatty liver. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Those who consume a lot of fructose, drink glucose-fructose syrup, or simply eat a lot of fruit can indirectly develop fatty liver insulin resistance, and this will cause a whole series of problems that I talked about in many other videos. My recommendation is that you need to eat vegetables. Eat vegetables. Don't eat fruit. You can have some berries. You can sometimes have kiwi if you want. And that's all there is much less sugar in vegetables. There is fiber. There are nutrients. That's what you should focus on since we're talking about sugar in foods. It's important to remember that creating and maintaining health requires a proper diet. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salmon, for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved  very stable results, join us too