I warn you, don't try this at home. I'll tell you about an experiment with the effect of sugar on vitamin B1. Every average American does this experiment unconsciously. Today we'll talk about this experiment, about what high levels of carbohydrates do to some nutrients, specifically vitamin B1, and what this can lead to. Of course, first of all, I'm talking about refined sugar, and also hidden sugars, for example, starch. Starch is essentially sugar. As for starch in all US food, this combination of starches and sugars will deprive you of vitamin B1 and cause symptoms. And you'll think that it's due to something else. But these are symptoms of B1 deficiency. First, I'll tell you a personal story about sugar and vitamin B1. When I was growing up, I ate a lot of sugar, but in my twenties, I met my future wife. We went to a restaurant and both ate a lot of pasta, pizza, and drank a lot of wine. A waiter walked past us with a dessert cart and said, " Would you like to try some before I threw them out?" As a child, I was taught that you can't throw food away, and we tried all the desserts that were there. When I went home that night, I  I thought I might have eaten too much sugar, I put my head on the pillow and I heard a pounding in my inner ear, my heart was pounding like crazy. It would seem that after this I had learned my lesson, but no. I continued to eat pasta, bread, cereal, and crackers for several years after that, of course, I had problems sleeping, and what did I do? I would go into a sugar coma every night to fall asleep, I ate half a kilo of ice cream every evening. It worked, and at least I could sleep. But when I woke up, I had fluid retention, which, by the way, is a vitamin B1 deficiency. If you eat so much sugar, without vitamin B1, a lot of lactic acid accumulates. And this leads to restless leg syndrome. My health began to slide downhill. I developed prediabetes, my eyes became dry and red, my eyelids from the inside became like sandpaper, and I didn’t know why, then I finally figured everything out. And now I don’t have a vitamin B1 deficiency. But then I put on myself the same experience that many people put on themselves right now, the average diet is 50, 60, or even  70% consists of empty carbohydrates, but I want to focus on vitamin B1. This is an amazing vitamin, and many complications that occur in various diseases, especially in both types of diabetes, are associated with a deficiency of vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 is responsible for supporting the nervous system. It also supports the conversion of fuel into energy, but the topic of this video is vitamin B1 deficiency. The first symptoms of deficiency are nervous tension, irritability, anxiety, clouded consciousness and shortness of breath, which affects breathing. A tremor in the hands may appear in the soles of the feet and in the fingertips, confusion, and a decrease in heart rate. But from any action, it will immediately jump up. Also, personality changes and low stress resistance often occur in alcoholics. But this is because alcohol deprives us of vitamin B1 even more than sugar: loss of dexterity and coordination, headaches, insomnia, and constipation. Otherwise, everything is fine, you don’t have to worry. Some will say, “But junk food is fortified with B vitamins.” Only natural B1 is different from artificial. Unfortunately, most vitamin complexes are artificial. The artificial version of vitamin B1 is called Amine mononitrate. It  A very cheap kilogram of this synthetic stuff can be bought for $30 in a jar with a hundred tablets, each tablet contains 100 mg of B1, and these jars cost $5.50. But they still make a ton of money on this. The jar costs more than the contents. Natural vitamin B1 is more expensive because it must be extracted from natural sources. I like the version of B1 called Aleane. It is very different from the artificial one. It is fat-soluble, and therefore it can penetrate into those tissues and those fat membranes where water-soluble vitamins cannot penetrate. For the absorption of synthetics, so-called active transport is necessary, that is, a certain protein carries it throughout the body. Saturation occurs quickly, so the body receives only part of the vitamin. If you have intestinal problems, and the absorption of the vitamin occurs in the small intestine, if you have any inflammation, you will not be able to absorb artificial vitamin A. Natural vitamin B1 does not need active transport. It is absorbed immediately, and small doses may be quite enough. Natural vitamin can penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Artificial vitamins, however,  The vitamin is poorly absorbed if you eat carbohydrates or drink alcohol. When I said that vitamin B1 helps produce energy, I meant its natural version. It helps mitochondria produce more energy. People also ask: What about benfotiamine? Benfotiamine is good for advanced glycation end products. What is it? This is when you eat sugar and carbohydrates at the same time, and the sugar combines with protein and makes it inaccessible. A sticky protein is created that clogs everything that can be used. If you have diabetes, take benfotiamine. You also need to know that for vitamin B1 to work, coenzymes are needed, and the most important of them is magnesium, as I already said. If you eat too many carbohydrates and do not compensate for them with vitamin B1, then this fuel will not be used over time. Sugar without vitamin B1 damages the mechanisms in the body. It begins to use energy worse because of this, and Alzheimer's disease occurs. Neurons can no longer get energy from glucose and other tissues. Therefore, a ketogenic diet is very important because it bypasses all this and gives The body gets its fuel from fat, not sugar. This fuel is packaged in a kind of fat called ketones. This is how we will support the cells. But in addition to this, it is important to get rid of vitamin B1 deficiency, otherwise you may still have problems. What is high in vitamin B1 is not in vegetables. They have it, but they also contain nutrients that counteract it, for example, oxalates, which counteract B1. Pork contains a lot of vitamin B1, as well as beef, wheat germ, and whole grains. But I do not recommend them because they are carbohydrates. Gluten. Vitamin B1 is found in offal, eggs, fish, and nuts, but it is low in fat and dairy products. A low-carb diet and do not allow vitamin B1 deficiency. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course of nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Ber will tell you about  Next Minutes: How they affect health and how to replenish them; more than 100 lessons; notes and lists; everything you need to understand this topic; sign up for the course using the link below.