Today I'll tell you about six mistakes that you can make when drinking water, so let's start with the first one: drinking too much water. Is it possible? Yes, many people force themselves to drink too much water, and without electrolytes that help cope with excess water. I know many experts say that the most important thing is to drink as much water as possible. The more the better. This is presented as the most important thing you can do. You need to drink 4 liters a day. Okay, that's all clear. But you exercise, sweat, get electrolytes, get enough salt. If you drink too much water, it can wash out electrolyte reserves, in particular salt, and cause hyponatremia, a lack of sodium in the blood. This is, by the way, one of the forms of dehydration. That is, if you drink too much water, it can lead to dehydration. I'm not against water, you just need as much as you need. Fortunately, we can feel thirst, which tells us when to drink. But if you are prone to kidney stones, you need to drink at least 2.5 liters of fluid a day because kidney stones are formed in supersaturated urine. Therefore, if you drink enough water, formation  It's almost impossible to get stones, but is it necessary at 75 to drink exactly 8 glasses of water a day? This depends on many factors that I will discuss in this video. So, first, you don't need to force yourself to drink water by the bucketful because hyponatremia can be fatal. I will leave a link to the data below. The second mistake is that drinking water too quickly is not the main problem, but if you drink water too quickly, sometimes the blood doesn't have time to balance this fluid. One of the functions of sodium is to balance fluid inside and outside the cell. When a large amount of water enters the body too quickly, it can cause swelling. Especially if there is a lot of water, this happens because sodium will begin to enter the cell too quickly, and outside the cell, a deficiency occurs. An imbalance occurs, so control yourself and don't drink water too quickly. The third mistake is that many people think that you can get drunk with other drinks, as if they can replace water. Coffee, tea, alcohol, which dehydrates the body. Sweet soda, which seriously dehydrates, and some think that soda restores water balance. So, remember that coffee and tea have a mild diuretic effect, that is, they remove fluid from the body, they restore water balance, and if in addition  In addition to this, taking diuretics that remove fluid from the body can cause dehydration, so you need to watch what you drink and by the way, not only the temperature outside, if you live where it is very hot, you probably need to drink more if you exercise and sweat a lot, you need to drink more if you do not exercise but sweat a lot for some reason, this is another factor, diarrhea or vomiting can very quickly lead to dehydration at the beginning of the transition to the tit 1 diet, when a lot of fluid is lost, you need to replenish it because all the sugar stored in the muscles and liver also retains a lot of fluid for every gram of stored glucose there is a gram of water, therefore, on a high- carbohydrate diet, the body turns into a sponge filled with fluid and when carbohydrates are reduced, this fluid begins to come out, therefore, if you do not take electrolytes with enough fluid, you can get dehydration, especially at the beginning of the tetta, I want to touch on another factor that many do not take into account when consuming a large amount of potassium, for example, in electrolyte drinks, if you do not take it together with this, enough for 3 in total with all other factors, this can also lead to dehydration. I I'm focusing on this because my electrolyte powder has a high potassium content and also enough sodium and salts, so there shouldn't be any problems. But if you exercise a lot, it's hot outside, you sweat and there's not enough salt in your diet. Let's say you don't add salt to your food. There's reason to think about it because potassium and sodium should be in the right proportions. But the most common situation is a lack of potassium due to a lack of vegetables in the diet and consuming a lot of salt. Usually, people have fluid retention and a potassium deficiency. If you add potassium, it usually helps. Then, the fourth mistake is to drink a lot of water during meals. This can dilute the gastric juice and hydrochloric acid. If you already have problems with this, if there is n't enough acid in the stomach or it's not strong enough, and this is a very common problem, especially among those over 45. Drinking water during meals will dilute the gastric juice and worsen the digestion of food, especially protein. This can lead to GERD or acid reflux. Therefore, I always advise that if you drink water during meals, don't overdo it. It's better to drink it half an hour before or after meals.  but this is not particularly categorical. If you feel thirsty during a meal, drink, but if you have a lack of gastric juice, drinking a lot of water will reduce the stomach's ability to digest protein. Then, 5. Drinking ice water in large quantities can affect the functioning of the vagus nerve. This is not the most important point; it does not apply to everyone. Some people can drink a lot of ice water and have no problems, but if the digestive system is weakened, say, there is severe bloating or many problems with digestion, a large amount of ice water can slow down the functioning of the vagus nerve, which is responsible for digestion. Good and the sixth mistake is drinking tap water. Some will say that tap water is safe, but all sorts of things are found in tap water that are by no means safe, not to mention regular chlorine and thorium, as well as glyphosate, which is a pesticide used for GMO products. Such water contains substances that affect fertility, hormones, the brain, and there are also carcinogens. In addition, tap water contains many nanoparticles of plastic, very small particles.  Install a good water filter. Since we're talking about water, be sure to watch my video about how much water you need during fasting. This is a very important video. Here it is.