I warn you, after watching this video, you can stop eating sugar, and I'm just giving information. 73 meta-analyses were conducted that cover 8,600 studies on sugar, and here's their conclusion: large amounts of added sugar are significantly associated with 45 negative health effects, including diabetes, asthma, depression, stroke, heart attack, gout, hypertension, dementia, cancer, and premature death. Otherwise, it's an excellent product. It's interesting that the World Health Organization states that up to 12 teaspoons of added sugar will not cause any harm to health. When someone tells me that he doesn't need a keto diet, because he doesn't have weight problems, I answer: "Have you heard of such a thing as skinny fat?" If you eat added sugar, then you probably have visceral fat in your liver. You just do n't know yet. 40% of people with normal weight have metabolic syndrome, which is high blood glucose, fatty liver, and high cholesterol. But there is one point about obesity: 20% of obese people have a normal metabolism and they live a long time, so The mere fact of being overweight does not mean that a person is very unhealthy or, on the contrary, healthy. There are other factors. Health experts say that sugar is empty calories. In fact, sugar is very toxic. About half of sugar is fructose, and the other half is glucose. Fructose is very toxic to the body. I would even say no less toxic than alcohol. If you think about how alcohol is made, it is produced from sugar of one kind or another. If you compare fructose and alcohol, what problems can they create? Both can lead to hypertension, myocardial infarction, heart attack, insulin resistance, fatty liver, and pancreatitis. Nature made sugar difficult to access. Our ancestors got sugar from fruits during the harvest season. Even honey has its own season. It is difficult to obtain because of the bees, but we have made sugar easily accessible. Some people are surprised. Why doesn't the government regulate sugar like alcohol? Well, you shouldn't count on it. They make huge money on sugar. The sugar lobby, the corn lobby, and the sweet drink lobby are incredibly powerful. The sugar industry gets a third of the world's income. Only 2% of all US agricultural subsidies want these farms. So the sugar industry spends huge amounts of money on lobbying; they influence official nutrition recommendations, the food pyramid, and it's no secret that the US sugar industry does not allow a negative perception of its products; it tries its best to discredit research on the harm of sugar to health. So if you think the government will start regulating this, don't get your hopes up. You yourself will have to stop consuming sugar, but you can do something to make the transition easier. There are many Keto-compatible sweets and various desserts. For example, chocolate from Lily's contains not sugar but sugar alcohols. You can eat it without any worries. Or look at the chocolate Keto glaze, only 1 g of carbohydrates. There is also this, and here is another product, the best sugar from Sweet Leaf. This is the New Tril company, sugar-free muesli that you can eat. These are examples of products that you can eat from Vyka, which is free of sugar. Here are also pecans with cleto caramel. So, if you want, you can easily replace the sugar you gave up. All these products taste like sugar, although there is no sugar in them. When you eat  Sugar, you are helping the sugar industry and also destroying your body. If you want to better understand how to give up sugar, I have a whole course for you, this is a course on the keto diet for beginners. The link to the recording will be below. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.