You may never eat chicken again after this video 99.9 percent of all chickens sold in the world are raised on poultry farms they grow them there in 42 days that is in just 6 weeks to a fully grown chicken chicken is an animal protein most often subjected to genetic manipulation in the past once upon a time it took a long time to grow a chicken and this is completely normal but now the growth process has been sped up 65 times when you interfere with the affairs of mother nature and grow something so quickly there will be consequences related to nutrients take for example a cow you can't grow it in 6 weeks it will take a year or two I want to show you a small table of the nutrient content of beef and chicken I am surprised that many people think red meat is harmful and chicken meat for some reason is more useful perhaps because it is lean and not fatty but in general this is a lie these poor chickens are raised in very inhumane conditions tens of thousands of chickens in one room and it is called free range but this whole process of raising chickens on The poultry farm is quite closed and opaque. There is such a thing as ammonia burn due to the droppings that accumulate there. This can cause corneal ulcers in chickens. It can affect their joints. Overall, it is a very unhealthy environment. I want to ask you a question. Perhaps you have heard of someone eating raw fish, for example, sushi, or even rare steak. But why does no one eat raw chicken or rare chicken? Imagine that you came to a restaurant and ordered a chicken sandwich, but the chicken should be rare. No one does this. Why is there a risk of contracting salmonella, campylobacteriosis, or E. coli? These are all pathogenic microorganisms. Why can such microbes be found in chicken, but they are not found in other animal products? This is due to the environment in which chickens are raised. In fact, all these microbes are present in our bodies, but they do not harm us until our environment changes, with increased stress. Then these bacteria can turn into  neutral to pathogenic, that's why when you buy chicken in the store and then cut it up in the kitchen using knives and a cutting board and finally put it in the oven, you must sterilize the cutting board, your hands, knives and other cutlery that you used and all this because of the risk that the chicken contains these bacteria and you can catch a serious infection and, of course, everyone knows that chicken must be properly boiled or fried to kill all the germs. The second question is why flavorings are added to chicken. I don't mean chicken from kfc, but regular chicken from the store, for example, raw chicken breasts in a package. Read the ingredients on the label. Why was flavoring added there? And then, without it, the chicken will be tasteless. Why, because they are quickly raised, these chickens grow so quickly that their bodies simply do not have time to produce substances that impart flavor. The third question is why dyes are added to chicken. They have to add dye and with certain pigments so that the chicken looks like the meat of a healthy bird. Without it, the meat will be  gray and you won't want to eat it, I'm not kidding, chicken is dyed to make it look better, so unfortunately, it turns out to be a very quickly grown and very cheap bird, the color and smell of which have to be adjusted to make it look like chicken, but is it chicken? And on top of that, there is another problem with chickens. Chicken has a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, especially compared to omega-3 fatty acids, so chicken has a pro-inflammatory effect. It has 14 times more omega-6 than omega-3. We need a one-to-one ratio, and 14 to one is a lot. Here's another important point: there are so-called rendering products. Rendering means the following: boiling or some other actions to separate certain ingredients. This can be trampling fat or separating some other parts from food raw materials. Such rendering products are used as feed on poultry farms. One of these products is called yellow fat. What is it anyway? And used cooking fat certainly sounds better than used vegetable oil for deep frying or waste fat they collect vegetable oils after deep frying in which they fried for weeks or months and turn them into bird feed so that the chickens not only eat soy and corn, which are very high in omega 6, but also receive such feed unfortunately, this kills two birds with one stone: firstly, they dispose of harmful waste and secondly, they turn it into animal feed, and we then eat these animals now do you know why you can go to the supermarket and buy a whole chicken for 4 bucks at 2 dollars a pound it's simply amazing I raise chickens myself I have 16 of them and these chickens are completely different from the ones I just described they eat bugs, worms, and so on all day long I feed them wide mentira van them grain no soy no corn no gamma only organic feed but I know firsthand what all this high-quality feed costs to feed your chickens and sell a whole adult chicken for only 4 dollars taking into account the entire supply chain  It's hard to wrap your head around the farmer store distributor and someone else manages to make money on this, or maybe not. The point is that to raise healthy chickens and get quality eggs, you need good feed, time, and money. Unfortunately, people demand that food cost as little as possible. And of course, you get what you pay for. This is the last point: low nutrient content. Let's compare beef and chicken. I'm not even talking about grass- fed beef, except for a couple of lines below. This is regular beef. If we compare this with grass-fed beef, it will be completely different. But let's look at vitamin B12: 2.64 compared to three dozen. Here, it's 43 percent of the recommended daily intake, and here, it's 5. In beef, there's more zinc, more iron, more potassium. Large Alinas are good for the liver. More fans. Look at this ratio. Omega-6 and Omega-3 should be one to one in chicken, 14 to one in grass-fed beef, two to one in grain-fed beef. Nine to one, as you can see, grass-fed meat has much less pro-inflammatory omega-6, but grains have a lot of it, and since we're discussing animal proteins and healthy protein sources, you should watch another video where I talk about an interesting study on beef.