Today we are answering the question: Is it true that carbonated mineral water is better and healthier than still water? After a thorough search, I have not found any evidence or research on whether it is better or worse. I only know that when I drink carbonated mineral water, my digestion is better, possibly because carbonic acid acts as a kind of pH buffer, or perhaps because it is a weak acid and it increases acidity in the gastrointestinal tract, and with its increase, more minerals are absorbed, proteins are digested slightly better, but there is no objective evidence of its benefits. Some people just like it more. If you take bottled water, its pH is neutral, equal to 7, water to 5 and 8, if the indicator is below 7, it is more acidic. If you compare pH 7, then with a difference of one unit, six is ​​10 times more acidic than seven, that is, this range is sour. But let's take Coca-Cola, whose pH is two and a half, the very acidity of gastric juice from one to 3 is a very strong acid. A page of battery acid is one, extremely sour, since the stomach has the lowest pH in the entire body. Carbonic acid.  Being a weak acid, it may be better than just regular bottled water for someone, depending on the body and your preferences. There is some confusion in the different types of carbonated water, for example, there is celery water, soda water, and tonic water. Today, celery water is not the same; it is carbonated but does not contain minerals. Some types of water are naturally carbonated and contain minerals. Carbonated water is artificial and without minerals. Soda water has some minerals, but there are some, and it is artificially carbonated. And there is tonic water or tonic water; it is artificially carbonated and contains quinine. In 1825, I think, a British officer took quinine for malaria and he wanted to improve its taste. He diluted it in carbonated water, added sugar, and also added gin. So, he managed to mask the taste of quinine, which is incredibly bitter. This idea caught on and went to the masses, and today we know it as the recipe for gin and tonic. Personally, I love bitter water, and on the plane I will take tonic water, of course, without gin, but it is artificially carbonated. Sorry for the long video, but the answer to  Your question really depends on your personal preferences. You don't know what to drink, are you unsure whether a drink is healthy? Fasting is a good idea. Add variety to your diet with the help of a book about healthy drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar or harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes. Each ingredient offers benefits. Order the book about healthy drinks using the link below.