Let's talk about why some diabetics get gangrene while others don't. What is gangrene? With gangrene, the tissues usually start in the feet, toes, sometimes in the hands, and begin to turn black, yellow, red, and even slightly green. The word gangrene comes from the Latin word meaning rotting, tissue death, and tissues die because you collapse and there's too much sugar on them. If your blood sugar is too high, this sugar gets into the capillaries, especially starting with the toes, sometimes from the fingers. Blood goes from the heart through large vessels and reaches the feet, to the tiny capillaries, and then returns through the veins. But when there's too much glucose in the vessels, it causes destruction, severe oxidation, free radicals, bleeding, blood thickening, the blood becomes thicker, the vessels lose elasticity, the immune system reacts, causing inflammation, and all this prevents blood from passing into the tissues and nerves. Look, the inner lining of the vessels is called the endothelial layer. The cells of this layer do not require insulin to pass glucose into themselves. That is, if you have insulin resistance in Blood vessels and it won't if there's too much glucose, it all gets into the tissues, and this causes destruction. insulin resistance is a protective mechanism; it prevents insulin and glucose from getting into the tissues, because in large quantities they are harmful. But some tissues don't need insulin, they suffer. For example, brain cells don't need insulin; they need barriers between the circulatory system and the central nervous system, but not the cells of the brain itself. Red blood cells don't need insulin, so a glycated hemoglobin test measures how much sugar affects red blood cells to determine if you have diabetes. The more sugar in the blood, the more problems with blood vessels. The tissues will stop receiving nutrition, they will also be left without oxygen and begin to die. This is gangrene, a combination of dead tissue, ulcers, and severe nerve damage. It's usually painful, but then the nerve dies and complete numbness sets in. What can you do here? The most important thing in this case is prevention. Don't eat so much sugar, switch to ketogenic intermittent fasting to avoid gangrene, but if you already have it, there are a couple of ways, depending on the severity of the disease. Let's say you don't want to.  Amputating the toes might not be such a bad idea, but there might be ulcers or infections. You know, larval therapy was approved for children in 2004, and I'm not being sarcastic. Larvae are actually placed in the ulcer and they clean out dead tissue. Some types of larvae feed on dead tissue and don't touch living tissue. They clean out infections. It's interesting that this has actually been found to be more effective than some surgeries. The larvae disinfect the tissue and stimulate healing. Within a couple of days, the affected area can clear up. These larvae secrete enzymes, and they also secrete broad-spectrum antibiotics and kill infections. It's interesting. Yes, but of course, you definitely need to change your diet so that so much glucose doesn't enter the tissue. You can't rely on medications to control blood sugar. Medications take excess sugar in the blood and move it somewhere. It doesn't evaporate. There's less sugar in the blood, but now it's in the tissues, so you need to eliminate sugar from your diet. Here's something else I'd like to advise, especially if, for example, you have nerve damage but have n't yet developed gangrene.  Start taking benfotiamine. Benfotiamine is a B1 that has been made fat-soluble, and it penetrates the myelin sheath and goes directly to the nerves. It can protect nerves from high blood sugar and from complications. It's great for peripheral neuropathy. Buy benfotiamine, take 4 tablets, one throughout the day, and you'll see amazing changes. I recorded this video to explain why diabetics get gangrene and what to do. See you later. If you liked this video, subscribe to the channel and receive notifications about new videos.