Hi all.  Today we'll start with a question from our fun quiz, and then we'll have a live chat with Pamela from Amaha.  Please, dog.  Of all the health benefits of chocolate, which one is the most researched and most important?  Well, we can answer.  And now Pamelo is with us.  Ask us one short question, we would be glad to hear it. Hello, Dr. Berg.  Hello. Thank you for your time.  So, first of all , I'm from Peru and I went on vacation.  And after 2 weeks I started having panic attacks and was bedridden for almost 3 months.  I returned to the US about six months ago, but I've been sick ever since.  I have a lot of acid and reflux. literally burns.  I had an endoscopy in Peru and they told me I had gastritis and esophagitis due to Helicobacter pylori.  But already here, endoscopy and colonoscopy showed that everything was normal.  Helicobacter is not present.  And they just prescribed me a PPI.  And I just take PPIs, but I don't take them because I want more natural remedies. And here is my question to you.  Do you recommend increasing stomach acidity with betaine, chlorine betaine and apple cider vinegar?  I have a very hard time swallowing large bitaine tablets.  Very, very, very difficult.  They are too big.  I even have difficulty swallowing tiny pills. So, if I drink apple cider vinegar and I tried drinking it with lime juice, but with lime juice it sometimes helps, but sometimes it burns and gets worse. So I don't know if I have too much or too little acid.  Can these two states alternate?  What should I do? What diet should I follow and what vitamins should I take?  Excellent question.  During my years of practice , I had patients who had many problems after returning from abroad .  Apparently they had some kind of infection.  Then they tried to diagnose them: "And an infection can cause a whole avalanche of problems, but it seems to me that you most likely have gastritis. If you don't feel well after bitaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar, then don't drink them, because you most likely have gastritis. This is too much inflammation of the stomach. And the stomach cells secrete excess acid. This is not the same as acid reflux and HRB. We have a problem with the valve there. So, what is the remedy? I think the best remedy is zinc carnassine. Probably, of the vegetables, you can only eat different types of cabbage. After all, cabbage contains what used to be called vitamin U, since it helps with ulcers and other gastrointestinal problems. So you can eat cabbage. Perhaps a corn diet would also benefit you right now. After all, you don't need a lot of fiber and all that. So , they didn't find anything in you, but you clearly still have something. Perhaps you need to do more tests. In general, you really  In fact, you need to think about a couple of things. This is zinc carnassine, a diet like Rootsever. And it wouldn't hurt to eat yogurt with the bacteria Routerii, which I talked about in other videos. It's a probiotic, so that it grows more and it counteracts what's happening in the gastrointestinal tract. After all, I noticed that with gastritis, you need to get your intestines in order . It's not just the stomach, it's the entire gastrointestinal tract. If the stomach is bad, the small intestine won't be happy either. So Routerii is very important. You can take a good probiotic, but Routerii is most important if you can eat dairy. This is what I would do in combination with fasting. See if that solves the problem. But now, don't add acid to your stomach. That won't solve the problem. Thank you very much, Pamelo, for a great question. I hope this helps you. And now we'll answer questions on social media, - writes JSfübis Tremblat. I take nitric oxide and methylene blue 6 hours apart. Can I take them together at the same time? Yes.  Okay. There's your answer, Jess. Drink them at the same time, writes DN from Facebook. What would you advise someone who doesn't have a gallbladder? Yes, there are a lot of such people today . You can take a new one and sew it on. No, that's impossible. Here's what you need to do. By the way, sometimes it does grow back, but you still have the bile duct from the liver to the small intestine. You simply don't have a sac for storing bile, that is, a gallbladder. In general, you need to make sure you have enough bile. And to do this, you need to look at what kind of stool you have. If the stool is light, like clay or lighter, not so brown and doesn't sink, then you don't have enough bile. In this case, take a bath with bile salts after meals to increase bile. If you do this for a while and suddenly you get diarrhea, then you have excess bile. Don't take bile salts. After all, bile lubricates the intestines. If you are constipated, you need more bile, and if  Diarrhea, less bile is needed . Excellent. Let's see what the audience answered to the quiz question. It was posed as follows: Of all the health benefits of chocolate, which has been best researched and is the most important? 85% said the flavonoids in dark chocolate. 10% said the antioxidants in dark chocolate, and 5% said probiotics. Who wins? Well, we're not talking about Hershey's chocolate bars, but, say, dark chocolate with some alternative sweetener. But there are a lot of interesting studies about chocolate itself. And one of the main effects of flavonoids, also called polyphenols, is to increase nitric oxide levels, which improves blood circulation. So this phytonutrient can improve the health of blood vessels. There are a lot of studies on this, I've read them. Very interesting, so it's good for your health. But I don't recommend eating chocolate before bed, otherwise you might not be able to fall asleep, because it's a stimulant.