I want to talk about the hereditary aspects of Alzheimer's disease. Unfortunately, Alzheimer's disease has become a massive problem all over the world. It affects 54 percent of all people. So, sooner or later, it can affect you or your loved ones. I want to give you very important information about prevention and also about what you can do if you have this disease. A friend or relative, but I want to talk about the genetic predisposition to Alzheimer's disease. If you check your genes, and I am not advocating for doing or not doing this, I just want to tell you about one common gene that 20 % of people have. This is associated with a variation of a gene called APE. In fact, this molecule helps transport cholesterol to the brain. It has many other functions, but I will focus on what it does in the brain. It transports cholesterol to the brain, helps maintain cholesterol levels, and also removes cholesterol from the brain. You can think of APE as a bus or a small container ship that transports cholesterol, and you can have one of three variations of this gene. The first variation is Apa E2. There is also ape-3 and APE.  4 I think the simplest explanation would be this. And for E-2, you can compare it to ordering something on Amazon. You choose express delivery and receive the order the next day. This is fast delivery. If you have APE2, your cholesterol is transported very, very quickly and is removed very quickly. About five percent of people have APE2 and they very rarely develop Alzheimer's disease. Then we have APA E3. This is about the same as shipping goods by FedEx or UPS. The delivery is pretty decent, not too fast, not too slow. The order will be delivered in three days or a week. If you have this variation, like 75 percent of people, then the gene is working normally and you actually have no risk of Alzheimer's disease, but the real problem is associated with the next variation, which is called APE-4. If you have this variation in DNA, then it is equivalent to using the regular postal service on holidays. Delivery is extremely slow and some problems may arise. And for E4, 20 percent of the population has it and they have a risk of developing Alzheimer's disease, especially its worsening to a late stage. Perhaps you are wondering how cholesterol is related.  with Alzheimer's disease. Did you know that our brain is 25 percent cholesterol? Brain cells even produce cholesterol. A lot of cholesterol is needed for which I'm talking not only about cholesterol but also from other lipids. So, 65 percent of the brain is fat and the brain uses a lot of cholesterol to build the myelin sheath. It gets energy from triglycerides. Cholesterol is needed for the functioning of synapses in the brain for the brain to adapt to stress, and the brain desperately needs cholesterol for repair. This is what makes Alzheimer's disease unique. If a person does not have enough cholesterol that gets into neurons, then he begins to lose synapses, especially in those areas of the brain that are associated with happiness, learning, and concentration. These are areas such as the hippocampus and even the frontal lobes. So, in fact, there is a cholesterol deficiency in neurons. This is very interesting because we have always considered cholesterol to be something bad. But in this case, if there is enough cholesterol, this is very good. But at the same time, something else happens. Remember I said that this protein also removes cholesterol from the brain. So, there is a cholesterol deficiency. Which essentially kills neurons, and at the same time, there is toxicity because cholesterol is poorly removed from the brain, this is called lipotoxicity, this creates many problems, including the formation of plaques, lipotoxicity increases fourfold, and then the brain does something to compensate for this, which forces the brain to switch to Glucose capitalism, but the problem is that this gene also blocks the ability to absorb glucose, and since glucose is blocked, neurons experience a lack of fuel, and the best you can do is switch to a ketogenic diet, you cut carbohydrates, add intermittent fasting, ketones bypass this problem and feed neurons directly, in fact, we have low cholesterol, we try to switch to glucose, but we can’t, that is, the problem is that we do not have the material to build membranes and there is no fuel to feed neurons, and that’s why this is associated with late-stage Alzheimer's disease, aging itself also leads to a loss of the ability to use cholesterol, so it’s like a double whammy because of this gene variation, there is little cholesterol, and aging exacerbates the problem. That’s why the problem with  This gene can manifest itself at the age of 60-65 or a little later. Here's something else very interesting in connection with cholesterol: taking a lipophilic statin greatly increases the risk of developing dementia. Why do you think that? Because statins block cholesterol, and when someone takes a statin, they have a real problem with those parts of the brain that are affected by Alzheimer's disease. One study showed that taking a lipophilic statin doubles the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Understand that even if someone has this genetic problem, something can be done about it, because there is epigenetics, an action associated with lifestyle, nutrition, and environment, with the help of which this gene can be suppressed so that it does not become activated and everything works as it should. First, avoid alcohol. Alcohol has a very powerful effect, it aggravates this problem, it turns on this gene, which increases its manifestation of problems. Number two, avoid smoking. Smoking also has a strong effect on this gene, as does passive smoking. Number three, exercise. Regular exercise has a significant effect on this gene, it can help a lot. Our bodies are designed for movement. If we don't exercise, many problems arise. Exercise.  even by themselves can reduce hippocampal atrophy in the brain. A. It is closely related to memory, concentration, and learning. Exercise increases blood flow to the brain. They also increase the so- called brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which can be called a Rastishka for the brain. It promotes the growth of new brain cells. Exercise is a powerful stimulus for increasing brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Most people have insulin resistance, and exercise is an excellent way to reduce it. What's interesting here is that if there are plaques in the brain due to Alzheimer's disease, the plaque can end up in the insulin receptor and cause insulin resistance in the brain. There is a close link between insulin resistance and dementia and Alzheimer's disease. So, everything that increases insulin sensitivity is very, very useful. I'll name just a couple of such things: a low-carb diet, fasting, taking natural vitamin B1 and apple cider vinegar with water. These are very important factors. Finally, exercise reduces inflammation in the brain. Then, omega-3 fatty acids can help tremendously. This is one of the problems with omega-3 fatty acids, especially with a severe deficiency.  and severe inflammation, it can take a long time to replenish the deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids in the brain, especially diets, some people may need up to 2.5 years to fully restore omega-3 fatty acid stores, this takes time. There is another very amazing compound that I want to tell you about. I only recently learned that it helps with dementia and Alzheimer's disease, it's called tutka. I talked about tutka in other videos. What is tutka? It's a type of bile salt. The liver creates bile, it flows into the gallbladder and breaks down fats. Also, friendly bacteria create secondary bile, but there is a slightly different type of bile called it. It brings many benefits. It protects against gallstones. It has a very powerful effect on the brain. It protects neurons. It crosses the blood-brain barrier. It helps increase insulin sensitivity in the brain. It can directly block plaque formation in Alzheimer's disease. It helps improve the condition of neurons in the prefrontal cortex and in the hippocampus, and it has a protective effect on  mitochondria in neurons So, this is a very interesting thing, especially with regard to the first topic of cholesterol regulation, because bile salts in general help the body balance, regulate, and change cholesterol levels. But I didn’t even know until recently about their effect on cholesterol in the brain, because as you remember, this genetic variation creates two big problems: cholesterol deficiency and poor cholesterol removal from the brain. So, I think this really will help remove excess cholesterol. I think so, I don’t know for sure. And the last remedy that I recommend is vitamin D3. It’s also associated with cholesterol, because to create vitamin D3, you need cholesterol. That’s why those who take statins end up getting low on vitamin D, and vitamin D is closely associated with a huge number of things: the immune system, pain, depression. But it also has a powerful effect on the brain, and all these facts are below, there are links to all this. The deterioration of cognitive function accelerates 19 times with vitamin D deficiency. Dementia is associated with vitamin D deficiency. The risk of Alzheimer’s disease is 21 percent higher. With vitamin D deficiency, than with normal levels, the risk Alzheimer's disease is four times lower with high levels of vitamin D in the blood. To get more detailed information about when and how much vitamin D is needed for health, come to my course. I invite you to my vitamin D course. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the 2019 China Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course.