Okay, I suggest moving on to the next question. True or false for our viewers. True or false. The lion's share of fat is in the ultra-early fats, it has little saturated fat. True or false. Well, an immortal soul from YouTube writes to my daughter, she is 13, she wants to fast on Day D to remove toxins. Shaya says that children should not fast for so long. What will you tell her? She is 13. Is that true? And how long does she want to fast for a day or two to remove toxins? You know, I can't answer such questions without any medical history and all that. At such an early age, you don't need to fast a lot, at least because of nutrient deficiencies. So, I definitely won't give such advice on social networks at all. I would have to get acquainted with the medical history, how the child eats and all that. In addition, for example, during menstruation, there are some foods. You shouldn't fast during menstrual bleeding and during ovulation, because during fasting, the brain essentially imitates food. You imitate hunger to some extent. That's why during fasting, sometimes  My periods are disappearing, the body just thinks that we need to conserve energy, we won't reproduce in order to better survive and reproduce better when the famine ends. So, the thyroid gland can also slow down. In general, you need to fast correctly, you need to get nutrients. In order not to lose protein, you need thyroid support so that there are no problems later. I think you need to understand fasting and know how to prepare the body so that fasting is healthy. Well, does anyone else want to ask a question in person? It's Enam. If I pronounced your name correctly, Enam. So, ask the doctor a question. If you want, Hello. In general, I wanted to ask a question about my current pregnancy. In fact, the same thing happened with my last pregnancy. My daughter had a low birth weight. This time, again, during the third trimester, the weight percentile literally dropped from the current percentile and my reactive protein increased. What could you advise? Is there a quick way to catch up on this? Can I catch up on this and the second? I like your products, but I can't take your multivitamins because they are not halal, that is, they contain beef powder. So  What Please advise if there is one, you need to look for very good natural vitamins for pregnant women, this is very, very important, but here's what I think is even more important, especially if you are pregnant and I hope you will breastfeed. The fact is that during pregnancy, estrogen levels increase, so because of this, to put it simply, the vitamin can clump very strongly in the blood, that is, the protein clumps with vitamin D and its bioavailability decreases, this is especially pronounced during pregnancy and breastfeeding, and even if you take normal doses, you may have a vitamin D deficiency. The deficiency will not be in the blood, but in the child and in your breast milk. I would increase the dose of vitamin D3 to at least 10,000 IU. You also need cofactors K2, magnesium, zinc, other trace elements, including Boron, and so on. The fact is that vitamin D deficiency in children, there is a huge amount of data on premature babies about developmental disorders, and so on, there may be mass problems such as scoliosis, flat feet, short stature, the need to wear braces simply because the mother received little vitamin D3. So do this and stay tuned.  More sun exposure if you can. And I also highly recommend that you don't need intermittent fasting, but your food should be healthy. Sometimes they tell you you can have all kinds of food. What are you drawn to? But you need nutrient-rich food. When you carry a child and breastfeed him, then he will have a super strong immune system and health. And believe me, he will be grateful to you later. Okay, fine. So, you recommend your vitamin supplement correctly. Of course, I'm not at all biased, yes. But it doesn't contain trace elements. That's right. It does n't contain trace elements, but you can take it as a supplement. The point is, you know. Think about what trace elements give you during pregnancy. And I'm not only talking about zinc, especially iodine, cobalt, and honey. There are many trace elements that are necessary for various biochemical processes in the body. They are needed for these processes. And without them, the necessary processes do not occur. All the enzymes that convert one into another for hair growth, bones, and digestion depend on these nutrients, and especially on trace elements. So, with a deficiency of any of them, these chemical processes are impossible.  You give your body all the raw materials and the body says Thank you, this will be useful to me, the chemical process is taking place and your child will be healthy, well, and regarding another question about the active protein content, is it possible to somehow reduce it or is it a problem with inflammation and vitamin D is the best remedy for inflammation in the world? Yes, good, yes, I understand. And do you recommend taking something like probiotics during pregnancy? Yes, of course, this is also very useful and food with probiotics, sauerkraut, kefir, and also mchi are very useful. Thank you and to us for the excellent questions and Let me congratulate you on your pregnancy, this is wonderful, I hope you call and show a nice photo of the baby. He will be healthy. Rebecca writes that your supplements for the nerves are very helpful. Thank you. Wow, today you are being showered with thanks, Melissa from YouTube. Is it harmful to fast if you have gallstones? Indeed, you are more prone to the formation of gallstones when naked, but there are conflicting opinions on this matter. I would do this. Perhaps I would not fast a lot if I have a gallstone, just  Out of caution, instead of fasting, I would take a lot more bile salts with food and on an empty stomach to dissolve the stone, just out of caution since there is no consensus here. No, I don't want you to get into trouble because of my advice. I wouldn't fast, but you can do the usual things, eliminate snacks. And you can definitely eat twice a day. I don't consider this some kind of strict fasting, but I wouldn't fast for a long time if I had a gallstone. Quiz question number four was True or False. The lion's share of fat in ultra-early junk food is unsaturated fat, and a lot of saturated fat. 55% of respondents said it was a lie, and 45% called it the absolute truth. Saturated fat was declared the villain and people decided that all junk food contains saturated fat. Really, look at how much saturated fat is in all this. You won't find it here. You won't find saturated fats in junk food. I'm curious. Look at the labels. You'll be shocked. Wow.  Polyunsaturated seed oils like in these ser in quotes oils make up the lion's share of the fats in junk food I have never seen pork fat or beef fat in these products never in them always seed oils in junk food there is no saturated fat you say they are in a hamburger Yes it is But is a hamburger patty junk food no the meat for it is slightly refined but it is not even close to such products here a hamburger BUN is a completely different matter but the point is this is the real problem is that junk food contains unsaturated fats So I think people do not realize this well someone is waiting for us Wager Shake but I do not see him on the screen Wager Can you hear us sir Apparently not well I suggest moving on to the final question Please doctor what nutrient is most harmful in the presence of an infection most harmful I am curious Surely our viewers have a good answer Bernice asks Can you please advise What to do with Resistant hypertension 90% of hypertension with high blood pressure is essential hypertension. This is its name. What does this mean? It means that its cause is unknown. I will immediately give a couple of tips. Of course, exclude carbohydrates from your diet to eliminate the problem with sugar. And it essentially causes hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and so on. And you need vitamin D. Vitamin D is an excellent remedy for hypertension. Also, a good remedy for hypertension. Take potassium and vitamin D. I think this can help you, but if you buy potassium in the store, you will see that one dose only contains 99 mg. And you need 4700 mg. Find a protein powder that has at least 1000 mg of potassium. New electrolyte powder, potassium, and high doses of vitamin D. These two remedies usually help lower high blood pressure. We have a lot of great questions today. Alan writes to me that they give me vitamin D injections every week. I have Hashimoto's disease. I barely reach the lower acceptable level of vitamin D. Even though I am in the sun as much as possible. It has been a long time, but nothing helps. What else can AN do? I just recorded a video about this. I have n't posted it yet.  The thing is, if you get injections once a week, you have this form of vitamin D that you need to reduce inflammation, which is what you need to strengthen your immune system and everything else except bones, bones and calcium are not being discussed, the ped half-life is 24 hours, you get an injection once a week x This is more than 24 hours, essentially, you have vitamin D for one day and then its level drops. I think you just need to take vitamin D every day, probably 25,000 a day. Of course, cofactors will solve your problem, which is why you haven’t had results yet. You need higher doses and every day to strengthen the system that needs it. The half-life is very short. That’s what I recommend and the reason for this is purely technical. You can search the Internet for materials by Professor Bruce Holly. Read him. He explains this and several other doctors have a process that allows you to understand why this happens. This is an absolutely scientific explanation. This is really very good. The last question for today is for our viewers. What nutrient is the most harmful in the presence of an infection? I wouldn’t have guessed. 100% of respondents said that it is this.  A nutrient is not a nutrient, so it is not sugar. If I said a product, then yes, but the correct answer is iron. Do not take iron if you have an infection. Why? Because the infection feeds on iron, it grows and becomes stronger because of this, it loves iron. When an infection occurs in the body, the body uses a defense mechanism, it temporarily blocks the supply of iron so that pathogens do not receive nutrition. The whole strategy is do not take iron when you are sick. I'm very sorry. Dear viewers, but you answered other questions perfectly, Shavi from YouTube. Can long-term fasting help get rid of fibroids? I think it can. Of course, also take some vitamin D when you eat. Of course, although no, on a water fast, you can also take it. On a dry fast, you cannot. But on a water fast, a combination of these two factors can help you a lot. And if you want to know something interesting about vitamin D, look at the statistics on one condition that is associated with the latitude of people, you will learn that a huge number of diseases: multiple sclerosis, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, diabetes. The lowest incidence of these and many other diseases is at the Equator. Why?  So, how do people get the maximum amount of sun and vitamin D there? Amazing, No. 12. I waited very patiently to ask a question. Would you recommend it to someone recovering from a stroke? There are several things that help recover from a stroke. The first is, of course, a hyperbaric chamber, oxygen therapy, methylene blue. It has been proven to help recover from a stroke. You can read the research, but I recently discovered something. Something that can also help restore the brain after a stroke is hydrogenothermy. It is the smallest and most ancient element, and it is like everyday life, that everything turns into something more precise, it is a kind of building material that turns into everything else. It is the first element in the periodic table. It is amazing because it is a modulator, let's say. If some system is working too actively or not actively enough, it helps to normalize it. In general, it is very helpful with problems with cells due to oxidation. It even promotes DNA repair. It helps to fix all this. So, I highly recommend using hydrogen. You can buy such a device for home. It is portable, and you can see how they are used in some medical institutions to eliminate health problems. We have technology. Well, doctor, how Time flew by so quickly, I thank everyone for their attention. Thank you for staying with us for so long. Next week I will record some interesting videos, I think you will like them. I finally found a way to release even more interesting material. Stay with us and have a nice weekend.