Let's talk about the difference between Himalayan salt and regular sea salt. Is there a difference? Both Himalayan and regular sea salt contain sodium chloride and trace elements, but sea salt contains microplastics or plastic nanoparticles. One study found that 90 percent of salt brands tested contained microplastics, but Himalayan salt does not contain plastic. Why? Because Himalayan salt deposits were formed in an ancient sea before civilization existed, before pollution. Microplastics are dangerous because when they enter the body, they cause inflammation, creating many problems. They can disrupt the endocrine system, and it takes about five hundred years for them to decompose and be eliminated, so you should try to avoid them at all costs. Therefore, I do not recommend consuming sea salt unless it is Celtic sea salt or gray sea salt. This is a healthy salt. It is from France, and it is pure. There are probably other good ones, but regular sea salt comes from a polluted ocean. There is a chance that it will contain microplastics, which should be avoided. The question arises: what about table salt? Many people consume regular table salt, they have no idea.  that it also contains microplastics, there are no trace elements, only sodium chloride, and sometimes they lighten it chemically, sometimes they even add sugar, and sometimes they add an agent that prevents freshness, aluminum, which is toxic to the brain. I just want you to know the truth and be able to choose healthy salt. Because we definitely need salt to produce hydrochloric acid in the stomach to kill microbes, to digest protein and absorb nutrients, the adrenal glands need salt, the immune system needs salt, and with a lack of salt, the risk of developing insulin resistance increases. Salt is involved in water balance in the sodium-potassium pump, which is necessary for nourishing muscles and nerves and gives the body energy. How much salt do we need? We need from one to two teaspoons, depending on the level of sweating activity. For those, you need to take at least one teaspoon or a little more every day because you lose a lot of water weight, and this leads to the loss of electrolytes. In addition, to successfully avoid microplastics in salt, you need to know something else: it is found in water, in plastic bottles, in cans of water, and in many other places, especially if  You microwave food in plastic containers or drink from Styrofoam cups. There are friendly bacteria in the body, and some studies have shown that certain microorganisms in the gut can break down microplastics. Secondly, regular consumption of cruciferous vegetables helps eliminate endocrine disruptors in general. In addition, consuming sufficient amounts of copper 3 can reduce inflammation because the main problem with microplastics is inflammation. Therefore, if you take a remedy that reduces inflammation, you can minimize the damage. Definitely give up regular sea salt. Use Himalayan or, for example, Celtic salt, which does not contain microplastics. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.