In nine cases out of 10, hypertension is considered essential and no one knows what causes it, despite a ton of research, I'll talk about blood pressure and natural remedies that have far fewer side effects than medications. Of course, before using them, consult a doctor. The total length of all the blood vessels in your body is about one hundred thousand kilometers. This is a lot of vessels and they go to a variety of places inside the body to many organs. In fact, the circulatory system supplies blood to all organs and high blood pressure creates a lot of problems not only for the vessels and heart. Because of it, the brain, eyes, kidneys can suffer. It increases the risk of heart attacks and definitely the risk of stroke. High blood pressure is a common problem. Half of people over 60 suffer from hypertension. I think this is too much, but in fact, hypertension may indicate that this is how the body compensates for various disorders. Let's say you have hypoxia, for example, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and you do not have enough oxygen. The body's system sees this and automatically increases blood pressure by directing more blood to this area so that  deliver more oxygen there if a person is taking medication to lower blood pressure. What will happen to the lungs? There is already not enough oxygen there. Now there will be even less. This is one of the reasons why people feel unwell. Taking blood pressure medication affects the brain, creating additional problems. I think it is very important to understand why your blood pressure initially became elevated. Not enough attention is usually paid to this. Usually, everything looks like this: You have hypertension, we don’t know, take this medicine, drink more water, exercise, and so on. I believe that there are several common causes of high blood pressure, and this is a lack of potassium, a lack of magnesium, and a lack of vitamin D. If I had hypertension, these three things would be the first thing I would pay attention to, but instead, doctors tell you that you need to eat less sodium, they don’t tell you to get more potassium, they tell you to lower your sodium levels. And if this doesn’t work, they prescribe you a diuretic, a diuretic, most often prescribed hydrochlorothiazide, it removes fluid from the body and along with it sodium. But it also imperceptibly removes potassium from the body, a potassium deficiency is formed, and a potassium deficiency itself can increase blood pressure. You already had little potassium. And now it’s completely  No, and now you need even more medication. Yes, of course, you can be prescribed potassium, but unfortunately, potassium is released in tablets of 99 mg or less, and the need for potassium is very high, 4700 mg, and so you have 99 mg tablets. How many of these tablets, rounded up to 100 mg, do you need to get the required dose? Calculate for yourself, this is a lot, but this diuretic also removes magnesium. And this is another common cause of high blood pressure in people. A side effect of this diuretic is an increase in homocysteine ​​levels. If it does not work, they can prescribe calcium channel blockers. This is also a drug for blood pressure, but they have a different mechanism of action. The problem is that they cause minor complications. If you take them for more than five years, it can cause brain shrinkage. In addition, they can increase the risk of developing certain types of cancer. In one study, this type of drug was compared with another that also lowers blood pressure and it turned out that it lowers blood pressure by one tenth of only. By a tenth of one point, in my opinion, this is not impressive. Another type of drug is ACE inhibitors. The only problem is that they  They increase the risk of developing allergies, even to medications, and quite significantly. Another side effect is chronic cough. I don't know if you've seen the latest news about aspirin. They finally found out that it doesn't do much good. And the result isn't all that great. This is the conclusion of a group studying aspirin use for heart attacks. Yes, the conclusion is this. One aspirin tablet a day doesn't bring any benefit. Another study confirmed the benefit of taking one aspirin tablet a day, but they did n't even test aspirin. Bufferin is a different type of drug, and it contains magnesium oxide, and magnesium helps lower blood pressure. In addition, beta-carotene was added to it. So, it's unclear what worked and how. There is one substance you need to know about: nitric oxide. Nitric oxide provides great support to the inner layer of blood vessels as a vasodilator, it helps lower blood pressure. Some people even use it to treat erectile dysfunction. After all, this is a problem with blood vessels. We talk about blood vessels all the time, but many organs can suffer, for example, vascular dementia due to poor blood supply.  In the brain, we have an enzyme that helps synthesize nitric oxide, and this enzyme can be suppressed or turned off to some extent due to a certain genetic variation. If this is your case, you may not produce enough nitric oxide and develop hypertension. You can get tested, but there are a couple of methods for detecting this problem. You can do a DNA test or even get tested for the so-called ADMA, which stands for asymmetric dimethyl arginine. The results of this test will immediately show whether you have enough nitric oxide. The solution I recommend has minimal or no side effects. Just buy yourself some l-arginine. Arginine will help produce more nitric oxide. You can take it regularly to cope with high blood pressure. Garlic is also an excellent natural remedy for blood pressure; it acts as a natural ACE inhibitor and also increases nitric oxide production. Another useful product for high blood pressure is celery. It contains a couple of powerful phytonutrients that help lower blood pressure and lower adrenaline levels. So it helps with both sleep and blood pressure.  I recommend about four stalks of celery a day during your last meal, you will see that this will benefit you, and to support the endothelial layer of blood vessels, one of the best remedies is only three inols, a type of vitamin E. If you suspect that the inner surface of your vessels is damaged, take only trinols. They help with heart problems, but they act especially well as a powerful antioxidant on the inner surface of the vessels. Let's summarize. Potassium and magnesium. Where can I get them from greens? Regularly eat a lot of greens. Another source is electrolyte powder. Vitamin D3 can be obtained from the sun, but not in winter. So, start taking D3. This alone can normalize blood pressure, but you need to take at least 20 thousand daily. Add garlic and celery to your diet and don't forget about El Arginine. Buy it in powder and drink half or even a whole scoop daily to create more nitric oxide. And finally, catherinols, which can support the inner walls of blood vessels. But understand that you also need to eliminate the underlying cause associated with I talk about this in another video, here you go, watch it.