If you have thyroid problems, then this video is for you. This is the first thing you need to know. Most thyroid problems, both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, are associated with autoimmune thyroid diseases. In other words, 90 percent of hypothyroidism cases are an autoimmune disease, Hashimoto's disease, and 70 percent of hyperthyroidism cases are Graves' disease, which is also autoimmune. Let's discuss the relationship between gluten and the thyroid. Gluten leads to the development of celiac disease, an inflammatory condition in which the villi on the inner walls of the intestine are destroyed. Because of this, proteins penetrate the lymphatic system. In the immune system, as a result, antibodies begin to attack these proteins. Gluten is essentially a protein. This is a protein that is found in some grains, especially wheat, rye, barley, and others. But in the digestive system, gluten is converted into Gly. But the Gly protein is very similar, and some of its parts are even identical to something in the thyroid gland, namely, an enzyme called trans.  glutamine for if you have antibodies that attack this protein in wheat, then every time you eat cereals, these antibodies attack not only this protein, they also attack the thyroid gland simply due to this molecular similarity. Many other autoimmune diseases are based on a similar principle when a virus or food product imitates some tissue in the body, but as in the case of hyperthyroidism, so in the case of hypothyroidism, you definitely need to completely eliminate gluten from your diet, because every time you eat it, your body sees it as a foreign invader and, with the help of antibodies, attacks it and, at the same time, your thyroid gland, and thereby causes inflammation. I will give 5 recommendations. Number one, a complete rejection of gluten is necessary. Number two, start ketogenic diets, a healthy version of ketogenic diets, and intermittent fasting. Why? Because this will reduce inflammation. Then take selenium. Selenium is necessary for autoimmune diseases, especially the thyroid gland, whether it is hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. It is very important to know that in this case Hyperthyroidism, that is, Graves' disease, should not be taken under any circumstances, because the thyroid gland already produces hormones in excess, and these hormones are produced from iodine. Bile salts should be avoided because they accelerate the conversion of the hormone from the inactive form T4 to the active form T3. But if you have hypothyroidism, you definitely need to take purified bile salts. This could be an extract of bile or any other supplements. I taught Silenus is useful for both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. Next, you need to take vitamin D3, at least 10,000 international units. Why? Because vitamin D can help reduce inflammation. It is one of the best natural anti-inflammatory vitamins. Lastly, probiotics are needed simply because most autoimmune diseases begin in the intestines, and you need to strengthen this weak link, the intestines. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Enlarged parts and nodules of the thyroid gland. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course  I'll help you repair your thyroid, restore energy, and lose weight. My unique videos, product lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.