Today we'll talk about how to deal with a condition called acanthosis nigricans, what it is, when you develop gray-brown hyperpigmentation and darkening on the back of your neck, on the sides of your neck, in your armpits, it can be in other places along the canthus, it has a velvety texture, and it's symmetrical, meaning it appears on both sides or in both armpits. It's associated with diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome, Cushing's syndrome, high cortisol levels, and metabolic diseases. If you look at the Wikipedia article, it will say that most cases are idiopathic. This is just a clever way of saying I don't know what caused it, an unknown cause, but this disease is mainly caused by excessive amounts of insulin, hyperinsulinemia, excess insulin in the blood, and insulin resistance. They go hand in hand. With insulin resistance, there is excess insulin in the body, and this leads to acanthosis nigricans, so it's associated with diabetes, Cushing's syndrome, and metabolic diseases.  A syndrome or disease is an option name, but behind all this is an excess of insulin. If you look at Wikipedia about hyperinsulinemia, what causes it, it will indicate tumors, impaired carbohydrate absorption. Personally, I don’t quite understand what this means, pancreatic cancer, and while I and trans fats, what is missing here? The main reason for the excess of carbohydrates in the diet is missing. I found it curious that the main cause of hyperinsulinemia is not even indicated in the article. When people read this, they will think about whether they should get a referral for an MRI or CT scan to rule out a tumor, or go to a gastroenterologist and get tested for impaired carbohydrate absorption, or to an oncologist and get tested for pancreatic cancer, or to a gynecologist and get tested for polycystic leukemia. There are many specialists who have knowledge in their field, but unfortunately, they often do not look at the whole picture and what unites all these diseases, which is precisely high insulin. In general, if you have acanthosis nigricans, carrying the amount of carbohydrates in your diet is all you need to do and this will help cope with black windows.  It's as easy as pie. Try it and share your results in the comments. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.