Today we'll talk about the harmful effects of nutrients, and I'm talking about excessive, and therefore harmful, amounts of some nutrients. What can happen if you take too much? In all the other videos, I talked about deficiency. Today, I'll talk about the opposite effect. When studies were conducted on vitamins A and E and some other antioxidants, they were conducted on synthetic versions. If you take a large amount of synthetic antioxidants, many problems will arise. One of them is cancer. This is exactly what was discovered, of course, because they did n't use natural antioxidants, but synthetics. I think they did this because, in principle, any antioxidants donate electrons. They help stabilize free radicals by giving them electrons. Because of this, the free radical is stabilized. If you take, for example, a synthetic vitamin, and it is not of natural origin. In nature, antioxidants always move in a network. When an antioxidant donates an electron, it itself becomes a free radical, because it has lost an electron and has nowhere to get an electron to stabilize. This can cause damage. I believe that this is what causes cancer in those who take a lot of synthetic vitamins, especially antioxidants. If there is an excess of vitamins in the body, then vision deteriorates.  It's interesting that with a vitamin A deficiency, vision also worsens bone pain, probably due to the interaction of vitamin A and vitamin D. Excess vitamin A causes a vitamin D deficiency and, as a result, bone pain. Therefore, in nature, vitamins are always in a complex. For example, in cod liver oil, vitamins A and D go together one to one. Excess vitamin A leads to skin irritation. Excess vitamin E can lead to internal bleeding because it thins the blood, you will have more bruises, fatigue, weariness, and not many other symptoms besides internal bleeding. Vitamin D from high levels of vitamin D, in theory, has no side effects except for the effect on calcium; too much calcium appears in the blood, but even here there are many gaps in research. There is not much, so we don't even know if this is 100% true. But we do know that the recommended daily dose of vitamin D was prescribed or created as a preventative measure for rickets, a disease associated with deficiency and not developed to improve health or for longevity. The healing effect of high doses of vitamin D in the body is simply enormous. Strategies include avoiding cheese or calcium supplements when taking vitamin D or even throughout the day, and you'll get the benefits of vitamin D, especially for autoimmune diseases or inflammation, without the risk of developing kidney stones. I already made a video about this. Next comes vitamin C. Its side effect is diarrhea. Iron is an extremely important nutrient that needs to be taken in small amounts. If needed, its deficiency is very dangerous, but its excess is also very dangerous. You need the right amount. The problem is that iron accumulates, making it difficult for the body to get rid of it and it reuses it. It accumulates in the liver, causing heart disease. It accumulates in the brain, causing oxidation, and even in the heart. It can even cause cancer. It causes constipation. There's a condition called hemochromatosis. This is a genetic disorder in which the body can't remove iron, and it acts as a poison. People with it donate blood and they feel better. I would recommend something called dt, which is the later version. It will help the body remove iron. If there's too much iodine in the body, it can cause hyperthyroidism. This is when it has a harmful effect on the thyroid gland.  But if there is little of it in the body, then this will already be hypothyroidism. The problem with excess iodine is that it reduces the reserves of other elements, for example, selenium. By the way, this trace element selenium is part of key enzymes that act as an antioxidant, and excess iodine binds selenium. These enzymes disappear from the body, oxidation occurs, problems arise, especially with the thyroid gland when hydrogen peroxide accumulates in it, and this creates many problems. For example, you ate fish that contains mercury. If there is enough selenium in the body, then everything is fine, but mercury can block selenium, and as a result, these enzymes are lost. Magnesium side effects include diarrhea, low blood pressure, and arrhythmia. It is interesting that with a lack of magnesium, arrhythmia still appears, but with high blood pressure, and also constipation. So, let's return to selenium. One of the side effects of excess selenium is alopecia, which is when your hair falls out in clumps. Alopecia is an autoimmune disease usually associated with zinc deficiency. Excess selenium can cause zinc deficiency and lead to localization and where  PMA titu because skin problems are associated with a lack of zinc. But if you have excess zinc, you will have a copper deficiency and problems with copper absorption. This causes many different problems associated with collagen and connective tissue. You can also experience fever and gastritis. If the body lacks zinc, an ulcer can appear. I wanted to show you that there is a connection between nutrients. You don't need to think that if a little is good, then more is even better. There are many harmful effects, especially with trace elements and synthetic vitamins. Try to get nutrients from food or take natural vitamins and nutrients. Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.