Hi all.  Today we'll be answering questions and talking about chum salmon and its nutrients.  My advice is not a substitute for medical treatment, and I do not diagnose you.  It's illegal in the state of Virginia .  Let's get started right away, Stephen, and answer some questions.  So, let's go. Let's start right away with questions from social networks, writes Lisa from YouTube.  I am 57 years old.  I fast 18 hours a day.  What do you think of Cod Liver Oil compared to Sardine or Anchovy Oil?  A very specific oil.  So these oils are similar.  I don't remember.  You need to look for this data yourself.  But I know that if you compare it to cod liver oil, it has the most omega-3s compared to omegas, it has a lot of EPA and DHA, and also vitamin A and vitamin D. And I'm not entirely sure if these other oils have vitamins A and D.  The thing is, vitamin D requires vitamin A to work. Never take vitamin A supplements, as it's very difficult to find a natural form that works.  Vitamin A must be obtained from food, and cod liver oil is rich in it. You can also eat liver if you like it. Egg yolks contain vitamin A and retinol, but Trisca liver oil contains vitamin A that is perfectly balanced, unlike many dietary supplements.  Okay, Lisa thanks you.  Mary Moores Rambla asks: Does eating cruciferous vegetables affect thyroid function ?  This question is often asked because cruciferous vegetables contain a compound that blocks iodine.  This is called the zabogen effect.  For this effect to occur, and I studied this, you need to eat a huge amount of these vegetables and not take iodine.  So I wouldn't worry about it unless you eat a lot of them and your thyroid isn't enlarged or causing symptoms. Generally, moderate amounts of cruciferous vegetables are not a problem given their overall health benefits.   The big picture is important.  They stimulate phases 1 and 2 detoxification in the liver.  They reduce the risk of cancer. Sulforaphane in cruciferous vegetables can put Helicobacter pylori into remission.  And this bacteria causes ulcers, so there are many benefits.  Fine.  Someone on YouTube with the nickname Taiwan Gong asks.  What do you think is the main cause of thyroid nodules?  I think the reason for this may be iodine deficiency.  If you take kelp and the nodes disappear, then this is indeed the cause .  Iodine helps regulate excess estrogen, and excess estrogen can cause fibrocystic breast disease and thyroid cysts.  In general, one of the culprits of thyroid dysfunction is estrogen.  It blocks its function.  and can create problems.  So a little iodine will help a lot, especially in the fight against nodes.  Fine.  The lovely Tina from the Philippines called us.  It's midnight there now, so I won't keep her waiting.  Tina, ask a short question for 30 seconds.  Hello.  Hello.  Hello, Dr. Berg.  Good morning.  I am on intermittent fasting and I have some questions about it.  I fast for two days twice a month, and during my period for 20 hours.  I vary this time because I saw on the internet that you need to vary 20 hours 1718. I just want to make sure that I am doing everything correctly, because in a little over a month I have already lost 10 kg.  I want, I think it's too fast. This is fine.  Am I doing this right? This is a tool that allows you to lose weight and become healthy.  If you're losing too much weight , slow down and use a less strict fasting regimen.  Depends on what's happening to your body.  I don’t see you, but you know your body.  If you are losing weight too quickly, you may need a less strict plan. Slow down, adjust it.  I think you can see that it works.  How do you know if you're on the right intermittent fasting plan?  First.  Have you felt better ?  If you feel terrible, you may not be ready for strict intermittent fasting. Secondly, if you feel very hungry between meals, you need to back off a little . But if you feel great, everything is improving, you are losing weight, but you are losing a lot of weight, and that is a big problem for a lot of people. Kidding.  But I think you just slow down and take it at your own pace.  Intermittent fasting has tremendous benefits.  It's a little stress on the body, which makes it survive better.  At the same time, the risk of diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, cancer and much more is reduced.  And I understand that you want to get benefits, and weight loss is one of the beneficial effects, but losing weight can be too fast.  If I did what you did now, I would lose too much weight, and I don’t want to lose weight anymore. In general, yes, that's it in short.  Thanks a lot. Please.  Thank you, Dr. Burke. Please.  Now you can go to bed. Yes, it's time already.  Thank you.  Thanks for the great call.  Looks like you're on the right track.  Okay, Tina.  Have a wonderful evening and I'm turning off the sound.  Let's return to questions on social networks.  Kristina from YouTube asks: "Are ketones burned when cortisol levels are high, and do cortisone injections prevent cortisol from returning to normal levels? Yes, cortisol can block ketosis because high cortisol levels release sugar from your body tissue. Cortisol increases the breakdown of body protein and its conversion to sugar. This is why weight gain occurs during stress. And synthetic cortisol in the form of prednisone can sometimes cause diabetes. After all, the release of sugar leads to an increase in insulin levels. So this is a problem. And taking prednisone, and you seem to be taking cortisol. I took it too , it can seriously harm the body, because now it depends on it, and cortisol can be too low and not adapt, or too high. And cortisol resistance can develop. This is when cortisol is high, but it doesn’t work. Therefore, with high cortisol, there are symptoms of low cortisol, inflammation, and all that. In general, there is an antidote to the consequences  Taking large amounts of prednisone. These are high doses of vitamin D, because it reduces the activity of the immune system if it's too high and increases it if it's too low. It's an immunomodulator. It's much better than cortisol, which simply suppresses the immune system and white blood cells. So vitamin D is an excellent antidote, but high doses are needed.