Hi all.  Today we'll start by answering questions on social media.  Chris from Facebook asks: "Is there a way to get rid of seed oils that are already in the body?"  I haven't heard of such a thing. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Yes, essentially, you just need to stop using them.  And since omega-6 and omega-3 seed oils interfere with each other, eat more omega-3s and don't eat any omega-6s.  Understand this.  We are told everywhere: vegetable oils are irreplaceable.  We need them.  Yes, we need them, but we can get them from other foods rich in omega-3.  This means we don't need to eat low-quality seed oil.  After all, the oils from the seeds are poured into jars.  They are industrially processed and have unsaturated, very brittle bonds.  Explain to me why this oil is bottled, exposed to oxygen and light, and yet it doesn’t spoil?  Explain to me please, I'm trying to understand.  It's very fragile, and I don't even know anyone who buys cold-season goji berry oil .  Would you really pour corn oil like that on your salad?   What do you need it for?  Most people buy these oils to fry and cook with, which means reheating. The problem is that this process produces a by-product called aldehydes.  They are harmful to cell membranes, cause inflammation and can lead to insulin resistance. Fine.  Now let's talk to Kisha.  She called us from New York and she has a question.  Ask your question, Kisha. Kisha, your microphone is muted. Hello.  Exactly.  Now [laughter] can be heard. Thank you for this opportunity.  My question is related to lifestyle changes. In 2000, I switched to a low-carb diet.  And soon after that I lost the strength in my legs. I even fell on the steps a couple of times.  But I am still a woman, and I decided that in order to reduce my size, I could fall a couple of times.  And about 10 years ago my body rebelled and refused to lose weight further on a low-carb diet. But the weakness in the legs remained. And I'm curious, if I'm not following a low carb diet and I'm eating carbs, why do I still have this weakness in my legs? So, I have a question, a couple of questions.   Is it possible that you are not consuming enough salt? This needs to be thought about.   I can't say that I like salt.  I don't oversalt my food.  And when I cook, I salt my food, but it's not my favorite flavor, so it's possible. That's why I asked about it.  Sometimes people on keto lose a lot of excess fluid, and along with it, they lose more salt than they need.  And sodium is very important for muscle strength.  When there is a lack of sodium, muscles become weak, and a little more salt is needed to keep the adrenal glands in good shape. If your adrenals are already weakened when you go keto, especially during menopause, your adrenals need more help. One of the symptoms of this is weakness in the lower body. This can be especially felt when you go uphill.  So if you support your adrenal glands, eat salt, sea salt, the problem may go away. So those are the two ideas: adrenal support and salt.  And another question: do you lose more weight when you eat more carbohydrates? No, I can't get to the size I want and it makes me very sad. After all, despite the crazy falls on the stairs, back then I had a weight that I felt much more comfortable with.  I thought that if I started eating more carbohydrates, the weakness would go away, but it didn’t .  Clear?  So, do three things. Try eating a little more sea salt.  See if it helps.  You can also try doing calf stretches to increase their flexibility. You can carefully squat as far as you can to strengthen your calves.  And the last thing I would like to advise.   Do intermittent fasting a little more. Just eat less often.  Let's say, not two meals, but one. See if this at least reduces insulin resistance so you can normalize your condition and lose weight.  Thank you very much for the interesting call, Kisha.  We all wish you all the best.  And, Kisha, you can also answer our quiz question. This seems like an easy question.  True or false?  Please, Dog. True or false?  In most cases of hypothyroidism, more iodine is needed. True or false?  We look forward to your responses. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.   Let's continue.  Answering viewers' questions, writes SM Rtriana from YouTube.  What can cause dry lips, dry hair, brain fog, constant stress?  I'm also constantly thirsty, have bad breath and have trouble sleeping.  Could all this be connected?  A whole bunch of problems. So, dry eyes, dry lips.   These are thought to be signs of vitamin A deficiency, but they may indicate zinc deficiency. This is one of those cases where it is difficult to understand the cause without additional data.  I need to know what you eat, what you're missing in your food, what you're eating that you shouldn't be eating, how much sun you're getting, how much saturated and unsaturated fat you're consuming.  It's very difficult to tell you something.  I know people want me to name the cure for all problems, but I can't .  But it seems like you have some kind of imbalance.  I would start with a proper nutrition plan and then figure it out from there.  There is good news for you and for everyone who is watching us.  We are working on a project that will be very valuable to you.  He will answer all your questions and really help you understand what you need based on your condition and your habits.  Wait for him.  Let this be the secret of the day.  Fine.  While people wait, where can they quickly find information about the keto diet and much more?  On the website drberg.com. How can they find exactly what they need? I would look on this channel.  There is my video there.  Its name contains the words watch first.  Video one, watch first.  Then there is a second video.  It's called what's best to eat.  There is also a course.  There you will get basic knowledge. All of this is also on my website.  Go to drberg.com, type in keta and you will see all the information.  Too much information can overwhelm you.  So start over and move on. After all, you don't need all the details at once. Master the basics first, then you'll have a lot of questions, and we have plenty of answers on the website, in courses, and on YouTube. But YouTube is difficult to navigate, so go to our website drberg.com. Excellent, writes someone named Rambla with the nickname Shark Attack.  What do you think of good old canola oil?  Is it different from other oils?  I don't like it.  I don't like it because it's GMO, mostly GMO, and it's omega-6. It is usually hot pressed.  It was already heated.  And this is the oil from the seeds.  It contains a lot of omega-6. I would stay away from him. Yes, that's exactly it. Okay, believe it or not. Believe it or not, viewers have already answered the quiz question.  I sounded like this .  True or false?  In most cases of hypothyroidism, more iodine is needed.  And 95% answered that it was true, and 5% thought it was a lie.  [laughter] What do you say, dog? That's the whole trick.  The fact is that today the majority of patients with hypothyroidism suffer from Hashimot's disease. And Hashimot's disease is hypothyroidism.  But this is not a thyroid problem at all. This is an autoimmune disease, an autoimmune failure.  In general, if you have Achimota disease, you should not rush and take more iodine, as this can worsen the condition. Instead, you need to take another micronutrient. Selenium. It is very helpful for the immune system, promoting the conversion of T4 to T3. It also reduces antibody levels.  And you have antibodies to what helps create thyroid hormones.  So these antibodies need to be reduced.  It would be very wise to take high doses of vitamin D3 with magnesium and selenium.  And, of course, the right diet.  Don't eat all these golds, especially wheat.  modern. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of being healthy. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too.  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food.  So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.