Hello, friends.  It's me again, and I have a question for you.  What do you think is the main source of sugar in our diet?  I'm talking about America now. Guess.   Did you guess?  It's a sweet soda or, more accurately, liquid candy. The average American drinks 45 gallons of soda per year.  This is 170 liters of soda, 470 cans.  I still couldn't figure out what volume was meant: 0.33 or 0.5.  If 0.33, a jar like this, then that’s nine teaspoons.  If 0.5, then 15 teaspoons of sugar.  And that’s 9 kg of sugar per year.  But this is very little compared to the total amount of sugar consumed by people.  And that's about 65 kg, nine of which are sweet soda.  Which is quite interesting, especially among the younger generation.  I grew up in Kinosha, Wisconsin.  My friends and I used to frequent one establishment in our area.   There were usually parties going on at the bar all the time .  There you could buy soda by the case, which is what we did. High fructose corn syrup hadn't been invented yet, but it still contained a lot of sugar.  I remember drinking soda in huge quantities at the time, which is why I'm making this video.  This caused a lot of health problems for me.  But I wasn't just drinking soda, I was eating a lot of simple carbohydrates. Now let's look at the nutritional guidelines for Americans from the 1950s to the 1920s. Added Sugar Guidelines.  It is not recommended to consume more than 50g or 12 teaspoons of added sugar per day.  In simple terms, it's between 0.33 and 0.5 of a sweet soda.  I'm shocked because that's just a huge amount of sugar. Sugar is a very strong oxidizer, and almost all of this sugar is consumed in the form of high fructose corn syrup.  And this is GMO.  Beet sugar is also GMO. Both of these forms of sugar are about 50% fructose and 50% glucose.  The liver has to deal with fructose, meaning other cells cannot process it.   It turns out that the liver is forced to cope with a huge amount of sugar on its own, which leads to fatty liver and insulin resistance.  The harm from fructose to the liver is comparable to the harm from alcohol.  It creates a lot of problems.   This is why many Americans suffer from diabetes, prediabetes, and insulin resistance.   The American Heart Association recommends no more than six teaspoons of sugar per day for women and nine teaspoons for men.  It turns out that men can drink 0.33 cans of sweet soda, but women, unfortunately, can drink just over half a can.  I understand this may be inconvenient for you, because I use pounds, gallons, ounces, and teaspoons.  I was just too lazy to count all this.  And the translator will still make all the transformations.  A question for you.  How many teaspoons of sugar do you think you can consume per day?  Let's talk about what sugar does to your arteries. Perhaps the greatest damage from high blood sugar in diabetics is to the vascular system.  And I want to talk about what happens in this state.  There are two systems: macrosodic and microsodic. large blood vessels and small capillaries.  Of the large blood vessels, you have the coronary artery. It supports the heart muscle. You also have peripheral arteries throughout your body and a microvascular system that goes to the retina of the eye.  It also goes to the kidneys.  If you think about what your kidneys do, they filter your blood.  The entire vascular system is filtered through the kidneys.   There are many capillaries in the kidneys, and there are also small nerves in the legs and arms. High blood sugar can cause damage called peripheral neuropathy.  It causes the feet or fingertips to become numb, painful, or burning.  This develops into a condition in which more and more of the nervous system is affected.  And this could potentially lead to necrosis.  It is literally tissue rotting.  And here's why this happens.  Sugar causes the vascular system to rust.  Sugar causes all kinds of oxidation.  It can be compared to rust on an old car.  The same thing happens inside the arteries.  They begin to oxidize and cause damage to the body. The layer inside blood vessels is called the endothelium.  The endothelium controls the tone of blood vessels.  It prevents foreign bodies from entering the vessels, acting as a barrier.  And it is extremely sensitive to excess sugar.  High glucose levels are seen as a signal of the onset of inflammation, meaning glucose causes inflammation in the arteries.  This is just the beginning of a series of events that will end in blockage of the arteries. The sequence is: dehydration, damage, inflammation.  Cholesterol appears later. But people get hung up on cholesterol when in fact it's just trying to cure endothelial inflammation.  Oxidation has direct and indirect effects.  I won't go into detail, but it causes a lot of serious effects in the body that you won't even know about until you have problems later.  It also causes thickening of blood vessels. They become tough.  And high blood sugar levels cause insulin resistance, which slows down blood flow.  Diabetes, or high blood sugar, causes neurological damage largely due to damaged blood vessels that drain nerves.  Here's what else is happening.  Sugar creates something called AGEs in your arteries.  Advanced glycation end products.  They have a very toxic effect on the arteries and the entire body as a whole, including the nervous system, brain and pancreas.  Another thing that happens is this.  When you have hyperglycemia, or high sugar, you start producing excess amounts of sarbitol.  Sorbitol, by the way, is alcohol that begins to accumulate in cells, accumulate fluid and damage the cells themselves in the retina. And this leads to cataracts. This can gradually lead to vision loss, and the myilin sheath is also damaged, destroying the nerve.  This is why diabetics develop peripheral neuropathy in their arms and legs.  It begins to spread further, destroying the vascular system and the nervous system. If oxygen and nutrients do not enter the tissues , they will begin to die and necrosis will develop.  Otherwise, you are completely healthy.  Also understand that the body can produce sugar on its own if it needs it.  This is called gluconeogenesis.  Does any of this happen when the body produces sugar on its own ?  No, it doesn't happen because the body also produces antioxidants.  They protect the body from complications due to high blood sugar.  The body produces these antioxidants because glucose causes oxidation and free radical damage.  This is another reason to eat foods rich in antioxidants rather than taking them in pills.  You should eat plenty of antioxidant-rich foods.  should increase the amount of vegetables in their diet to prevent complications due to high blood sugar levels.  Therefore, diabetics who eat a healthy diet and have an additional source of antioxidants have fewer complications from diabetes. There is one very good remedy for some of these conditions. Benfotiamine.  It is a fat-soluble form of B1 and is excellent for preventing peripheral neuropathy due to high blood sugar.  It also protects the kidneys and retina to some extent.  Just so you know, the studies on the retina and kidneys were done on animals, not humans.  But I still recommended benfitiamine for peripheral neuropathy to many clients and got simply excellent results.  Let's sum it up. Learn from other people's mistakes.  Use the knowledge of what will happen to the body if you eat a lot of sugar.  Don't wait until you develop this condition, because many symptoms don't appear for years, and then it's too late.  Sugar steals your energy and health.  It's time to break free.  8 weeks, 100% support, and you won't recognize yourself in the mirror.  Join Dr. Berg's Sugar-Free program.