Let's talk about the causes of inflammation. Unfortunately, many people have inflammation. They go to the doctor and are prescribed pills, and that's all. The pills mask the cause. You can't overcome inflammation with just fish oil. I was very lucky because over 30 years of practice, I saw the root causes of inflammation. Not all of them are in the medical literature. Inflammation is an immune response. It's not just about fighting pathogens, viruses, or bacteria. When inflammation doesn't go away for too long, then a lot of problems arise. For example, cancer. Cancer usually invades areas of inflammation. Inflammation is always accompanied by a lack of oxygen. Both inflammation and hypoxia lead to more aggressive cancer growth. Let's start with fibromyalgia. This is an inflammation that spreads throughout the body. Once, when I was in VL practice, I found out which patients had fibromyalgia. 100% of these patients had fibromyalgia only on the right side of the body. I dug deeper and learned that they all had problems in the right hypochondrium, and there are tubes there, these are the bile ducts. And sometimes bile, which  It should flow from the liver to the gallbladder, which becomes thick, which is why bile can accumulate in the liver, and bile detergent can cause irritation and pain in the liver, which is reflected in the right shoulder and neck. The reason for this is bile sediment. I did something very interesting: I told patients to massage the right hypochondrium and press on this place, after about a minute, the pain decreased to almost zero. I told everyone to take bile salts with food and also on an empty stomach. One type of bile salts is called tutka. It restores the swelling of bile and a person gets excellent results very quickly. If fibromyalgia affects the whole body, then the cause is usually not the gallbladder, but a virus that has come out of hibernation, the Steinberg virus, shingles, herpes viruses. All these viruses wake up when the immune system is weakened. Stress activates cortisol, and cortisol suppresses the immune system. Lyme disease can also cause pain. Lyme disease can cause a lot of inflammation, it reduces the ability to use vitamin D. Vitamin D is undoubtedly  the most important vitamin for the immune system vitamin D either increases the activity of the immune system or decreases the activity of the immune system if it is overactive this is the ideal solution to both problems the next reason old injuries old age brings problems such as stiffness I am a walking example of old injuries I broke my left elbow in 30 places left shoulder broke my neck and otherwise I am normal you need to constantly stretch not only the ligaments and muscles but also something more important namely fascia is my worst enemy and yours if you have this problem a sedentary lifestyle you need to move all the time do stretches the next reason inflammation this situation when cancer spreads in the area of ​​inflammation say if you smoke you have inflammation in the lungs because of their damage it is much easier for cancer to spread in them I will tell you about very powerful strategies in a minute further food allergies If you eat something that irritates the colon be it gluten peanuts or soy you will have constant inflammation there is such a thing as how the intestines brain what is happening below affects the brain, we're talking about grains. Especially wheat, this is madness. Whole grains are advertised as healthy food, convincing us to eat more of them. You want intestinal inflammation. If you have leaky gut syndrome or bleeding gums, then certain microbes can enter the bloodstream and create a lot of problems. One of the reasons is Ginger Vita - a severe deficiency of vitamin C caused by excess sugar and carbohydrates, and then collagen begins to break down. The task of microorganisms is to help form a mucous membrane that serves as a barrier. If there are no microorganisms due to antibiotics, then there is no protective membrane and the balance of good and bad bacteria is disrupted, their excessive growth occurs, and then a lot of intestinal problems. The next reason is related to cortisol. People with high cortisol levels have a lot of inflammation due to the development of cortisol, some hormone. The receptors for this hormone stop working and the opposite effect occurs, since cortisol reduces inflammation. Inflammation increases. Another common reason is eating junk food. I mean sugar, but not regular sugar, but junk industrial synthetic sugars. Something else is hidden sugar, starch, modified corn and food starch, maltodextrin. The average person consumes up to 70 kilograms of all of this. Every year, this causes a huge spike in blood sugar and inflammation. I called it sugar and starch, but there is nothing worse than seed oils. Seed oils are fats that don't actually give us energy. Here, the cell, seed oils get stuck in its membrane and disrupt cell function. Moreover, seed oils are very difficult to remove from the body if you stop eating them. They will completely disappear from the body in a year and a half. I highly recommend doing this. The average person consumes 20-30 liters of these oils per year. The next reason is excess visceral fat, which is fat around the internal organs. Excess sugar, starch, or seed oils leads to insulin resistance. insulin does not enter the fat cell, and all the fat accumulates outside of it. This is all the fat in the liver and around the internal organs. Further, autoimmune diseases are more common than heart disease and cancer. Normally, T cells of the immune system prevent the development of autoimmune diseases. But  If these cells become fewer in number, their function is impaired, an autoimmune disease develops, the immune system is superfluous in powders, artificial meat, and even included in some diets. You will eat this protein to help the body. Those who ate a lot of this protein came to me, and most of these patients came with severe inflammation in the liver area. I removed it from their diet and the inflammation went away. The next reason for MP is electromagnetic fields. If you talk on the phone a lot, holding it, the brain is affected by many electromagnetic fields, and this can cause inflammation. One day, I called a technician to my home to find out about electromagnetic fields in the entire house. I had a feeling of heartbeat, but no nutrients helped, and I had insomnia. As soon as the technician began scanning the area near my bed, the device simply [music] went off the charts. There was a ball of wires that emitted a magnetic field from the wall, literally piercing. When we fixed this, the feeling of heartbeat went away, and I began to sleep like a child. Then there are drugs with a side effect in the form of increased inflammation, which creates a problem, they prescribe you another drug, and so on. I know those who take one and a half to two dozen medications. I guarantee that if the side effect of one drug is treated with another, the body will be constantly confused. I advise you to find a good doctor and find out which drug you absolutely need and ask him to help you stop taking those drugs that can be replaced with natural remedies. The next reason is excess iron. Iron is such a powerful inflammatory factor that cirrhosis of the liver is possible simply because of its excess. I do not recommend taking dietary supplements with iron. If after donating blood you feel better, then you have an iron problem. One of the antidote is to get more copper, since copper improves our protection from iron. Further, if there are fibroids, they can reflect severe back pain. One of the simple remedies for this is to increase the dose of vitamin D to 30,000 per day. Further, an important point about the heart. If you exercise and start to run out of breath too quickly, get your heart checked. Often, a heart problem manifests itself only in this way. Or does not manifest itself at all. Now let's discuss common remedies for these problems. Let's start with autoimmune diseases. You need to take vitamin D3 and with it you need to take magnesium and zinc.  and K2 side effects will be less and the effectiveness will be higher if you have an autoimmune disease you need to take a probiotic with lactobacilli dig this powerful remedy for many things I will give a link below for an autoimmune problem with the intestines I highly recommend going on the Kornevo diet for a couple of months then Little by little Add something like sauerkraut you need a low-carb diet Remove sugar is low and oils from seeds are very important to observe intermittent fasting I would eat twice a day once even better this will automatically reduce fat in the liver visceral fat inflammation will go away you need omega-3 fatty acids the best source is cod liver oil for any inflammation you need to take vitamin D I myself take 40 maybe 50,000mg of vitamin D every day and don't forget about the sun it gives vitamin D3 for free the last This is something amazing I developed a technique for working with the opposite side if it hurts somewhere press on the opposite side and the pain will go away It's amazing doctors don't teach this I will give links below so you can familiarize yourself If you  Do you have pain or inflammation? Try this technique, it will impress you. Thanks for watching and see you later.