Let's talk about the liver and about very important things that allow you to increase the liver's ability to detoxify and restore a damaged liver. You know, my liver was severely damaged. And sometimes people ask me, "You've cured your liver, I have no residual symptoms, and I seem to have gotten rid of my liver problems." But if I violate the diet even a little, I experience symptoms of liver problems, and I talk about it. Because sometimes people have this idea that if you've cured something, you can return to your normal diet and not experience problems due to certain foods. Let's take diabetes, for example. Once I was asked if your diet would allow me to eliminate diabetes so that I could then eat like before again. I answered no. That's not possible. After all, it's the same as pouring diesel fuel into a car with a gasoline engine and thinking that the car will work fine. If you pour diesel fuel into an engine not designed for this fuel, you can't ruin it. After repairs, you can return to diesel fuel. The car needs the right fuel. It's the same with the body. Our bodies are designed to run on Titov fuel. The body needs all the glucose it needs.  can create with great ease. This is especially true for the liver with an excess of glucose and carbohydrates, it does not function properly. In general, certain things are needed for the liver to function, but I want to talk a little about something else, namely, glutathione. Glutathione is one of the most important antioxidants for the liver and, in general, for all cells. All cells contain glutathione in very, very large quantities. It is very important. I call it a superhero because it protects the liver. It helps restore the liver after damage, and glutathione has been studied literally up and down, in fact, over 100,000 peer-reviewed articles. Scientific journals are devoted exclusively to glutathione. It is well researched. It is closely related to liver restoration processes, as well as to the function of liver detoxification. So if you have fatty liver or inflammation in the liver, scar tissue, or cirrhosis of the liver, maintaining glutathione levels is very, very important for you. As for detoxification, glutathione has one important property: it attracts heavy metals, especially mercury. It pulls mercury from the brain and transfers it to the liver.  into bile and removes it from the body, it's just some kind of miracle, glutathione helps convert fat-soluble poisons that are stuck in the body into water-soluble harmless particles, and this is cool, it breaks down, for example, hydrogen peroxide, which is secreted by cells. And this is a protective mechanism of the immune system, the body produces a lot of hydrogen peroxide, and glutathione helps neutralize it. In case of an overdose of acetaminophen, glutathione can neutralize the effects of this if you drank a lot of alcohol, glutathione can minimize liver damage. If you regularly take medication, you need to maintain higher levels of glutathione, many diseases are associated with low levels of glutathione, over 75 major diseases are associated with low levels of glutathione. The problem is that with age, the body produces less of it. So I'll tell you how to maintain high levels of glutathione in the body. Glutathione also reduces insulin resistance, helps cope with fatigue from exercise and protects mitochondria, this is one of its main functions, mitochondria produce energy. And when  Mitochondria are damaged, the risk of cancer increases. Glutathione directly helps protect mitochondria from excessive damage, thereby preventing cancer, so it is a very important compound. So, why do we have isekai? The more injured you are, the less glutathione you have and the need for it increases. The problem is that because of an injury, you end up in the hospital. And what they feed you there depletes glutathione stores, this is not good. So, junk food, processed foods deplete glutathione stores, alcohol depletes glutathione stores, stress depletes glutathione stores, toxins, heavy metals, plastic, chemicals, medications, drugs, all of this depletes glutathione stores and increases the need for it. Excessive training. If you train too much, your glutathione levels eventually become low and, of course, prediabetes, diabetes, excess carbohydrates in the diet, especially empty carbohydrates. Sugars can deplete glutathione, there are a lot of them in beef.  So beef is generally beneficial. There is more glutathione in animal products than in plant foods, but plant foods also contain glutathione, especially those rich in sulfur. These are cruciferous vegetables, namely kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and especially radishes. Vegetables such as garlic and onions are also rich in sulfur. They are very useful for increasing glutathione. So when you eat meat, beef, or something else, and when you eat fish, eat them with garlic and onions to get more glutathione. Glutathione levels can be increased with the help of dietary supplements. One of them is ethyl cysteine, alpha lipoic acid, another is curcumin from turmeric, another source of glutathione. Vitamin D helps increase its level. Ademetionine is another source. Melatonin, but I'm not talking about Melatonin in dietary supplements, but about the Melatonin we get when we are exposed to infrared light. So, exposure to the sun increases Melatonin. And this increases Glutathione levels Melatonin is also a powerful antioxidant. So they work great together. Besides, the sun reduces stress levels. All these factors enhance this amazing effect of increasing glutathione levels. I think it is important to understand how glutathione works. For example, if you have been injured, increase the dose to cope with it. Or say you broke the program and drank alcohol. Increase your glutathione levels. Or you are aging. The older you are, the more stress you have. The more medications you take, the more important it is to eat. How can you increase your glutathione levels correctly? And thereby neutralize the impact of all this on your body. You still need to learn a lot about the liver. Therefore, I offer you my course about the liver. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.