Today we'll talk about how to look younger. If you tell people what to do and don't explain why, they often won't do anything. So today I'll tell you why and what to do. This information will be useful for both beginners and those who have been watching my channel for a long time. So, to look younger on the outside, you actually need to be younger on the inside. To look young, you need to do something with the accumulated damaged proteins. The more damaged proteins we have inside and outside, the younger we look. We'll talk about many aspects of the overall picture. We'll start with the term CPG. What is CPG? It's an abbreviation for advanced glycation end products. What is it? It 's a combination of a sugar molecule and a protein molecule. If you take sugar and protein and heat them together, we get a combo of G. Essentially, proteins that are now damaged and inaccessible can create many problems throughout the body. Because of them, we can look very old. CPGs are also formed when glucose combines with fat and when they are heated. I'll explain this in very simple terms. When you eat, for example, this thing called ice cream, it's essentially heated to a very high temperature. Glucose, lactose, that is, sugar along with milk proteins, or you just go to a product that has a lot of KNG, ice cream is a perfect example of heated fat with sugar, another example is barbecue ribs, you take the ribs, the protein, pour it with sauce, sugar and heat it up, and when you eat the fried ribs, after about an hour, you may feel lethargic, a lot of sinus problems, so when you fry ribs, it is very important to use a sugar-free sauce, use seasonings, just dry sugar-free seasonings and sea salt, what about sweet soda with a little sugar and caramel coloring, and you heat this soda, my God, you are not only absorbing KNG, all this sugar in your body at a temperature of 37 degrees combines, for example, with your blood proteins and with other proteins and forms all these combinations that bind and damage protein. In fact, when you measure your A1c, you are measuring the accumulated excess glucose in the blood over a period of 3 months, so if you have a high A1c, this indicates Your red blood cell glycation level shouldn't be much higher than five, not six, seven, eight. I know people who have one C11. This just means you have a lot of sugar in your blood, and this causes glycation. This protein gets damaged and creates blockages in many places. Consider French fries. This is starch, which is essentially glucose molecules stuck together, and then it's all deep-fried, that is, in fat. So, fat plus starch is deep- fried, and we get a huge amount of CNG. If you want to start looking old sooner, eat French fries. Then potato chips. Same thing. Starch and oil are deep-fried. Nothing good. What about a donut? A deep-fried donut? Imagine empty carbohydrates. Probably with corn or soybean oil, or whatever oil they have there. Oh my god, I vividly remember going to the Taste Town Fair in Pennsylvania, where they had deep-fried ice cream, potatoes, cookies, and everything deep-fried. In fact, there weren't many young people at the fair. What about a hamburger? Here we have meat.  With ketchup and a BUN, of course, you add French fries and Coca-Cola here and there you have it, a cubed CPG, the perfect killer recipe for rapid aging, and almost all food is exactly like that: fast food, eateries, Chinese cuisine, Mexican cuisine, all of these are examples of CPG. This is what causes you to age and this is what should be avoided. Well, let's talk about how to remove CPG from the body. What is this condition called autophagy? It's something like a furnace that can create and break down CPG, damaged proteins, as well as old proteins, for example, in old skin cells, and during this process, these proteins are transformed. Autophagy means that out, which means aphasia itself means eating, that is, the body, in a sense, eats its own proteins, it repurposes, processes old damaged proteins and creates new ones, and so autophagy perfectly eliminates CPG, it is useful for old wrinkled skin, and this is the main factor in rejuvenation, and the best way to start the autophagy process is fasting. For those who are new to my channel, I highly recommend starting with There are links below for intermittent fasting. As for those who watch my channel and already practice fasting, let's say you eat twice a day. I recommend eating once a day. This is called omate. For those who already practice omate, I advise switching to the so- called dry omate. What is dry omate? I'll also make a video about this. Dry fasting, which essentially consists of not drinking water at all and not eating anything, creates a combined effect. That is, it is three times more effective. So, with dry momodi, you don't drink water throughout the day except in the evening when you go once. But many people practice dry fasting for longer than one day. Their dry fasting lasts two, three, four days, up to 7 days or even longer. After all, we can get water from our fat cells. I won't go into this too much now. This is a very, very powerful mechanism, but this is a higher level. I do n't recommend doing this if you haven't yet had regular fasting with water. But if you want to move to the next level, you need to start dry fasting. Adam himself. So, I highly recommend it if you want your skin to be  be young be in the sun just be careful not to get sunburned there are certain types of light with a certain wavelength infrared light that soften the damaging effects of ultraviolet radiation and thus infrared waves can greatly help look young because these waves help produce a lot of melatonin if you haven't seen my video about this link below melatonin is associated not only with sleep it is an antioxidant it protects against free radicals all our cells can produce melatonin there are two types of melatonin one for sleep and the other for antioxidants and one way to replenish its reserves be in the sun just don't overdo it but regular exposure to the sun greatly helps to look younger this is one of the problems in winter when there is no sun we look a little older paler lose the glow of youth next we will talk about the environment our environment is simply filled with chemicals poisons medicines all this is very difficult to avoid fortunately we have a liver that can break down these poisons it can remove heavy metals pesticides insecticides pollution chemicals that are contained in water and food this is called the first phase and  The second phase of liver detoxification has enzymes whose levels can be increased with the help of certain foods to promote the elimination of toxins and so that you look young. It is very important to have a healthy liver. If you have an erotic liver, that is, cirrhosis, scar tissue in the liver, or it is filled with fat or inflamed, you will look old, so by bringing the liver in order in any way, you will look younger. There are a couple of things that I will now tell you about cruciferous vegetables. They contain certain phytonutrients that can increase the level of your own enzymes and improve the first and second phases of detoxification. This is the first thing. In addition, vegetables give us antioxidants directly, and they, like nature's orderlies, flock and eliminate damage from free radicals that arise due to inflammation, chemicals or heavy metals, and so on. When you eat more cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, arugula, I like to add arugula to greens, you create a healthy liver and to look young, this look must be created continuously. Often people simply neglect creating health and then one day wonder what happened to  My body needs to be continuously maintained for health every day to remove many poisons, chemicals, and toxins that have entered the liver. Bile is needed, it helps remove these toxins. So, bile is very, very important to look young. It not only removes toxic waste but also extracts fat-soluble vitamins from food, and they are absolutely necessary to look young. In this context, these are vitamins such as E and omega-3 fatty acids. The latter are not vitamins, but they are an essential nutrient, and all these fat-soluble substances that are needed for young skin cannot be obtained without bile. So, if you have little bile for various reasons, say, you have a fatty liver or you are on a low-fat diet, and bile production is stimulated by fat, or say, you had gallstones and your gallbladder was removed. A lack of bile will lead to a deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins and omega-3 fatty acids, and all of them are very necessary to look young. Therefore, a sufficient amount of bile and a sufficient amount of fat in the diet to obtain fat-soluble vitamins is extremely necessary to look young. That's why people on a low-fat diet start to look older because they are deprived of the benefits of vitamins A and D and omega-3 fatty acids. Let's discuss the type of fat I'm talking about. I'm talking about fatty fish like salmon. It's amazingly rich in omega-3 fatty acids. They're needed to counteract inflammation and balance omega-6 fatty acids, which are also found in foods like corn oil, canola oil, soybean oil, and cottonseed oil. They're found in a lot of foods. They're found in foods you eat outside the home. They cause a lot of inflammation, which makes a person look older. They affect the eyes, causing age-related polar degeneration in many people, and they make the skin look older. So, fatty fish is very, very necessary. The second product is egg yolks. Egg yolks contain a lot of good vitamins, and egg yolks also contain choline, which is very beneficial for fatty liver disease and helps normalize cholesterol. The yolks contain lecithin, which normalizes cholesterol. People are afraid of cholesterol in egg yolks, but they also contain  an antidote to cholesterol and by the way, you need foods rich in cholesterol to build healthy cell membranes, healthy sex hormones that make skin young, such as testosterone and estrogen, you need all this good cholesterol to create healthy skin, which is why cholesterol medications like statins make people look very old, suffer from side effects in terms of muscle and inflammation, and they do not produce bile, cholesterol is needed to produce bile, and it is very important, and in particular, you need to take purified bile salts to improve the extraction of fat-soluble nutrients from fats, if you have little bile, and so on, personal yolks are very necessary, butter, it is rich in vitamin A, eat it boldly, the main thing is grass-fed, and we move on to vitamin E, its best source is sunflower seeds, but it is also found in leafy greens, nuts, vegetables, vitamin E is very, very important for the skin and also for internal organs, another good fat is cod liver oil, this oil contains vitamin D, vitamin A, and omega-3 fatty acids, so cod liver and oil beef liver is very, very necessary from it, it is also very necessary, I personally can’t eat it, I don’t like the taste, but if you like liver with onions, eat soup, there are a lot of fat-soluble vitamins in the products, extra virgin olive oil is very important, avocado and its oil are excellent for the skin, in other words, a low-fat diet, you don’t need to eat a diet that I don’t recommend, it’s called the ideal protein, it’s keto, that is, it’s low-carbohydrate, but at the same time it’s low- fat, so in my understanding, it’s not a healthy version of the keto diet. If you saw a person on the ideal protein diet, my God, how old he looks, his hair, his skin looks completely dried out, they don’t look young, so maybe you’ll lose weight, but you won’t look healthy. There’s one interesting point that I wanted to tell you about vegetables. Perhaps you think that vegetables don’t contain much fat, but many phytonutrients such as chlorophyll, such as carotenoids and many, many others are fat-soluble, so to extract these wonderful antioxidants and also amazing phytonutrients, you need bile, and they also need to be eaten with fat, so when you eat  greens and drizzle them with extra virgin olive oil when you eat cruciferous vegetables drizzle them with olive oil eating greens with oil improves the extraction of amazing phytonutrients they are not only very rich in antioxidants but also promote the first and second phases of detoxification that we talked about and by the way phytonutrients also help stimulate out of a due and so regarding free radical damage to reduce the excess amount of this damage and oxidation that puts us there are two types of antioxidants there are endogenous antioxidants that the body itself creates there are exogenous antioxidants that we get from food you need to eat a lot of greens and vegetables to get these antioxidants but the body has antioxidant networks they increase when you exercise they increase when you fast so fasting helps in almost everything that is needed to look young during fasting there are more antioxidants in the body and this is great so I already said the combination of glucose with protein and glucose with fat but also from glucose in principle from a high-carbohydrate diet a person probably faster than from anything else begins to look old because if you look at diabetics as They age so quickly. Sugar is like rust. It oxidizes not only your blood vessels from the inside, but also your eyes, nerves, brain, and kidneys, but also your skin. It makes your skin look very old. Every time you eat glucose of any type, you simultaneously block vitamin C. The vitamin C molecule is very similar to the glucose molecule, and you block vitamin C, which is also a very powerful antioxidant. When you eat sugar, you deplete other antioxidants, such as vitamin B1, which is also an antioxidant. In fact, you just make your skin very, very old very quickly. Smoking depletes antioxidants and vitamins, especially vitamin C. The need for antioxidants, vitamin C, and other vitamins increases greatly if you smoke because you let all this pollution inside yourself. So, one way to age prematurely is to continue smoking. If you smoke, do everything possible to quit. Meanwhile, during the transition period, if you quit smoking or, say, you quit drinking alcohol, another way to age very quickly is to get a lot of antioxidants. But  Not in supplements but from food, you need to eat a lot of greens, fast a lot, and do everything I'm talking about to counteract free radical damage in the body. I want to say one more thing called stress. Stress causes two consequences in the body. First, it switches the body to glucose, and the body begins to use glucose as fuel, converting various tissues into glucose. So, even if you stop eating carbohydrates, you still consume them. If you are very stressed, this is one consequence. The second consequence is that stress causes catabolism, that is, the destruction of proteins in your skin. So, one of the ways to age is to experience a lot of stress, so you need to do everything possible to reduce stress in your environment. Unfortunately, it cannot be avoided, but you can do something to reduce it. You can be active and regularly exercise. You can fast a lot, both interval and long-term. You can work physically. One of the best remedies for stress is to work on improving your sleep. One of the excellent methods is breathing control. Start breathing through your nose, especially when you go to bed and slow down your breathing. I have an excellent video about this. I will definitely leave a link below. Breathing control helps overcome a panic attack and truly control Stress, but stress is another factor I must mention because it is very important. I want to touch on one more point. Protein is needed: high- quality organic, grass-fed, commercially raised, fatty fish. Seafood is an important source of quality protein, as well as microelements that help the skin. Pastured eggs are very, very important, unlike store-bought ones. Products from commercially raised animals are also important. Regarding the amount of protein, a healthy chum salmon diet requires a moderate amount of protein. It is not a high- protein diet. You know what happens when you have too much protein in your diet. Protein is not converted into the body's own proteins. This protein is used as fuel and also creates a lot of waste in the body. Therefore, it is very important not to overeat proteins if you want to look young. I do not recommend a low-protein diet, but eat proteins in moderation. Here is a very simple rule: a serving of protein should be about the size of your palm. For men, this amount should be multiplied by 2, and for women, just the size of your palms. This is a simple answer to the question of how much is moderate. The last thing I want to talk about is intestinal microflora. Microorganisms in the intestines help produce fatty acids, or rather short-chain fatty acids, they are very important.  to normalize blood sugar levels to increase insulin sensitivity to eliminate insulin resistance, they also produce B vitamins and factors that help the immune system reduce inflammation, and in addition, they produce secondary bile, which helps you produce bile. This is very, very important for extracting fat-soluble vitamins. So, healthy microflora is very necessary to look young, and one of the best products for the development of such microflora is fermented vegetables such as sauerkraut, which is probably the best product for the skin, as well as other pickles and fermented vegetables, they are very, very important because they give us prebiotics and probiotics at the same time. I gave a lot of information in this video. I hope you took notes. Watch it again. Use this to look young. You can really delve into the topic of healthy ketogenic diets and fasting on my basic course. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved  very stable results, join us too