I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there. You should know about the main remedy against liver poisoning because the liver is poisoned in most people, but they don’t know it. The fact is that the first symptoms appear only after years or even decades. The first signs of liver damage include yellowing of the eyes, yellowing of the skin, nausea, red spots on the skin, and simply lack of energy. But there is an excellent remedy that can perfectly counteract many different manifestations of liver poisoning. Let’s say you drank alcohol and in the morning you have a hangover. This remedy will relieve you of the hangover. It will reduce the damage that the liver has received. It also counteracts the harmful effects of smoking. Let’s say you smoke a cigarette or someone smokes nearby. The smoke enters the lungs, from there into the blood, and all this then enters the liver. This remedy can reduce the damage from smoking, or, say, you got a toxic substance on your skin. Dissolve it and it will end up in your blood and then in the liver. This remedy can also cope with the side effects of ibuprofen. Ibuprofen is not an anti-inflammatory, it is just a medicine for pain and high fever. Also, toxicity can come from chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and chemicals from a polluted environment, including herbicides, pesticides, insecticides, and fungicides. This remedy is for I am very glad that it is still sold. It was removed from free sale for some time because it was considered a medicine. But it is a natural remedy. What is its effect? It does several things. First, it is a key nutrient for replenishing glutathione. This is a very important antioxidant throughout the body, including the liver. Glutathione acts as an antioxidant that helps counteract damage from free radicals. I will tell you about antioxidants and free radicals. Imagine a plate rotating around its axis, and on both sides of which lie weights. It rotates symmetrically. But if you remove one of the weights, the plate will lose its balance. What are the consequences? Because of this, many electrons appear without a pair, and this causes damage to the body. The antioxidant gives up its An electron to a free radical so that it is no longer a free radical and balances the rotating plate, but another problem arises: the antioxidant itself has lost an electron. It needs to restore it, and another antioxidant helps it with this. Therefore, an antioxidant should not be alone in the liver, for example, there is glutathione, vitamin E, vitamin C, and they work together to exchange electrons. One of the amazing properties of ethyl cysteine ​​is that it helps replenish glutathione. And this then helps replenish other antioxidants. Ethyl cysteine ​​also improves a process in the liver called phase I and phase II detoxification. During phase I and phase II detoxification, fat-soluble poison is converted into harmless water-soluble particles. Cysteine ​​can improve this process. It also helps liver tissue regenerate. It can help prevent the self-destruction of liver cells; the liver can destroy itself. I recommend taking cetyl stearyl alcohol. It is even more effective. Firstly, take it on an empty stomach, so it will work better. Secondly, take it several times a day. Enal cysteine will work much better if you take it.  along with vitamin C and selenium, and finally, if you take EC cysteine, your next meal should be rich in protein. This way you will get more amino acids, and glutathione will work better. Together with animal protein, I also recommend eating cruciferous vegetables. They contain a lot of antioxidants, and thus the body will have a huge reserve from which it can take them to help the liver. If you haven't watched my video about glutathione yet, you should watch it here.