When you search for information about calcium deposits in the body, you see one word over and over and over again, and that word is idiopathic. What does it mean? It means the cause is unknown. We don't know much about calcium deposits in the body. But today we'll discuss what we know and potential solutions to these problems. I'm talking about bone spurs, kidney stones, osteophytes, calcium deposits on joints, tartar, calcium in blood vessels, calcium deposits in the brain, breast tissue, and skin. Even in the eyes and nerves. What could cause all this calcification in tissue? If you had some kind of wound, infection, surgery, or injury, then scar tissue could form. This area of ​​tissue may be inflamed. So, calcium can be deposited in joints where there was an injury. You need to know a couple of things. The joint must move all the time. The more you immobilize the joint, the more calcium begins to fuse it. So, movement helps prevent calcium deposits in joints. There are other means, for example, a means of reducing inflammation, vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. Next  The factor associated with calcium deposits in tissues is pH. Normal blood should be slightly alkaline. If the pH becomes too high, too alkaline, this is called alkalosis. We will discuss this. Calcium usually comes out of solution when it enters an alkaline environment or is in it. It is like with a water tap. Calcium deposits can appear if the pH of tap water is too alkaline. If you have excess cortisol due to years of chronic stress or you have eaten a lot of sugar throughout your life, these two factors can cause calcium to accumulate in the colossus. Then calcium can begin to be deposited first in the nervous tissue. This can manifest as titania. Twitching occurs. Twitching of the lower eyelid is a sign of alkalosis and this means that you need to slightly increase the acidity of the body. Apple cider vinegar is an excellent remedy for this, or take care of your stomach. Drink betaine hydrochloride. Your pH problem may be caused by years of taking antacids or other drugs, but to really normalize pH, you just need to eat healthy foods, avoid what is harmful to you, and Page's body will become what it should be. There is another product that gives excellent results in case of alkalosis, this is  This company's product is natural ingredients that increase the acidity of the body. It increases the acidity of the entire body and it is excellent for alkalosis and calcium deposits. Number three, if there is a lot of calcium in the blood, this is the so- called hypercalcemia. Then calcium can be deposited throughout the body, including in the form of kidney stones. This is possible if you take a lot of calcium supplements or drink a lot of milk. This calcium has nowhere to go. So, it begins to accumulate throughout the body. Another potential reason for this is vitamin D toxicity when too much is taken, but I want to say something about this. I have a lot of videos about this. This happens very rarely, and frankly, you need to take hundreds of thousands of international units of vitamin D to develop hypercalcemia. So, people with high levels of calcium in the blood should never take too many calcium supplements, or even not take them at all. Number two, we have a problem with the parathyroid glands. I would definitely increase the dose of vitamin D3. I would not reduce it. Unless you have been taking huge doses of vitamin D3 for many months, which is extremely unlikely. More likely.  The reason is the so- called hyperparathyroidism. And now I'll tell you about it, but first, the last two points about hypercalcemia: excess calcium in the blood due to cancer or a tumor. The level of calcium in the blood can become high. This happens rarely. I would not consider this as one of the main reasons. I would first consider calcium in the diet and the problem with the parathyroid glands, which are simply too active. So, I'll tell you briefly about hyperparathyroidism. There are four parathyroid glands. They are located behind the thyroid gland, here at the base of the neck. The thyroid glands regulate calcium. And when you have low levels of vitamin D, and vitamin D helps us absorb calcium, it increases the absorption of calcium by 20 times. So, with low levels of vitamin D, as in most people on earth, the parathyroid glands have to work harder in search of calcium. And so they look for calcium, look into the bones and borrow calcium from the bones. They grab calcium and send it into the blood, and this can cause hypercalcemia. High levels of calcium in the blood. It's interesting because vitamin D appears.  In both extremes, both high and low levels of vitamin D indirectly cause the parathyroid glands to remove a lot of calcium from the bones and release it into the blood. This is the mechanism. Therefore, if you have calcium deposits, then when you take vitamin D, it may turn out that they become smaller and may disappear, because it's time for the thyroid glands to work so hard and they stop dumping all this calcium into the blood. There are other reasons for the excessive work of the parathyroid glands. Perhaps you are taking lithium, this is one of its side effects. Perhaps you are taking diuretics, they can speed up the parathyroid glands. There may be a tiny tumor in one of the glands, because of this, it works too quickly. You need to know this. You can check in the field of vision, do an ultrasound to find out if there is a problem, but here's what's good about the thyroid glands. Let's say there is a small benign tumor on one of them, but you have four of them. So, there are spare ones. In this case, it is best to start taking more vitamin D3. Now let's discuss another possible cause of calcium deposits, and this is due to low levels of phosphorus. Phosphorus is found in many foods.  but there is more of it in animal products, we need phosphorus to create DNA to produce ATP energy, 85 percent of phosphorus is found in bones, it makes bones very strong, and phosphorus works together with calcium, as well as with vitamin D, and when there is not enough phosphorus in the body, a lot of free calcium appears and it can do anything, it can begin to accumulate in different tissues anywhere. So by increasing the phosphorus level, you can dissolve some calcium deposits, because phosphorus controls calcium, and I recommend phosphorus, which is produced by the Standard Process company, finally, I recommend it, but I am not associated with it, I do not receive any rewards from it. There is a product called phosphate liquid, an excellent thing for calcium deposits. I used it before. There are a number of other symptoms by which you can identify a phosphorus deficiency, and the last possible cause of calcium deposits is biofilms. What are biofilms? Biofilms. These are small houses that microbes build to hide from you, so they remain unnoticed. This is a kind of community of microbes that have united to survive, which is why antibiotics do not cope with biofilms. Biofilms form tartar and films.  They occur in blood vessels, form plaques in blood vessels, biofilms can also be in joints. So, vitamin K2 works together in bones. So, K2 works with vitamin D, which supplies calcium to the blood. AC2 directs calcium from the blood to the bones, making them very strong. So, with a deficiency of vitamin K2, various deposits can occur. Vitamin K2 is found in hard cheeses, in soft cheeses, in butter, in eggs, and even sauerkraut. I forgot to mention the last point. Magnesium helps reduce calcium deposits. Magnesium is found in leafy greens. If you eat a lot of them, don't worry about a lack of potassium. Potassium can also be obtained from electrolyte powder, etc. Potassium also helps normalize excess calcium, but this is hardly the main typical reason for its deposits. So, I didn't emphasize this. I wrote a number of factors that you can investigate to identify your problem, but I would like you to learn a little more about vitamin K2. If you haven't watched this video, watch it.