Do you ever feel tired even though you slept all night?  Then this video is for you.  This is called excessive daytime sleepiness.  During night sleep, hormone levels fluctuate in waves.   There are 4 such cycles in total, each lasting 90 minutes. Within these cycles, there are levels of sleep depth.  The most superficial, light sleep is called the rapid eye movement phase .  And then there is the delta.  This is a deep sleep.  This is where recharging occurs. Here is the goal.  Get into this phase of sleep. What could be stopping you from getting here? Stress, of course.  But I want to talk about other reasons too.  You may not have heard of them.  The first is vitamin D deficiency. If you have a vitamin D deficiency, it's very difficult to enter the delta phase of sleep, so you need to take about 20,000 international units of vitamin D. You should take vitamin D in the morning or at lunchtime.  Another option is to sunbathe. Perhaps this is why it is easier to sleep after being in the sun.  So, sunbathing or vitamin D. That's the first thing.  Second.  Fermented foods, such as sauerkraut.  There is a powerful connection between the gut and the brain. If the microflora has enough food, and the benefit of fermented foods is that they contain not only fiber, but also friendly bacteria.  One of the reasons these bacteria are friendly is because they produce proteins that help the body produce neurotransmitters such as serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid.  These substances reduce stress, so the friendship between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain is very important.  Next, omega-3 fatty acids.  We get too much omega-6 fatty acids from soybean oil, canola, cottonseed and corn, but they can cause inflammation.  And we lack omega-3 fatty acids.  They are found in fish and cod liver.  The fourth problem is the electromagnetic field.  Many people don't even suspect this.  I'll record a separate video about this .  This is very serious.  If you sit in front of the computer for many hours in a row, you will literally become exhausted.  This may be the reason why you sleep a lot but don't feel rested. I'll tell you more about this.  If you want to understand this topic, I will provide a link under the video . Smartphones and all these wireless headsets are a particularly big problem.  This is very harmful.  Fifth, chronic infections.  For example, a person has, say, the Epstein- Barr virus or he has a local infection, for example, an infection in a tooth or in the intestines.  And this infection has been there for many years.  This will lead to constant fatigue.  I have a video about this too .  I'll give you a link to it.  For now, I'll just say that I recommend the natural antibiotic oregano or even garlic.  They are excellent for treating these chronic infections.  With a chronic infection, you are constantly tired, despite getting plenty of sleep and taking vitamins.   There are no changes, and it’s all due to the immune response.  And the immune response provokes the production of histamines.  If you suspect this is your case, watch the video at the link below.  Thanks for watching.  Yes.