I haven't made a video about microwaves yet. I want to express my opinion if any of this contradicts what you know. If you've found research that contradicts this, write in the comments. I'm always interested in new research, especially those that are being hushed up. After all, when you search for something on the Internet, it often turns out that the information is not being used. Many facts cannot be found easily. Take, for example, products that are at risk. They were generally considered healthy for 97 years, and then it turned out that they are actually quite dangerous. So, there are many things on sale that have long been considered safe. I'll just say what I think about microwaves. I have a microwave, but I do n't really use it. Not because I'm afraid of anything, I just mostly use the oven. Let's look at some definitions. To emit means to spread outward in all directions from some source. Then the word radiation is used. This is the transfer of energy in the form of particles or waves through space or some medium such as food, a body, or even a wall. So, some people think that after a microwave oven, food becomes somehow radioactive. Let's figure it out. There are two types of radiation: ionizing radiation.  There is non- ionizing radiation. Ionizing radiation knocks out one or more electrons from an atom, it penetrates deeper and can damage DNA. For example, gamma rays or x-rays and even to some extent ultraviolet radiation. But non- ionizing radiation can break bonds in molecules, but is not necessarily capable of destroying atoms. But according to microwave research, they apparently do not even break these bonds, but only cause them to vibrate. That is, they can partially disrupt the bonds and at the same time generate heat. This is how microwaves actually affect food: they create vibrations in food at a certain level and, as a result, heat is created. Microwave ovens can reduce the nutritional value of food. This is undoubtedly affected by the time spent in the oven. Although heating, in principle, reduces the amount of nutrients in food, the main problem with microwaves is that if the containers are plastic, the plastic breaks down when heated and gets into the food. There is very serious research on this. Our bodies accumulate a lot of microplastics, and this is definitely one of its sources. So, if you cook in a microwave, use glass or ceramic dishes, but do not use plastic containers for food. Here is another very important point: you cannot stand near a working microwave oven. Microwaves usually have a filter with holes. Don't look into the microwave when it's running. I would generally move 5-6 meters away from the line along which the microwave is facing. The fact is that the waves emitted by a microwave oven can affect the cornea of the eye, and you absolutely do not want the molecular bonds in the substance inside the eye to vibrate and fry. The lens, which is very sensitive to heat, is very important. So, just move away from the microwave. The other day, I used my device for measuring the magnetic resonance to find out how far the waves travel when the microwaves are turned off. I selected radio frequencies on the device, and the level was definitely significant at four and a half meters. So, if you use a microwave, stand away from it and further away. You are on the ketogenic holiday ahead. Prepare delicious and healthy dishes with a book of festive keto recipes: hot and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and bread, as well as calculating calories, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Order the book of festive keto menus using the link below.