Today I want to discuss the main reason why arteries are fixed in the ring and in the long term can be to the wall, since heart disease kills the most people in the world, I think it is important to discuss this problem from a nutritional point of view so that you know what can be done about it. In this video, we will mainly discuss the part of the problem that is associated with calcium, cholesterol, and other heart problems. What are the main signs of an impending heart attack? The first is chest pain, especially when you exercise, strain, or experience emotional stress. If this pain subsides when you rest, this is an indicator of possible heart problems. There can also be referred pain in the left shoulder and for the forearm or even in the back, in the jaw on this side of the head, since the heart is on the left, the pain can radiate to the left half. Third, a burning sensation in the chest is not exactly heartburn, just a burning sensation in the chest that is in no way associated with acid. Fourth, shortness of breath, especially during exercise or climbing stairs. Five, no symptoms. A person simply dies from a heart attack. A big problem with calcium is the hardening of blood vessels, they lose elasticity, we can no longer adapt to physical stress.  Due to stress and pressure surges, etc., the vessels simply harden, and this creates enormous stress for the entire body. As for calcium in the vessels, it is not passive. Calcium does not end up in the vessels for a reason. This is an active process that occurs with certain illnesses. As for the form of calcium in the vessels, it has been established that it is the same type of calcium as in bones. Hydroxyapatite, this type of ring, makes up 70 percent of all calcium in bones, and the vascular system is the second largest tissue in the body after bones in terms of calcium content. We know that with age, calcium accumulates in the body. Calcium deposits appear in joints, of course, in vessels, in the eyes, in other tissues, and everywhere. This video you are watching is very important for understanding the mechanism of this process and what to do about it. We need to preserve calcium in the bones and keep other tissues free of it. As I already said, we do not need the vessels to ossify. There is a very good test that determines whether you have calcium in your vessels. It is called the coronary calcium index. Another name for it is the coronary calcium screening kit. I did it, and the result should be zero. 0 calcium in the vessels. This guarantees a very, very low risk. Calcium screening is not only one of the best predictors of whether you will have a heart attack, but also a very good predictor of a fatal outcome because tissue calcification is a pathological sign of serious health problems. I want to mention one more thing: most people over 60 have a certain amount of calcium accumulation in the vessels, which, I repeat, should not be there at all. I want to say something about bone tissue: we have two types of cells: osteoblasts and bone cells. Osteoblasts are cells in the bones that produce bone tissue; they produce bone tissue that forms bones. There are osteoclasts that decompose and split bones. That is, these two processes are constantly occurring in the bones. If osteoclasts predominate, osteoporosis develops. If osteoblasts predominate, especially in the vessels, vascular calcification begins. The vessels simply turn into bones, which is simply unnatural. And speaking about the inside of the vessels, we are talking about the endothelium, this is the inner layer of the vessels. In this layer of the vessels there are stem cells, and these cells  Asti 1 and what does Asti Agen mean and this means that they are capable of producing bones. A stem cell is an undifferentiated cell, it’s like a blank slate, a blank that is potentially capable of becoming one or another cell, depending on what the body needs now and when bone tissue begins to develop in the vessels. This is a big problem with an erroneous definition of what a stem cell should become. If you take autoimmune diseases, there is the same problem, a differentiation error, the immune system is not able to distinguish normal cells from pathogens, this leads to TATE on its own cells. In this case, everything is very similar. This is a differentiation error. You know that vitamin K2 is a vitamin that was discovered quite recently. I say discovered, of course, I mean that it has always been there, we just did n’t know about it. Vitamin K2 is involved in the process of this differentiation. If you have enough vitamin K2 in your body, it will suppress the process of vascular calcification. It will suppress osteoblasts, the cells that form bones in the wrong places. Vitamin K2 is a powerful stimulator of a certain protein called matrix g-protein. This protein prevents the mineralization of blood vessels and depends on vitamin K2, and if you don’t have vitamin K2, this protein does not  will suppress mineralization, that is, the falsification of blood vessels. Vitamin K2 is becoming increasingly popular. You can find more than three and a half thousand studies on vitamin K2 on the Internet. The main function of vitamin K2 is to prevent calcium from entering blood vessels, keeping it in bones and thereby making bones very strong. I believe that most people have at least a hidden deficiency of vitamin K2. In the next section, I will tell you why, so where does our CO2 deficiency come from? What's interesting is that vitamin K2 is produced by bacteria. This distinguishes it from vitamin K1, which we get from leafy greens. Vitamin K2 is produced by bacteria. Even bacteria in our intestines convert vitamin K1 into CO2 with the correct composition of microflora. So, if you have intestinal problems and its microflora is disrupted, then the conversion will not occur. This is the first thing regarding problems with absorption. Vitamin K2 is fat- soluble, which means that its absorption depends on the bile produced by the liver. If the liver is fatty, and the liver is definitely fatty, if the stomach protrudes, if there is fat in the stomach, it is also in the liver. The more damaged the liver, the less bile there will be and the less vitamin K2 you need.  If you have had your gallbladder removed or there is bile stagnation in it, if you have problems with it, if you have a lack of bile, then problems will arise with the absorption of vitamin K2, if the intestines are inflamed, if a gastric bypass is installed, or there are some other problems with the intestines, the stage interferes with the absorption of vitamin K2, a lack of CO2 also occurs with a lack of fermented foods, because some bacteria involved in fermentation can produce vitamin K2. I will give examples, there are fermented soybeans, they are very popular in the East, in the West there is no vitamin K2, is there in sauerkraut, you know what it is, cheese is a fermented product, cheese from whole milk, especially hard and soft cheeses from Europe, there cheese is usually made from raw milk and it will contain quite a lot of vitamin K2, yeah, if you can find grass-fed butter from raw milk, it will contain quite a lot of CO2 and you know that butter is a fermented product and of course there is kefir, which is a cut above yogurt, if this kefir is grass-fed, it will contain quite a lot of CO2, of course, if it is store-bought yogurt or Kefir is pasteurized and sweetened with CO2. There will most likely be some vitamin K2 in it. You also have it in egg yolks. It's also found in beef liver, especially grass-fed. It's found in sausages and generally in fatty foods. You probably shouldn't eat all of this on a low-fat diet. What's strange to me is, guess what the standard recommendations are for cardiovascular disease. If you thought it was a low-fat diet, you're right. What do they recommend? Fruits, vegetables, and grains, half whole and half peeled, are recommended. They even allow a fair amount of added sugar. So here's another example of when you need to find out what's generally accepted and what's traditionally recommended and do the complete opposite. Take statin drugs, for example. Statins block vitamin K2. I'll leave a link to a study on this topic below. Regarding the type of vitamin K2, there are many different types. The type present in these products is mk4, but if you add sam4, it will be synthetic. I recommend the natural form of vitamin K2, this form is mk7. I also advise taking it with vitamin D.  As for the proportions, for every 10,000 IU of vitamin D3 there should be 100 micrograms of vitamin K2. The last thing about vitamin D is that some people are concerned about the toxicity of vitamin D3. By very large, I mean several hundred thousand IU of vitamin D3 for more than a month in a row. The only significant complication is hypercalcemia, that is, excess calcium in the blood. What vitamin K2 does is help remove calcium from the blood vessels and direct it to the bones. That's why I recommend taking them together. On that note, I think you might be interested in watching another video of mine about vitamin K. Here it is.