You know, there is something very interesting in statistics about what diseases occur in people. Cardiovascular disease is in first place. Cancer is in second place, but there is very interesting data that another group of diseases exceeds the first two combined in prevalence, and these are autoimmune diseases. And today I invited a very competent doctor, Dr. Tsu. After all, he has extensive experience in this area. So, Greetings, Dr. Tsoukalos. Hello, Eric. Hello, Dr. Berg. Thank you for taking the time. I have already interviewed you, because you are really my doctor, and I wanted you to share your knowledge. You mentioned, and it is shocking that today many people suffer from autoimmune diseases. They are much more common than many other diseases. This is oral with this about the World Cup. What is the most common autoimmune disease? Number one. Okay, let me show you a picture. Can I show you some statistics that will help? Of course, autoimmune diseases are the main cause of chronic diseases. Now I will give you some statistics related to the population of the United States. Million people have cancer, and 22 million people suffer from cardiovascular diseases, but 50 Milne and probably even more suffer from autoimmune diseases autoimmune diseases are a condition in which the immune system does not recognize the tissues or organs of the body itself as its own Well, and therefore attacks them It considers them foreign particles or tissues and attacks them because of this, chronic inflammation occurs, which gradually leads to the destruction of the corresponding organ of all such diseases in first place is Hashimoto's disease, it is usually the most common This is an autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland Yes, this is interesting And that's why if we are talking about hypothyroidism, a person thinks that since the thyroid gland is not working well, then the problem is in it But most cases of hypothyroidism are Hashimoto's disease so yes, the vast majority of Hashimoto's disease is the main cause of hypothyroidism So in reality Can we say that Hashimoto's disease is not exactly a thyroid disease, but rather an immune disease can you explain this to me of course Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease a chronic inflammatory disease of the thyroid gland and it is caused by the immune system itself, which attacks the thyroid gland And gradually destroys it when the destruction of the gland exceeds a certain percentage and affects the function of this organ, this is already hypothyroidism, that is, a decrease in the function of the thyroid gland. According to current estimates in the United States, 26 million people suffer from Hashimoto's thyroiditis, while nine out of every ten such patients are women, so a huge part of the female population suffers from this disease and this is quite terrible. When I was in practice, patients with hypothyroidism came to me and they thought about my low level of thyroid hormones. So, you need to take thyroid hormones and the problem will go away. But this is a little different. This is a little different. Yes, the problem here is that the immune system does not recognize the thyroid gland as something of its own, so it produces antibodies, they are called autoantibodies, which attack the thyroid gland. These antibodies attach to the cells of the thyroid gland and then the cells of the immune system are directed to these antibodies and destroy the gland itself. So the thyroid gland is chronically inflamed, but for this state of affairs to arise when the body produces these  antibodies What leads to chronic inflammation and destruction of the gland must have existed earlier metabolic dysfunctions and deficiencies that led to this, so this diagnosis is only a small part of this whole problem of this whole picture. Yeah. That is, in essence, a series of events occurs. And this usually happens at the end of this series. Tell me about some potential factors or causes that precede this condition. Yes, firstly, we said that 26 million people have Hashimoto's disease and nine out of ten such patients are women. Nine out of every ten patients diagnosed with Hashimoto's thyroiditis are women. This is mainly due to the fact that women experience many hormonal adaptations and changes throughout life. They begin menstruation, they repeat every month, then pregnancy, the cessation of menstruation. Well, and so on, and all these changes back and forth, changes in the balance of progesterone and estrogen force the immune system and the thyroid gland to adapt, and when the body is not in an optimal state, these changes lead to dysfunction.  immune system and inflammation. As a result, it already leads to the disease. Wow, so 18% of the adult population of the United States. And this is more. According to estimates, there are autoantibodies to the thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is not the only disease in which there are autoantibodies to the thyroid gland. Therefore, to diagnose Hashimoto's thyroiditis, in particular, a biopsy is used. But usually we do not do a biopsy on everyone. We measure the level of TSH, this is a hormone that regulates the function of the thyroid gland. We measure the level of thyroid hormones T3 and T4. We also examine the shape and structure of the thyroid gland using ultrasound and all this data helps to make a diagnosis. Let's say that definitively, Shita disease is diagnosed using a biopsy. I understand this clearly. You have very large clinics located in Rome and also in Greece, which, as you see, usually allows you to cure this disease and is it curable in principle and what, as you discovered, needs to be changed to recover well. Yes, with Is it possible to cure this disease, including patients, we can intervene in different aspects of the disease. If we talk  In order to cure it, by extraction we mean that we will stop the destruction of the thyroid gland, eliminate damage to the thyroid gland, or that drugs will become unnecessary, because all these are different aspects of the disease. If we answer the first question, is it possible to stop the destruction of the thyroid gland and the immune system and reduce the number of autoantibodies, then we can do this in almost 90% of cases. This usually takes from six months to a year, and in general, yes, it is possible to eliminate the destruction of the thyroid gland. This is probably the most important task for me and for patients. We save the thyroid gland, which is extremely important for the quality of life and health of the patient. In addition, eliminating inflammation of the gland is also possible in those cases if the disease is not advanced and is in the early stages. But if a person began to take a drug, usually T4, to receive hormones, then in most cases we will not be able to eliminate the need for taking this drug because the thyroid gland regenerates extremely slowly. Different tissues of our body regenerate at different rates. Well, say, blood cells regenerate in several months, in 3 months, skin cells in a few days. And so on, but time  Thyroid cell regeneration takes 7 years, so it's a very slow process. We have patients with whom we've been working for many years and we've succeeded in getting them to stop taking the drug, but we can't say that this will happen with every patient. So, to cure this disease, first of all, we need to lower the level of autoantibodies. This means that the body stops destroying this gland, which also means that we will take control and eliminate the inflammation of the thyroid gland so that the remaining cells can function as well as possible. And this will allow us to gradually reduce the dose of hormone that a person takes, but we cannot ensure that every patient can immediately do completely without the drug as soon as treatment is started. As for us, we know that thyroid hormones probably enter almost all cells of the body, that is, they directly affect metabolism and many other processes. What are some of the common symptoms of hypothyroidism? Hashimoto's disease. The first symptom that appears is low energy. And one of the main symptoms is low energy. Well, that is, a person does not have the energy that he had in the past. Often people think that the reason for this is that they  we age but this is not the case the matter is in mitochondrial dysfunction the body has less energy I must clarify this point iron is an gland its hormone regulates metabolism regulates the rate of metabolism the conditions in which it works our body does not remain unchanged these conditions are constantly changing we are indoors it is warm we go outside it is cold we can get angry we can relax we can eat we can exercise these conditions require different metabolic rates so the body must adapt to our energy needs and the main mechanism of adaptation to energy needs is a change in metabolic rate and it is regulated by the thyroid gland and the thyroid gland speeds up or slows down metabolism based on our needs when we sleep we need less energy energy production and if the function of the thyroid gland is impaired the body cannot adapt and when we talk about adaptation we need to understand that the functions of all organs the functions of almost all cells are affected by thyroid hormones so the loss of the ability to adapt the loss of the ability to respond to the environment affects human health and the functioning of the body as a whole and one of the first symptoms that people notice is a decrease in energy levels because the body cannot adapt the second symptom is difficulty changing the regulation of body weight in such people Usually there are problems with weight with excess weight and sometimes they can't even gain weight because their metabolic rate is higher than necessary due to thyroid dysfunction, but more often than not people cannot adapt they cannot regulate their weight they are overweight they weigh more than necessary because they have a slow metabolism and their body stores fat instead of burning it to use it as energy one symptom is a hormonal imbalance Thus, in women And most patients with this disease are women they have a disrupted regulation of hormonal cycles they suffer from pain inflammation infertility many problems including migraines correlates with the hormonal cycle and hormonal imbalance another symptom that also greatly affects the quality of life of patients is emotional instability people with Hashimoto's disease can experience many changes in one day in terms of emotional state they can be tense exhausted angry they can cry they can have so many changes that often they say that they are very  They are tormented by the thoughts that creep into their heads and that they try to cope with it with the help of meditation or other means, thinking that it is caused by mental reasons. But this is a hormonal metabolic imbalance and when this imbalance is eliminated, then all these problems largely recede or even disappear completely. Remarkably, based on what you see. Are we talking about many different things that, as you see, certain patients lack, that is, nutrients or something else? You see that this problem is always caused by one factor or many factors. In fact, most patients with Hashimoto's disease have some metabolic disorders, with some variations. As for nutrient deficiencies, not a single patient with Hashimoto's disease without vitamin D deficiency. So this is. That is, they have vitamin D deficiency. Yes, they have it. Every patient at the time of diagnosis of Hashimoto's thyroiditis has vitamin D deficiency. 100% of patients have it, not almost 100, but 100%. We keep statistics.  We announced the results and 100% of patients with Shimoto's disease have a vitamin D deficiency. There is another problem that goes hand in hand with Hashimoto's disease, which is insulin resistance. All patients with Hashimoto's disease, or more than 90%, suffer from insulin resistance. They have an insulin-related metabolic disorder; their cells do not respond to the insulin signal from insulin sensitivity. Another very serious problem is a borderline deficiency of many micronutrients. This is a borderline deficiency of micronutrients in combination with insulin resistance, as well as dysbiosis, that is, a change in microflora leads to a violation of mitochondrial function. I'll just clarify what you mean by borderline deficiency. I assume a subclinical or slight deficiency of micronutrients such as trace elements or something else. When there is a complete deficiency of a vitamin such as vitamin D or vitamin C, a paroxysm occurs, that is, a severe exacerbation of the disease caused by the lack of this nutrient. When there is no intake, scurvy occurs, so in this case  We are not talking about a complete deficiency of nutrients in a person, but a borderline one, that is, not complete, but still a deficiency of many nutrients. That is, a person does not have enough zinc, magnesium, omega-3 and other minerals, potassium, etc., chromium, B vitamins, vitamin E, antioxidants, amino acids. The body needs 166 nutrients and elements to function, and they must all be present at the same time in the correct proportion, which may differ in different people for the body to function optimally, and in most cases, there is a deficiency of many substances, one deficiency of many micronutrients that are necessary for life so that the body can work and be healthy. The point is that all this multitude of deficiencies leads to impaired mitochondrial function, thus, one common problem for such patients, one of the main problems that leads to the development of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, is mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondria are small organelles inside cells that produce 90% of the energy in the body. So, all this multitude of deficiencies. Although these are not complete deficiencies, they lead to impaired mitochondrial function, reducing the energy level and efficiency of the body, therefore.  The thyroid gland has to work harder, so that's what it's like, it's a spare. Let's say the body needs to produce 100% of its energy, but the mitochondria are working at 50% of their capacity. It's amazing that in this situation, the thyroid gland compensates for the lack of energy from the mitochondria. One of the unique differences between your work and the work of other doctors is that you conduct a special analysis to really identify the smallest changes that are actually very, very important. You get a more complete picture. This is called metabolomics. Yes, yes, that's true. We identify small molecules that we call metabolites and that participate in chemical reactions in the human body. We do not measure the level of nutrients in the blood. Because this does not reflect the deficiency or needs of the body, because the body tries to maintain the concentration in the blood at a constant level. If, for example, someone lacks calcium, then despite osteoporosis, the level of calcium in the blood will be within the normal range, even in the late stages of osteoporosis and calcium deficiency. Because if the concentration of calcium in the blood increases or decreases, the heart will stop and many functions will cease to perform, the cells will die, thus the body tries in every possible way to improve the composition of the blood. unchanged, therefore, when the level of some nutrient in the blood changes, this means that it is already very late, it is too late. To solve this problem, it is necessary to measure the chemical reactions occurring in the presence of the nutrient that need to be assessed. For example, you can measure the rate of conversion of one metabolite into another, which cannot occur without vitamin B12 or without magnesium or without glutamine. And so on, we measure the speed of this chemical reaction. If it occurs at a normal, optimal speed, we see whether the body needs more or less of the nutrient that we evaluate. In fact, instead of evaluating the recommended daily intake of some nutrients, we evaluate how these nutrients are actually used in the body and see whether they are enough for a particular person. A completely different strategy, yes, an individualized strategy, personalized. So, for those who have this problem and who want to undergo a much more in-depth analysis, I will leave a link below. People can take this analysis and get a conclusion. I will leave a link below. I know you said that you have little time for an interview. And I wanted to fit as much information here as possible and make this amazing information about the thyroid gland accessible. Thank you for that.  We took the time and hopefully we cleared up some of the confusion people have about Hashimoto's disease. Not to mention autoimmune diseases in general and their uniqueness. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Ber, for the interview. I'm not inviting you to my MS thyroid type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Goiter. Cysts and thyroid nodules. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, food lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.