I wanted to make a video about open sources of gluten. Gluten is found in a huge number of products. Many people know that gluten is found in grain products, for example, wheat, rye, and barley. Mute Bulgari, Kusku Si. I'll note, by the way, that the composition of the grass-fed juice powder does not contain gluten because gluten is formed in the grain itself only when the wheat grows to a certain size. For the production of wheatgrass juice, young sprouts about 15 centimeters high are taken for the powder. In principle, there is no gluten in all corn and corn. However, sometimes these groups are processed on the same equipment as other grains, so they may contain traces of gluten. Some people have a reaction to the whole protein almost the same as to gluten, but this is a different protein. I want to discuss hidden sources of gluten that you may not know about: soy sauce, beer, meat substitutes, replace or cream for coffee, broth and chewing gum, flavored tea, fish sticks, imagine the sauce and sausages, of course, in Grass-fed sausages most likely won't have gluten, it's also found in imitation seafood, toothpaste, candy, and chips. Sometimes I have to explain to people in more detail which foods contain gluten, and when I say spelt wheat is good, some don't understand that it includes bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes, and even muffins. Why all the fuss about gluten? Why is it so bad? What's the point? It's linked to fifty-five different diseases. It causes enormous harm to many people, and people will tell you that these diseases are rare, but in fact, very often, people who say it's rare sell gluten in some products. Gluten can cause leaky gut syndrome. It can cause molecular mimicry. In other words, the gluten protein molecule is very similar to the protein molecules that make up some tissues in our body, for example, the thyroid gland. If you have antibodies to gluten, these antibodies can attack your own thyroid gland. myelin sheath, which can potentially lead to autoimmune diseases like Hashimotos or multiple sclerosis. There is another disease that I will make a separate video about. Celiac disease, ataxia, means lack of coordination, imbalance, a certain part of the brain is damaged, which causes problems with motor skills, problems with walking, coordination, and so on. 40 percent of cases of food and taxis that are considered idiopathic are due to gluten. I don’t know why I call it idiopathic, because it means the cause is unknown. That is, they say that the cause of idiopathic ataxia is gluten. Why not just say gluten ataxia? In general, gluten can harm your brain. Gluten can also cause a lot of digestive problems, stomach pain, bloating, but there are also many other problems. Headaches, clouded consciousness, ADHD, anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and even dizziness. I recommend not only eating gluten-free, but also eliminating any  The mere absence of gluten in grains doesn't mean that the product is low-carb. It's surprising that I have to explain this. I thought it was obvious, but many people don't see the connection. They think that if there's no gluten, it means there are low carbs. This isn't always the case.