Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz, and then we'll answer questions on social media.   The floor is yours, dog.  So, what does the average American eat more of, sugar or starch? We are waiting for your answers, friends. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Vincent asks srambla.  I live near Vancouver and we don't get much sun this time of year .  Do I need to take vitamin D every day?  Is it possible to replace vitamin D intake with UVB lamp irradiation?  And can vitamins D and K2 speed up the healing process of cracked ribs?   I do n't know if this will speed up the healing of the rib.  Perhaps, but there are safe lamps available that allow you to obtain vitamin D. I highly recommend taking 10,000 IU of vitamin D3 daily as a preventative dose if you live in such an area.  Because you don't get enough sun.  We get the most vitamin D from the sun when the sun is at its zenith. But you are far north.  where the sun doesn't rise that high, you may very well have a vitamin D deficiency. But still, try, definitely try to get as much sun as possible.  After all, sunlight contains not only vitamin D, but also many other beneficial factors, such as infrared light. Be sure to get some sun exposure to reap the full benefits. You can also take vitamin D in the form of a dietary supplement and eat foods that contain vitamin D, sardines, cod liver, cod liver oil .  All this is very important.  Fine.  And viewers have already answered the quiz question, which was: What does the average American eat more of, sugar or delicious starch?  82% answered: starch.  And 18% said sugar.  And I apologize for calling starch delicious. Who is right?  Yes, it is starch.  We're not talking about the potatoes your grandmother cooked for you , but about industrial starch. That's what most people I have a bucket around here somewhere. Here it is.  I'll show you now. This is what I mean when I talk about starch.  Oh, delicious. Yeah.  You know, this corn starch is very cheap.   They glue wallpaper on it.  It is used in epoxy adhesives as a binder.   And , of course, they add food.  When we eat starch, we eat hidden sugar. After all, starch breaks down into sugar. The word modified means that quite a lot of chemicals have been added to it.   Do you know why starch is white?  It contains bleach. When you eat junk food, you get a huge amount, three times more starch than sugar.  But they don't talk about it .  This is hidden sugar.  It causes a greater spike in blood sugar than sugar.  But they write without sugar.  So I would avoid him.  It is harmful.  It is added as a filler.   This is its purpose.  It overloads the mitochondria and thus deprives us of B1. This causes severe nervous tension and anxiety, lactic acid accumulation, restless legs syndrome, and sleep problems.  A whole series of problems arises, and I am a walking example of this.  After all, all this happened to me, and I didn’t even know what starch was.  So we are not talking about starch from vegetables, we are talking about starch from varnishes. Interesting.  And since you, friends, answered this question so quickly, here is another quiz question for you. So, what's the main reason why cutting calories doesn't help you lose weight?   It's interesting, but it's not fair. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Okay , asks Sherry from Facebook.  What do you think about taking colloidal medical media to combat anemia? What do you say, dog? I think it's useful for anemia. There is an excellent book about copper.  You can study it to find out the correct dosage.  But microelements must be taken with other microelements to avoid problems. After all, they all work together.  In nature they are not found separately. Copper works together with zinc.  If you take zinc without copper, there will be a problem. I always take a complex of all microelements. Fine.  Poor Saxis Rambla suffers from a problem that millions have.  What can be done to eliminate bile reflux and what causes it?  The gallbladder was removed 10 months ago.  Often when people have acid reflux, they think it's just the acid.  Sometimes it's bile.  It rises from the upper part of the small intestine into the stomach and up into the esophagus.  And bile, like a detergent, can make tissues, especially the esophagus, more expensive.  If this is the problem, then perhaps something somewhere is blocked or there is bile sediment, which leads to bile reflux.  I recommend taking Tutka, two capsules in the morning on an empty stomach and two in the afternoon on an empty stomach to support the flow of bile.  This may help you. And start intermittent fasting and also switch to healthy keto.  This will help too.  Bile sediment can be caused, among other things, by a lack of bile, which can be due to an improper diet and even a low-fat diet. And all this makes the problem worse. Okay, asks Bamak 23 Srambla. What would you recommend to someone with severe post-traumatic stress disorder?  He describes it as severe nervous tension. I recommend taking long walks every day.  Just walk through the forest for an hour.  Embrace the space, leave behind the hustle and bustle and stress.  After all, you need to keep stress at a very low level.  I would take Ashwagandha, I would take B1. I would do physical labor and come up with a hobby. More precisely, I would do my hobby much more, so that I would be busy and not think about something. All this helps extremely effectively in such cases. And of course, sleep, sleep is also very important. Sleep more, we are rooting for you. Walk more and get enough sleep. Fine.  The next question comes from Lynzi on Facebook: "I have celiac disease, Hashimot's disease, Prispot, bile acid malabsorption, and anemia. I don't eat gluten, dairy, rice, or oatmeal. How can I help poor Linda get rid of all these autoimmune problems? With Hashimot's disease, you need to eliminate grains, but you obviously have a gut problem as well . You've probably been eating too many grains. The best diet for you is the root system. Diet, because a lot of this is related to the gut. It makes it hard to heal anything. Try this diet for at least a few months. Take zinc carnasin. Prispot is a problem with the autonomic nervous system, and there can be many different causes. High doses of natural vitamin B1 help with Prispot, in particular. I recommend taking a form of B1 called alithiamin. Take it in decent doses. This will help improve the functioning of the autonomic nervous system.  system, and you won't get dizzy or fall when you stand up. Good. Poor Jean Jessie wants to know the best way to get rid of hemorrhoids. I've heard it's a terrible problem. Calinsonia root. It's sold as a supplement. Take two capsules a day for a few weeks. This is usually caused by a certain vein protruding more than it should. This could be due to heavy lifting with squats or due to childbirth. Excessive pressure can also cause a vein to prolapse. Calinsonia root is one of the best remedies. Now let's see what viewers answered to the quiz question, which was: What is the main reason why cutting calories doesn't help you lose weight? 85% answered: "Calorie restriction can slow down your metabolism." Interestingly, 10% said the body will go into starvation mode in response. And 5% said: "It can affect hormonal fluctuations." What smart viewers we have.  Dog. Yes, very smart. So, first of all, usually when people cut calories, they don't cut carbs as part of those calories. So, the vast majority of people end up on a diet that's lower in calories and higher in carbs. You see? So, if you cut calories without cutting carbs, you 'll have too many carbs, and you won't be able to use your own energy reserves. And if you can't use your fat, you'll need another meal, which means you'll be terribly hungry all the time . You'll have cravings. You can't sustain that. And people break down, you won't last long. You'll be extremely hungry, you'll feel sick, because your blood sugar is low. So, that's a big problem. And besides, many people have experimented with this diet before, because they've been on diets many times in their 20s and 30s. And each time they dieted, their metabolism seemed to slow down, but in reality, it doesn't slow down. It becomes more efficient through adaptation, but not in a good way, because it loses flexibility.  and can't burn its own fat. So, how do you fix that? You need to go on a low-carb diet and get enough nutrients. Forget about calories and get enough nutrients to be healthy. That's animal protein and some other things. You can watch a video about it, but the point is that we don't need more carbs. We need to be able to use them. And then hunger will go away, cravings will go away, insulin will go down, and that will help you lose more of that, which is what you want to achieve. The secret is a low-carb diet, no matter what else you do. I'm saying don't go crazy on fat, just cut carbs, get enough other calories. And you'll see what happens. It's easy. You'll lose weight, and it will seem like your metabolism is speeding up. But in reality, it's just becoming flexible in terms of what it burns. And here's the beauty of it. You'll lose a lot of fat by going keto. Because you'll be losing ketones with  With your breath, with your urine. Essentially, you lose excess fat through your breath and urine. So that's it in a nutshell, Steve, and in great detail in this course. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program. It doesn't matter if you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you. You'll have access to a huge number of video lessons. There are videos on what exactly to eat, where all the details are explained. There are tons of examples of what and how to eat. I'll also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often face barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I'll give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food. Because food is the very building blocks of your health. And it depends primarily on how rich this food is  Nutrients. It's not just about cutting calories, but also about nutrients. I'll give you a wealth of information and knowledge about how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program will therefore increase your chances of success and also demonstrate how to do everything correctly to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.