Hello, today we will discuss a couple of things, the first is the only main thing, the Destroyer of the immune system, and the second is how to strengthen the immune system so that you can cope with anything and so that the immune system is invulnerable to pathogens, viruses, bacteria, pills, Candida fungi, and so on. To do this, you need to know something about the immune system. In fact, illness is not something bad. Illness is simply the immune system's reaction to a pathogen. Many people, when they get sick, panic and think, 'Oh my God, the immune system isn't working.' No, it works, it reflects the attack. The problem arises when the immune system can't cope, or the infection remains too long, or various residual side effects from this infection arise. But the fact that the body reacts to something is normal, and this is what we need. After all, this is how immunity is formed over time, which is why it is called acquired immunity. Immunity is one of the parts of the immune system at birth, we receive innate immunity from the mother, and the other part of the immune system is formed over time under the influence of pathogens. Let's start with concomitant pathologies, these are factors that increase the tendency to even greater problems in case of illness. The main ones  Of these, high blood pressure. Oddly enough, then heart disease, diabetes. Which includes problems such as insulin resistance, obesity, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. HIV is also a big problem, it is an immunodeficiency. That is, a person does not have part of the immune system, unfortunately. And also factors such as autoimmune diseases, inflammatory diseases, liver problems, kidney problems, all this can lead to a very bad outcome if a person gets sick, and many of the conditions mentioned are associated with the consumption of sugar and other carbohydrates, therefore, the consumption of sugar greatly weakens the immune system. I also want to say about the microflora, friendly bacteria in the intestines and throughout the body, how these microbes affect our immune system. Their influence on our immune system is enormous; they make up 70-80 percent of immunity. But this is difficult to verify. However, we know that if a person has lost microflora, say, due to taking antibiotics, then he is very vulnerable to secondary infections and his immune system is undoubtedly weakened, so the microflora is vital because it strengthens the immune system and helps us. It is interesting that it is not even part of the body, these are other creatures, microbes that work for us and problems. intestinal problems are very closely associated with autoimmune diseases, and they are undoubtedly associated with immunity. So, our immune cells, white blood cells, work together with these friendly microorganisms, and together they strengthen our immunity. Now I'll tell you about three nutrients that are very necessary for the immune system to be strong. This zinc is very important. It is involved in hundreds of different enzymatic reactions. With zinc deficiency, the thymus is a kind of training camp for white blood cells, which decreases due to atrophy. So, we definitely need enough zinc. Zinc also affects the number of white blood cells that we have, as well as the weapons that white blood cells create to kill. Zinc is easily obtained from beef, salmon, undoubtedly from seafood, oysters, but we will have a zinc deficiency if we eat something that contains a lot of phytic acid. For example, cereals are bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, and so on. Vitamin C is another very important vitamin. I recommend getting it from food. Vitamin C is found in many foods, especially in leafy greens, sauerkraut. Vitamin C reduces the duration of Infectious diseases, it helps arm white blood cells by supplying them with the necessary resources. In fact, white blood cells contain 100 times more vitamin C than the blood. So, your defender needs a lot of vitamin C for various functions in the fight against pathogens, and with its deficiency, we are less resistant to pathogens. There is also a phenomenon called phagocytosis, which is when the immune system swallows and eats pathogens. For this, it needs vitamin C. That is, vitamin C is very important, but the most important of them is the following nutrient, vitamin D. Vitamin D is a key element that modulates the immune response. When the immune system reacts excessively, vitamin D extinguishes this fire, as in a cytokine storm, when the immune system is out of control. Vitamin D can extinguish this fire, and with vitamin D deficiency, people are very prone to diseases. Therefore, people are more likely to have infections in winter, because there is not enough sun, and with a vitamin D deficiency, the susceptibility to autoimmune diseases greatly increases. So, vitamin D can be obtained with the help of the sun from cod liver oil and salmon, but it is quite difficult to obtain from food, so I want to say more.  I won't say everything, but you can get the gist of it. There's a recent study published on June 5, 2022, that is, this year it's called "side effects of you-know- which vaccines and measures to prevent them." I'll just read two lines from that work. You can read the rest yourself. This study showed that the immune function of those vaccinated 8 months after two doses of you-know-which vaccines was lower than that of those not vaccinated. These results were more pronounced in the elderly and in people with existing diseases. So, vaccines can also weaken the immune system. I'll read one more line. The European Medicines Agency says frequent booster doses of you-know-what can negatively affect the immune system and may be inappropriate. I usually don't touch on this topic for various reasons. But here's what I will say. This article contains amazing data and you should read it. Now let's talk about the main factor that can destroy the immune system. This factor is a specific type of stress caused by grief. Of all the possible stresses, the loss of a loved one is undoubtedly the worst stress. Most studies on this topic  It has to do with its effect on the immune system. It essentially shuts down the immune system. It also increases cortisol levels, and cortisol paralyzes the immune system. Increased cortisol levels shock the immune system, and it stops working. Almost 100 percent of the people I've spoken to who have come in with immune diseases, chronic immune problems, there was always some kind of loss right before the problems started. But there are other types of stress, such as job loss, loss of money, bankruptcy, or perhaps stressful situations that can similarly affect cortisol. So, if you want your immune system to stay as strong as possible, you should reduce stress as much as possible. I'll quickly list what I recommend. Number one, do everything possible to eliminate stress. If you have a big loss, then you really need to spend a lot of time walking in parks, being in nature, and switching your focus from this loss. I've made a lot of videos about what you need to do. Strengthen your adrenal glands. Schwagandha is important. Vitamin B1 is needed in large doses. Number two, sleep. The more you sleep, the less stress, the less cortisol. Sleep is very, very important. Further, vitamin D is vitamin  C and zinc regarding vitamin D Especially in winter I would take 10 thousand IU of vitamin D3 as a preventative measure I would take at least 50 mg of zinc I would also take vitamin C I would not take the minimum dose A 200 or 300 mg of vitamin C per day and it must be natural If you eat enough greens you can not add a lot of vitamin C If you eat beef seafood shellfish you do not need to add zinc If you get enough sun you do not need to add vitamin D But in winter it is difficult number four start a ketogenic diet Why giving up sugar will greatly help the immune system and also lower high blood pressure will reduce obesity visceral fat inflammation fatty liver diabetes kidney problems other liver problems next fasting fasting itself Can greatly strengthen the immune system if you fast for three days you will literally begin to build a new immunity if you do So from time to time this is the best help for immunity number six you need to be in the sun not only for vitamin D but also for what is called infrared radiation it increases  Melatonin levels are very beneficial for the immune system and improve sleep. Number seven: Eat foods that improve microflora, such as sauerkraut, fermented vegetables, pickles, or take probiotics. This will strengthen the immune system, especially in winter. These microorganisms greatly affect our immunity. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.