Let's talk about the main cause of chronic fatigue in people over 50. There is some interesting information about this. It is related to low acidity in the stomach. I'll tell you the background. The purpose of gastric juice, hydrochloric acid, is firstly to break down proteins and amino acids, secondly to help you absorb minerals like iron, magnesium, calcium, and so on. Hydrochloric acid is also needed to help you absorb vitamin B12. That is, both types are associated with low acidity in the stomach. Hydrochloric acid is also needed to kill microbes in the intestines. If you don't have enough acid, you can develop small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. The problem with this syndrome is that bacteria appear where they shouldn't be in the small intestine and they fight for your nutrients. This can be the cause of fatigue. But in the case of anemia and because of iron or B12, even if it doesn't manifest itself in any way, you will experience fatigue. Not to mention that if you eat protein, especially red meat, but you can't digest it, you will experience fatigue. There are many reasons why low acidity occurs.  The stomach leads to fatigue. Note: If there is not enough hydrochloric acid in the stomach, you may experience symptoms such as indigestion, bloating, allergies, and even gallstones. What is the importance of hydrochloric acid at your age? As you age, less hydrochloric acid is produced. There is a study I will leave a link below that talked about low levels of hydrochloric acid in many women after menopause. As many as 40 percent of such women are quite high. There is also so- called atrophic gastritis, which is when a person develops atrophy of some parts of the stomach caused by a lack of gastric juice. This usually occurs after 60. That is, this acid is very important, especially with age, especially for nutrients. Because the older you are, the more nutrients you need to absorb. Also, some conditions are idiopathic. Dream means the cause is unknown. Iron deficiency anemia. One study (link under the video) discusses a high percentage of 44 percent of the population with idiopathic iron deficiency anemia. Also, chlorhydria. That is, a lack of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Many people do not have enough acid.  in the stomach and with age it only gets worse and it has a direct relationship with energy levels other causes of low stomach acidity can be hypothyroidism low salt diets lack of potassium in the diet low iodine levels low levels of iodine these nutrients are necessary for the production of hydrochloric acid and if you take antacids this can also be the cause what to do with all this everything is very simple I invite you to my course healthy chum it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again during the course I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harm to health hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results join and you take betaine hydrochloride it naturally increases acidity I recommend taking 45 capsules right before meals and sometimes at the very beginning you may need even more also keep in mind that it may take some time to restore hydrochloric acid especially if the problem is chronic but you should notice significant results in a few days maybe a week and finally the only contraindication to betaine hydrochloride that I know is an ulcer you will learn about this quite If you take it quickly for an ulcer, you will feel a burning sensation, but for most people, betaine hydrochloride will cause a surge of energy and improve digestion. Thanks for watching.