Most people think that the cause of fatty liver is mainly alcohol abuse, but in fact, the so-called non- alcoholic fatty liver disease is more common. Alcohol is only one of many causes of fatty liver. When we talk about nutrient deficiencies, there is one nutrient that is almost always lacking in people with fatty liver. If you do not get this nutrient internally and from food in sufficient quantities, you will definitely have fatty liver. This nutrient is called halen. Halen is not actually a vitamin, but it is a vital nutrient. It belongs to the B vitamin family because it works together with B12 and folic acid. One of its main functions is to eliminate fat from the liver. If you do not have enough choline, you will not be able to get rid of fat in the liver. Choline is also involved in the synthesis of substances necessary for the brain, muscles, and cell membranes. Choline deficiency is quite common. There is even a genetic defect called polymorphism associated with choline. It is also quite common. Many people have this genetic problem because of it. They do not have enough choline to eliminate the deficiency; they need more choline to get the desired effect. There is also  and many other interesting reasons for choline deficiency associated with fatty liver. If we go beyond the typical reasons why people's livers become fatty: drinking alcohol or consuming large amounts of carbohydrates, taking corticosteroids, Tylenol, and certain medications, solvents, petroleum products, viruses, excessive consumption of seed oils high in inflammatory omega-6 fatty acids, and fructose, including high-fructose corn syrup, we will see four more causes of fatty liver: anorexia nervosa, gastric bypass, enteral nutrition, that is, intravenous nutrition, and antibiotics. But how do all these things lead to fatty liver? In the case of anorexia, we are dealing with a serious nutritional disorder. This leads not only to choline deficiency, but also to a deficiency of vitamin D, folate, vitamins B12, and B3. Because of these deficiencies, the liver also becomes fatty. Malnutrition leads to liver damage, which then causes it to become fatty. Gastric bypass surgery, removal of part of the stomach or small intestine, interferes with the absorption of these nutrients. That is, due to gastric bypass surgery, a nutrient deficiency occurs. And what  Regarding parenteral nutrition, in this case, the solution contains only some nutrients and mostly synthetic ones. There are not all the vitamins that are needed to protect the liver. There is information about this, there is a lot of excess dextrose, a synthetic sugar that is there. This is another reason for fatty liver. If you eat this kind of diet for too long, the liver can become fatty. What about antibiotics? What could be the connection between them and choline? It turns out that some microorganisms in the intestines produce choline. If you kill these microorganisms, you will have a deficiency. Now let's see what foods are rich in choline. You might think that it is because of them that the liver becomes fatty. Egg yolks, liver, beef, chicken, and also cruciferous vegetables. SOS magazine and almonds, although there is little of it in almonds. You know that fatty foods do not lead to the accumulation of fat in the liver. If you come across a study that claims the opposite, study it carefully. You will find that during the experiments on mice that they conducted, these mice were fed not just fatty but also high-carbohydrate foods. I just wanted you to know this and no matter what  Of the listed reasons why your liver has become fatty, including alcohol or excessive consumption of carbohydrates and sugar, I recommend starting to take Halen or eating more foods rich in choline. If you take it as a supplement, I recommend a dose of about 3 grams per day. This will greatly speed up the process of removing fat from the liver. If you add to this also 10 U.S. ketones.  With this, you can remove up to 50 percent of fat from your liver in just two weeks. Now I suggest you take my course dedicated to the liver. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.