Today I will talk about one of the best criteria for longevity, I am constantly trying to figure out what I can personally do to live longer, one of the best criteria for longevity is maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max). We will talk about it today and I will also tell you how to increase VO2max, what is VO2max? This is the amount of oxygen that the body can absorb in a certain time. VO2max is measured in milliliters per kilogram per minute. This is one of the best criteria for aerobic endurance or aerobic fitness, as well as the ability to consume oxygen. You can take a VO2max test from doctors who specialize in sports medicine. So, there are three ranges of VO2max corresponding to a lifestyle: sedentary, active, and very active. Let's consider them. For men leading a sedentary lifestyle, the average VO2max is somewhere between 35 and 40. For active men, from 42.50 to 46.4, and for very active men such as super athletes, the VO2max reaches 75-85. For women, it is a little lower: sedentary from 27 to 30, active from 33 to 36.9, and very active, on average, somewhere around 77.  but it's interesting to look at the maximum VO2 max values ​​of the best athletes the three highest values, interestingly, were recorded in Norway one of these people is a cyclist he has the highest VO2 max he is 18 his VO2 max is 97.5 this is insanely high and the other two are cross country skiers the Norwegians are very young both have VO2 max somewhere around 96 I like these numbers I don't allow us to compare our level with the level that we may ever reach or not If you are already as old as me but I like this game I like to know these numbers and I like to always improve my VO2 max So when the body burns fuel it needs oxygen and to increase VO2 max you need to take into account a couple more factors this is for example CO2 carbon dioxide and also lactic acid released as a by-product because CO2 allows oxygen to penetrate deep into tissues So it's not just about oxygen but lactic acid if there is too much of it and it is not removed it can become an obstacle to training and breathing due to pH its effect on muscles So the best athletes who have developed their mitochondria have made them very, very efficient and increased the ability to use, absorb oxygen and remove  lactic acid made themselves invulnerable to diseases. So this is a good criterion of general health. You know, people come to the doctor not to become healthy, but to get rid of some symptom. But this may not improve health, but on the contrary, worsen it, because the doctor will prescribe drugs, but they actually mask the underlying cause, and doctors usually think first of all about the symptoms. So, let's look today at everything you can do to increase your VO2 max, which is an excellent criterion of health and the ability to live long. Number one, just train more. Training increases the VO2 max. Especially high-intensity interval training. There is a very good book, Creating Waves, by Irving Dardick. This book is based on the wonderful principle of working with nature. Nature. The universe works on the basis of rhythm cycles. Everything happens cyclically. There are nights, days, there are solar cycles. There are seasons. Everything in nature and in our body works this way. Pulse, blood pressure, hormones, temperature. Therefore, training should correspond to these cycles. Training should not be long, they are not so useful. Especially because they increase cortisol, unlike interval training of an explosive type and high intensity, alternating them with rest cycles. So we  adapt to the body and it is very useful intermittent fasting is a great embodiment of the principle of cyclicality as opposed to continuous chewing all day It may be hard to believe but some people become so hungry at night that they have to get up to eat, this is just extremely bad So the more we look at nature and adapt to it, the better we will be number two increasing CO2 tolerance can increase VO2 max for this you can breathe through your nose because with a decrease in air flow through the sinuses, CO2 levels increase And this increases oxygen levels We need CO2 to slightly change the pH increase acidity to release oxygen, therefore breathing pure oxygen causes many complications You can increase CO2 tolerance with exercise, for example, holding your breath number three increasing lactic acid tolerance high-intensity interval training improves its removal and tolerance What else needs to be done Take or get enough B1 thiamine thiamine helps remove lactic acid Therefore, with a B1 deficiency, lactic acidosis can develop the body retains lactic acid I had this problem when I consumed a lot of empty carbohydrates I had restless legs syndrome I did not  could sleep at night this is a perfect example of excess lactic acid in the muscles 4 hypoxic training what is similar to increasing CO2 tolerance hypoxic training is limiting the inhaled air during training or training at high altitudes this greatly increases the ability of athletes to retain oxygen and white blood cells become much larger number five training of the respiratory muscles this is simply training to strengthen the muscles associated with breathing such as the diaphragm There is training of the inspiratory muscles this is training of the inhalation ability to expand the lungs There is training of the exhalatory muscles when they train to exhale all the air from the lungs these trainings are carried out with a very inexpensive mask that limits the air flow training with this mask limiting the air flow increases the capacity of the lungs this greatly helps people with weak lungs be it COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or even a past problem with the lungs because of What they need to be strengthened this helps 6 cleometric training these are short powerful exercises such as jumping on a box from a box back and forth these are short explosive exercises I like to do such training with an ax chopping wood or splitting logs and  logs This is excellent explosive pleometrics trains the upper body and you can also jump on the box there are many types of plyometrics I have a video about this this is another way to greatly increase VO2 max there are also so-called training this is when during running you speed up or slow down throughout the workout this is like interval training only you irregularly increase and decrease the intensity of running there is so-called cross-training This is a combination of swimming running cycling switching from one to another greatly increases VO2 max there are three factors not related to training that help increase VO2 max one of these factors is sleep After all, if you do not sleep then no matter how much you train you will not be able to increase your VO2 max because the body is too tired and cannot recover So sleep more than 8 or even 9 hours This will help you a lot never allow overtraining recover after training this is very important And many neglect this I myself for many years I neglected this because I did not understand the importance of recovery I did not understand that you can kind of get stuck at one level if you do not recover So let the body recover between  Training also needs to be said about genetics. Some people have a problem with inflammatory genes and after excessive training they need to recover longer. And if they rush training too much, they minimize their progress. So, rest well so that the body does not hurt before the next workout. And while you are resting, you can always do something light, for example, walking. And of course, number 11 is diet. This can significantly increase VO2 max, because the wrong food limits your ability to achieve the best results. I am talking about the ketogenic diet and how ketones affect the efficiency of mitochondria, in which all this happens. I am talking about intermittent fasting. I also mentioned it. Since we are talking about VO2 max, if you haven’t watched my video about high-intensity interval training, you should watch it here.