The topic of today's video is the main micronutrient that is lacking in arthritis. Many people take vitamin D for arthritis and they may not feel any improvement. Other people take a lot of magnesium for their joints and they may not feel any significant changes either. Unless they take another micronutrient, and that is boron. I will explain what boron is. It is a micronutrient that has been little studied, but there is a lot of data related to arthritis. I will tell you about them. Apparently, boron is the main micronutrient that allows calcium to work. It allows magnesium to work. If you have a boron deficiency, you will have too much calcium and magnesium in your urine. You will have excessive calcification of soft tissues. Your bones will not be strong. That is, boron helps. It makes possible the activation of the vitamin in bones and contributes to this whole process. Boron also prevents tooth decay. The formation of caries with a boron deficiency can be severe joint inflammation because boron helps reduce the level of reactive protein. Recession is also possible. Aspen kidney stones, calcium in the vessels and calcium in the joints, and all this is due to a boron deficiency. The tissue in which the most boron is contained or stored is  parathyroid glands I'll explain very simply what these glands do. These are four small glands on the back of the thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands secrete a hormone that helps regulate calcium. Let's say you don't have enough vitamin D or calcium. In this case, the level of parathyroid hormone increases and it extracts calcium from the bones, pulling it out of them. So you have enough calcium. So, parathyroid hormone is a kind of another vitamin D. What's interesting is that parathyroid hormone needs Boron to work. Even if you have a normal level of vitamin D in the blood, you may have resistance to vitamin D and then parathyroid hormone increases. Despite the fact that you take vitamin D, this is associated with resistance to vitamin D, but it can also be associated with a lack of Boron. I think that many people have a Boron deficiency because people have not really been explained that they need it. Also, with a low Boron level, there will be low testosterone levels, there will be low estrogen levels. When I study  Nutrients I always read animal studies because human studies are sometimes hidden, but animal studies are usually available. I found something interesting about horses. When a horse has a Boron deficiency, its head starts shaking. This is caused by a problem with the trigeminal nerve. Pain and inflammation occur, and the horse tries to somehow get rid of it. So, magnesium and boron eliminate this ailment quite quickly. There is evidence that Boron can even reduce the risk of developing prostate cancer. As for the amount of Boron that you need to take, I advise starting with about 3 mg three times a day and see if your problem goes away within 1-3 months. Just know that some people take much more Boron, 30 milligrams a day. Keep in mind that the toxicity level of Boron is lower than that of salt, and due to intensive cultivation, the soil has lost many trace elements, including Boron. I just wanted to tell you about Boron so that you know that it exists and know what it does. There is also some information about arthritis. If you haven't watched this video yet, I recommend watching it.