Hi all.  None of my words constitute a diagnosis or replace treatment.  Ask your doctor before following any of my advice.  Let's get started.  People have a lot of questions, so let's answer as many as possible as quickly as possible.  Let's start without delay with a question from Laura from YouTube.  My husband has scapulofacial dystrophy in his shoulders. Can you recommend anything that will slow down the progression of the disease with this terrible name?  Thank you.  Can you repeat the name shoulders?  Of course, shoulders, scapulofacial dystrophy. Shovel-like, right?  You see, it would be good to know whether this is related to the death of some nerve, whether there is a B12 deficiency, whether there is some kind of neurological disorder, and if not, then there may be indirect problems with this nerve. Sometimes the gallbladder or liver can enlarge and press on the phrenic nerve, causing a variety of dysfunctions of the sensory and motor nerves in the scapula, especially if it is on the right side.  In this case, the best remedy is a duck.  It thins the bile.  Eat.  I wouldn't have known this if I hadn't been practicing for a long time. After all, many people have problems in this area on the right due to the gallbladder and bile ducts.  But their cause can be difficult to identify, because sometimes bile sediment is not even visible on MRI, since it is not yet a stone, but, say, microcrystals.   A simple solution is to take tutku on an empty stomach.  And if this suddenly helps, then that’s the point .  And you need to change your diet. "Laura, I hope this serves as a guide for you."  Asked by John David from YouTube.  I have been on a healthy keto diet for over 3 years , but I have osteoporosis.   Please tell me what I need to do? Thank you.  Well, there are a few things you need to do .  You see, vitamin K2, but not in small doses.  After all, its doses are usually calculated in micrograms.  You need milligrams and only a couple of companies sell such doses.  I would take 45 mg.  Vitamin K2 is essential for strong, dense bones, but it needs to be taken with vitamin D. So, take vitamin D, decent doses of vitamin K2, and micronutrients.  After all, many microelements are needed to strengthen bones .  But something else can help .  The thing is that bones contain a lot of collagen, and it is mineralized collagen.  So take collagen. But to activate it, the mineral silicon is needed.  So some people drink flint water, and others take supplements with flint to make their bones very strong.  Great.  Kenneth from YouTube asks.  Please recommend something for constantly rough skin with constantly clogged pores.  Yes, I would immediately look at the basis of your diet.  I think you have an imbalance.  Too much omega-6 and not enough omega-3.  You need fish oil and you need to remove the oils from the seeds. Mayonnaise, salad dressings, and corn oil with them.  After all, they make the skin peel, dry, rough, red, and itchy.  So it's all about diet.  And in any restaurant, everything that is deep-fried contains seed oils.  You know, I would only eat at home if possible .  Nowadays it is very difficult to find healthy food even in restaurants, let alone stores.  So it's important to read labels and perhaps limit your consumption. Oils from Seeds.  Fine.  Tamara from YouTube has an interesting question.  Why do I feel sleepy after a hard strength training session and like I need a nap? What can be done about this ?  I think you're either overtrained or you need to increase support for what experiences stress during training, which is the mitochondria.  So there are a couple of things you can take to help you have more energy during your workouts and to improve your performance.  This is coenzyme Q10.  B vitamins are essential. All B vitamins are important. And especially vitamin B3, neacin.  It is very, very important, as well as magnesium.  You probably have a magnesium deficiency, so take magnesium glycinate.  The thing is, at the very end of the biochemical pathway to create energy, there's a little spinning engine that produces ATP, and it needs magnesium.  So if you train with a subclimatic magnesium deficiency, your magnesium stores become depleted, you can't create energy, and you become fatigued during your workout.  Also, if you feel worse when you exercise or your circulation worsens, then perhaps you should see a cardiologist and get examined. There is intermittent claudication, when pain in the legs appears during exercise. But your case sounds more like fatigue, and that could be a problem.  After all, if you pump a lot of blood and circulation is limited, that’s one situation.  I would do everything I said until the problem went away completely.  Don't ignore her. Now let's talk to someone in person . Andrew from New York contacted us. Andrew, ask one quick question.  Hello.  So, hello.  I have a question about a person with dementia.  What is the optimal diet to fix this?  Good question.  After all, sometimes 20-25 years pass before dementia develops.  And its cause is a diet based on the idea that our body's main fuel is glucose.  If this were true, we could eat only sugar, but this is not the case. If you consume too much empty carbohydrates and sugars for too long, you will develop insulin resistance.  As a result, neurons starve, which leads to dementia and Alzheimer's disease.  And there's no better way to bypass this damage and give your brain's nerve cells quick energy than by feeding them ketones.  So it's best to switch to an extremely low-carb diet, a healthy version of it.  This is the best thing that can be done to reverse dementia.  Also, to increase blood flow to the brain, you need to exercise regularly, which is extremely important. And one of the best nutrients for supporting brain mitochondria is neocin.  I think I would do all of this, but the most important thing is to cut down on carbohydrates.  It's true, after all, dementia and Alzheimer's disease are essentially type 3 diabetes.  That's what it is .  Thank you, please.  Thank you very much, Andrew.  We wish you all the best in this fight.  We continue to answer questions from social networks.  Amanda Zstrambla.  Is organic blue agave inlin ok?  I think I pronounced it correctly.  In my country there is no inulin for Roiteri yogurt.  Do you understand the question, dog? I think that's normal as far as raw materials for inulin are concerned .  Use it.  This will work.  Just don't use agave nectar, it's not suitable. And I think inulin fiber will do just fine.