Today we'll talk about the main hidden causes of hair loss. Look, this is interesting. I don't know if you've heard of vitamin B12, but its other name is biotin. When there's not enough biotin in the body, hair loss begins, and especially alopecia. Then the hair may begin to thin. There may also be brittle nails and a skin rash. There may be flaky, scaly skin. Loss of hair color may occur. Mild depression, muscle pain, or extreme fatigue. Otherwise, you are completely healthy. That was sarcasm. Biotin acts as a factor or assistant. It is one of the B vitamins for certain enzymes, especially for skin, hair, and also for the creation of certain essential fats in body tissues. This is all certainly interesting, but it is very important to know why you might have a biotin deficiency. The question arises: maybe there isn't enough biotin in your diet. Most likely, this is not the case because biotin is found in many foods: almonds, eggs, onions, tomatoes, peanuts, salmon, salad, lettuce, cauliflower, and many other foods. Or perhaps you eat too many raw eggs when you  eat raw eggs, I'm talking about egg whites, they contain a certain substance that blocks the absorption of biotin, but for this you need to consume at least six to eight raw eggs every day for several months. The biggest reason why the body can be deficient in biotin is a lack of beneficial intestinal bacteria, because these bacteria produce certain nutrients, especially biotin. Therefore, if you took antibiotics and they destroyed your beneficial bacteria and you did not restore them, then this could cause a biotin deficiency. If there are no beneficial bacteria in the body, this will lead to an overgrowth of harmful bacteria and alopecia. This is one reason, another reason is a violation of absorption. The body cannot absorb biotin in the small intestine. This can be due to irritable bowel syndrome, celiac disease, Crohn's disease, any active inflammation that has left scar tissue and now biotin is not absorbed. This also explains why people take biotin as a supplement and their hair suddenly starts to grow, their skin starts to thicken, and their diet is normal. The problem is that they cannot absorb it due to damage in They need to take more biotin to achieve the desired effect, or they have an imbalance in microflora and cannot produce enough biotin and need more. Therefore, if you are losing hair and you have already tried everything, such as high-quality protein and B vitamins, then you may simply lack biotin. It can be taken as a supplement, or you need to support beneficial bacteria by starting to take more probiotics. If you haven't seen my videos about hair loss, here is the link. Watch.