Hi, today we'll talk about how to stimulate fat burning hormones. In other videos, I've already talked about growth hormone and other fat burning hormones. There are only six of them, but we rarely talked about a hormone called glucagon. What is glucagon? It's not glucose. Glucagon is a hormone that activates fat burning. It's produced by the pancreas and its functions are opposite to insulin. insulin is the main hormone that produces fat, and glucagon is one of the main fat burning hormones. There are a couple of things that activate glucagon. The first is grueling workouts, but there 's a nuance here. The key word is grueling. Regular, non-grueling workouts like bicep curls won't do anything. The key to stimulating glucagon is to do exercises that engage all your muscles intensely. Burpees are an exercise in which you lie down and then jump up. Or jumping rope, or an exercise bike, or aerobics, kickboxing, 590 x. All of this is great, but it's very easy to overdo it. Many people do this.  It's not possible if you do grueling exercises, then the optimal time is 20-30 minutes. Why? Because if you do it longer, it will take a long time to recover. Some people do it for an hour. If you want, it's okay, but not more than once a week. Don't do it every day or every other day, because it's unlikely that you will recover. If you are in very good shape, then maybe you will become fit, but there are very few such people. I would do it for 20 minutes once every two days. The key is grueling workouts. By the end, you should be drenched in sweat and thinking, "That was great." Personally, I like chopping wood. I like to take the wood that I chopped, lift it, and carry it. I take the logs and carry them. For me, this is a good workout, especially in winter, when you can't ride a bike. In general, glucagon is stimulated by grueling workouts and protein. In other videos, I said that protein can activate insulin, which ultimately produces hormones with opposite effects. But the main thing is that you won't gain weight if you consume protein in moderation or in small amounts. This won't happen thanks to  Glucagon only if you eat a lot of protein you will gain weight because it is too much, but don't worry about this, protein is important for stimulating glucagon and the last thing that stimulates glucagon is a decrease in insulin levels because glucagon is the opposite of insulin, how to keep insulin levels low I have a lot of videos about this, essentially, exclude sugar, exclude snacks, exclude hidden sugars and do not consume excess protein and this stimulates glucagon, these were very important points and let's summarize if you engage in training, and intensive ones, and follow the advice from other videos where I talk about sleep and not just sharply increase your heart rate, but also get enough sleep before and after training, it is not necessary to sleep eight hours at once, you can do it in parts, but the point is that you need enough good sleep to recover from training and begin to noticeably lose weight due to the production of this hormone. In general, I wanted to discuss this topic here, you need not just training, but grueling ones, see you soon