Let's discuss hair loss and a very common factor that seems to be the cause of almost all types of hair loss. You may know that there are many reasons for hair loss. The cause may be a deficiency of internal organs, as well as the conversion of testosterone into a very powerful form of androgen, DHT. DHT affects the hair follicles and interferes with hair growth. It is also possible that there may be an autoimmune cause, in which case the cells of the hair roots attack themselves, preventing growth, but I will never tire of repeating that the most common cause is stress. I am talking about different types of stress. The most destructive stress for hair is emotional stress due to loss, for example, the loss of a loved one, divorce can be destructive to the adrenal glands. This is one type of stress, but there are others. Chronic stress for some reason, stress due to the environment, various stresses in the world that affect you: stress in the family, stress in relationships, stress due to excessive training, stress due to pregnancy, stress due to some viral infection, there can be severe stress due to poor sleep, because lack of sleep is a powerful stress for the body. In general, there are many different types. stress, but it's interesting that stress that affects hair almost always manifests itself after a while. Usually, when a person has a health problem, he discovers its cause and symptoms quite quickly, because the cause usually occurs right before the symptoms appear, but the problem with hair loss is that usually 1-2 and even three months pass after stress before a person. What does it mean that his hair is falling out, so it is very difficult to understand. What causes this? Let's consider the types of hair loss. The first type is telogen effluvium. This type of hair loss is definitely caused by some kind of severe stress, including trauma, surgery, and many other types of stress, even taking certain medications. The second type of hair loss is called alopecia areata. This is an autoimmune disease. But the question is, what causes autoimmune diseases? The same stresses that I am talking about when I practiced with absolutely everyone who came with any autoimmune disease. This disease arose after some kind of stress, but again, the problem with hair loss is a delay of one to three months, so it is very difficult to understand what causes it. The problem with autoimmune diseases is that they are treated with synthetic cortisol, that is, articoids like prednisone and others.  There are many types of steroids that cause many side effects, and the fact that someone is treated with cortisol speaks to what is actually happening. After all, a person is given a synthetic version of cortisol. Cortisol relieves inflammation, but when someone experiences prolonged stress, it can greatly suppress the immune system. Because of this, an autoimmune disease can develop. Then, with an autoimmune disease, a synthetic version of cortisol is used to suppress the immune system to treat this disease. It is obvious that the cortisol that is present in the body does not work well. In fact, autoimmune diseases are closely associated with a major problem of cortisol dysfunction or resistance. Cortisol is similar to insulin resistance. That is, there is a lot of cortisol, but it does not work in the body and it is of no use. It does not have the desired effect on the immune system, and excessive immune system reactions, allergies, inflammation, and so on occur. With focal alopecia, another drug is used, it is called [the "Alopecia areata"]. Such as malignant tumors, severe infection, increased mortality and thrombosis leading to death. Otherwise, the drug is safe, that is, drugs designed to suppress the immune system are a double-edged sword.  Another type of hair loss is called androgenetic alopecia, this is when testosterone turns into its very powerful form called DHT, which burns out hair follicles. So, stress can aggravate this process and speed up this transformation, but it must be said that this problem is associated with heredity, since hair loss occurs in a certain pattern in both sexes, but as I said in many other videos, if you have a hereditary predisposition to a disease, this does not mean that you will develop it. There are epigenetic factors that go beyond genetics and heredity. This is what you can do to overcome the influence of genetics, and stress reduction is very important in many videos. I contrast beneficial stress with harmful stress. Stress is actually related to who controls stress, say, if you jump into an ice hole yourself, you control this stress and it is very useful. Another example is prolonged fasting, you control this. But stress that you do not control is a problem. So, androgenetic alopecia can be greatly reduced by coping with stress. I will add that it also happens. Because of insulin resistance and of course stress also plays a role in this. Stress increases cortisol levels. Cortisol is a glucocorticoid. That is, it increases glucose levels. And this glucose can lead to increased insulin resistance. So stress aggravates this in different ways. As for hair loss due to nutrient deficiencies, there are several such situations: zinc deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, possible deficiency of B vitamins, as well as calcium, and absolutely each of these nutrients is negatively affected by stress. So stress can also cause a deficiency of these nutrients and increase the need for them. So now you see, if hair loss occurs, you need to remove stress. So that other remedies can work. There are several ways to do this. Number one: normalize your sleep cycles. After all, if you are stressed and you don't sleep, then it will be very difficult to cope with stress. This is what I do now and it works great. I need to make more videos about this. I use workouts that are not very intense but create very little stress for my adrenal glands. For this, I use a simulator with weights and pulls and I do few repetitions with a lot of weight. This is based on the idea of Mike Mensor.  There is a link to the video below so you understand what I am talking about. A lot of weight is used here, so it is impossible to do more than about 10 repetitions. A weight is chosen so that you can do 6 to 10 repetitions before muscle failure. I simply destroy the muscle, create a lot of damage so that it needs two weeks of rest, but I work only one or two large muscles per workout. I can work the chest in one workout, and the back and biceps in another. And the next I work the legs, but then I don’t train these muscles for a whole week, so my body can do it. I don’t train any muscles excessively. It seems that this greatly improves my sleep. I also recommend doing physical work around the house, if possible, outside. This always improves sleep. After all, it removes mental stress from your head. The next moment, stress is always a symptom of something else. Yes, you need to eliminate stress, but you need to identify what stress is and do everything you can to completely remove the cause of stress. Number four: Keto with intermittent fasting improves the condition of the adrenal glands, improves the sympathetic nervous system. The Bay Swans mechanism, and this in itself can significantly reduce stress and the last vitamin.  B1 it must be natural, because the synthetic one will not have the same effect. I have a lot of videos about it. It perfectly reduces stress and improves the adrenal glands. I think these five remedies will help with hair loss more than anything else. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it, and I will also give a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.