Hello, I'm Doctor Bird. In this video, I want to tell you about two very important indexes, the glycemic index and the insulin index. I'll assume you've never heard of it, so I'll speak in simple terms. The glycemic index is a scale of foods that affect blood sugar levels over two to three hours. If you take some food, for example, candy, you provoke a strong release of sugar into the blood, that is, the blood sugar level soars so that they are very high on the scale. But after eating celery, which also contains carbohydrates, you will not cause a similar effect. That is, it is low on the scale. This is the glycemic index. It shows how quickly carbohydrates or sugars turn into sugar in the blood or affect it. There are many other factors that determine this index, for example, fiber or how much sugar is in a particular carbohydrate and the like. While the insulin index is how carbohydrate-free foods affect insulin. In other words, sugar provokes an insulin release, but there are other foods that do not necessarily contain sugar, but they also provoke an insulin release.  insulin, you understand, I'll explain now. insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugar levels. It lowers blood sugar levels. In the presence of insulin, it's almost impossible to lose weight. Therefore, the goal is low insulin levels, low sugar levels, and so the glycemic index is at the very top of the scale. Pure sugar is found on potatoes, too, high on the scale, as it quickly turns into sugars, and white bread is high. Whole grain bread is literally a drop lower, it's not at all. It's practically the same. If you think it doesn't turn into sugar quickly, it's actually very high on the scale. Its index is somewhere around 74, which is quite high. Further down the scale, by the way, there will be a link to the full scale in the description, you can see it, so I didn't write them all out. So, at the bottom of the scale, peanuts are very low, it seems to be around 14, which is quite low, and hummus has an index of 6, which means hummus causes a very weak chemical reaction, which is good for a snack. So, we've sorted this out. Now let's look at the insulin index. You might be surprised. Whey protein powder is very high on the scale. It contains very little fat, it's a completely lean product, and it causes a rapid release of insulin. An insulin release.  Even lean beef will provoke it. You see, this is a little contrary to what you were told, but it is very high on the scale. Now let's go lower. Egg whites have less fat, so it is high on the scale. Egg yolk is lower on the scale, the insulin response to it is weaker. Butter and bacon are even lower. This is what I want to convey to you when people are trying to lose weight. What they do is avoid fats and eat more protein. But you should understand this scale. In fact, fat dampens and lowers the insulin response caused by food. So, if you want to eat beef, choose the one that contains fat. This is because fat is practically neutral in terms of its effect on insulin and does not turn into sugar. It has calories, but it does not cause an insulin response, and this is very good for diabetes. This is what is confusing: if proteins provoke the release of insulin, which creates fat deposits, then why do people lose weight on a protein diet? The thing is that proteins also provoke the production of fat-burning hormones such as glucagon and growth hormone, so protein diets can work, but here's the thing.  What we must not forget is that to lose weight more effectively, insulin levels must remain low. Therefore, if you want to eat protein foods, don't choose lean foods, add fat, don't eat low-fat foods. If you want eggs, eat whole eggs, not just whites. Personally, I think this way you'll lose weight faster and stay healthy. I wanted to give a brief summary of these two indexes. You can use the links in the description to study the issue in more detail and apply what you've learned. The goal is to keep insulin levels low. As it turns out, the only food that doesn't cause a strong insulin response is fat, which is what people have been avoiding.