Yes, about ten percent of the population have plugs in the tonsils. Today I will tell you how to prevent their appearance or if they have already appeared and doctors removed them. How to prevent their return. Before you begin, you need to understand what tonsils are. The tonsils or glands are the first line of defense. This tissue is similar to a lymph node, which is located in the nasopharynx and is designed to prevent the penetration of pathogens deep into the body. The tonsils produce cells that are part of the immune system. They detect and then begin to defend against a certain microbe that is in the mouth or in the environment. That's what tonsils are, and plugs are, in general, the so-called biofilm. Biofilm is small calcium shells in which microbes specifically in this situation, bacteria live in these small cement-like houses. This is exactly how these are kind of houses that protect microbes from destruction by antibiotics. That is, biofilm is a shield, a shell that helps microbes survive. These microbes also produce sulfur dioxide gas. Therefore, people with plugs often have bad breath, sometimes reminiscent of the smell of rotten eggs, a metallic taste appears in the mouth, and a cough. Plugs usually  They develop after chronic tonsillitis or long-term use of antibiotics because this destroys the defense and increases the number of pathogens. I have repeatedly exaggerated this topic in my videos. There are good bacteria in the body, the so- called microbiome, from it is not necessary to kill it, after destruction by antibiotics it must be restored. Because these microbes protect the body from pathogens and other microbes that form biofilms. That is, everything that increases the development of chronic tonsillitis increases biofilms if a person takes steroids, if he has diabetes, if he consumes a lot of sugar, if he has a zinc deficiency, vitamin D deficiency. All these factors weaken the immune system and increase the likelihood of plugs. Biofilms live not only in the crevices of the tonsils, they appear in 60 percent of cases with sinus infections, ear infections, urinary tract infections, and all infections throughout the body. This is the main defense that pathogens use to survive. There are three remedies that help prevent the return of these problems. They mainly act as a natural antibiotic. There are pathogens without side effects, but they do not kill the good guys. So, first, garlic, eat a lot of garlic regularly, 2. oil  Oregano oil is a powerful natural antibiotic, but it does not harm friendly bacteria. The third remedy is also very powerful. I'm putting links below that confirm my words. Grippefruit seed extract is another excellent natural antibiotic. Of course, some factors can worsen the situation: a high-carbohydrate diet and consumption of large amounts of dairy products can lead to mucus formation, especially in young people, this causes chronic inflammation of the tonsils; ear infections or sinus infections; and upper or lower respiratory tract infections require abstaining from dairy products. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.