Hello, I'm Dr. Birka today we'll talk about a very interesting harmony, namely, growth hormone. Most likely, you 've heard about it when it was discussed in animals when it's injected into cows so they grow big. No, it's not about that or about athletes who use it illegally to improve their results, and it's not about that either. I'm talking about growth hormone, which the body synthesizes itself. For example, in children, this hormone is responsible for body growth, but when a person has already grown, this hormone serves other purposes. Basically, it is responsible for preserving proteins. You know what parts of the body are made up of protein? Of course, this is hair, nails, skin, collagen, ligaments, tendons, even bones. Many things in the body are made up of protein. Growth hormone is the main anti-aging hormone because it protects the skin and ligaments, maintaining their flexibility and elasticity. Because if you lose protein, blood vessels lose elasticity, pressure increases and the body literally falls apart. Growth hormone is needed for cell growth, their reproduction, and regeneration after injuries and stress. It also helps retain calcium. It affects cognitive functions. Those who have it low suffer from memory problems. Another interesting function of this hormone is that it promotes fat burning. Growth hormone is the main hormone that helps burn fat.  Fat, so with its deficiency, a person gains excess weight. Now the question is how to increase its level. Unfortunately, after 50, its production decreases sharply. This process begins even earlier, at about 45, 60, 70, its level is not at all normal in children, it is very high, so it is necessary to maintain its production as long as possible. There are a number of ways to correct the situation naturally. Number one is intermittent fasting. Fasting. Intermittent fasting increases production to mono growth, and this in turn means that if you are afraid of losing muscle mass, intermittent fasting increases the level of growth hormone, and in turn, this protects against muscle loss. Secondly, hypoglycemia is low sugar. You need to keep sugar low because sugar just lowers growth hormone. With each surge of sugar or insulin, growth hormone decreases, so if you want to keep it high, stay away from sugar. Arginine, this amino acid, also increases the level of growth hormone. Arginine is found mainly in animal products, in meat, animal protein, but in salad and nuts, of course, vitamin B3 also increases growth hormone, which is very interesting, it is niacin, and the latter is intense exercise.  High-intensity interval training is very useful for increasing growth hormone. If you combine all this, I mean the keto diet, intermittent fasting, interval training, and also giving up sugar, you will significantly increase growth hormone levels. This, in turn, will slow the aging process. Here are some factors that lower hormone levels: insomnia, poor sleep, any sleep disorder in general, sugar consumption and hidden sugars, stress and cortisol. Cortisol lowers growth hormone levels. And finally, hormonal disruptors can include pesticides, Kirby CD, insecticides. They all disrupt hormone function, especially growth hormone. This is basic information about this very important harmony, so put it into practice and leave comments.