Okay, let's continue. We have something here that requires an answer. Question number four. True or false. If you wear sunglasses. Are your eyes protected from harmful sun rays? I ask viewers to answer. Wilson from YouTube. What do you think about dietary supplements from animal organs? What are such dietary supplements? I like them, but grass-fed, from animal organs, grass-fed, not in the sense that the organs themselves eat grass. So, the fact is that offal is very rich in nutrients, they need to be added to other types of meat, because most people only eat muscle. However, I think many people don't like offal, just like me. I can buy them in the form of dietary supplements or I'm trying. I can. I eat different foods that contain liver and heart in a hidden form. I eat some sausages that contain them. I can eat liver sausage. I love it with onions. In general, eat some of this. And if you can eat onions. I'm sorry, liver with onions is good. Yes, it is. I definitely know that people rarely eat heart, but it is very useful, especially if you want to get a lot.  Coenzyme Q10, which is very important for mitochondrial energy and heart health. Bobby asks if magnesium oxalate is the best remedy for getting rid of kidney stones stuck in the urethra. I drink potassium and lemon juice. I need to drink 2 liters of fluid before stenting next month. She's worried. If I were you, I would definitely increase the dose of magnesium. I doubt I would take magnesium oxide. I think you meant it because it increases diarrhea. It's a cheaper form. You probably need a different form of magnesium. I think I would take magnesium citrate. And now I would take a lot of it. Magnesium perfectly counteracts calcium deposits. Yes, in your situation, you need to drink a lot of water. I would probably add some good organic lemon juice or lime juice to the water, 60-90 grams. Add it to water and drink several times a day. This way, you get citrates, and they will bind with oxalates. It helps dissolve, and magnesium breaks them down. I think it would be good for you to start with this. There is even a probiotic.  which you can order, I think it should be ordered in Europe, it's called Oklo Bacteria Bactek, something like that, it helps the growth of bacteria in the intestines, they act with oxalate, if you are forming stones, maybe you should just take this probiotic so that your microbes eliminate oxalates and do not allow them to accumulate in the kidneys. Okay, let's move on to the quiz question, more precisely, we will answer question number four. True or false. If you wear sunglasses, your eyes are protected from harmful sun rays. Only 5 said that this is true. And 95% said it will not help. This is interesting. I will make a video about this. I can show how to test sunglasses. If you have dark glasses, this is what happens when you take out sunglasses. They really do block or filter out rays of certain wavelengths of sunlight, and everything is the same. At the same time, because of the glasses, the blood vessels in the eyes dilate, this is a compensatory mechanism and as a result, more of these rays enter the eyes. And this is not what you need. The light spectrum brings many benefits but is dangerous. The lower range is the range of blue light, it seems from  400 450 to 480 short-wave blue light of high energy, this particular light reduces the level of melatonin can affect the lens on the cornea, it is on the outside, it is not the lens and on the back of the retina. So, people who wear sunglasses do not know. Unfortunately, this is what they do to their eyes, because of which more harmful rays enter them, the eyes are completely open, and people do not know that this creates a problem. So, I will tell you in the video about testing. We tested a lot of sunglasses. We were looking for glasses that block only harmful rays, so far we have found glasses that cost 3 dollars and block only blue light. And many glasses that supposedly block blue light do not actually block short- wave blue harmful rays. Wait for this video. I think you will like it. This is amazing. You probably have n’t heard about this yet. Curious. The last question for today. I ask you, doc. If a diabetic eats 30 g of pure empty sugar, the effect will be exactly the same as from 30 g of sugar together with nutrients. Okay, you can send answers and we have a last call. This is charming.  The viewer's name is actually Cinderella and she's calling us from Austria. So, ask your question to Dr. Berg. Cinderella. I would like to know your opinion about fasting for women. I just often hear that women shouldn't fast. If they fast, they should fast according to the 1410 scheme. Sometimes they also say that you shouldn't fast 2 weeks before your period because of hormones, otherwise it will be stressful. Is this really true? Is it really that harmful? There is a fasting method for women and there is a book about fasting for women. I like it. And that's why you send signals to your body that there is a lack of food, especially if you are not yet adapted to burning fat, and many need time for this. You send signals to your body, and these are signals that hunger has come. There is not enough food, and the main mechanism of survival of the body is naturally associated primarily with reproduction, so you can lose weight for a month or so, because the body decides that you need to conserve energy. A child is not needed yet, because we do not have enough nutrients. I think this can be easily dealt with if you fast for a month, but not right during ovulation and also not right before menstruation.  and not during it, then you can fast intermittently And periodically for a long time not during menstruation and I think this will be very reasonable, especially if you are not adapted But it also depends on the degree of insulin resistance if this is a big problem And you need to lose a lot of weight, I think you need to fast longer than someone who just wants to get the benefits of fasting, then fast intermittently for shorter periods, because he does not need He will lose a little more weight And the benefits of fasting are amazing, moreover, You can also think about this: dry fasting is three times more effective than water fasting, so let 's say you go twice a day only twice a day and maybe your life so that you fast dry for 12 hours or even longer, I think 18 hours a couple of times a week, so you will get more benefits But you will not have to fast much longer than necessary Because you will already get the benefits Fasting is a way to cause stress in the body so that the body adapts This can be achieved in many ways There were women who fasted with me, but their periods did not stop, everything was fine, but other women's periods suddenly  stopped and then resumed they will not disappear completely but on the other hand and this is amazing there were women who fasted after menopause and they suddenly started menstruating although they had not had them for 5 years so it looks like fasting something VK There is much more that can be said about this but this is my short answer okay Thank you very much Please Thank you very much for the call Cinderella We have answers to the last question it sounded like if a diabetic eats 30 g of pure empty sugar the effect will be exactly the same as from 30 g of sugar together with a nutrient 35% they said this is a lie Let's take This is the so-called starch this is purified starch and And here we have highly functional but here is the thing when we pour this empty purified carbohydrate into the engine Steve, are you in touch yes of course it's good when we pour this empty deprived fuel into this car into the mitochondria without natural vitamins and minerals that are in food it turns out that we cannot metabolize and we have to take these nutrients from our reserves because this is the missing element the body needs Nutrients are constantly needed to be metabolized, so very soon a nutrient deficiency will arise. For example, if a diabetic eats sugar with phytonutrients and so on, then the complications and side effects will be much less than from pure sugar and refined junk food. So, I know that vitamins are often added to junk food; otherwise, it would be very bad to add a couple of B vitamins, iron, zinc, and so on, to this food. But is this really enough? The answer is no. Therefore, yes, diabetes is associated with sugar, but don't forget about nutrients that reduce complications. Because we need nutrients to use fuel and not waste nutrients stored in our cells. Well, very good. Katie from YouTube asks where you can find good vitamin C powder and alpha-lipoic acid. I am, of course, not the least bit biased, but I produce vitamin C, it is natural in powder and chewable tablets. So, I would take it. I don't know the manufacturers of alpha-lipoic acid powder. It seems that alpha-lipoic acid is in my formula for nervous system support. But  This is a formula in capsules with powder. I'm afraid it won't help. Well, you ask. I'm starting a carnivore diet tomorrow. Can you advise me? I advise studying this topic to do everything right. I would add collagen, bone broth, seafood, eggs. I would also eat offal and so on to diversify the menu. There are many different recipes. You can make carnivore pizza, you can bake a carnivore cake. Although I don't know about cake, but you can do a lot of things. What is the fastest way to flush uric acid out of the body, in particular from the feet? I think we're talking about gout. I have a video about this. Here's one way. Take celery, squeeze the juice out of it, and drink it every morning or at some time during the day to flush uric acid out of the body. This is an excellent method. I answered the appropriate answer. I think so. I think so. Yes, I'll make a video about it. Very good. Borigard. Or something like that. He asks what kind of Bat can help with neuropathy in the hands and arms. Today, there are a lot of questions about neuropathy as a standard remedy. I recommend benfotiamine and alpha-lipoic acid. These two supportive agents. Nutrients repair the nerves, the myelin sheath, especially on the periphery of the body, that is, in the hands and feet, whether due to diabetes, chemotherapy, or some other problem. Alama asks. What brand of collagen would you recommend? Dr. Berg. I don't know the brand. I would look for something. What are there? It's possible that there are all types of collagen 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and not just one. There are mixtures of collagens. Sometimes, some collagen is useful for something. But not for everything. Let's say there is one type of collagen that is obtained from egg membranes. You can't get it by simply eating eggs. Unless you scrape the membrane off the shell, which is not easy to do, but you can buy a dietary supplement with this collagen. In general, there are dietary supplements with a mixture of different types of collagen. Make sure that this collagen is organic. Commercial or grass-fed, and not just the cheapest on the market. Especially when it comes to collagen, it should not contain any impurities or glyphosate, that is, herbicides. Spain writes that I was recently diagnosed with macular xanthine. They are found in egg yolks, as well as in various vegetables and other things. They can be taken in the form of Bado, but there are also foods rich in these two nutrients. I have a video about this, but these are two antioxidants that are found in the lens and in various other parts of the eye. They protect the eyes from ultraviolet radiation, oxidation, and so on. So, you know, some people, especially older people, start taking them. Their vision suddenly improves. Because these are very important antioxidants. I think you should wait for the videos I'll record about sunglasses. You'll learn a lot of great things, especially about how to protect yourself from ultraviolet radiation and blue light. But we need some amount of ultraviolet radiation to produce vitamin D. It's not produced under the influence of other wavelengths. It's time to finish. Steve. Thank you for watching us for so long. I really appreciate it and I'll see you soon.