Today we'll talk about hormonal imbalance. I'll explain this very complex topic in very simple language. The endocrine system as a whole is essentially an excellent communication system. It has various glands that produce hormones and send them through the blood. Hormones send messages, receive them, and they are sent back along a closed loop, a feedback loop, returning information to the gland so that it stops sending messages. If a problem arises along this route, hormone levels can increase or decrease. This is called hyper or hypofunction. An excess of thyroid hormones is called hyperthyroidism. A deficiency is called hypothyroidism. This can happen, in general, with all hormones. Hormones are very sensitive to the environment, especially to chemicals, chemicals in food, medications, pesticides, and toxins. Many of these chemicals in the environment are called hormonal disruptors. The fact is that many glands and hormones are made up of fat, and many chemicals are fat-soluble, so they kind of stick to receptors, block them, and disrupt communication in the body. Others Hormones, especially the adrenal glands, are very sensitive to stress, emotional stress, loss, physical stress, injuries, and surgeries. This can affect the adrenal glands. Regarding estrogen, the ovaries are sensitive to the composition of food, especially to hormones in food. If you eat, say, dairy products from the store, and they contain hormones, other chemicals, or growth hormones, this can greatly affect checks, just like birth control pills. Hormone replacement therapy. In the 50s, they used DS diethyl stil without troll. This is a very powerful estrogen that was used to prevent miscarriages. But 30 years later, it really does cause miscarriages, which created a lot of problems. Of course, they continued to use it for another ten years. They gave it to animals. And you eat animals. If you were born before 1979, you were probably exposed to its effects, and it creates a lot of problems in the body. Gamma products contain a herbicide called glyphosate, which also creates a lot of problems in our endocrine system. During menopause, the organ that insures and cinque is activated. This  The adrenal glands, but if they don't work, if they are weak and tired, or if they are stressed during menopause, then they cannot back up the ovaries. Because the adrenal glands, as backup glands, produce the same hormones as the ovaries, not in the same quantities as the hormones were produced before menopause. But the fact is that if the ovaries' work is not duplicated, then symptoms of hormone deficiency arise, and sometimes even their excess, because estrogen works together with progesterone. But I won't go into detail. The point is that many things can interfere with the glands' work, so when dealing with an excess or lack of hormones, you can often get really confused. You need to look at it from a bird's eye view. I recommend helping the glands. They are a hormone, because a hormone is just a message. It does what the gland orders. Many people ignore the glands themselves; they don't help, for example, the adrenal glands; they try to influence the end result in this chain of events. Thyroid problems are usually secondary to other factors. Because it may be that the thyroid gland produces hormones, but they are not active. This is  T4 these hormones do nothing if they are not activated in the liver and gallbladder and in the kidneys 80 percent of the T4 hormone must be converted into the active form T3v in these two organs the liver and gallbladder and 20 percent in the kidneys so if you have fatty liver cirrhosis of the liver inflammation hepatitis no gallbladder not enough bile any similar problem the boom hypothyroidism and also if you have excess estrogen that is hyperfunction in this regard it can suppress thyroid hormones and birth control pills hormone replacement therapy or your diet is rich in soy which imitates estrogen can suppress the thyroid gland or you have say Hashimoto's disease and this is not exactly a thyroid problem it is an autoimmune problem the thyroid gland is simply under attack but this is a completely separate topic we have antioxidant networks the body produces the most and they also come with food and you have a constant battle your cells kill microbes create  Something to kill germs and foreign pathogens, for example, hydrogen peroxide and many other things, the body creates it to kill germs. If there is a failure in the antioxidant system of our body and perhaps food is poor in antioxidants, then hydrogen peroxide can accumulate and damage the thyroid gland. In this case, you need to restore this system to counteract this. You can watch my videos on each of these topics. I give you a general idea of what can happen. In general, the problem is rarely in the thyroid gland; more often, it is a consequence of something else. At a doctor's appointment, always dig deeper and find out what is causing the problem. What is the root cause? Don't accept an explanation. Like, no reason is visible. It's probably just the day. Find out the reason. Especially if they want to treat you. Because very often doctors treat some static problem and ignore the main problem. They do n't look at it, and it makes me feel better. Let's move on to testosterone and I will talk mainly about women. Here's what you need to know about testosterone. If a woman has excess testosterone, we will call it androgens. This is often caused not necessarily by the fact that she is exposed to  androgens, but in fact, the fact that she has excess insulin, the problem is more likely in nutrition, excess carbohydrates, too frequent meals, you might think, oh oh, I get androgen from the outside from something that is not, it is formed from another hormone, that's what is very confusing, you also need to know that the adrenal glands, in addition to the ovaries, produce testosterone, so overactive adrenal glands themselves can increase androgen levels, well, let's move on to cortisol and see what happens with excess cortisol, belly fat, allergies, diabetes, because excess cortisol destroys protein in our body and the body also begins to create more sugar, and you essentially convert the protein in your muscles to sugar, or the liver produces more sugar, because cortisol is called a glucocorticoid, it is a hormone that creates glucose, this alone can increase insulin and make you diabetic simply because of excess cortisol or even because of taking prednisone, and this is a drug, a synthetic version of cortisol, which is built up thoughts when you think, analyze around the clock and in Eventually, you start to lose memory. As a result, you are constantly in fight-or-flight mode. High blood pressure, high cholesterol. This is apparently a chain reaction due to excess insulin and then low vitamin D levels. I think everyone suffers from this. Round face. Rosacea is when a person has such reddish cheeks. Low stress resistance. There can also be various immune problems with leukocytes, but I don't want to complicate things further. Hypoglycemia. Low cortisol. Symptoms of this are weak immunity. Diseases go out of their mind. Weight loss. You start to lose weight. You can say this is great, but no, your health will not improve. This is not the healthiest way to lose weight. The skin becomes a little darker, as if you were tanned. Again, this is not good for health. Vitiligo is small white spots where pigment disappears in patches because cortisol affects melanin. A person has a craving for salty foods. If they have low cortisol and other adrenal hormones, not just cortisol, they constantly eat salt, and they really need it. Estrogen hypoglycemia. Low estrogen. Depression. Dry skin. 0 libido hot flashes night sweats poor memory insomnia vaginal dryness but otherwise everything is great then hyperfunction excess or dominance of estrogen tenderness of the mammary glands is one symptom enlarged breasts fibrocystic mastopathy these are cysts in the breasts or cysts in the ovaries seaweed helps here because iodine helps normalize reduce high levels of estrogen fluid retention painful heavy menstruation and this leads to them severe cramps weight gain in the lower body tass hips and buttocks saddle bags PMS again otherwise everything is fine it is worth avoiding dairy products if you have problems with pupils this will probably help especially if you have fibroids if you have menopause problems with estrogen you need to strengthen the adrenal glands because these are reserve organs and know that contraceptives aggravate the situation and you need organic products without GMOs to not be exposed to chemicals you need very clean products if you have these problems thyroid gland in case of hypofunction insufficient You will experience fatigue and depression, dry skin, dry hair, hair loss around the edges of your eyebrows. I don't think I have this problem. Brittle hair, hot flashes, night sweats, excess weight all over the body. They are in a specific place because the thyroid hormone penetrates almost all cells, it causes the growth of mitochondria, they control metabolism, so it will be slow. That's why there is excess weight all over the body because all processes are sluggish. Constipation. This was hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, excess hormones, excessive sweating, nervousness, rapid pulse, bulging eyeballs, insomnia, menstruation stops and you lose weight. Now about testosterone. A woman has hypothyroidism, hair loss, decreased libido, depression, fatigue. We see that fatigue is a common symptom, so if you experience fatigue, a comprehensive examination is necessary because there can be many causes of fatigue. Loss of energy, your dynamism has simply evaporated, vaginal dryness, weight gain, hyperthyroidism, excess testosterone.  and again, the probable cause is excess insulin or adrenal hyperactivity, symptoms of hair loss, a window, a deeper voice, facial hair, polycystic ovary syndrome. I just wanted to give you an idea of what can happen to the endocrine system, some symptoms of excess or lack of hormones. Now you have a brief description, a little complicated, but here's the most important thing: before taking a remedy or supplements to correct this, you must correct the basics of your diet. You must put your diet in order and not consume any chemicals. Food should not be toxic, it should be very healthy. Below is a link to a video about what you need to eat. First, do this and after a while, watch. If these are problems, thank you for watching. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.