Hello, in this video we'll talk about how to tighten sagging skin here and how to solve this problem in any other place on the body using your growth hormone. Growth hormone is considered an anti-aging hormone. Its main function, in simple terms, is to deal with proteins, prevent muscle loss, improve the construction of proteins in the collagen matrix around the joints, so it is also useful for joints, make the skin beautiful, and rejuvenate. Some people inject it for one and a half thousand dollars a month, but I don't recommend it because there are side effects. You don't have to buy it and inject it. The body produces it itself. Growth hormone is produced by the pituitary gland, but is activated by the liver, which is why the liver must be healthy. Now let's talk about what lowers growth hormone levels. 1. Stress, especially a hormone called cortisol. Cortisol is a stress hormone and it blocks growth hormone. 2. Sugar blocks growth hormone. High insulin levels will lower growth hormone. This can be from frequent meals, all these healthy snacks, protein, all this. Consuming excessive amounts of protein can also stimulate insulin and lower growth hormone. Diabetes and prediabetes are elevated insulin levels, unless you have type 2 diabetes.  This will also lower growth hormone, which is why diabetics have a lot of sagging skin and connective tissue, as well as joint problems and inflammation. Excessive training, if you train a lot and sleep little, this also blocks growth hormone because this hormone is mainly activated at night, and alcohol also blocks growth hormone. Now about the fact that training increases it. You can increase the amount of growth hormones by five to eight times with training alone, but you need to do short, high-intensity exercises. A sprint would be best, or an exercise bike, or an exercise that engages all muscles. High intensity but short duration is the most important thing. Let's say you started running long distances. This will not increase the production of growth hormone. You need high intensity and short duration. Intermittent fasting is the most effective growth hormone stimulator. It all depends on how long you fast. One meal a day is better, 2 or 3 times. Vova, it will give the best production of growth hormone. Fasting activates growth hormone. In women, its growth can increase by 14 times, and in men, by as much as 21 times, especially if you combine training with Fasting can increase growth hormone because it lowers insulin. Good sleep also increases growth hormone production, and a healthy liver will also increase it. If your liver is fatty or you have cirrhosis, this will interfere with its functioning. I'll leave a link to a video where I talk about how to improve liver function if you suddenly need it. In the end, this increases growth hormone, and this decreases it. Now you need to apply this information. See you soon. I'm interested in what you would like to learn about in the next videos. Follow the link in the description and share your thoughts. I'm interested.