Let's discuss what happens in the body when you fast. Here we have the starting point of fasting. After 24 hours, 48 ​​hours and 72 hours.  When you fast, many wonderful things happen.  The human body has developed over a very long period of time and has repeatedly adapted to hunger and lack of food. We have unique proteins that turn on and express themselves.  They are responsible for better brain function and better ability of different parts of the body to survive. Our body is not prepared to eat as often as we eat now, every 3 hours.  So, about 12 hours later, there is a surge in growth hormone. Growth hormone is an anti-aging hormone, but it is also the main pro-inflammatory hormone.  This hormone is involved in joint health.  It is also involved in protein synthesis, the production of new proteins. Some people take growth hormone injections .  I don't recommend this.  They take it to improve the health of certain organs.  But you know what?  Fasting activates it by itself.  The fact itself.  Fasting increases growth hormone. Of course, exercise also increases growth hormone.  This process begins after 12 hours and then intensifies.  Somewhere around the eighteenth hour of fasting, so-called autophagy begins.  Autophagy is an interesting process that occurs in the body, which processes old damaged proteins, as well as bacteria. Some of the proteins processed are advanced glycation end products.  They form when you combine glucose with proteins, and they are very sticky.  For example, on a high-carbohydrate diet, sugar binds to proteins within the body and begins to glycate them.  which destroys some proteins in the body.  They stop working, become sticky and form blockages.  Now the body begins to clean all of this out and convert damaged proteins into new amino acids that the body can use. Amyloid plaques, which are found in the brain and other parts of the body, are the type of protein that can be cleared by autophagy.  Any cellular proteins that no longer perform their functions will begin to disappear through autophagy, and tissues will begin to renew themselves. This begins after 18 hours and intensifies as the fast progresses. After about 24 hours or a little more, your glycogen stores will be severely depleted.  It is a reserve source of glucose in the liver.  And the more glycogen is depleted in the liver, the more you switch to titons as an alternative fuel.  And if you have, for example, a fatty liver, the body begins to use this fat and convert it into ketones, the body can finally begin to use this stored energy and work more and more on ketones, which are the best fuel.  You get energy from ketones, and they suppress your appetite, meaning you don't feel hungry or craving food.  Ketones are antioxidants.  You are building up your antioxidant reserves.  They provide more oxygen, and the body uses more oxygen and less CO2.  It's more efficient.  And because thyme is a more efficient fuel than glucose, the thyroid gland doesn't have to work as hard.  Your T3 levels may be slightly lower, but your TSH will be normal.  This means that your thyroid gland is adapting to a new type of fuel.  Another pleasant thing that happens after about a day is that all inflammatory processes significantly weaken.  If you need to further strengthen this aspect, you can take vitamin D. It will help a lot.  All diseases that involve inflammation, arthritis, bursitis, autoimmune conditions, begin to subside after about a day.  The intestines also feel better, because they no longer have to work as often.  You do not overload the gallbladder and pancreatic enzymes.  The intestines finally get a chance to rest.  If you have such a thing as fibro, when bacteria are in the small intestine, although normally they should only be in the large intestine, this issue begins to correct itself. The number of stem cells in the intestines increases and it begins to heal. The heart loves ketones much more than glucose, and the functioning of the cardiovascular system improves, as does the functioning of the brain.  There is such a thing as BDНf - it is a factor that helps produce new brain cells.  That is, the brain begins to recover within 24 hours.  As you continue to fast, it may seem like you are losing muscle protein, but this is not true.  The body now works more efficiently, and there are special genes that conserve proteins, and muscle protein is not consumed.  So, the fuel efficiency is much higher.  Plus, during autophagy, old damaged proteins are used up and new ones are formed.   A very useful combination. You need much less nutrition to keep your body functioning.  After all, it’s easier for the body, and it can work with fewer nutrients.  This is a big plus.  What else happens during autophagy?  This is what gets rid of bacteria, fungi, mold and yeast. To destroy all these microorganisms, the body produces certain oxidants.  On the other hand, you also have antioxidants. The body produces substances like hydrogen peroxide to kill bacteria and at the same time produces its own antioxidants to protect against oxidation.  Here we have everything balanced. Only with a small amount of antioxidants and a large amount of oxidants does so-called oxidative stress occur, which is destructive.  But during fasting, the amount of antioxidants increases, and the body begins to recover. After two days, you are already actively stimulating stem cells.  These are undifferentiated cells, that is, cells that have no purpose.  They can transform into one tissue or another depending on what the body needs.  By stimulating stem cells, you achieve healing, restorative and anti-aging effects.   It also reduces the risk of developing certain types of cancer.  Some tumors shrink and more mitochondria are produced . If you push yourself, after three days the stem cells will begin to be stimulated even more.  In addition, the immune system will be strengthened, but I advise fasting for three days or more only from time to time, because many who fast for a long time suffer from a deficiency of various nutrients.  Starting too abruptly can cause dizziness and other side effects, so you need to start gradually and not right away.  Here's a general picture of what happens when you fast.  I recommend doing intermittent fasting regularly.  Perhaps in most cases, the most appropriate regimen would be an eighteen-hour fasting interval and a six-hour window.  That is, you walk, after 6 hours you walk again, and then you fast for 18 hours.  This is a very good mode.  Over time, you can move to a more strict regimen depending on your success.   You can also do extended fasting periodically to get additional benefits, whether it's for your immune system because you have autoimmune issues, or you just want to improve your skin to look younger, or you want to increase your brain cell count, improve your heart function, improve your gut function, or, say, you have cancer and you want to improve your health.  One of the effects of fasting is that it increases stress resistance. Even if a person is undergoing chemotherapy, fasting will help the body resist chemicals and poisons, which is absolutely wonderful.  Be sure to take macro and microelements while fasting.  I know many people recommend either water fasting, where you can only drink water, or dry fasting, where you can’t drink anything.  I recommend doing a water fast with nutrients, simply because deficiencies cause problems.  It is necessary to take microelements, B vitamins and salt.  Extremely important. Around 8:00 a.m., there is a surge in cortisol.  And sometimes a surge of cortisol triggers the body to produce more glucose. Blood sugar may rise.  This happens to many people who have sugar problems.  There's nothing to worry about here. This will pass with time.  You just have to start doing exercises in the morning, and excess sugar will be burned.  When fasting, glucose is not taken from food.  It appears because it is produced by the liver.  Moreover, it produces it in excess, perhaps due to excess cortisol.  I just wanted to mention that.  This is the dawn phenomenon. I have a video about it, link below. If your LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol, although there is nothing bad about it , or low-density proteins are elevated, then the reason for this, especially if you do not eat any significant carbohydrates, when fasting they increase for another reason. Remember that one of the functions of LDL is to deliver cholesterol to various tissues.  So remember everything that happens in the body during fasting. Intensive healing occurs, and cholesterol is the raw material for cell membranes, for the brain, for the production of hormones, vitamin D, and bile. 40% of all cholesterol in the body is needed to support cell membranes.  It is vital for cell protection and the transport of substances into and out of the cell. Perhaps the reason the body needed the transport protein to carry cholesterol was to restore cell membranes or to provide raw materials for hormone production.  If you are concerned, there are various tests that can be done to see where this cholesterol is going and whether it is causing harm or not.  But I wouldn't worry. Anyway, I just wanted to make a video to show you what happens inside the body when you fast.  Thanks for watching. Today we'll talk about how to practice intermittent fasting to lose serious weight.  Intermittent fasting has some truly magical benefits.  First of all, it is very cheap, in fact even free, and will save you money.  And it's very easy.  You don't need to do anything.  You just need to avoid doing certain things, namely eating.  Fasting frees up a lot of time.  You don't have to cook all day .  Fasting prolongs life and also makes you smarter because it improves cognitive function.  It improves mood and reduces the risk of many diseases.  So there are a lot of benefits.  But there are also a couple of disadvantages. First, you will lose a lot of weight and you will have to buy new clothes.  In this regard, you will have to spend more.  And since you're not cooking all day, you'll have a ton of free time to occupy yourself with.  And since you're not spending as much money on food anymore, you'll have money left over and the problem is that you need to do something with it. Intermittent fasting is not a diet, it is a nutrition plan that tells you when you need to eat and when you do n’t.  It puts you in charge.  You yourself tell your body when to eat and when not to eat.  If you think about it, the worst question you can ask your body is, hmm, what do you want today? You will get some crazy answer. If I ask my body this question, the answer will be something like a donut, mince pies, or chips.  Very often, when you ask your body this question, the answer will be some kind of unhealthy food. This happens especially often to those who have low or high blood sugar .  The answer will be completely insane.  It's like you're sitting in the back seat of a car driven by a crazy driver.  It's a bad situation because you have no control over it, but unfortunately, food controls you throughout your life.  Your whole life actually revolves around food. By doing intermittent fasting, you begin to take control of all this madness.  This is very beneficial for you personally, for your willpower, self-discipline and especially for your health.  Here's what you need to know about intermittent fasting.  Every time you eat, insulin is released. insulin levels rise not only from sugar and carbohydrates, but also from food in general. Therefore, the less often you eat, the less insulin is released and the more benefits you get.  Our bodies have evolved over a long period of time to adapt to the lack of food.  In ancient times, getting food was not so easy.  The body has adapted to this and developed many amazing genes that enable it to survive without food.  I mean genes that help you survive and repair your body. In this case, the disease genes are switched off. For example, fasting turns off genes that cause cancer. Fasting activates a variety of amazing DNA-related survival processes. Now I'll show you how to do it correctly. Let's take an ordinary person who eats three times a day and has three snacks. So, it turns out 3 + 3 = six meals .  This results in frequent spikes in insulin throughout the day.  The body suffers from this and very badly. Where to start?  Step one: stop snacking.  We are leaving only three meals a day.  Continue this until it no longer causes discomfort.  Then put away breakfast. Since you don't snack, you 'll feel virtually no hunger in the morning, especially if you're on ketosis.  But we're not discussing keto in this video.  Our topic is how to fast correctly and how to smoothly transition to this regime.  And let the lack of appetite in the morning indicate to you whether you need to have breakfast or not.  The basic principle is: don't eat if you're not hungry.  You woke up and you're not hungry, don't eat.  Avoid eating for as long as you can.  Let's say you work until noon.  It's time for your lunch.  And let's say you have lunch at 12 and dinner at 6:00.  This gives you 18 hours of fasting. This results in a six-hour window for eating and 18 hours of fasting.  To make the transition to this regime easier, you can eat something fatty at the end of lunch and dinner.  For example, an avocado or a handful of nuts such as macadamia or picanto, any fats.  This will help you fast longer and make it easier to move on to the next stages.  By the way, there are other effective means to improve the situation.  Especially with blood sugar.  For example, starting a meal with a large serving of greens dressed with Estravrdn olive oil, balsamic vinegar, or even apple cider vinegar can be a wonderful way to help regulate your blood sugar.  Firstly, a large amount of fiber.  It softens the effect of insulin.  It is the only carbohydrate that does not raise insulin. Extra virgin olive oil is another ingredient that has little or no effect on insulin. Additionally, the oil helps extract fat-soluble nutrients from leafy greens.  I'm referring to the various beneficial fat-soluble phytonutrients. Apple cider vinegar or balsamic vinegar is a very powerful remedy against diabetes.  It helps lower blood sugar and insulin.  This is why it is very beneficial to drink a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar with water several times a day.  It is also worth consuming cinnamon in the same drink or in some other way.  It also has a positive effect on blood sugar.  And of course, another great remedy is vitamin D, either as a supplement or directly from the sun.  So now you go twice a day, and you have a six-hour window to do it.  Ideally, you should n't have any extra snacks during this window .  But if you need to have a snack, have a snack during this interval, and not during the fasting period.  We need 18 hours of pure fasting.  You eat like this for some time until you feel comfortable.  Then you move on, especially if you want to lose more weight.  And the next step is to reduce the interval between meals, for example, to an interval of 4 hours. Let's say you get up in the morning, you don't feel hungry, it's noon, and you're still not hungry.  So you fast until 2: you have lunch at 2:00 and dinner at 6:00. This results in a four-hour window for eating and 20 hours of fasting.  This will bring even more benefits, including in terms of weight loss.  Do this for a couple of weeks until you get used to it.  And the next stage is the icing on the cake.  Sorry, I didn't mean to tease you with my enthusiasm.  This is the so -called amat, one meal a day. At this stage, we combine these two meals into one large one. The menu should be healthy and nutritious once a day.  Of course, you won't be able to eat as many calories as you would with two meals a day, but the benefit isn't that you've reduced your calorie intake, but that you've fasted for 23 hours.   There is more benefit. and for the immune system, and for the brain, and for life extension, and for recovery.  I recently came across another factor that is related to Amad and it might interest you. One small clarification, however, that can make a big difference in your sleep and provide even more benefits in terms of blood sugar, insulin, and insulin resistance. It's about making sure that your only meal is no later than 3 p.m., because the later you eat, the more it can affect your sleep cycles.  Eating can stimulate certain genes related to digestion, and this can disrupt sleep.  Check it out for yourself.  Eat a little earlier.  Let it be a big lunch in the middle of the day, at two or three o'clock.  And see if your sleep improves.  I'm trying this on myself and my sleep has become much better.  And this will help you lose weight faster.  The better you sleep, the less cortisol and the more growth hormone, the more fat you burn, the more energy you have and other improvements. The results will be even better if you add, for example, physical exercise, as well as a healthy tetogenic diet, which I constantly promote. It includes high quality products and many nutrients.  So there's a lot that can be added here.  And finally, the last stage is to periodically arrange long periods of fasting.  For example, once a week or once every 2 weeks you can fast for 48 hours or even fast for 72 hours.  This is three days, or maybe even 120 hours.  five days.  This will provide incredible benefits to your immunity, especially for cancer prevention.  Because prolonged fasting literally destroys cancer cells in the body. I just wanted to give you the big picture of how to get started with intermittent fasting and then how to get to the point where you see big changes in terms of weight loss and improved health.  I advise you not to think for long, but just start.  There is no point in waiting for medicine to finally admit that this is the best thing you can do for your health.  This will not happen. You must experience it for yourself and feel the full health benefits of intermittent fasting .  This is the solution you have been looking for for so long. Try it and see for yourself.  Just get started. Create a beautiful body, restore your health, and initiate natural detoxification with intermittent fasting.  This is not a diet, it is a regime of eating and not eating. And you don't starve yourself. When you fast, you burn stored fat without the need for grueling diets and exercise. Intermittent fasting is perhaps even more important than a low-carb diet. After all, it is the frequency of meals that leads to chronically elevated insulin levels, which destroys many body systems, including your ability to lose weight. Losing weight with health benefits. Intermittent fasting also addresses the problem of insulin resistance, which is the cause of a slow metabolism. By practicing fasting, you improve your metabolism.  Lasting results, not temporary weight loss. I think you will be impressed with the results once you try it for yourself. Magical changes occur, the feeling of hunger goes away , you finally burn fat, and strong cravings for food disappear.  The results are simply fantastic.  I can say that this is probably the best thing you can do for your health.  Learn how to practice intermittent fasting to improve your health and lose weight in my new course. Follow the link below.