Let's talk about what to do if you're dizzy. Dizziness is an unpleasant sensation. After some head movements, you may experience a sensation of spinning or loss of balance. It can be quite severe. I want to share a couple of thoughts that will help you understand what to do with this phenomenon. One of the reasons is the accumulation of mucus in the sinuses, but another point I want to discuss is calcium deposits in the inner ear. There are several signs indicating that the problem may be due to calcium deposits. Firstly, flu, a medication used for dizziness, is a very popular one. It's a calcium antagonist, which means it blocks calcium. This is the first thing, you may have excess calcium. Secondly, this is a new study. I'll leave a link below. You can read a study on vitamin D. It was used in a dose of only 400 IU and had a very good effect, reducing the symptoms of dizziness. I recommend taking at least 10,000 international units at first. You can even more if you want to remove excess calcium. Let's move on. There are receptors for vitamin D in the inner ear. There are quite a lot of them. Vitamin D receptors are there. D is directly related to the absorption and regulation of calcium, as well as the communal system in the inner ear. Lastly, I will leave a link under the video. There is quite a lot of evidence that people felt better when taking vitamin K2 for dizziness. What kind of vitamin K2 is this vitamin is different from vitamin K1? It helps remove rings from places in the body where it should not be. If calcium is in the arteries, joints, eyes, or kidneys, vitamin K2 will help extract this calcium from there and direct it to the bones. If there is calcium in the inner ear, vitamin K2 is needed. I recommend taking vitamin D3, 10,000 IU every day with food, and also take CO2. I recommend the MK7 version, 100 micrograms, so you will get vitamins CO2 and D3 in the correct proportions. I hope this will help reduce calcium deposits in the inner ear and relieve the symptoms of dizziness.