Today we'll talk about how fasting affects growth hormone. Why is this important? With age, the amount of growth hormone in the body decreases to such an extent that by the age of 60, 70, or 80, there is practically no hormone left. The problem is that this affects protein. Your skin begins to look old, your joints begin to hurt, muscle mass is lost, and hair falls out. But otherwise, everything is fine. Growth hormone helps preserve proteins that help you look young. It also helps burn fat. This is another of the main fat-burning hormones. It also helps build muscle mass, which is why it's called growth hormone. It preserves muscle and prevents its loss. It is also involved in strengthening bones so that bones are dense and strong, as well as in building collagen, which is associated with many tissues, including your skin. Without it, your skin ages quickly. The peak of the hormone occurs in adolescence, then it decreases with each passing year. Growth hormone surges occur during sleep. It is suppressed when you eat, especially carbohydrates. It can be increased by high-intensity interval training. Growth hormone is also suppressed by stress, but a serious increase in growth hormone can be caused by fasting. The description will contain a link to the studies used.  which found that two days of fasting can increase growth hormone by three times, three days of fasting by four times, and one report says that a week of fasting increases growth hormone by thirteen and a half times. Fasting will help with all these functions of growth hormone, especially preserving muscle mass. Some people think that if you stop eating, muscle mass will be lost for some time. This will not happen if you are starving and the fat in the body runs out, then the body will begin to eat its muscles, but if there is fat that can be used as fuel, the body will not use its protein. This is a survival mechanism that has existed since ancient times, especially when we had to hunt to eat and not lay in the store or refrigerator. If our bodies had not adapted to hunger, humanity would have died out long ago. Genes and hormones also preserve your muscle mass in many different ways when you do not eat. When you eat too much or too often, insulin resistance and diabetes develop and that's when you begin to lose muscle. But when you do not eat, many things protect you. It has been found that short-term fasting is four times better at preserving muscle than  Low calorie diets are amazing, I'll leave this link. Fasting slows down the breakdown of protein, which is called catabolism. Fasting also supports the brain and nervous system. You probably think that you need to take some branched-chain amino acids or a protein shake before a workout or during fasting. It's not necessary. The recommended amount of protein should be from 6 to 8 tenths of a gram per pound of your weight per meal. Multiply your weight in pounds by 0.6 or 0.8 and you will get the amount of protein in grams that you need to eat per meal. What exactly to multiply by depends on your body size. How fast is your metabolism? If you are young and have a fast metabolism, then multiply by 0.8. If you are not so young or you are smaller or you have a slow metabolism, then multiply by 0.6. If you are not sure, just multiply by 0.7. This will give you the approximate amount of protein that you need to maintain muscle mass. When fasting, you do not need to constantly consume a large amount of protein. You need enough protein. You do not need to fast and exercise that often. Especially with high-intensity interval training, you need to avoid carbohydrates, get better sleep, and try to avoid stress as much as possible. That's all. If you want to learn more about growth hormone, take a look.