Today I want to talk about the differences between hormonal therapy and therapy with drugs based on animal raw materials. Therapy with such drugs is also called organotherapy, this is the use of extracts from animal organs, be it sheep, pigs or cows. Organotherapy was used even in hospitals from the late 19th to the early 20th century, I think until the thirties, but then we began to isolate hormones from glandular tissue and create synthetic hormones and now they are used. You can buy growth hormone. You can buy Thyroxine, this is the T4 hormone in the form of the drug Syndroid. You can buy Estradiol, testosterone, insulin, cortisol, and adrenaline. This is what our treatment of the endocrine system has turned into when someone has a hormonal imbalance or hormonal deficiency. I always want to ask why you have a hormone deficiency at all. With hormonal therapy, you expose yourself to many complications and side effects. In a very simplified form, the endocrine system is what there is a gland, there is a hormone, there is a contact point or receptor where the hormone goes. That is, it is nothing more than the simplest communication network of the gland - this is what creates the hormone. The hormone is the message. This hormone moves the message. It is received through the bloodstream by a receptor at the other end, it is the receptor that activates certain functions of genes and certain proteins. And when this activation occurs, something else very important in this communication mechanism occurs, this is feedback, which is present in this communication. In other words, this is a control mechanism controlled by the receptor; something is sent years ago to this gland and turns it off if this loop is negative feedback. This is very similar to the operation of a thermostat in a house that turns off the heating device when the set temperature is reached. This is exactly how the endocrine system works and when you are given some hormone during hormone therapy. The question is how to ensure the presence of feedback. How to know what dose to give to a person and when to give this dose. The glands create and send hormones following very complex patterns of circadian rhythm and many hormones, especially anabolic ones that create tissues, are produced and sent mainly at night when we sleep. And when you take this hormone during the day, doesn't this complicate everything? By taking a hormone, we are trying to imitate the work of this very complex system. Besides, we usually take a non-natural hormone, iOS, a synthetic isolate.  There are many side effects that we will discuss firstly. When you take a hormone during hormone therapy, you turn off the gland that produces this hormone, essentially putting this gland to sleep. After all, you bypass the entire system, which can result in atrophy of this gland. For example, one of the side effects of testosterone therapy is atrophy, and even taking synthetic T4 syndroid causes atrophy of the thyroid gland, and now the body depends on the intake of this hormone. You need to know about this from the outside, I am not dissuading you from this therapy. But you should be aware. Let's take growth hormone if there are complications with its use, and very large ones: carpal tunnel syndrome, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, swelling, enlarged breast tissue, increased risk of cancer. And what about taking thyroid hormones? Insomnia, headaches, tremors, chest pain, rapid pulse, fatigue and heat intolerance. And what about estradiol, one of the estrogens, this hormone can cause many unwanted effects. This is breast cancer, ovarian cancer, cancer.  uterine stroke blood clots gallstones but otherwise everything is fine testosterone therapy is not without problems acne testicular atrophy aggression low voice hoarseness mood swings insomnia and so on And what about insulin therapy does it have complications Yes I think most people now experiment with insulin therapy consuming a lot of empty carbohydrates but when you take insulin itself it is not without side effects firstly you can get mood problems low potassium levels swelling heart problems even heart failure and excess insulin can cause coma in fact at the beginning of the 20th century people underwent insulin shock therapy they were injected with insulin causing coma And after some they had severe obesity it was used as a therapy for mental disorders now they don't do that now they use electroshock therapy which is much worse And what about adrenal hormones Will there be problems due to taking prednisone synthetic version of cortisol I am a perfect example of this I was forced to inject myself with asteroids every year for somewhere 12-15 years due to poison ivy Now I have resistance to them and had a lot of problems. Insomnia, many kidney problems and here are the side effects of cortisol, a very weakened immune system, cortisol resistance. This means that cortisol does not work like insulin with insulin resistance. It no longer works, and if you have cortisol or insulin resistance, then you have a deficiency of this hormone. And when cortisol is not enough, many inflammatory conditions arise, many skin problems. This is why one of the common remedies for dermatitis and other skin problems are steroid creams. Other symptoms due to cortisol. Insomnia was, I had problems with mood, agitation and anxiety. So, hormonal therapy has a lot of side effects. A much better strategy is that I recommend drugs based on animal raw materials, the use of gland extracts. How is this therapy different from hormonal therapy? That we thereby strengthen the entire endocrine system as a whole. Taking gland extract, you get a lot of everything, you get nutrients. Just compare glands with all the other foods that people eat. People eat mostly muscles and all that. What about the rest? People once ate animal parts and glands of all that we can eat glands and offal are the richest in nutrients So number one strengthen the endocrine system with what is extremely rich in nutrients but there are other things there are growth factors there are proteins certain amino acids peptides these are chains of amino acids factors minerals enzymes there is a full set especially in lyophilized extracts from glands I think extracts from glands are no longer used mainly Because it is not practical it is expensive if you look at what is needed to synthesize hormones can be synthesized in much larger quantities they can be purified But the question is whether this is the best treatment what is it up to you to decide extracts from glands have been used for a long time for example in 1891 there was a doctor named George Murray and he demonstrated that myxedema in patients with hypothyroidism mexiedema is swelling that looks like fat but it is not fat but metabolic waste this doctor demonstrated that taking an extract from the thyroid gland of a sheep can solve this problem other doctors with the help of an extract from the parathyroid glands treated titania and the muscles with which they were  Problems after surgery, titanium, twitching, and the parathyroid glands regulate calcium, and taking the extract helps with titanium. When I had a practice, I used whole dried adrenal glands. I used adrenal glands for many problems associated with the adrenal glands. I got very good results. Of course, it is unlikely that anyone will invest a lot of money in double-blind, placebo- controlled studies of extracts from glands, because you can’t patent them, but there are still products on sale such as Armortrest, it uses the whole gland and not just one hormone. People lose more weight with Harmor than with Syndroid. A study showed that people lost almost half a body weight more when they took Armor and not Syndroid. But the benefits were not limited to this; people felt much better when they took Armor and not Syndroid. When you take the whole gland, you get a whole complex of substances, it’s like a target for a food vitamin. Unlike an isolated vitamin. In general, I wanted to tell you more about this possibility. If you have endocrine problems, you can take extracts.  glands that can potentially help you Unfortunately, when you try to find answers from points of view other than those of official medicine, it is difficult, but sometimes you just need to understand. For example, which gland produces growth hormone, the pituitary gland. What other hormones does the pituitary gland produce? The production of which can be improved by knowing this, you can take not a separate hormone, but an extract from the gland to improve the functioning of this gland. You can even find an extract from the hypothalamus. Since we are talking about this, it is not only glandular tissue that brings benefits, there are other organs and tissues that can benefit you, for example, the liver. The liver is perhaps the richest organ in nutrients in it, and iron, because 12 and vitamin A, the spleen can help the immune system. And also the thymus gland, it can be taken to strengthen the immune system. And there is even such a thing. Like the tissue of the trachea, it is similar. It is very useful for joints, connective tissue, cartilage. I myself have benefited from it. Since we are talking about the endocrine system, I think. Now you need to watch my video about what you need to eat to strengthen the endocrine system. Here, watch this video.