I was asked what water fasting is. Simply put, it's fasting without food, only water, without coffee, without tea, without vitamins, without minerals, without gum, and without salt. Nothing but water. Do I recommend it? No, I recommend taking vitamins, minerals, sea salt, and maybe a little coffee and tea. You may not have reserves of nutrients that you will spend when you fast. You don't eat, you don't get nutrients, and a lack of electrolytes can impair your heart function. If you don't understand what you're doing and you have n't had good nutrition for several years, take vitamins and other nutrients. But in this video, I answer the question of what water fasting is. The type of water you drink also matters. I strongly recommend not drinking tap water. It contains chlorine, cake, all sorts of drugs, chemicals, pesticides, and other disgusting crap. Either buy a good filter to remove chemicals, including fluoride, or drink bottled artesian water. Should you drink distilled water? No, unless you drink it separately. take minerals because it can flush them out of the body if you just started and you already have a mineral deficiency and you drink distilled water without them you will have a serious deficiency whether you do a simple water fast or what I recommend you with nutrients after three days you will not be hungry you will have a lot of energy plus many other benefits you will be very surprised that you are not hungry despite the fact that you have not eaten this is because the body burns its fat it is interesting because it would seem that you should be exhausted and starving to death but no that's why it is so easy but still I recommend starting with intermittent fasting and slowly adapt your body to less frequent meals until you can do intermittent long fasting for two days three days or even longer and the benefits from this will be huge let's go over the benefits this will lead to the expression of the gene b dnf is an activated protein and this abbreviation means brain-derived neurotrophic factor this protein which is also stimulated by training makes your body produce more brain cells if you have memory problems or  Cognitive problems, do n't you need more brain cells, especially if you can't concentrate, your concentration is at its worst, or you walk into a room and forget why you came there, what you're doing, where are the keys? Then you need to increase this protein. Second, a reserve of antioxidants. You produce more antioxidants for the recovery process, because the body produces them. Fasting stimulates this process, and then the body produces more mitochondria. These are your power plants. They produce energy, so you are more energetic during fasting. Perhaps not right away, but when you adapt, there will be a lot of energy. The next plus is autophagy. Autophagy is a condition in which the body processes old damaged proteins and removes bacteria that shouldn't be there. During fasting, certain genes are activated that start a chain reaction. They remove old damaged proteins, place them in a processing mechanism using enzymes, and release new proteins. Using some of them to generate energy, this is a very important processing mechanism. It helps recovery, so fasting is very important for tissue restoration for longevity, as well as repairing damaged proteins. Thanks to this, the skin is rejuvenated, and insulin is lowered. Of course, if you lower insulin, you don't  Lower it to a dangerous level, you only normalize its excess, you also get rid of insulin resistance. If you have problems with blood sugar or you are diabetic, this will be very, very useful for you, because when you lower insulin, you solve so many problems with the body. Seriously, this is associated with fatty liver, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, high blood pressure, and so on. You also process nutrend and thereby reduce the need for nutrients. In addition, your stress resistance will increase. This is one of the reasons why fasting is recommended for people undergoing chemotherapy because it makes cells more resistant to external sources of stress. Cells become stronger. Further, fasting reduces the risk of tumors, polyps, and even cancer. Next, it reduces inflammation. Unnecessary inflammation is caused by autoimmune diseases, allergies, and arthritis. Finally, fasting makes the body run on titanium. 40 percent of the fuel will come from ketones, the remaining 60 will mostly come from fatty acids and a little from glucose, but the body can produce it itself. It can produce glucose from protein and fat, so there is no need to eat it. Ketones are very interesting.  Let's say a person has diabetes, their heart is damaged, and the heart tissue has difficulty accepting glucose and fuel. Ketones can feed the heart tissue directly, bypassing the damage. The heart loves ketones. The same thing happens with the brain. Let's say you have Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, or insulin resistance. Brain cells can't simply absorb glucose. Imagine ketones bypassing and feeding the brain directly. It receives fuel immediately. That is, they can nourish damaged tissue. Ketones are the brain's preferred fuel. The brain loves ketones. If the brain has a choice between glucose and ketones, it will choose titanium ketones. This fuel is much cleaner than glucose, because it is consumed without waste. This was my long answer to the question about water fasting. If you liked this video, please subscribe so you don't miss new videos.