Can fasting be an antidepressant? I think that maybe the side effects are minimal, but a lot of good things happen to the body, and it's not just about losing weight and getting rid of hunger. I'll tell you about one study I found, I'll give a link to it. It's an amazing study. It talks about improving mood. Scientists discovered an increase in the signaling activity of alexin, but what is the signaling activity of alexin? Alexin is a substance in the brain that stimulates wakefulness, that is, it invigorates when a person is depressed. He can't be called cheerful. The action of alexin is an elevated good mood. Alexin also increases dopamine and you feel better. Xing is also associated with happiness. Low levels of alexin cause sadness. When people start fasting and go through the first stage, during which the body switches to ketones, many feel better and feel happier. The second fast increases the release of endorphins. Endorphins cause a feeling of euphoria, that is, a feeling of pleasure. Endorphins also dull pain. Inflammation and pain go away for many when they start fasting. By the way, pain can drive Fasting also increases the level of a chemical called raw food hyphen, which can lead to depression in a person.  This substance activates genes that increase serotonin production. This chemical is associated with depressive disorder. Analysis of people with clinical depression showed low levels of this substance, and fasting increases it even more. It increases the level of GDNF, a brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In fact, it can be called a growth factor for the brain. It stimulates the growth of new neurons. The levels of all these substances can be increased simply by fasting. What is the alternative? There should be a black line on the labels of psychotropic drugs warning of serious side effects. The real cause of the problem is usually simply hidden. Over time, more and more pills are needed; one is no longer enough; more are needed, and soon the drug doesn't work at all. So why not try something safe, very effective, and natural? Something else might help with depression: fish oil or cod liver oil are rich in maidenhair and pei, which are known for their effectiveness in depression. Vitamin D has been proven to fight depression. Whole eggs contain halen, and by the way, halen is found in whole eggs. It is involved in chemical processes in the brain, and besides, whole eggs contain many nutrients that can also lift mood. It can also help.  Curcumin is a powerful antioxidant, and there's evidence that a high- fat diet helps people with depression. However, consuming too little fat can actually increase the risk of developing depression and other cognitive problems. So, this diet is our choice. If you're new to my channel and aren't familiar with intermittent fasting, watch this video.