When you have an infection, fast as much as possible .  This will help a lot.  You ask, why fasting?  Amazing thing.  It slows down aging and prolongs life.  This even applies to insects and animals.  When we are sick, we usually lose our appetite.  The fact is that fasting has a massive effect on the immune system.  When we stop eating, many of our genetically programmed survival mechanisms are activated.  The body begins to burn fat and begins to produce ketones.  Ketones fight infection.  They are somewhat antimicrobial. Also, during fasting, the viability of T cells and B cells increases. T cells direct the work of our immune system. They kill germs, help extinguish fires, and reduce inflammation.  B cells are needed to create antibodies so that the body remembers the infection and can fight it the next time it encounters it .  Fasting helps both types of cells survive, but initially the number of white blood cells decreases.  There are fewer lymphocytes in the blood.  Where do they go? They go to the bone marrow and to the intestines. There they eat and recharge. We increase the number of memory cells, and the fight against pathogens will proceed faster. The level of helpers increases significantly . These cells coordinate the work of the rest of the immune system, like a general in an army.  By the way, it is the techies that destroy the AIDS virus.  He attacks the command.  That is, he is also a smart strategist.  He knows that by killing the general he will disable the entire army.  So, fasting increases the number of helpers. If you fast long enough, autophagy is triggered.  This is a special condition in which the body cleanses itself of old damaged white blood cells and everything unnecessary.  Then processes it.  Autophady stimulates other processes as well. suppression of viral infections, reduction of inflammation and creation of antigen presenting cells.  What kind of cells are these ?  Some of these cells need to be targeted.  They need to have a target painted on the pathogens, so to speak . This way they will understand that this is a virus and it needs to be killed.  So, an antigen can be considered as a piece of a microbe. Well, let's say, what analogy can I give?  Well, for example, to get a service dog to start searching for drugs, you need to let it sniff a little of the drug. This way the dog will understand what scent it needs to look for.  The same thing happens with immune system cells.  It's like a scent or fragment of a pathogen that tells the immune system where to target.  And then other cells do the dirty work, killing the pathogen.  And here's what's interesting.  A three-day fast has a powerful effect on the immune system. Stem cells that restore immune system cells are activated.  It may seem very difficult to you, but once you start fasting, it will gradually become easier for you. Take nutrients while fasting.  The point is that fasting strengthens the immune system. Infection affects us in two ways. The first is directly through the pathogen itself, and the second is through collateral damage from your own immune system.  This is how rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases occur.   It is not the pathogens themselves that cause the damage, although they do participate in it.  It is the immune system itself that causes all this collateral damage.  By fasting, you significantly reduce inflammation. I also recommend taking vitamin D when you're dealing with an infection. Oregano oil is also great for fighting bacterial and viral infections .  Garlic is a very powerful thing.  Olive leaf extract also helps against viral infections .  Take these remedies on an empty stomach.  Plus fasting.  This will be a wonderful program.