Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  Please, Dog. True or false?  People who react to milk protein A1 have a milk protein allergy.  Some people may not understand what we are talking about here. You may have seen milk sold in bags labeled A2 milk. Perhaps you haven't seen it. Mostly A1 milk is available for sale.  It is a type of protein. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. So, the question is.  Is it true that milk allergy is related to this protein? Great.  Now we answer questions on social networks.  Question from Facebook from Esma in Bosnia.  My husband has hypertension and a very high pulse rate of 109. Apparently, this is at rest.   He also has diabetes and sleep apnea.  How can he regulate and lower his blood pressure using natural remedies? Hypertension is based on insulin resistance, and it must be eliminated. After all, with insulin resistance, blood vessels are literally deprived of nutrients.  They become hungry, hard and their blood pressure rises. You clearly need a low-carb intermittent fasting diet right now. But for the blood vessels to be very elastic and soft, potassium is also needed.  So getting a lot more potassium is important too.  Of course, two more nutrients, vitamin D and magnesium, will also help lower blood pressure.  Such a high pulse rate is a sign that there is a lack of oxygen somewhere and the body is compensating for it.  We need to address the root cause, insulin resistance, while supplementing with these nutrients to see results quickly.  Esma, we're all rooting for your husband in Bosnia, asks our old friend Sidedownton Strumble.  What is the best way to correct thiamine deficiency?  And how long does it take to restore its normal level? Start taking thiamine.  I would take natural thiamine. Keep in mind that thiamine also requires magnesium to work.  So I would take magnesium as well.  Then it will work. Start taking it.  How much time does it take?  I don't know.  perhaps weeks or months.  It depends on the degree of deficiency. Here are some symptoms of this deficiency. There are early symptoms of thiamine deficiency and late symptoms.  Early symptoms include nervous anxiety and nervous tension. You seem to be on edge. You lose patience and cannot drive behind a slow driver for more than 20 minutes.  You lose patience when you have to drive on the ring road around the city.  This is too much for you.  You don't have the patience to look after sixteen children at once for more than 8 hours. So you need more B1.  And late symptoms are damage to the nerves in the feet.  This is peripheral neuropathy. Okay, writes the moon fairy from YouTube.  I have late-onset psoriasis and I'm doing UV therapy, but it's very difficult to get rid of on my scalp. I have very thick hair. Please help.  Terrible.   There may be vitamin D available for scalp application.  That's one idea.  And you need to take a lot more vitamin D. Just take it.  You need to have enough vitamin D in your tissues so that it can overcome all barriers and help your immune system get back in order.  Great.  Asks RX Rambla.  Is it safe for me to increase my vitamin D3 and K2 dosage from 10,000 units to 30,000 units to treat my pinky toenail fungus?  I have no other illnesses.  This is good.  I think it's safe.  Be sure to take cofactors.  Magnesium, K2, zinc. But I must disclaim responsibility. Ask your doctor before following any of my advice.  If you find a doctor who knows how to use high doses of vitamin D—and there are few of them, I think there are maybe four in the US—they'll check your parathyroid hormone, because that's what compensates for a vitamin D deficiency. When there's not enough vitamin D to regulate calcium, parathyroid hormone increases and starts taking calcium from your bones. After all, calcium is very, very important for various reasons. So, your doctor will check your parathyroid glands to make sure you don't have too much calcium in your blood, but 30,000mg is unlikely to be a problem, especially in a short period of time.  And check your vitamin D blood levels. Its ideal level is 60-80 nagrams per millilitre. And if it drops to somewhere around 20, things are bad.  Great.  This is the point I think you need to explain to our viewers. Chanel Farlin Srambla asks: "If you fast for a long time, 3-5 days or even 21 days, does fat and fiber break the fast?" Fiber doesn't necessarily break a fast, but I don't know why you would want to eat fiber while fasting. Fat, if it has a lot of calories, will break the fast, but it depends on how much fat you eat. Ultimately, it all depends on quantity.   A tiny amount is not a problem, but if it is more, it is a problem. You can take dietary supplements during a long fast , but when fasting for a long time, some people feel great, while others feel terrible. Those who feel unwell may still be gradually adapting, or perhaps their bodies have not adapted for some other reason.  And then don't do anything that makes you feel bad. In this case, you can drink bone broth.  You will feel much better and will be able to fast longer, because you are not getting enough protein. Interesting.  We wish you good luck with this, friends.  Subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Cambridge from YouTube asks if it's beneficial for men to switch to the Root Diet if they have benign prostatic hyperplasia or even prostate cancer?   I knew someone would ask about this. Actually, I can't answer. I will develop nutrition protocols for specific situations. One of the things that is really missing in healthcare is attention to what people with cancer eat.  They will tell you: “It doesn’t matter, seriously, it doesn’t matter what we eat.”  I don't see the logic in this . You definitely don't need a high-carb diet, but cancer can also feed on certain proteins, amino acids. Cancer adapts to what you eat. He finds a way to get resources.  That is why the most effective cure for cancer is long-term fasting.  After all, by doing so you deprive him of all resources. And then what?  Then, you may need to eat once a day.  But what do you have to eat? It is on this topic that I will prepare a document. After all, a diet that works for one type of cancer may not work for another.  They are very different.  This makes things very confusing. I recommend watching my videos on Rambler.  For some reason YouTube doesn't let me post many videos about Cancer.   Oh well.  Linda from Facebook asks.  What do you recommend for people with gastroporesis? This is what happens with gastrosis.   The digestive system slows down because the autonomic nervous system is impaired. This is one of the side effects of Azempic. How can this be fixed? You need to take more natural vitamin B1.  This will help to bring the autonomic nervous system into order.   “ Okay,” asks Bill from YouTube.  What nutrients can you take during a long fast?  I think we've already answered this question.  And how often should one take bull's sting? So, during a long fast, people do not eat, so some people's gallbladder does not secrete bile. Then bile can build up and that can be a problem. Then you need to take bile to thin it if it is too concentrated and there is a feeling of heaviness under the ribs on the right.  I think it is useful to take tutku.  Two capsules on an empty stomach, possibly once a day. But most people don't have this problem. Because when they are hungry, they don't eat. Therefore, there are no stimuli that trigger the production of bile. Therefore, the bile that is in the body remains there until you start eating. The liver is not told to produce bile, and in theory its production should slow down. Most of these problems do not occur. Great.  Our viewers had no problem with the quiz question, which was: True or False?  People who react to milk protein A1 have a milk protein allergy.  55% said, "It's a lie," and 45% said, "It's true."  Who is right?  It's interesting, because I thought it was an allergy, but it's intolerance, sensitivity, and that's something else.  The symptoms are similar to an allergy, but it is not an allergy to milk protein.   It ’s amazing, if it were an allergy, there would be the same reaction to protein A2, but there is n’t.  Many people start eating A2 protein and have no problems with it. What is A2 and A1 protein? They are very similar.  They have one small difference, and something in the body reacts to this difference. This difference arose as a result of human activity, and this explains a lot. There is no A1 protein in the hammer of the sheep's scythe.  They contain A2 protein.  And the milk of some cows also contains A2 protein.  And you need to buy dairy products, such as cheese, yogurt, and so on, made from such milk.  Then you will feel much better. And A1 milk, especially when concentrated in the form of cheese made from A1 milk, most often from grain-fed cows, often causes digestive reactions in people. But here's what's even worse. There are protein powders and some non-dairy creamers that contain sodium caseinate or calcium caseinate.  It is a super concentrated milk protein A1 from goat milk.  It is much worse than milk because it is super concentrated. Oh well. So Steve, you have to read the ingredients and not buy certain things.