What to eat while breastfeeding, what you eat before and during pregnancy and after childbirth determines the health of the child. In my opinion, not enough attention is paid to this, because providing a developing child with all the necessary nutrients is extremely important. Let's first understand what nutrients are. They are not clients, these are factors. It didn't help much. Yes, so far, a factor, what does it mean? Factors are auxiliary compounds, not something of natural origin, that without which it is impossible to build proteins. You probably think that proteins are hair, nails, skin, muscles. However, we will expand this concept much further. All enzymes in your body responsible for digestion and biochemical reactions are proteins. Most hormones are proteins. There are proteins that carry cholesterol, that is, high-density lipoproteins or either protein and low density. HDL and LDL are also proteins. Hemoglobin, the very thing in the blood that carries oxygen, is also a protein. There are proteins that restore tissue, prolong life, repair DNA. A kind of blueprint by which the body is built. There are proteins that protect cells from what can cause harm, and even the entire immune system is based on proteins that protect against microbes and viruses. There are proteins that  They copy DNA, these are the so- called blueprints. There are proteins that act as proofreaders that look for errors and then go and correct the errors in DNA. It's incredible. There are proteins that help remove harmful substances from the body. So, you need nutrients for all these actions. Everything that pumps in and out various fluids in and out of cells so that the mitochondria, that is, the cellular energy plants, have all the necessary nutrients. If a growing fetus or infant has a nutrient deficiency, they will develop all sorts of bone disorders. The skeletal system will not develop as it should. They will be short. The bite may not form properly. Teeth will be missing, deformed, and cavities will form. Braces will be needed. They will be susceptible to diseases due to a suppressed immune system. Mental or physical underdevelopment may develop. A low five simply from a nutrient deficiency can lead to a risk of diabetes, attention deficit syndrome, asthma, and even cancer. As you can see, nutrients are very important in the early stages of growth. How can a young mother understand that there is no deficiency? I would go. On the other hand, you should start eating foods that are very rich in nutrients and not get hung up on different blood tests, because many of these nutrients are inside the cells, they are in the blood, they are inside the cells and it is difficult to detect them, you can determine the presence of a deficiency because you are a teapot for some food, for example, if you want clay, this may indicate an iron deficiency, if you are drawn to pickles, you may have a potassium deficiency, if you are tired, it may be a deficiency of iron, vitamin B1, or even vitamin K2. If you absolutely cannot stand stress, perhaps you do not have enough vitamin B1. If you constantly lack endurance and sue, perhaps you need more magnesium. Now let 's talk about very important nutrients that a developing organism cannot do without. The universe is very, very important. The fact is that silane is needed so that mercury from the environment does not accumulate in the body, even when a child is vaccinated. I have a special opinion on this matter and I would not want to start a holy war and mercury gets into it. silane can protect against mercury. silane is also important for the conversion of thyroid hormones from T4 to  T3 is a strong powerful antioxidant, then we have J&J, it is very important for increasing IKEA and for the growth of a child with iodine deficiency, he will not grow as tall as he could and his IT will be lower, B vitamins are not very important for the healthy development of the heart and brain, they participate in a huge number of chemical reactions and they are also needed for the skin of the chambers, most likely you have already heard about it, with a deficiency of FAL, the child can develop a neural tube defect, this is when the nervous system does not develop properly and part of the spine is damaged and this is so easy to prevent, the name comes from the Latin valium, which means leaf, is associated with leafy greens, that's why you need to start eating a lot of salad, this is extremely important and not only for the chamber but also for trace elements and vitamin C, next comes iron, it is essential for red blood cells if you have an iron deficiency, the child may not develop correctly, anemia in children is very common, I want to note that if you are carrying a child and going for two, the fetus receives the lion's share of nutrients and if you have a deficiency of any nutrient, and this deficiency will significantly increase since the child will take almost  All this inside and you yourself will begin to show various symptoms: hair loss, problems with nails, and so on. If you have any symptoms, know this is a nutrient deficiency, that is, you have the wrong diet. Let's move on. Zinc is more important for immunity than zinc, probably only vitamin D. Zinc deficiency is the cause of proper skin formation and low testosterone. This trace element is involved in more than two thousand chemical reactions in the body. More than a billion people on this planet are zinc deficient. By the way, if you eat a lot of simple carbohydrates and whole grain bread, this depletes your zinc reserves, as does sugar. Copper also acts in conjunction with zinc. It is part of the vitamin C complex. It is necessary for the formation of connective tissue. Among other things, this is for joints. It is simply irreplaceable for them and also for the connective tissue membrane. Next, calcium should be obtained from dairy products. It helps form teeth and the skeletal system. If a nursing mother has a vitamin D deficiency, the risk of developing type 1 diabetes, an autoimmune disease, is greatly increased. The risk of developing asthma also greatly increases. There is a possibility of improper development of the child's bone structure.  Curved legs or scoliosis. Vitamin A is essential for vision. Also, the trace element manganese, which can cause flat feet. As you can see, these nutrends greatly affect how a baby will develop. Pregnant or nursing mothers should never follow a low-fat diet because they contain essential fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids are one of the main ideas for vision. They are extremely important for the development of a child's brain and vision. Both are extremely important. By the way, if you take prenatal supplements, they often simply don't contain any maiden vitamins, but they do contain a bunch of artificial vitamins, soy, and all sorts of low-quality nutrients. You need to choose nutritional supplements for pregnant women. But the most important thing is to adjust your diet. Where can you get these key trace elements? Silenus, iron, zinc, copper, and manganese. Shellfish and crustaceans are clearly mega important. Fish, for example, salmon is best commercially produced. Cod liver oil is a must. These three products are very important. Cod liver oil contains enough vitamins A and D.  Also, maiden, as well as trace elements and protein, can be obtained from fish, trace elements from mollusks and crustaceans, although they can also be obtained from fish and even offal, but many do not like offal, cannot stand liver and other offal, this can be obtained in the form of dietary supplements, but you can go to iOS wellness dot com. This is not an advertisement for this company. I do not receive anything from them. I just like that their product is organic and, most importantly, completely grass-fed. They sell semi-finished cutlets that already contain meat offal and this masks the taste of offal. These products will be very useful for pregnant and nursing mothers. You can get all the necessary vitamins and trace elements from them. In general, soup products contain all the nutrients. It is possible that there is not enough vitamin C, but sometimes it is enough, which is why you need a dressing gown. Large portions of dark green vegetables from which you will get vitamin C, as well as potassium and magnesium. Nutritional yeast is a B vitamin. This is very important. This is one of the best sources of natural B vitamins, although I do not recommend fortified nutritional yeast.  Get unenriched eggs, you can even get them in tablets. They contain almost all the vitamins except for the purpose. The yolks, especially, have the most nutrients. This is extremely important. When you buy groceries, don't buy gano. Buy organic if possible. You shouldn't buy products with chemicals that can cause problems such as birth defects and all kinds of poisoning in the child's body. The description will contain onions with more detailed information about healthy baby food that you can prepare yourself, as well as other foods that you can eat. In this video, I wanted to talk about the basics and emphasize the importance of diet and nutrients before pregnancy, during pregnancy, and after while breastfeeding. Thanks for watching. If you want to learn about how to improve your body, subscribe to the channel and click the bell.