Hello everyone Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz, it's your turn, doc. Why is grass-fed meat tougher than grain-fed meat? Dear viewers, it's up to you, and now questions from social networks. Lily Yard. I hope I pronounced her name correctly. She asks what is the benefit of El carnosine. Erzine is a compound in red meat that helps direct fat through the power plant into the cells, the mitochondria, to produce energy. That is, El carnosine is associated with energy, it helps create more energy, you don't need to take it in the form of a badaki. Red meat and you will get it just like carnosine. I apologize. Creatine. Creatine also brings amazing benefits. It's an antidote and antioxidant. It helps quickly produce energy in the form of a burst of energy during training, and of course, since we're talking about red meat, it contains all the B vitamins, minerals, iron, selenium, zinc, B12, all of this is found in red meat. That's why grass-fed red meat is the healthiest food in the world, but of course, it's classified as a carcinogen, or plant-based meat, I don't think so.  I completely agree with this, I think it's not the best source of protein. Okay, let's move on to Facebook. Elaine asks what to do if magnesium glycinate causes diarrhea. What other magnesium supplements are best? I would just lower the dose and gradually increase it. I'll also release a video on this topic. Magnesium glycinate has the least effect on the gastrointestinal tract, so I would just take small doses. It's very easy. The can probably says one capsule. And I think 100 mg shouldn't cause any problems. Smaller doses are available. Magnesium oxide has a very explosive effect. There are about 10 forms of magnesium, and glycinate will be better than others. It can also help if you take it with food and take it in small doses throughout the day, and you will tolerate it better. Excellent. 515 B72 is gone. What kind of tube should I take for severe neuropathy in the soles of my feet? There is something called benfotiamine. It's a synthetic but good form of vitamin B1. Benfotiamine is sold as  formula for nerves with alpha-lipoic acid and both perfectly normalize nerve function in peripheral neuropathy Let's talk to someone in person this time Liliya called Liliya I forgot where you are from but can you ask Dr. Berg one question Good morning Dr. Berg Good morning I have quite a lot of problems since childhood because I have two genetic diseases I have Gaucher disease I have MHN And this is also an autoimmune disease last year the doctors forced me to take atorvastatin and I took it for about six months or more And after that during this period in January of this year I took Restasis And after that my blood test was crazy everything what are they called LP GGT ALT AST were high and cholesterol was low And I also don't have a gallbladder for about 39 years I have HRB why did I stop I apologize I stopped taking atorvastatin I will never take it again of course and my cholesterol returned to its previous values and will return to what I have now I have anxiety quite often and very often after sour food, spices or something like that, I feel a burning sensation in my throat and irritation on the top of my tongue or on the right side of my tongue, clearly. And I have, yes, let me advise you on some very simple things because you have a lot going on. I assume that you eat right as I recommend. I assume I try. I also assume that you have an autoimmune disease. Let's make these two assumptions. You know, as far as I know, regarding myocardial infarction, the problem here is not really the acid. The problem here is the valve, the valve does not close and the acid gets into the esophagus and into the throat. This is where interesting situations occur when even bile can be thrown up from. You don't have a gallbladder, but you have a bile duct and it goes into the small intestine. From there, bile can also get into the stomach and here, and bile is like a strong detergent. It can also irritate the lining of the esophagus. There is no gallbladder. If I were you, I would do this. I would start taking a remedy called Tutka on an empty stomach twice a day. It actually  will begin to heal the liver. After all, your liver enzymes are elevated. The main tool for getting rid of excess cholesterol is bile. You don't have a gallbladder, but you have bile, it flows down and can get stuck. Therefore, we need to clear the ducts with the help of tutka. In general, take tutka, it will open the ducts and this can significantly help you. To increase the acidity of the stomach, take betaine hydrochloride before meals. If there is no ulcer, and I think you do n't have one, then the valve will begin to receive signals that there is more acid in the stomach and it will close better. So you will fix this, and also imagine that this acid will prompt the liver to produce more bile and it will drain. Autoimmune diseases are associated with vitamin D deficiency, because it affects the immune system and reduces inflammation, but you apparently have little bile and you poorly absorb vitamin D. So at some point, perhaps immediately when the condition of the gastrointestinal tract gets better, I would start increasing the doses of vitamin D. You need more of it and take magnesium. This will put the autoimmune disease into remission or  at least reduce inflammation and eliminate many barriers in the gastrointestinal tract that prevent you from absorbing vitamin D3. Watch my videos about this. There is a lot of data. Watch them again and take notes. Wonderful, Lily. Thank you for taking part in our broadcast. Be sure to watch these videos later. In the meantime, we have already received answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this: Why is grass-fed meat tougher than grain-fed meat, and viewers have an opinion on this matter. So, let's see. 2% said it was the grain, 97% said it was the grass-fed meat, and 1% of viewers indicated that it contains fewer GMOs. The fact is that grain- fed animals are sent to soybean feedlots to fatten them up, and at the same time they move little. Take a person, if you feed him the same food, the meat will begin to become marbled, that is, it will be marbled in both humans and cows, and this is an unhealthy condition, but when this meat is already cooked, it seems more tender. And grass-fed animals have much more space in which they roam and move, and they  More collagen is formed with grass-fed meat, up to 30% more collagen than with grain-fed meat, and collagen is beneficial. But it is a little tougher, but it is much more beneficial. And what do you do? Do you use different cooking methods? Marinate meat, beat meat. Where is there more collagen? Do you cook it longer in a slow cooker and all that? But there are many ways to make meat more tender. That's why grass-fed meat has more colon and less fat. I don't know. If I had a choice, who would I eat? A diabetic or an athlete? Personally, I would prefer an athlete. But that's me.