Hi all.  We're back with questions about nutrients, the keto diet, and intermittent fasting. Let's get straight to the point.  Nothing I say is a diagnosis or a substitute for medical treatment.  Ask your doctor before following our advice. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. Wonderful.  We answer questions on social networks.  Asks Mrs. Jones from YouTube.  I tried switching to Keta, but Keta always makes me bloated.  How can I get rid of bloating?  So, there are different versions of keta.  At first, I recommended a version of chum salmon with lots of greens, fiber, and salads.  You might be bloated because of all this. Try eating much less plant foods, salads, greens and all that, especially broccoli. You can also try the root diet for a while and see if it helps with bloating.  After all, bloating is usually caused by fiber.  Okay, asks desert love from YouTube.  I have ulcerative colitis.  What dietary supplements do you recommend in such cases?  Unpleasant situation, I'm sorry.  Two points.  First, you need to avoid what is causing the problem, which is azlak, seed oils, and refined foods.  This will eventually correct the situation.  Be sure to take a dietary supplement with zinc kornesin. Peppermint oil provides significant relief from symptoms, at least reducing bloating.  and other symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome and inflammation.   This is what I advise.  Excellent question, Martin from YouTube.  What vegetables and drinks are best for helping you stay on the keto diet? I love cabbage because it has amazing health benefits.  It is a cruciferous vegetable.  And it's a vegetable that's easy to digest, even if you have bloating, gastritis, or something like that. Cabbage contains vitamin U. It was named so because of its ability to heal ulcers. At the same time, I also eat Romaine lettuce with Extra Virgin Olive Oil and balsamic vinegar. I sprinkle it with cheese and maybe some nutritional yeast for some B vitamins. But my favorite thing is arugula, as it's one of the most powerful nitric oxide boosters, which improves vascular health.  Both the rukala and the cruciferous family.   It has a slightly spicy taste.  Romaine lettuce, arugula, and kale go well together. Excellent question from Ativ from YouTube.   Is Stevia Safer Than Sugar?   Yes. A couple of years ago I sent Dr. Berg a package of Stevi.  He looked at the label and said, "This is a good product. Is there anything I should be wary of? Is all Stevi the same?" Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. This requires a little more explanation. You need to find quality stevia.  In fact, quite a few stevia products contain maltodextrin as an anti-caking agent.  It's either a filler or a spray drying agent, I don't know.  Read the ingredients to make sure there is nothing in there other than Stevia.  This is a good question.  You can watch my longer video about this. Pamela from YouTube writes very well.  I would like to know more about lupus.  What can be done in terms of diet to control this disease? All autoimmune diseases are slightly different from each other.  They are not the same. I think a safe bet is to increase your vitamin D levels to keep your immune system in check, take selenium, and cut back on carbs to reduce inflammation.  Go on a healthy keto diet and be sure to take magnesium.  This is what I recommend. Captain Penguin from YouTube writes very well.  I have hypothyroidism.  Do I need to fast for a long time, say, three days, or is it enough to just eat according to the 18 on 6 schedule so as not to slow down my metabolism?   This is a very good question, because prolonged fasting affects the thyroid gland, but this effect is not harmful.   The thyroid gland simply adapts. If you can fast for three days every two weeks with this autoimmune disease, I think you will reboot your immune system.  You will stimulate stem cells for the immune system. This is amazing information.  A three-day fast works wonders for the immune system. Autophagy is activated, there are a bunch of other benefits, inflammation is reduced, but high doses of vitamin D3 are required. So yes, I would do the 18x6 diet, fasting for 18 hours and eating in a six hour window, and every other week I would fast for three days. Great!  Ella writes from Facebook: “I often feel pressure in my chest. Are there any dietary supplements to improve cardiac circulation? There are, there are many. But before you rush to buy them, do you have digestive problems? Often bloating puts pressure on the gallbladder, and this affects the heart in turn. So it’s important to identify the cause. I approach this, in particular, in the following way. First, I correct a person’s diet, and the symptom may disappear immediately. But, let’s say, the problem is in the heart muscle itself. Then only trinols are needed. This is a very powerful form of vitamin E, which increases the ability to carry oxygen. Long walks are good for the heart, magnesium is good for it, vitamin D is very good for the heart. After all, you need to reduce inflammation on the inner layer of blood vessels, on the endothelium. And this is a typical cause of heart problems. Excellent. Tanya from Facebook has a problem familiar to us. Can I take tutka if I don’t have a gallbladder? So, tutka is a unique bile salt. It was previously obtained  From bear bile. It's synthesized today, but it's still very effective. And I would probably take tutka not as a bile replacement for digestion. I would take it to keep the bile liquid and allow it to flow freely. After all, it's often not a gallstone, but a bile sediment. In such cases, you need to take tutka to dissolve the sediment and allow the bile to flow. A sign of this is severe tightness under the ribs on the right side, a feeling of heaviness, pain, or discomfort. Sometimes this is reflected here, on the right. Tutka will help a lot. Take it on an empty stomach. Say, two capsules once or twice a day. Another point is this. If the gallbladder has been removed, you can do acupressure and massage on the opposite side. In one video, I explained why you should do this. It helps a lot. It brings great relief if you have problems after gallbladder removal.