There is nothing worse than being depressed and not knowing how to get out of it. You go to the doctor and he prescribes you a bunch of medications. You ask him. How long should I take these medications? When can I stop? And they may tell you that you will have to take them forever. The problem is that these medications have serious side effects. You get used to them and you need more, but their effectiveness becomes less and less. It seems to you that you will never be cured and will not be able to give up these medications. But what you need to do is this: First, consider your diet. If you are new to me, below there are links to very important videos about a healthy diet, intermittent fasting, and vitamin D, but there is another extremely important point: you need to improve your bowel function. There is a very close connection between what happens in the large intestine and your general mood. There are many studies on this topic. Links below for major depressive disorder. It has been found that in this case, you have a lot of some microorganisms, but on the contrary, there are few other microorganisms in the intestine. It turned out that these microorganisms greatly affect your mood, and some microorganisms can significantly help. With depression, these are lactobacilli and  Bifidobacteria are found in yogurt. If you buy yogurt, I recommend buying high-fat Bulgarian yogurt. These bacteria can also be obtained from kimchi, a Korean dish made from fermented cabbage. Sauerkraut is also fermented cabbage. These microorganisms are also found in cheese, kefir, and even pickles. But how do these microorganisms improve mood? They help synthesize neurotransmitters such as GABA and serotonin. Other microorganisms help produce dopamine and even acetylcholine. For those taking psychiatric medications, what is their mechanism of action? They manipulate neurotransmitters. The problem is that this approach has too many side effects, and there are no side effects in normalizing intestinal microflora. You simply bring it back to normal by filling the intestines with beneficial microorganisms. You will restore the desired level of GABA serotonin, as well as B1 and other B vitamins. These microorganisms produce vitamins, and one of the most important B vitamins for your mood is  B1 If you have depression Eat these foods regularly Or find good probiotics that contain these bacteria Thanks for watching and here is a link to a video about what to do if you have depression watch