Hello, in this video we will talk about depression and how to cope with it with natural remedies. The first thing I try to find out when someone has depression is whether it is related to lack of sleep or chronic fatigue syndrome. After all, the thing is that with depression, a person feels very tired all the time. If a person does not get enough sleep, he develops chronic fatigue and it feels like depression. Therefore, I always find out if a person sleeps well. If he has problems with sleep, we try to solve them. Usually, this helps. I have not yet seen a person who is full of energy and who at the same time suffers from depression. There is a logically explainable depression, for example, due to the loss of a loved one, and there is an unexplained depression when there is no reason for depression. We will talk about this option with you and I. People need an alternative to psychiatric drugs. It exists and now we will talk about this. First, you need to distinguish between depression and anxiety. Depression is akin to apathy when you no longer care about anything. Hopelessness. Depression is sadness and tears. But what is anxiety? It is stress, worry, a swarm of thoughts, panic.  Attacks are completely different emotions, they need to be distinguished, often the cause of depression is a deficiency of vitamin B3, and the cause of anxiety can be a deficiency of B1 later, we will discuss this in more detail, first of all, you need to study the diet, is there any unhealthy food, of course, it is useless to try to cure depression if you eat only fast food and unhealthy food, nothing will come of it, you need to find out what the person eats, if he has donuts, cakes, etc., you need to correct the diet, get rid of all this unhealthy food, then blood sugar is 2 pieces, and I check whether too high or too low blood sugar can cause depression, especially hypoglycemia and insulin resistance. I don’t have a lot of videos if blood sugar is not normal, think for yourself, insulin helps deliver sugar to the brain. If you have insulin resistance, the brain does not get enough fuel and begins to work poorly, so you will feel bad, you need blood sugar to enter the brain properly. If you have prediabetes and blood sugar is not normal due to the fact that you eat all sorts of junk food, this can be the cause of depression. I would do this immediately if you Problems with blood sugar, look at the links under the video, sleep is important. I always check to see if my sleep has returned to normal. Most sleep problems are caused by severe stress. I use two products for this: the first is a night formula for the adrenal glands. It calms the adrenal glands and helps a person fall asleep. The second is a massager to work with the body physically and relieve stress in this way and calm a person who is very tense. These are two products that I use to improve sleep. Now let's discuss serotonin. Some psychiatric drugs drive the last drop of serotonin that you have left in circles, making the body think that serotonin is there, although it is not. Serotonin is a hormone that lifts the mood. It helps cope with cravings for something. You can say that it is a hormone for the nervous system. It is a neurotransmitter. If you have problems with serotonin, it can lead to depression. Now I will tell you where serotonin comes from. There is an amino acid called l-tryptophan. L-tryptophan was very popular in the 80s. Its sales volume amounted to billions of dollars, and then on March 22, 1990, in  A low-quality batch of this acid in Japan led to an outbreak of a rare disease, and this natural amino acid was banned. People used it for depression, cravings, and the idea of ​​losing weight and improving sleep was banned. Four days later, a large-scale advertising campaign for the new magical antidepressant Prozac began. What a coincidence. You see, there's a connection here. Exactly 19 years later, somewhere around 2001, the ban on l-tryptophan was lifted just when the patent for Prozac expired. Interestingly, this is also a coincidence. So here's the thing: people used chemicals for a while and forgot about l-tryptophan. L-tryptophan doesn't convert to serotonin, but it's a natural amino acid. It has no side effects. It must be taken on an empty stomach because it's a large protein and it competes with other proteins. Therefore, if you take them together, l-tryptophan won't work. Take it on an empty stomach. L-tryptophan is natural, it increases serotonin levels, it lifts your mood, helps cope with cravings, improves sleep, and besides  L-tryptophan creates vitamin B3. Remember the connection we talked about here. B3 is also produced from el- tryptophan. It's also interesting that vitamin B3 deficiency can be caused by alcohol abuse, even past liver damage, refined grains (bread, pasta, crackers, cookies, and all that). Too many soy or corn products also deplete B3 reserves. In fact, many people know that this is bad, but let's say you started taking B3 or started taking l-tryptophan and your depression doesn't go away. My last recommendation might help you. The fact is that you need a powerful digestive system to absorb these two substances. If there is intestinal damage (diverticulitis, Crohn's syndrome, irritable bowel syndrome), this may prevent what we've already discussed from working. Therefore, you need to add a little lactic acid to your diet from kombucha tea, sauerkraut, or fermented vegetables. This is how you can get lactic acid. It helps absorb B3 and delta TOP. Your digestive system is like a second brain, it can affect your mood.  Take lactic acid. You can buy kombucha tea at the store and drink it at night. It will calm you down and improve your mood. However, people with lactose intolerance have problems consuming lactic acid. This could be the cause of depression, as they cannot digest the substances I mentioned. I have outlined several possible causes of depression. Digestive problems are a common cause, as are problems with blood sugar and sleep. Whatever your personal problem, eliminate it and see if your mood improves. Thank you for watching.