Let's talk about how to safely remove thousands of toxic chemicals from the body. There are many chemicals in the environment, bisphenol A, PCBs, heavy metals, toxic plastics, and biosolids. Have you heard of these? Biosolids sounds harmless, but if you didn't know, it's treated liquid sewage waste. I'm currently reading an interesting book called Toxic Waste Is Beneficial. It talks about how certain groups, with the help of PR campaigns, turned environmentally harmful products into something useful. The book describes how this new term biosolids came about and how recycled sewage waste was turned into a nutrient-rich organic product. I'm not kidding. There are over 60,000 toxic substances in biosolids. These are waste products that end up in wastewater treatment plants from the toilet, where this material is processed and sold as an ingredient in pet food, livestock feed, and fertilizers. Every day, we are exposed to 80, maybe even hundreds of thousands of different poisons or toxins, all called "biotics." I'm on biotics. The body has a defense mechanism, a whole series of detoxification pathways in which poisons are converted into harmless particles that are then eliminated through the excretory system in a process called biotransformation. Powerful enzymes, specifically cytochrome p450, destroy all these poisons and maintain the overall health of the body. Now I want to talk about what you need to do and eat to prevent all these toxins from causing disease. Here is a very interesting book by the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization. Cruciferous vegetables have an amazing ability to stimulate the process of biotransformation. We need to consume these vegetables on a regular basis. Kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, arugula, pak choi. Then there are bile salts. The body produces bile. You can take it. This is very important. Always cry for detoxification. You need to take bile salts for a couple of days. Taking purified bile salts helps start the flow of bile through the liver because detoxification destroys certain pathogens that secrete endotoxins that block the bile ducts and you may feel unwell. Detoxification bile salts help get rid of xenobiotics naturally. Many chemicals from the liver must be excreted through bile. In addition, microorganisms in the intestines help remove toxins and produce an enzyme that helps break down toxic substances. I highly recommend combining bile salts with cruciferous vegetables. If you take a prebiotic, which is essentially fiber, say, cabbage, and ferment it, then it’s no longer just cruciferous vegetables, it will already be a prebiotic and probiotic. So, sauerkraut is an excellent food for detoxification. The detox process with food occurs slowly and is not felt as much. There are also many other vegetables and herbs that help remove toxins. Garlic, rosemary, and thyme are the most common, and they all contain the necessary enzyme. You need to understand that many chemicals cause great damage to the body with free radicals. Antioxidants are contained in food, but the body itself also produces antioxidants called endogenous antioxidants. Especially during fasting, when fasting, the body enters a state of autophagy, which not only accelerates the repair of damaged Fasting helps increase endogenous antioxidant networks, boosts antioxidant levels, strengthens the immune system, and helps the body resist damage from free radicals. However, it's essential to consume certified organic foods, as they won't contain biosolids. The Hall Foods chain of stores has stated that they've eliminated foods with biosolids. Also, be sure to read the ingredients of your pet food to make sure it doesn't contain these byproducts. The phrase "nutrient-rich organic foods" sounds like a good thing, but it's not. Thank you for watching. See you soon. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salmon Course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't return. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and have achieved very stable results. Join us too.