Potassium deficiency can be associated with many different symptoms. Today we will discuss the most serious of these symptoms that you need to know about. Unlike other minerals, potassium is unique in that we need it in very large quantities. We need 4,700 mg of potassium per day. If, with a lack of potassium, you consume a lot of sodium in the form of salt, the consequences can be very bad. The fact is that sodium and potassium work like a kind of seesaw. Many people eat junk food that has a lot of salt, but do not eat enough food rich in potassium, so this proportion is greatly disrupted, turned upside down. Normally, this proportion should be at least two to one, that is, potassium is twice as much as sodium. Thus, even if you have little potassium, but the proportion of potassium and sodium is correct, your heart is better protected. From 98 to 99% of potassium is located inside the cells and not in the blood. The same is true for magnesium. Most of the magnesium is in the cells and not in the blood. So, no matter how many blood tests you take, it will not particularly help to identify a nutrient deficiency. Why do we need so much potassium? And here's the thing.  In every cell of the body there is a certain pump called the sodium potassium pump. This pump helps the cell create an electrical current that provides energy to the nervous system and muscles. This can be compared to a dam through which water is discharged. That is why it is so important that we have the correct amount and proportion of potassium and sodium so that we can create this electrical charge. And much of what we will talk about today is related to the lack of an electrical charge necessary to supply energy and muscles. So, we have nerves, muscles, and also a blood vessel control system that controls the narrowing and expansion of blood vessels. In fact, potassium greatly affects the tone of blood vessels and a lack of potassium is one of the main causes of hypertension, but this information is not particularly disseminated because hypertension drugs bring in a lot of money. But at the same time, we see that in 90% of all cases of hypertension. It is called essential, which means that the cause is unknown. I bet that one of the reasons is a potassium deficiency. First, I will describe the symptoms, which may not be so serious, but can be serious, and then we will discuss the most  A serious symptom. So, this is fatigue, muscle problems, constipation, tremors, that is, a problem with the interaction of nerves and muscles. Another typical symptom of potassium deficiency is irregular heartbeats. How many people have a problem with their heart rhythm? Many people. How do I know? Yes, it's just that many take medications for this. Due to potassium deficiency, various mental problems are possible: feverish delirium, hallucinations, psychosis and depression. In addition, potassium is needed to store glucose in the form of glycogen in the liver and muscles. And in order for glucose to be stored as glycogen in the liver and muscles, a large amount of water is also required per molecule. It is necessary to store approximately three molecules of water. When a person switches to a keto diet or fasts according to a certain pattern, he uses up this glycogen, while a lot of stored water is released, and along with this water, he loses the electrolyte potassium. Therefore, in particular, I advise taking a good electrolyte powder with potassium on the keto diet when there is not enough potassium in the body. Blood pressure rises. We have already discussed this, but there is another interesting fact associated with potassium. Thanks to potassium, blood vessels remain soft and elastic, and the level of nitric oxide also increases. But sodium makes blood vessels stiffer and reduces the level of nitric oxide, that is, potassium is very important for vascular tone, especially if there are problems with hypertension. With potassium deficiency, a headache may occur, there may be pain in the lower back right behind the kidneys, dizziness may occur, and also possibly a CTU, what is it? This is when you have to get up at night to urinate. With a lack of potassium, the body retains more water, the legs swell. In fact, swelling can occur in any part of the body. In addition, with potassium deficiency, the pulse rate increases slightly and the risk of stroke also increases. Now let's discuss the most serious side effect of potassium deficiency, and this is sudden cardiac death. Cardiac arrest. With potassium deficiency, the risk of sudden cardiac death increases 10 times. By the way, what people with heart problems usually take: they take drugs to reduce sodium. And some diuretics at the same time.  Along with sodium, potassium is also removed from the body, but at the same time, potassium is not given enough attention. I believe this other side of the coin is completely ignored in terms of heart and vascular health. And since we named the most serious symptom, we will also name the foods, or rather, the causes of potassium deficiency. Number one is diet. People eat little leafy greens, pumpkin, squash, nuts, shellfish, and crustaceans, bone broth, avocado, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, and mushrooms. All of this contains potassium. But potassium deficiency is caused by an excess of certain things. I mean refined sugar, refined starches, and refined grains, that is, the so- called junk food. This deprives us of potassium. Also, stress, steroids, intestinal inflammation, or malabsorption. Another factor is alcohol, which also deprives us of potassium. As you can see, potassium is extremely important for health. What do you know about the most important electrolyte, potassium? Arrhythmia, seizures, tremors, high blood pressure, and poor sleep are the consequences of potassium deficiency. How to replenish it correctly and safely, I will tell you in my course about  potassium sign up using the link below. See you there.