Hello, today we'll talk about vitamin B deficiency. It's much more common than you might think. The problem is that it can't always be detected by a blood test because the defect lies in the enzyme that ensures the functioning of vitamin B1. If you want to take this test, the enzyme analysis that needs to be done is trans somewhere. Vine is just an enzyme that works in conjunction with vitamin B1, and the problem is finding a laboratory that does such tests. It's difficult, but one way or another, here's what B1 does in general. It does a lot of things. It's part of 5 different enzymes, being a factor for 5 enzymes. Enzymes do their job in the body. They are our workhorses. They participate in all kinds of biochemical reactions in the body, especially the mitochondria, our energy plants. B1 is indispensable for ensuring the functioning of these enzymes. If you have a B1 enzyme deficiency, they work and you feel tired. This is perhaps the most characteristic symptom. When you take vitamin B1, it immediately increases your energy in most cases. Instead of doing the test, it's much cheaper to take B1 and see if you feel better, and most likely, it will. In the next part, I'll tell you where to get B1 and how much to take, and in this part we'll discuss  How many different systems does it participate in? B1 deficiency is called bere bere disease. It is known as the greatest mimic disease because it mimics many other conditions in the body. It has an incredible number of different consequences. I think it is likely that if you have prediabetes, insulin resistance, or diabetes, then you also have a vitamin B1 deficiency. If you regularly drink alcohol, you probably have a B1 deficiency. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, you probably have a B1 deficiency because that is what causes it. You definitely need one to digest carbohydrates. An excess of simple carbohydrates depletes reserves. B1 is one-to-one involved in energy production. It also helps protect cells and mitochondria from oxidation and free radicals. It is also a kind of antioxidant. It also protects cells from glycation, which occurs when sugar and proteins or sugar and fats are combined. When glycation occurs, sticky proteins are formed. B1 also protects against the formation of amyloid plaques in the brain, characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. That is, proteins seem to create a gap in the brain. There is an amazing book written by Dr. Garik Long with Dale. I bought it.  I found it on Amazon, but it cost $79, which is very expensive, but it's worth it. I read it in one sitting. It's a very interesting book, and firstly, I'll talk about the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Here are some symptoms that can develop with B1 deficiency: an enlarged heart because the load on the heart is increased, which is why the heart gradually gets larger and larger; a rapid pulse; leaks, usually at the bottom of the ankles; after pressing on the ankle, it remains in the mitten; this happens more often in diabetics; damage to the capillaries; nerves need blood supply; with B1 deficiency, the flow of nutrients to the nervous system stops, which causes peripheral neuropathy; tingling and burning, and no less pain in the fingertips or under the feet; moving on to the digestive system; a feeling of a full stomach, as if it's always full; constipation may occur; a strap cutter, what is it? This is a condition in which the digestive system is very sluggish and food passes through it very slowly. This is when the valve at the top of the stomach does not close and acid comes out into the esophagus. The latter conditions develop due to a lack of gastric juice.  There is a hydrochloric acid deficiency of vitamin B1 and it creates a situation when you do not have enough hydrochloric acid, thus it causes sluggishness of the digestive system and causes heartburn because gastric acid is needed to close this valve. So, as you can see, the hyphen B1 is like a tree whose branches are stretched far here and far there. The nervous system mentioned peripheral neuropathy and in general any neuritis with any nerve pain and nerve damage. B1 deficiency is an underlying cause of dizziness, an unpleasant sensation in the head when you stand too close or even when you stand you feel the rocking like on a ship. This can also be caused by B1 deficiency. It also affects the autonomic nervous system. This combination of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems are two things that work automatically. They do a lot. It is easy to imagine how many different symptoms can cause problems in this system. There are a lot of them: lack of tear fluid, excessive sweating or lack of sweat. In general, many people have this and they do not know what it is. Finding the cause can be difficult, but usually it is B1 deficiency. Anxiety, especially nervous tension, inability to relax. Open  brain fog exercise intolerance so many people resist exercise they just feel unable to do it this is b1 insomnia lack of sleep a disease called spot spot is a condition in which the ability to adapt to gravity when changing position is completely destroyed due to a disorder of the autonomic nervous system especially the sympathetic division and when you get up the blood does not have time to reach the brain and you are constantly dizzy that is, essentially, you have to lie down all day because you cannot get up without dizziness these people should absolutely never ride roller coasters because it will seriously harm them but this is b1 deficiency amazing but also in sleep because the nerves in the brainstem are affected also control the respiratory centers and if they do not work due to a lack of b1 you can have problems breathing and breathing in principle will be difficult you will feel like you do not have enough air not only for this reason there are a couple of others we will get to them panic attacks b1 deficiency nightmares classic b1 deficiency lack endurance, especially when exercising, you just don't feel like exercising because you're exhaling too quickly. Why? Because B1 is closely linked to five enzymes in the mitochondria. If these enzymes don't work, your mitochondria get tired. All sorts of autoimmune disorders have a common symptom: fatigue. B1 is usually the cause. If you have hashimoto's disease or multiple sclerosis and fatigue, take B1 and see if it improves. Lactic acid buildup. B1 helps get rid of lactic acid, a byproduct of metabolic processes occurring in the mitochondria. If you don't have B1, you won't be able to get rid of it. Lactic acid builds up and lactic acidosis develops. It manifests itself in restless leg syndrome. It also occurs in people who have difficulty breathing. For example, if you're diabetic and take metformin, one of its side effects is lactic acidosis. That's why it has a black label, which means it can lead to a serious condition. It causes you to find a condition because one of the side effects of metformin is vitamin B1 deficiency. Clearly, as a result, you can't remove lactic acid.  Acid accumulates due to increased acidity, breathing problems and recurring ear inflammation begin. It's interesting that this problem is with excess estrogen. Fuji estrogen, an excess of which can occur is estradiol, which cannot be removed without sufficient amounts of vitamin B, because one of the functions of B1 is to remove excess estradiol from the liver. The next problem is the introduction of EFCO. I will not delve into what it is, but you need to understand that this is associated with oxidation and free radicals. This is caused by processes occurring in cells. AP1 helps reduce this oxidation. As you remember, B1 is an antioxidant, so you will have more EFCO. If you lack vitamin B1, when a woman is pregnant and gives birth to a child, a condition called toxemia occurs, which is very dangerous for both the child and the mother. The organs become toxic, heart problems with the kidneys and high blood pressure begin, and life is also at risk. So, vitamin B1 helps avoid toxemia. The beta cells of the pancreas are also affected. These are the cells that produce insulin. That is, without vitamin B1, you will not be able to produce enough insulin. If  If you have pure type 1 diabetes, you need a lot of insulin because diabetics can even absorb B1 normally, so they need to take it even more than the average healthy person. The accumulation of stress with a lack of vitamin B. You are very irritable, uncontrollable, any little thing will irritate you, you will not be very tolerant of stress. A phenomenon called sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is a deficiency of vitamin B1, since the baby simply stops breathing in his sleep. This would be one because it affects the respiratory centers. Let's move on to the next part. So now about where this deficiency comes from. Mainly from sugar, refined sugar, empty calories. If you take 2 diabetics who both eat sugar, but one has a deficiency of B1 and B2, the first diabetic will experience a lot of complications of diabetes, and the second will have much less. Vitamin B1 helps prevent damage or at least worsening of symptoms of high sugar. Carbohydrates in general, because the more carbohydrates you consume, the more you need to eat them. White rice is also a carbohydrate, but I listed it separately because it was thanks to it that they discovered  Beriberi diseases, white rice, all the B vitamins are in the husk, so when you peel the husk, brown rice has a shell, and when you peel it off, white rice is pure carbohydrate, and by consuming it, you create a vitamin B1 deficiency. If you ate rice husks, you would get vitamin B1 from them, but this is a waste product of white rice production. Alcohol seriously depletes B1 reserves. Also, heat during pasteurization or cooking destroys vitamin B1. Age, the older you are, the less vitamin B1 you have. Diabetes. Diabetics almost always suffer from B1 deficiency because B1 is closely related to the functioning of insulin-producing cells, and if there is a problem with them, there will be a B1 deficiency. Polyphenols are found in coffee, tea, and wine. If you drink a lot of coffee or tea, don't be surprised when you find yourself with a B1 deficiency, especially if you have nervous tremors. If you drink a lot of coffee and feel nervous tremors, just take B1 and it will pass in about 4 minutes. Then, you will have a gastric bypass, and you will simply have a B1 deficiency.  Because the duodenum is turned off, and guess where vitamin B1 is absorbed in the duodenum. If you have a gastric bypass, I advise taking more B1 so that at least some of it is absorbed. Sulfites can create a B1 deficiency. Also, raw fish, if your liver is damaged, you also won't be able to absorb B1. Antacids and antibiotics also deplete B1 reserves. Caffeine, too, if there is a lack of gastric juice, you also won't be able to absorb B1. But vitamin B1, in turn, is necessary for the production of gastric juice. That is, the dependence is mutual. Vaccinations can provoke a deficiency of B1 and cause a person with a subdural. There is a certain vaccine. I won't be specific. You can google it yourself, you will find a lot of data. Vaccines reduce B1 reserves. Foods that are high in vitamin B1 include liver, yeast, both baker's and nutritional yeast. Personally, I like nutritional yeast a little more because baker's yeast doesn't taste as good and it's hard to find high-quality ones as a source of vitamin B1.  I like unenriched nutritional yeast. I'm not against you taking one as a supplement, even synthetic, provided that you combine it with sb1 from natural sources or with nutritional yeast. After all, if you take any one vitamin for a long time, it can deplete or upset the balance of others. Group B is a complex, it includes several vitamins, and pork is rich in vitamin B1, eggs, fish, sunflower seeds, rice hulls, and barrels, asparagus and seafood. I repeat, if you want to take a test that will determine whether you have a B1 deficiency, trans- catalase, but it's difficult to find a lab that will conduct this test. Pain in games is a good way to recognize a B1 deficiency if you grab your ankle and it is very sensitive. You may have a B1 deficiency. Increased effort during training. If you need a huge effort to start an exercise, and if the mantra " get up and go" doesn't work, then take vitamin B1. You will feel better. You will be able to do it. Well, go ahead. When I exercise, I take B1. I can take 100 milligrams in  tablet, but immediately taking nutritional yeast and going to exercise on a bike and I noticed that after taking B1 I can ride much further, even twice as far, I feel like my body is itching to exercise, it's very interesting, in essence, it stimulates mitochondria, benfotiamine is a fat-soluble version of B1, it is synthetic, however, when studying it, no side effects were found, I think it will work, but I repeat, be sure to take nutritional yeast to maintain balance, benfotiamine is very important for people who have nerve problems, Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease, or any problems with the brain and memory because it penetrates the brain 25 times more effectively than regular water-soluble B1, they would simply make one fat-soluble and it more easily penetrates the brain, consisting entirely of fat, and into the nerves, which is excellent for peripheral neuropathy, if you take benfotiamine, I advise drinking 4 tablets, it is usually in capsules during the day, and soon you will see excellent results, especially if you have Alzheimer's Parkinson's  or memory disorders and with peripheral neuropathy there will be significant improvements. Okay, the video turned out to be very long, but I wanted to show you all the aspects of B1, this is a vital vitamin. Thank you for watching. I want to know what you think about this video. Please write in the comments what you think.