Today I will tell you how you can cleanse your liver in 3 days. I have tried all the liver cleansing methods that exist and many of these methods made me feel ill. You don't even have time to start, and I'm already bedridden for 2 weeks. But the method that I will tell you about is not at all like the methods that I usually talk about in other videos, such as using apple cider vinegar and lemon juice. All this does not even come close to the effect of what I will show today. But here is the question of how the liver cleanses your body and how to influence the most powerful parts of this process to speed it up. The liver is engaged in the removal of poisons and chemicals such as drugs, harmful substances in food, alcohol, and so on. It also cleanses the body of debris, dead cells, and pathogens. Let's remember a little biology. There are different things inside a cell, and this thing is responsible for waste disposal. It is called a lysosome. Lysosomes are small waste burners. They break down all kinds of garbage and waste, including dead cells. They help to dispose of dead cells, as well as pathogens and microbes. Viruses, bacteria, and fungi convert the body into new cells. This whole process is called autophagy. The body actually eats some of its tissue, converting waste and garbage into raw materials for new cells. Here are seven things that trigger autophagy, starting with those that stimulate it the weakest, and these are some phytonutrients. They trigger the autophagy process to a small extent. Number six on the list is a ketogenic diet. Reducing carbohydrate intake. Number two is physical exercise. Training triggers autophagy. The next point is sleep. During sleep, this process also works. Next comes calorie restriction. When you reduce your calorie intake, this also helps autophagy. The second point is water fasting. This is a type of fasting. When you do nothing but drink water, but there is one more thing, and it is three times more effective than water fasting. It is better to sit down. Dry fasting is no food and no water. Dry fasting is without a doubt one of the most powerful ways to stimulate autophagy and really cleanse the body's cells. I don't mean 12 days of dry fasting. I'm talking about dry fasting for one day. You start  Dry fasting at dawn and finish it at sunset. At first, I thought it was some kind of nonsense. But the more I studied it, the more surprised I was by the result, because one day of dry fasting is equivalent to 3 days of water fasting. You may have heard that you can only live without it for 3 days, I will not go into this topic in this video, but this is a myth. In fact, everything is not so when you stop drinking water. Here is what happens: fat cells release a lot of water during the combustion process, but with this method, you do not drink water for only 12 hours, so everything will be fine. You will notice that your liver will finally be able to rest. Sometimes we decide that we need to drink a lot of water to flush toxins out of the body. But what do you do all day in this case? You force your kidneys to work hard to get rid of excess water. Another benefit of this is mental clarity, because new cells will grow in the brain. In addition, this leads to a decrease in inflammation, and that's what else is good. You go to bed and during sleep, dry fasting continues. The second part includes  In yourself, getting rid of toxins, poisons, and harmful chemicals. Such processes occur in the liver, kidneys, and other parts of the body. There are enzymes that do this work. They take toxic substances and break them down until they become harmful. This program is a kind of amat. One meal a day, but what exactly should you eat at this meal? By the way, you go after sunset and you eat two things: some cruciferous vegetables and meat. What cruciferous vegetables are broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and arugula? You can also eat broccoli sprouts; they are somewhere around 20-50 times more concentrated. You can add them to a salad; this will be very useful. You can eat kale or mix it in a blender and then drink it. There is also cabbage bok choy. I eat a lot of white cabbage in different forms. Sauerkraut is very useful because it ferments. Let's move on to meat. Meat contains a lot of certain amino acids, the building blocks of protein, these amino acids have different functions, for example. Glutamine helps synthesize glutathione, one of the most powerful antioxidants in the cell, which rids it of free radicals and other harmful oxidants. Meat also contains iron and B vitamins, which help with detox. If you add dry fasting to all this, you get an extremely useful combination for cleansing not only the liver and kidneys, but the entire body. You do this 3 days a month. The last point is how to avoid the reaction to the detox that many people experience. In this program, it is not necessary to drink herbal remedies to push toxins out of cells. At the same time, whenever you detoxify the body, it is very important to ensure that you do not have bile stagnation so that your bile ducts are not clogged. These are the tubes between the liver and gallbladder. Some people may have gallstones, and many have bile sediment there, and during cleansing, bile stagnates in the liver, making you sick. Therefore, before starting the cleanse, it will not hurt to take bile salts as a supplement. You can drink bile salts and other types, which I talk about in other videos.  One of them is called Tutka. Below there will be additional links about this. You can thin bile with the help of food. One of the best products for this is beets. Apple cider vinegar with water works well. I have seen people who started a cleanse and it was as if a cobblestone appeared right in their stomachs, as well as severe constipation. This was the case when they started a cleanse. A quick solution that I always recommended is bile salts on an empty stomach. They help break through bile congestion and a person quickly gets relief. Remember this. Since we are talking about the liver and the phases of detoxification, I think you should learn more information about the liver about this and much more in my course about the liver. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.