Let's talk about the deficiency of three key nutrients in and if you take these nutrients, the chances of improvement are very high and at the end I will show you two amazing exercises for stretching, but not the muscles themselves. And the so-called fascia tissue that gives shape to the body is an excellent exercise. I found that in the area of ​​​​the sciatic nerve, part of the tissue may be scar tissue due to old injuries, for example, to the tailbone and any others. If you do not stretch the fascia, the chances of improvement are less than winning the lottery. The sciatic nerve is the largest and longest nerve in the body. It starts in the lower back and runs through the buttocks along the legs to the feet. With sciatica, there is pain in any place of the nerve. This is usually checked. So you lie on your back and they raise your leg. This is called a straight leg lift. When the nerve that goes in the lumbar region is pulled, the source of the problem is the pinching of this nerve in some place. What I do n't like about doctors' recommendations regarding sciatica is their phrases like you will have to take medicine for the rest of your life. If you hear this, this is not true. This area is full of prejudices, there are studies with poor results, and big pharma, of course, will only talk about the benefits of drugs. As for surgery, a year after the operation, there is no longer any benefit from it. The same cannot be said about other methods. If you are told that surgery is the best, it is worth thinking about it and looking at the research. You will see that this is not always the best solution. If you cannot do without surgery, then yes, but it has complications, for example, post-operative back syndrome, when the operation did not help, but pain appeared. This is an invasive fool for the most extreme case. Today I will tell you about the intervertebral disc. In 90% of cases of sciatica, pain is associated with such a disc. You may also have heard that in 90% of cases, sciatica symptoms go away on their own within a month and a half. An interesting fact is that sciatica pain becomes more severe in the winter months, and this is a clear hint at the first nutrient, the deficiency of which I will talk about, I mean vitamin D deficiency. All these tips to take it at 600, 800, and even 2000 IU do not work for really serious inflammation, and you can immediately  To say that all studies with low doses of vitamin D are useless. The second point, and this is really interesting, is that if you take vitamin D weekly and not daily, there will be no stable results. There are two systems in the body associated with vitamin D. The first is responsible for calcium in the bones, the second for everything else. And for all this, large doses are needed and you need to drink vitamin D daily. This is the first thing you need to know about vitamin D in the intervertebral disc. There are many receptors for vitamin D. And if you have metabolic syndrome or prediabetes and you do not take vitamin D in high doses, it will not reach the disc and penetrate it. You know what the very first symptom of vitamin D deficiency is: lower back pain. Why do you think? Because the discs desperately need vitamin D. And when it is not there, everything literally begins to fall apart. Vitamin D is the most powerful anti- inflammatory drug that exists. It is similar to prednisone, an anti-inflammatory drug. Vitamin D acts in a similar way, but without side effects. Another function of vitamin D is the restoration of nerves, as well as intervertebral discs, connective tissues and muscles. Here we have a vertebra, then comes the disc. And here is another Nerf.  If there is a problem in this canal, then vitamin D is essential for supporting this disc. So, vitamin D is the first nutrient whose deficiency is associated with sciatica, the second deficiency that affects this is magnesium deficiency. If you have arthritis or the so-called spinal canal, you need to understand that magnesium controls all excess calcium deposits and arthritis. This also applies to muscles. We can say that calcium controls muscle contraction and magnesium controls their relaxation. Therefore, it is very important to have enough magnesium so that the muscles will be relaxed. Another amazing function of magnesium is that it is necessary for vitamin D to work at all. So, vitamin D and magnesium are inseparable friends. Another important factor associated with calcification, that is, with calcium in soft tissues, is another vitamin. Namely, K2. Its job is to remove calcium from blood vessels. But it turns out that magnesium is also needed for vitamin K2 to work. All energy-related processes in the body depend on magnesium. Magnesium also reduces inflammation and reduces the level of adrenaline and cortisol, stress hormones. And a final note about magnesium. It allows us to finally fall asleep. The last B12 deficiency is called neuropathy.  B12 is involved in several processes associated with the nervous system, without it there can be numbness, tingling, burning, it is also an anti- inflammatory. So here are three nutrients, the question arises, is it really that big a chance that you lack all three at once? It is quite high. Take at least vitamin D. People rarely spend time in the sun, and if you do not take at least 10,000 IU daily, you most likely have a deficiency. If I had IS, I would probably take 20-30,000 IU of vitamin D3, but be sure to take it with a second nutrient. Among the best sources of magnesium are sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, chocolate, take one with less sugar, as well as almonds and spinach, but the problem with spinach, almonds and chocolate is that they contain a lot of oxalates. Oxalates can create kidney stones and cause symptoms like arthritis. But if you eat these three products with cheese, there will be less oxalates. Magnesium is also found in leafy greens. And also in bone broth. If you do not eat vegetables, alcohol is one of the things that deprive you of magnesium on the same list.  Refined sugars and starches As for B12, it is easy to get from red meat, it is also found in the liver and in any animal products, but it cannot be obtained from plant foods. If you are a vegan, you need to take it, but you need a more natural form of this vitamin, methylcobalamin. So, these are three key nutrients. Now I will tell you about amazing stretching exercises, save this video and repeat the exercises until you remember them, do them daily until the IS passes. In the first exercise, you need to sit on a stool or chair. Body position is like the person in the video: the left leg is in front, the right leg is bent. Take off your shoes if you are wearing socks, slide your right leg back, sliding along the floor, pull exactly as the person on the screen does, make a movement similar to scissors. This stretches the fascia on your right hip and also in the abdominal area. The sciatic nerve runs along the back. And you stretch the front, this greatly reduces tension and relaxes the back of the leg, buttocks and lower back. Now the other side is important to do for symmetry, usually one side  side is more tense and it is worth working with it more than with the other So Change sides and Repeat as in the video in the second exercise you need to stand and hold on to something start the exercise with your left foot lift it up Take it with your hand and pull the front of your thigh Repeat after the person on the screen now the other side So now you have information about the three most important nutrients for the sciatic nerve and two powerful exercises for moderate stretching of the fascia one after the other and Say goodbye to sciatic nerve pain Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways from chronic fatigue to muscle pain from vision problems to decreased immunity How to fix it safely Will pharmacy vitamins help What supplements to take how and when In the course of nutrient deficiencies Dr. Behr will talk about the lack of vitamins they are W and how to replenish them More than 100 lessons notes and lists  Everything you need to understand this topic is to sign up for the course using the link below.