I decided to supplement the video about oxalates. And in particular, talk about washing out stones and so that there are no other forms of oxalate crystallization, which can manifest as pseudo gout or some kind of inflammation. There are quite a lot of problems associated with oxalates. I will list the symptoms that can occur with the deposition of oxalates or their excessive absorption. Of course, stones in the kidneys are the first symptom, the most common type of kidney stones is oxalate. Calcium stones also have oxalates deposited in bones, in the skin, in joints and in blood vessels. I already mentioned gout. The symptoms of gout can be caused not only by uric acid but also by oxalates irritating the joint. Oxalates can also cause headaches, pain in the eyes, pain when urinating, pain in the genitals, muscle pain, and also pain in the intestines. The fact is that oxalates are found in many foods. They are found in many plants, in fruits, they are not found in meat, in dairy products. But there are a lot of them. For example, there are especially many in almonds and peanuts. Spinach contains oxalates in chocolate, kiwi, strawberries, beets, tea, and bran, but there is no connection between oxalates in food and oxalates in urine. In other words, it has not been established that if a person eats something that contains a lot of oxalates, he will have a lot of oxalates in his urine and these problems will arise. For this, there must be some existing kidney or liver damage or some kind of metabolic disorder due to which the body cannot cope with oxalates. One of these factors is associated with the intestines. If you have dysbiosis, if you lack certain microorganisms, especially lactobacilli, and there are quite a few types of them, then you may have difficulty breaking down oxalates in the intestines, and then oxalates can be absorbed into the blood and enter the kidneys. But the kidneys can also suffer from diabetes, prediabetes, insulin resistance due to the fact that a person has been eating carbohydrates for years, and so on. So, if the kidneys or liver are damaged, then there may be a problem with oxalates, and many people  By switching to the teto diet and starting to adapt to burning fat and ketones, you get rid of problems with oxalates. But I will not list all the very important things, understanding which I think will help you a lot. Firstly, of course, I would eat less of what is high in oxalates, especially almonds, peanuts, chocolate, spinach, beet tops. But if you eat these products with cheese, and it contains calcium, then the calcium binds to oxalates in the intestines, thereby preventing them from being absorbed into the blood and getting into the kidneys. This is one way to reduce kidney damage from oxalates. Next, soy contains, which I never recommend, quite a lot of oxalates, but it also contains a lot of phytates, and they minimize the effect of oxalates, but phytates interfere with the absorption of zinc and other minerals, creating a number of other problems. The first thing I recommend is to find a probiotic with a mixture of all lactobacilli. These lactic acid bacteria reduce the amount of oxalates, and the second very, very important measure is maintaining a high level.  Magnesium and citrate, these two substances are very important for weakening the bond between calcium and oxalates, but I think magnesium is more effective. I just made a video about magnesium where I talked about which foods contain a lot of it. But if you look at how much you need to eat to get magnesium from food, we will see that it is not as simple as it may seem. I will leave a link to this video, it is very important. So, it might make sense to take a bath with glycine. Volume magnesium to reduce the risk of oxalates getting into the kidney. And about citrate, I would definitely eat maybe a lemon a day or drink lemon juice with water. You can add a couple of drops of stevia. Electrolyte powder. Grind the lemon in a blender with water and drink it. If there is no lemon, I just add apple cider vinegar to lemon juice and drink it. Citrates are very, very important. Vitamin D is also very important. Vitamin D increases the absorption of calcium in the intestines by 20 times, thanks to which calcium becomes more available and binds to oxalates in the intestines, which also prevents them from getting into the kidneys.  Many people have problems with vitamin D. I have sent about 20 people for DNA testing and it turned out that everyone had a genetic problem with vitamin D, its conversion, absorption, or with vitamin D receptors. All of these people have this problem with genes called vitamin D receptor polymorphism. This is a problem with genes associated with vitamin D. Vitamin D receptor polymorphism is a sign of the presence of oxalate. It's interesting, in other words, there is a very close connection between the presence of kidney stones and a problem with vitamin D. It's probably a problem with calcium absorption. So, in addition to a probiotic with lactic acid bacteria, magnesium, and lemons, I recommend taking vitamin D every day. In addition to all this, I recommend drinking at least 2.5 liters of fluid every day so that the urine is diluted enough so that it is not extremely concentrated and does not aggravate the binding of calcium with oxalates. If the urine is diluted, kidney stones will not appear. And since magnesium is so important in many ways, if you haven't watched my video You should watch this video about magnesium and how to get it from food.