There is a lot of confusion about electrolyte powder So I cleared it up It's actually very interesting to understand what an electrolyte is What is an electrolyte - is it an electrically charged element or mineral What does this mean, essentially, it is a mineral in a free state, due to which it can be an ion And what is an ion If you studied chemistry You know that an ion has a negative or positive charge, this is briefly, without going into details, you just need to know that in a free state, these minerals are ions, this means that in water they can conduct electricity, so they have a charge And due to the use of different charged elements Our body can move, it's like a battery in a battery, electrons from minerals flow from one place to another, thereby creating a current So, thanks to electrolytes, various electrical phenomena occur in the body I will show a short experiment so that you understand this properly and then we will continue So look, we have a lamp We have a power source there is a plug in the socket here are the wires and we have an open electrical network here we cut the wire and immersed it in distilled Distilled water is water without minerals, without electrolytes. Electrolytes are charged with electricity. So, this water does not conduct electricity. You see that the lamp is not lit. Now we take electrolytes, take a measuring spoon of electrolytes, pour them into distilled water and see what happens. Mix the electrolytes in water so that they dissolve and see what happens. Now the circuit is closed. One of the main purposes of electrolytes in the body is to provide energy to the nervous system. And this is an electrical system. It transmits electrical impulses to muscles and organs. Now you know that electrolytes are needed to create electrical charges in the body. How is this actually related to the functioning of the body? Well, number one, electrolytes ensure the conductivity of nerves, the transmission of nerve impulses and samples. This creates a problem with these impulses. With the heartbeat, there may be a feeling of palpitations. There may be various problems with the nerves. There may be stress in the nervous system. Just a feeling of stress, nervous tension. And where do the nerves go? They go to the muscles. So, there may be various problems with muscles: muscle spasms, day or night, and even muscle weakness.  The movement of fluid in the body also depends on electrolytes. Dehydration or saturation of the body with fluid depends on electrically charged minerals in the right amount and in the right proportion. For example, with an excess of sodium and a lack of potassium, fluid is retained in the body. The pH value also depends on electrolytes. Different parts of the body have different pH. If somewhere in the body the pH shifts too much in one direction, a variety of problems are possible, and at different pH values, different enzymes are activated. For example, if the pH of the stomach is not acidic enough, some enzymes are not activated and food is not digested. There is such an important phenomenon associated with electrolytes as energy production. So, electrolytes greatly affect our energy level. There are so-called sodium-potassium pumps. These small pumps are found in all cells, and a sufficient amount of sodium and potassium is needed for their operation. Thanks to these pumps, the cell, like a battery, can accumulate a charge. 30% of our energy is provided by these pumps. It is very easy to get sodium from food, but it is more difficult to get potassium from food. We simply need a lot of potassium. We need about 4700 mg of potassium every day, but where can we get it from?  It can be obtained from food by those who love green vegetables, but most do not like them, because you need to eat at least seven or even 10 cups of greens along with other food to get the required 4,700 mg of potassium, so many use electrolyte powders. With an electrolyte deficiency, there is weakness, fatigue, clouded consciousness, dehydration, a feeling of palpitations, dizziness. Why is this related to the amount of fluid in the blood? There must be enough blood. There must be enough volume for it to flow to the brain. It's like if you donated too much blood, without the required volume, there will be severe dizziness and fainting. So, it is the volume of blood pressure. Both, by the way, depend on electrolytes. They greatly affect many things, for example, dizziness when standing up and even hypertension. There is a close link between low potassium levels and hypertension. If you have hypertension, your doctor probably told you to avoid salt, but unfortunately, patients are not told to consume more potassium, which is actually more important. With a potassium deficiency, you can experience cramps in the calves, especially at night. The next topic we will discuss is what causes the deficiency.  There are many different reasons for electrolytes. When you eat sugar and other empty carbohydrates, the body retains sodium and is deprived of potassium, magnesium, calcium, and other substances. Taking diuretics can cause a deficiency of sodium and potassium. High cortisol levels due to stress can deprive you of electrolytes by eating foods with hidden monosodium glutamate. You can lose potassium the next morning. You have a lot of fluid in your body and you don’t know where it comes from. In this case, you need to take more potassium so that this electrolyte displaces the excess sodium. If you drink too much water, you can lose electrolytes because water dilutes electrolytes, especially sodium. This can cause hyponatremia, that is, low sodium levels. This can be very serious. Brain damage is possible, and you can fall into a coma. So, drinking too much water is not always the best way to quench your thirst. Both water and electrolytes are needed to quench your thirst. Vomiting and diarrhea can also cause an electrolyte deficiency. In diabetes, there is a deficiency of electrolytes, especially potassium, and if you sweat, for example, during exercise, an electrolyte deficiency can easily occur. Regarding sweating and exercise, there are two There are general types of electrolytes, some are more suitable for sports, they replenish minerals that are lost through sweat, they usually have more sodium, other types of electrolytes, for example, these electrolytes. This is my brand. I certainly won't say anything about the quality of the ingredients, and since these are regular electrolytes, they have a lot of potassium: 1000 mg of potassium, 75 mg of calcium, 60 mg of chlorides, and only 40 mg of sodium per serving, while sports electrolytes have 500 mg of sodium per serving. When we train, we sweat a lot and lose a lot of sodium, so we need more sodium, but when we don't train, we don't need so much sodium, so if we drink sports electrolytes that have a lot of sodium and don't train, there will be fluid retention. But if you take regular electrolytes that have little sodium and train, and here there is a lot of potassium, another imbalance may occur. So, take regular electrolytes when you don't train. Will there be a problem? If you drink them when you train? No, you just need to take more sea salt during the day to replenish what is lost through sweat. I want to compare three sports electrolytes, these are two drinks and one powder, of course. Here are mine too.  Electrolytes So, electrolytes contain 75 mg of potassium. And Paid contains 35 mg of potassium, while sports electrolytes from Dr. Berg contain 1000 mg of potassium. As you can see, the difference in potassium content is huge. What about sodium in Raid? 270 mg of sodium in Paid is 150, while sports electrolytes from Dr. Berg contain 500 mg. In Gato Raid and Pau Raid, there are also phosphates or phosphorus. I don’t know how many there are because it’s not indicated on the label. So, in fact, these products contain three electrolytes. And my sports electrolytes contain five electrolytes in much larger doses, as well as all the microelements. And the main advantage is that there is no sugar here: organic stevia and natural flavoring and no hidden maltodextrin. I’ll come back to this. And Gaito Raid contains not only sugar but also dextrose, a synthetic sugar. The total sugar content is 34 g. A bottle contains 34 g of sugar, which is a lot. And what’s interesting is that sugar deprives us of electrolytes, especially potassium. Padi  There is fructose equivalent to 21 grams of sugar. So, Redi and Pau Redi have few electrolytes and a lot of sugar. Of course, they are tasty and it may seem that they have an effect, but to be honest, they are just water with sugar and dyes, and those are probably artificial, as are probably sweeteners. I don’t know. There’s something else about potassium: potassium also helps increase insulin sensitivity. If you are trying to lose weight and normalize blood sugar, you need to get enough potassium because potassium can help achieve this. Potassium also normalizes the pulse: when potassium is low, the pulse rate usually increases, as does blood pressure. Potassium is also interesting because it is involved in the creation of sugar reserves in the form of glycogen in the liver and muscles. Our body stores sugar in the form of a chain of glucose molecules. This is called glycogen, and potassium is needed to store each glucose molecule. So, a glycogen molecule contains a lot of potassium and also a lot of water. In fact, a gram of glycogen contains three times more water than glucose, and it contains potassium.  When on the Keto diet, we get rid of a large part of the glucose stored in the form of glycogen. We also get rid of fluid in this glycogenesis, the weight we lose in the first week or two, and we also lose potassium. This is one of the reasons why those starting the Keto diet need to take electrolytes at the same time to prevent a deficiency of potassium, magnesium, and other electrolytes. Something else very interesting about electrolyte powder. You probably have n't heard of the World Championship yet. When buying electrolyte powder, make sure it doesn't contain hidden sugars, starches, carbohydrates, for example, maltodextrin. Maltodextrin is considered a starch. Although its glycemic index is higher than glucose. It is much higher than 100, but it is not classified as a sugar. It is worse than sugar, and maltodextrin is often used in flavorings for many such products, both natural and artificial. I had to pay more for flavorings for my electrolyte powders. To avoid adding maltodextrin to them, there is a very, very simple way to find out if there is Hidden maltodextrin in electrolyte powder or another product is called a starch test. You need to place some electrolytes in a glass, dissolve them, and drop a couple of drops of iodine there. If the solution turns purple, it most likely contains hidden starch. If the solution does not turn dark purple but remains yellowish, which is what iodine should be, then there is no starch in it. Lastly, how much sports electrolyte powder should you take per day? This product is packaged in portioned stick packets. A spoon is one stick packet. This is how much you need to take per day with water. What do you know about the most important electrolyte, potassium? Arrhythmia, seizures, tremors, high blood pressure and poor sleep are the consequences of potassium deficiency. How to replenish it correctly and safely, I will tell you in my course about potassium. Sign up at the link below. See you there. Y