I was asked a question about how to protect a child from common childhood infections. Let's talk about this. There are a couple of very important vitamins. One of them is vitamin A. I'm talking about synthetic vitamin A, but I'm talking about natural vitamin A. Vitamin A from food supports the mucous membranes, especially in the sinuses and respiratory tract. That is, this vitamin helps resist pathogens. It is needed by the thymus gland, in which white blood cells are trained. It reduces the risk of tuberculosis and is very useful for the entire respiratory system: sinuses, throat, lungs, and so on. The next vitamin is D. In my opinion, it is even more important than vitamin A. If you have a vitamin D deficiency, you are much more vulnerable to viruses and infections. Because vitamin D is an immunomodulator, it regulates and controls the immune system. In fact, it acts like an accordion, and every immune cell has receptors for vitamin D, so it is very useful for allergies, asthma, colds, and flu viruses. In general, I think that many people get the flu in the fall because there is a lot of sun in the summer, and then autumn comes and people begin to lack sunlight, now they are more vulnerable to  viruses and the like, it just so happens that there is a product with an ideal balance of vitamin A and vitamin D, and this is cod liver oil. Cod liver oil has a wonderful composition of vitamin A, vitamin D, and also P.I. My idea of ​​whose last one is omega 3 fatty acids. When you take fish oil, you only get ideas, ideas, but it doesn't have much vitamin A and vitamin D. So, I advise giving your child high-quality cod liver oil. Even if it's a very small child, you can give him a quarter teaspoon of cod liver oil every day. It's very beneficial. It will help him a lot when he gets older. You can give him small capsules. I highly recommend not skimping, but spending money on high-quality cod liver oil. It's very beneficial. What else can help? If your child has a fever, it will be useful to give him calcium lactate. It doesn't contain lactose. It will help greatly against many childhood infections. You can crush a tablet and add it to food. It works great, especially if your child has a fever or something infectious. Zinc is also very useful in fighting viruses and colds. Zinc deficiency is common in children. Especially with babies, they have this at every step. If you are carrying a child, I recommend taking trace elements with zinc, or if you are breastfeeding, take trace elements, this will strengthen the baby's immunity. Scroll, here is a list of cod liver oil, calcium and zinc.