Today we'll talk about six early signs of what was there, and before we begin, I'd like to tell you about a case from my practice about the early signs of dementia that weren't actually there. You see, under stress or fatigue, or even during sleep, you can show all the symptoms of dementia, but at the same time, it may not be there. The worst thing that can happen is either a partner makes an incorrect diagnosis or just gives them a diagnosis. A diagnosis is very bad. A few years ago, a married couple came to me with early signs of dementia. I spoke to the husband and asked when you first noticed signs of dementia. He said he wasn't sure, but it seemed like his wife was starting to diagnose me. I was like, "Oh, I see." I noticed that they were constantly saying the same thing. The husband kept forgetting. And the wife kept correcting him and saying, "Dear, you forgot again, you're mixing up words," and so on and so forth. I was completely honest with her and said, "You're only making things worse." Every time you remind a person that they made a mistake, they get hung up on it and continue to make mistakes. I took her aside and said, "Let's."  Let's try something Let him just make mistakes And you don't get better for just one week When they came back a week later everything was amazing He expressed himself clearly He thought perfectly and he didn't show any cognitive dysfunction at all What am I getting at When I talk about these signs Remember even if you have them it does n't mean that you have dementia And if you know people with such symptoms it could be due to poor sleep high blood sugar or something else but not necessarily due to dementia We figured that out And what is dementia Mental weakening usually due to atrophy or shrinkage of certain parts of the brain especially a part of the brain called the hippocampus which I will talk about a little later We will talk about early signs The first sign is difficulty with organization and planning Also there is a change in personality But again this can happen for other reasons The third and this is interesting Constipation Again if you have constipation it doesn't mean that you have dementia but it is one of the early signs Simply because of the connection between the intestines and the brain The intestines are like a second brain in  The digestive system contains more nerve fibers than the spine. And many cognitive problems can occur. That is, microorganisms produce neurotransmitters. In fact, these microorganisms produce more serotonin than the brain. People with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases are much more likely to have constipation than people without these diseases. The next symptom is sensory dysfunction. It can include problems with smell, taste, hearing, vision, and problems with appetite. All this can be an early sign of a decline in cognitive functions. The more severe this decline becomes, the worse the ability to concentrate and memory becomes. The fifth sign is problems with speech. I have already spoken about them, for example, when you try to find words to remember what something is called, constantly repeat yourself, or when you confuse words, this is a problem with the hippocampus. I will not say anything about it, but for example, there is a symptom when a person can speak in whole sentences, but they are not connected and his speech does not make sense. Yes, this can be very annoying because the person is trying to convey something to you, but the thoughts are not connected and inappropriate. This is mainly a problem with the hippocampus.  it decreases, I will show you what to do if this appears in you or a friend and the last early sign is the inability to navigate well in new places, for example, you are trying to find a store in a new place and you just can’t find it, this is because our brain has a navigator. It allows us to determine where we are in space. And when this area of ​​​​the brain weakens, we lose this navigator, the internal map stops working and you cannot understand where you are. If such a problem exists, this may be an early sign of dementia. And now I will show you seven things that need to be done to fix everything before dementia develops. You need to start right now in the early stages before the problems become more serious. I think everything can be fixed at an early stage, but in medicine there is a big problem. It attaches too little attention and importance to diet, what you eat. For some reason, doctors do not want to see the connection between our nutrition and how it affects our brain. They say that it is hereditary due to genes or stress, this happens and nothing can be done. Your nutrition is the key to preventing dementia and even a way to reverse it if you do this not too late. The first thing you need to know  What causes the hippocampus to shrink? A very common cause of hippocampal problems. A common fact is that a deficiency can usually occur due to alcohol consumption and carbohydrates in the diet. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, this can deplete carbohydrates, and the more vitamin B1 the body needs, the need for thiamine increases greatly. When you eat carbohydrates, vitamin B1 is needed to process carbohydrates, and the more you drink, the more vitamin B1 you will need. First, start taking vitamin B1 and nutritional yeast. This is the best source of vitamin B1. Just make sure you take yeast that is not fortified with synthetic vitamins. I recommend taking everything natural. Synthetics can help at first, but in the long term, they work poorly. Of course, it is worth doing what will prevent B1 deficiency, namely, stop drinking alcohol and eat fewer carbohydrates. But there is good news: you can eat carbohydrates from vegetables, this is already encouraging. Now the second point. I have already talked about this a little, but you still need to improve your gut microbiome. There is a very interesting study on Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.  It turned out that with these diseases in microbiome diversity of bacteria is also present with these diseases, intestinal inflammation is present, therefore it is important to increase the diversity of bacteria in the intestines, one of the best ways to do this is to eat different vegetables and not just the same vegetable over and over again, not one green. If you eat greens, then eat different greens, different fiber with different phytonutrients that can strengthen different strains, this is one way, and the other way is fasting, fasting increases the diversity of the microbiome. It would seem that from hunger, bacteria will become weaker, but they become stronger, new strains of bacteria appear and begin to flourish, this is part of the survival mechanism that has evolved for thousands of years, we must also know that the brain and intestines are interconnected, the intestines, with the help of the vagus nerve, transmit information to the brain, and the brain to the intestines, if there are problems with the brain, there will be problems with the intestines and vice versa, as I already said, a large number of neurotransmitters are produced by bacteria, a large number of B vitamins are produced by bacteria, there was a very good study about how people stopped eating gluten, as a result, their development of dementia decreased, gluten can increase dementia, I  I'm talking about switching not just to a gluten-free diet, but to a low-carb, grain-free diet. A few words about GMO products. Glyphosate-treated foods are harmful to the brain simply because glyphosate destroys microorganisms and inhibits certain processes in microbes and bacteria. Imagine how it can affect our bacteria. How it affects bacteria in the soil. Therefore, you need to eat organic food and not GMO products. Third, this is a pretty effective method. I found studies that recommend eating sprouts, for example, broccoli, which contain sulforaphane. These sprouts are unique in that they come from seeds. If you just eat these seeds, it will be useless because there is almost nothing inside them, they are difficult to digest, but when they sprout, there will be an incredible amount of nutrients. If you eat sprouts constantly, you will get not only the maximum nutrients from the plant, but also certain phytonutrients that have anti-cancer properties, as I said in previous videos, and are also good for the brain.  Sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts is excellent for any neuronal disorders. In addition, sprouts are good for the intestines. Patients with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease very often have leaky gut syndrome. So add sprouts to your diet; they are very cheap to grow yourself. Fourth, this is also very important. Ketones bypass damaged areas of the brain and nourish neurons. They pass directly through the hippocampus, where brain cells are destroyed, and we need to restore them. We need to give them fuel. At this stage, they do not receive fuel in the form of glucose. If you give them ketones, they will be very good. If you have dementia at any stage, you need to engage in intermittent fasting and periodic long-term fasting, and you will feel much better for two reasons. Firstly, you will produce much more ketones than even on a low-carb diet. You will also regulate genetic factors that help the brain. I also recommend consuming MCT oil. You can also take exogenous ketones, they can be purchased as a supplement, take one tablespoon.  A spoonful of MCT oil twice a day and this will greatly help the brain. Ginga Belo has shown great benefit in the treatment of patients with dementia, especially its extract and GB 761. Apparently, this extract provides the brain with significant protection. Sixth, the blackberry scallop is very interesting. Mushrooms are amazing. Studies have shown that blackberries help the brain and cognitive functions, and very significantly. I will leave a link to this data below. Well, there are my usual recommendations that I always give in my videos about the brain: omega-3 fatty acids, especially D, they are found in fatty fish, fish oil, and especially in cod liver oil. Vitamin D is also needed, it helps well. Zinc is very important. Exercise is also very important. After all, it increases the flow of oxygen to the brain and sleep. Without good sleep, your cortisol increases, and with it, stress increases, and the brain will lack oxygen. If you haven't seen my recent video about the brain, then you should watch it here it is.