I decided to record a video for those who use herbal preparations for detoxification. It often happens that you use powerful herbal preparations, especially against biofilms, that is, bacterial colonies hidden under a calcium shell. Often, this shell can only be opened with a very powerful herbal preparation. There are other products that kill bacteria, fungus, and mold. The problem is that when some of these bacteria die, they release small particles and waste products. Because of this, the immune system goes crazy. You feel unwell. Histamine appears in the body and these are toxins that cause fatigue. You have problems with your lungs or sinuses, although you didn’t have such problems before. This is what actually happens. Therefore, if you want to take such a powerful drug, you need to take something else at the same time to counteract the reaction to detoxification. You can take bentonite clay. It’s just clay, and the word bentonite refers to the place where it was first discovered in Ford Bend, Wyoming. Bentonite clay works well, as it were.  Neutralization of aflatoxin of this is something like toxic mold on some foods. All three of these substances can very well bind heavy metals, mycotoxins, ammonia, pesticides, mold, byproducts of mold growth, waste products of candida and bacteria. These three substances are like a sponge that absorbs all this and removes it from the digestive system, do not reabsorb it further. We do not have activated charcoal. You should not eat the charcoal on which you grill kebabs. You need activated charcoal and it is slightly different, very different. Many call it a universal antidote. They keep it in the house to give to a person if he is poisoned. If you take activated charcoal immediately, you can neutralize about 70 percent. Yes, if you take it half an hour after the poison enters the body, half of the poison is neutralized, and if you wait three hours, then only 20 percent. So, the faster you take activated charcoal, the more toxins it will remove from the body. Finally, we have zeolite. It is obtained from volcanic ash. It is a combination of certain minerals. It is excellent. He later then It binds heavy metals and fungal waste products and helps remove them from the body without causing the reaction you're trying to avoid. So, you can take a herbal supplement and then take zeolite to avoid reacting so strongly to the detox. It's also an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory, so these remedies can help. If you decide to do a herbal detox, be sure to watch this video to learn more about how to strengthen your immune system.