Hello everyone. Today we'll start with a quiz. It's your turn, doc. Why does depression occur after taking antibiotics? I'm curious about the raid's viewers. In the meantime, we'll answer questions on social networks. Michelle from Facebook: How much vitamin B1 do you recommend taking daily? She doesn't write about problems. That is, how much is needed in 4 g. But that's nothing. I would take at least 50 mg of vitamin B1 per day. Keep in mind that the more sugar and other carbohydrates you eat, Steve, the more B1 you need. So, B1 can be obtained from nutritional yeast, either in tablets or powder, or taken in the form of Bado. But the point is that the need for B1 depends on how many carbohydrates you eat. Because you need more vitamin B1 to process carbohydrates. And if you don't have it, then carbohydrates are either deposited as fat or simply remain as lactic acid, and hence restless leg syndrome and oxygen starvation. A lot of nerve problems. VM: Everything is fine. I had cereal for breakfast, but with a heavy heart I decided not to eat it. Well done. Someone with Nickname asks. bx 1300 shame. Are there many probiotics and enzymes in raw milk cheese? Yes, of course, that's why I eat raw milk cheese every day. It's very good for the intestines. It definitely contains probiotics, and yes, all of this is in raw milk cheese. So, raw milk cheese has a lot of enzymes, and in the US, raw milk cheese needs to be aged for more than two months, I think. Or maybe one thing. I'm not sure about this kind of cheese. There's very little lactose, milk sugar. So, if someone is lactose intolerant or allergic to something, you know, an allergy is more likely to be to Kazin, and this can be a problem. But I found out that if there is cheese made from A2 milk, then it's better, but the main thing is to buy high-quality cheese. If you are in Europe, you are more fortunate. Because most of your cheese is made from raw milk. This is great. I eat a lot of European cheese and highly recommend it. Well, that's wonderful. Obesity in the West is growing at an alarming rate. So, the next question is probably asked often. Gray from YouTube, please tell me how to eat properly after a sleeve gastrectomy, and she thanks you.  You will have a deficiency of some substances, because now it is difficult for you to absorb them, so you need to take more vitamins and some in liquid form. Even vitamin D is absolutely necessary, magnesium and trace elements are needed, and you need natural vitamin B1, not synthetic. After all, when part of the digestive system is removed, it penetrates worse where it is needed, it is more difficult to absorb. With any intestinal problems, be it inflammation, surgery, leaky gut, etc., many problems with the absorption of nutrients arise. In general, you may even need bile salts. Look at your body's reaction to this operation, but trace elements, electrolytes, and vitamin D are the minimum you need. We always have very interesting quiz questions, and today's is no exception. Why does such a side effect as depression occur after taking antibiotics? 75% answered that antibiotics affect intestinal health. And this affects mood. 20% said that antibiotics reduce magnesium levels, and this affects brain health. And 5% said that antibiotics disrupt the chemical balance. Interesting answers if you compare all the microflora (all the microorganisms in the intestines) with the cells of our body.  it turns out that there are many more microorganisms and they have many more genes than 3 million. And we have only 20,000 genes. What does all this mean? It means that microflora can bring enormous benefits to the human body. It strengthens the immune system, improves digestion, even produces vitamins. It helps create neurotransmitters. Many people do not realize that 90 percent of our serotonin is produced by intestinal microflora. 90% So, all these neurotransmitters, Gump, Dopamine, and serotonin are greatly influenced by the intestines. If there is a problem with it, then there will also be problems with mood. That's where depression and all that comes from. Taking antibiotics, we deprive ourselves of the ability to create neurotransmitters and thereby create a new problem for ourselves. Try to act correctly and see what happens. Karen from Yuba writes: I have high levels of calcium in the blood. I excluded all calcium. But this helps little. Judging by the blood tests, there is one mineral, magnesium, which is a calcium regulator. I can assume that you have a very low level of magnesium. I am sure that you have not checked it because it is difficult to check. Magnesium is not detected in the blood, after all.  There is only 1% of it in the blood and 99% of it is years old but you can't do a biopsy for this reason there is another test but it is very complicated So I would just take magnesium I would take 900 mg of magnesium glycine a day not all at once but throughout the day because it is absorbed by 80% and also vitamin D and you also need vitamin K2 vitamin K2 also removes calcium from the blood So that's what I would do and one more thing the body strictly controls the calcium level it wants to have enough calcium but not too much check your parathyroid glands The fact is that these glands also release calcium from the bones Make sure they are ok check let the doctors find out Why they are super high and why they mobilize all this calcium from the bones I would definitely do the same you can't have high calcium in the blood for too long I hope Karen these tips will help you writes schizi from ramble I hope I pronounced this name correctly thanks to intermittent fasting and the fact that I don't eat at least 4 hours before bed I stopped grinding my teeth you don't  do you know why this helped? Repeat the beginning of the question. I didn't catch it thanks to intermittent fasting and the fact that I don't eat at least 4 hours before bed. Okay, I stopped grinding my teeth at night. Well, excess carbohydrates with insulin resistance activate the sympathetic nervous system, the fight or flight mode, and so you sleep and your body is stressed. So yes, essentially. Apparently, you had insulin resistance and you eliminate it. Is this connected? This is great. CT scan with tube asks. What health recommendations would you give to women who have had radical histology? I would take a product from company M. They don't pay for advertising. They sell a product called " take it." But I have a question. Why did they make a distractor for me? If the answer is yes, it means you have a serious vitamin D3 deficiency. Although all of this was removed, it doesn't solve the problem itself. After all, fibroids and endometriosis can be reduced with high doses of D3. So I would take it. If it was removed because of this, I would start taking vitamin D3 and also URAF PMG.  Uraph, one capsule before bedtime