Today we will discuss 10 signs of dementia and specifically Alzheimer's disease. I will give you additional very important information regarding heredity. For example, if your parents or their parents suffered from this, it is not a fact that you will have it. I will also briefly tell you something important. The real causes of Alzheimer's disease have new information about amyloid plaques that completely turns existing ideas upside down. Before discussing the signs of this disease, I want to say that of all types of stress, the loss of a loved one, the loss of a mother or father due to Alzheimer's disease is probably one of the most devastating losses not only for you but also for the person with this disease. After all, a person in such a situation gradually loses himself, loses the ability to think, remember, find things, navigate, this knocks the ground out from under your feet, leads to confusion. This is really terrible. My wife's mother had Alzheimer's disease. Karen and her mother were very close. Inseparable, and it was just a tragedy to go to the nursing center to visit her. You see, all family members try to communicate and establish a connection with this loved one, and to this day, Karen misses her.  thinks about her constantly So I will tell you about the signs of the disease and what you can do to God willing overcome this disease of a loved one and even yourself So let's start with the signs of Alzheimer's The first sign is a change in speech, it is difficult for a person to find words, he forgets certain words All these signs do not mean that you have Alzheimer's disease or dementia There may be many other reasons for this lack of sleep, blood sugar levels, B12 deficiency There may be many reasons These are just signs that can potentially indicate this problem A speech problem also implies a communication problem There are problems when communicating with this person He may not pay attention to the interlocutor and his speech may be incoherent For example, you can ask him a question And after a few minutes he can answer You there is a delay in communication A person needs a lot of time to understand and answer Number two is a person's orientation It is difficult to navigate in the city in his home and so on Unfortunately, over time this can lead to essentially permanent disorientation Number three is a possible loss of taste, smell, hearing, vision Number four is constipation That's what's interesting My mother-in-law took a stool softener Constipation is associated with work  intestines and the intestines are connected to the brain it's like a two-way street one area can influence the other number five personality change a person is no longer the same as before his personality completely changes with dementia or Alzheimer's disease number six mood changes the cause of this can also be despair from the fact that a person knows where he is going it is very difficult to pronounce some words remember something there is reason to despair therefore it is very important not to correct a person if he makes mistakes in words or in something else After all, this not only leads him to despair but also worsens his condition if you constantly correct someone even if he does not have Alzheimer's disease or dementia, as if fixate him on this and he makes mistakes more and more often number seven memories it is difficult for a person to find his past pictures and thoughts especially recent ones Memories are one of the possible signs number eight thinking the ability to solve problems to solve problems also requires the memory of past similar situations that you take as a basis. And if this data is not available to you, then it is very difficult to solve problems so if a person cannot solve problems he will accumulate much more of them this can plunge into despair number nine the level of awareness suffers a person in general, you look into the person's eyes and see that he is not quite present, that is, his attention is not directed to what surrounds him at the moment, it is somewhere not here. 10 people keep repeating their words, he can find out that he said something twice and again, do not tell him about it, because this will only make it worse, just do not pay attention to it. So, there is new data that I will talk about below, there is a link to my video on this topic. In fact, in 2006, one researcher committed fraud related to Alzheimer's disease, falsified the results of studies, this is due to amyloid plaques as the cause of Alzheimer's disease. The problem is that these plaques are present even in those who do not have Alzheimer's disease, that is, research money was allocated to create this theory, but there is no result. This is literally millions of dollars, and now because of this, there are great doubts about the real cause of Alzheimer's disease. There are new theories about Alzheimer's disease, very logical ones, I made a video about this, one is related to the lysosome. What is a lysosome? A lysosome is a small part of a cell.  Something like a garbage collector and this part of the cell stops working. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, the cell cannot get rid of waste and waste accumulates if you do not take the trash out of the house at all. Imagine what will happen to it over time, it will become very toxic, this is exactly what happens to neurons. I want to tell you a lot more about this aspect associated with the cause of Alzheimer's disease. After all, if you look at all the factors, they are all consistent with this and it is all very logical. Or so-called autophagy is carried out. Autophagy is the disposal of waste that allows the body to get fuel and create new cells. I will also tell you about a small scheme that allows you to enhance autophagy, but now the usual theory about the cause of Alzheimer's disease is a violation of autophagic function, a violation of lysosome function. There is different data on this topic that supposedly there are certain genes that cause Alzheimer's disease. But since Alzheimer's disease is multifaceted, it has many aspects. And there can be many reasons, many genes, mutations in which can cause this problem. I will explain, for example, microstrokes can cause one of the types of Alzheimer's disease, its vascular form. There are other reasons. When the brain Damaged by other factors, there is another aspect. When a problem with methylation arises, if you do not complicate things, then in fact, if there is a problem with methylation, a lot of heavy metals accumulate in the brain, aluminum, even lead or iron, which can cause Alzheimer's disease and with all the various reasons associated with the corresponding genes. Recently, many people undergo DNA testing. If you know that your DNA has certain mutations, this does not necessarily mean that you will have this problem. It only means that you have weak spots in your genes. I think that it is important to do a DNA test and you need to know whether your parents or their parents had this problem. You may potentially have a weak spot in your genes, but this does not mean that you will get sick with it. It only means that this gene may one day turn on and then you can get sick, but you can do a lot to protect yourself and prevent the activation of this gene. This is what I will talk about. I have studied data on many genes related to this topic. I will not burden you with difficult to understand details. I will tell you about only one gene. This gene is associated with the late stage of Alzheimer's disease, which occurs after 65 years. There is  There are different forms of this gene, there is a version E2 that helps protect against Alzheimer's disease, there is another version of this gene, E4, a problem with this gene increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease by 15-25 percent. There is another version of this gene, a version E3, which does not affect Alzheimer's disease. In fact, if a DNA test showed that you have a problem with this gene, in particular if you have the barely or E4 version, this only means that you need to take measures to protect yourself now. There is another gene, pba. It is closely related to autophagy, which I have already talked about, that is, with the removal of waste from the cell by lysosomes. In the case of a problem with this gene, much more autophagy is needed and an increase in the cleansing process, because with a problem with detoxification, without additional measures, the cells will become very, very toxic. There are other genes that are associated with methylation. I touched on this topic. To solve problems with this gene, you need to take large amounts of B12, not a synthetic but a natural version, as well as natural salads. If there is a problem with methylation, then heavy metals accumulate in the body, which are difficult for the body to neutralize.  Mercury This means that you can't eat certain types of fish This means that you need to be very careful about excessive iron intake, especially iron in synthetic dietary supplements, which is found in products made from fortified flour So, understanding your weaknesses gives you a big advantage After all, you can do something about it because you know your weaknesses Another heavy metal is aluminum and of course you shouldn't use deodorants with aluminum or aluminum cookware So now the question is this, I'll summarize so that everything is crystal clear Let's say you have problems with all the genes that cause dementia or Alzheimer's disease What can be done and this is useful for all people with Alzheimer's There are very important actions you can take They are related to epigenetics, that is, with lifestyle and help control Genes A mutation per day does not mean that there will be a problem with it Here's how you can keep Genes under control Number one, you need to replace the fuel used by the body with ketones You need the brain to work on ketones The brain loves ketones this is the preferred fuel This means that you need to switch from Glucose to ketones and for this you need  A low-carb diet with intermittent fasting. These two measures will ensure the formation of ketones and this will help the brain. Even if it is damaged, because in Alzheimer's disease, the hippocampus is primarily damaged. The hippocampus is associated with the ability to navigate memory, and so on. Ketone fuel bypasses damage and feeds neurons directly. Because the essence of this disease is that the brain shrinks, the brain atrophies, neurons in the brain stop connecting well with each other, they do not have enough fuel. If you supply them with ketones, the condition will at least immediately improve. Number two, it is possible to stimulate autophagy. Autophagy is not some kind of cell. It is a state in which you bring cells so that they can process waste and damaged proteins. The most powerful way to stimulate autophagy is fasting. Regular intermittent fasting and periodic long-term fasting. Autophagy can be stimulated with the help of exercise and you don't even have to go to the gym. You can exercise at home doing light stretching exercises, and so on, but any exercise is better than no exercise. Further, green tea is a phytonutrient in green tea and GCG can greatly help you by stimulating  autophagy curcumin is another excellent natural phytonutrient found in turmeric that stimulates autophagy number three omega-3 fatty acids And specifically, the brain desperately needs them I advise getting them from cod liver oil And if you get omega-3 from fish, take fish with a minimum content of mercury and other heavy metals After all, we are trying to remove all the unnecessary things that can cause problems and this 4 reduce the amount of heavy metals So you must understand what fish you can eat and what you can’t Selenium is a trace element that helps reduce the amount of mercury So if you go fish It might be worth taking Selenium to bind this mercury and avoid problems with it I would also advise drinking distilled water Unfortunately, it can be difficult to get a distiller made of stainless steel and from a glass jar and not plastic But then you can distill water and drink a lot of distilled water Why If you what is contained in tap water, even filtered water is full of all sorts of chemicals and when distilling water you remove everything from it, this is an excellent way to get drinking water  Water without heavy metals and also remove metals from your body is an excellent detoxification and the necessary minerals can be added So this is very important You also do not need to take synthetic dietary supplements because the iron in them is often in the wrong form And this can create a lot of problems We do not need synthetic vitamins and we do not need individual isolated minerals in dietary supplements We need nutrients obtained from food or from plants I am not talking about food but specifically abads they should be obtained from food Number five methylation as I already said B12 you need much more B12 Dietary supplements with B12 and phalates if there is a problem with ventilation The problem with methylation is revealed by a very simple gene analysis and the solution is simple B12 and phalates Number six medications if your loved one is taking them Talk to your doctor to cancel them Even in the case of my mother-in-law, we found out that she was given a drug for incontinence and other drugs with a side effect in the form of memory loss When we changed all this she felt much better it did not solve the problem but made it less acute Number seven vitamins The following vitamins directly affect Dienes vitamin AI'm not talking about this quarantine about vitamin I'm talking about retinol which is found in foods such as liver, yolks, cheese, etc. Next, vitamin D, in particular, reduces inflammation in the brain B1, but not synthetic A from natural sources such as food later B1 is probably the most important vitamin for the hippocampus A this is the area of ​​the brain that decreases first in dementia vitamin C Patients with Alzheimer's disease almost always have a deficiency of vitamin C So vitamin C is also very important but not synthetic A from food or just Eat foods rich in vitamin C most of all vitamin C Oddly enough, sauerkraut vitamin E is a very powerful antioxidant good not only for the heart but also for the brain Especially for the brain structures that find memories and so on there is also vitamin K1 It's interesting that people who took drugs like Coumadin and they block K1 have a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's than those who did not take them A lot of vitamin K1 is found in dark leafy greens number eight the blackberry erinaceus mushroom it even helps restore brain tissue and also has Many people with dementia report amazing changes when they eat this mushroom due to its neuroprotective properties. If you haven't seen this video about Alzheimer's where I talk about how amyloid plaques aren't the cause, you definitely need to watch it. It's important. Here it is.