I want to tell you about an amazing way to cleanse toxic kidneys. You should understand that the kidneys are just as important for detoxifying the body as the liver. They work together. The liver carries out the first and second phases of detoxification. Various enzymes work in the liver, converting fat-soluble poisons into harmless water-soluble particles. Then the gallbladder, with the help of bile and through urine, removes these water-soluble particles, which were previously fat-soluble poisons. If there is some problem with the liver and decomposition to a water-soluble state does not occur, this overloads the kidneys and some parts of the digestive tract. Therefore, it is very important that all detoxifying organs work to share this load. The liver is bombarded with casino biotics. This is a chemical from the environment, pesticides and herbicides, fungicides and all that. Byproducts of steroid production in your body are estrogen and progesterone, cortisol and things like that. And also medications and drugs literally besiege the liver and kidneys. Then there is glyphosate, it is in all our products, not to mention  that it is in water, in food, in general, in everything else there are PCBs, these are chemicals in plastics, the bottle of water from which you drink, the tray in which you heat up lunch in the microwave, all of them can emit these chemicals about your liver and kidneys, they will have to remove them every year new chemicals are produced and our environment is becoming more toxic and our body has to fight them and remove them, so barrels get rid of protein breakdown products and remove urea, ammonia and uric acid, if the kidneys are not in order, these things can accumulate and have a toxic effect, the kidney is actually a complex of millions of tiny filters, they just filter everything, a good way to check the operation of these filters is to check such a parameter as skf glomerular filtration rate, it shows how quickly filtration occurs in the kidneys, the kidneys have to remove heavy metals, cadmium creates the most difficulties because it is very difficult for the kidneys to get rid of it, padme usually enters the body through smoking, as it is included in fertilizer for growing tobacco, it is also contained in Of all the body's tissues, store-bought salt is the one that suffers from cadmium the most. In fact, 20 percent of cases of pastel by rose are caused by the toxic effects of cadmium. Further, mercury is very toxic to the kidneys. Dental amalgam fillings were removed. I think all of my teeth had silver fillings with mercury. Also, when you eat large fish, it can contain a lot of mercury. With age, kidney filtration deteriorates. At 90 years old, the filtering capacity of the kidneys is 50 percent weaker than at 20 years old. These chemicals that pass through the kidneys destroy mitochondria. Your ability to detoxify is reduced, and these chemicals accumulate and circulate throughout the body. There are also NSAIDs. Many people take them for inflammation. They used to be sold by prescription, but when the patents expired, they began to be sold over the counter. Many people take them much more than they should, and there are no long-term studies of the chronic effects of NSAIDs on body tissues, especially on the kidneys, but we  We know that if you are exposed to NSAIDs for more than three years, it can cause irreversible kidney damage. Another important point that I want to discuss is consuming excess sodium and insufficient potassium. When it comes to potassium, people immediately think that it is harmful to the kidneys, but this is not true. There is a lot of new data showing that potassium protects the kidneys. This is called non-fra protection. I will leave links to studies below. You can read them. But the average person, at least in the United States, consumes 3, 4, 4, and 9 grams of sodium daily, which is 4900 milligrams. As for potassium, the average person consumes only 2, 12, and 6 grams of potassium, although he needs at least 4, 7 grams daily. And when you consume too much sodium and not enough potassium, there are three big problems. The first is possible high blood pressure. The second is heart disease and the third is chronic kidney disease. Many doctors tell patients to pay attention to sodium, but they say nothing about potassium. The sodium potassium ratio is much more important than sodium and potassium separately. If you have enough potassium, you will be protected from  excess sodium in fact this ratio should be the opposite potassium should be at least twice as much as sodium the main reason is a lack of potassium in the diet there are three harmful consequences especially for the kidneys when there is little potassium in the diet 1 the kidneys become inflamed second in the kidneys there is a lot of oxidation and damage from free radicals and the third consequence is kidney fibrosis you essentially lose kidney function so here is another very important point you may know this if you watched my other videos the fact is that the main factor that destroys the kidneys is a high-carbohydrate diet because if you take a diabetic for example he has four main serious problems he usually has kidney problems because glucose destroys the renal filter high glucose levels in the kidney leads to extensive oxidation and destroys the kidney that is why diabetics have such a high risk of being on dialysis for many years so much attention is paid to blood sugar but not to diet control not to sugar in food if you take medications to lower blood glucose where do you think the glucose goes from this medication it evaporates no it just moves from one place to another it settles in different parts of the body until you  Miss carbohydrates, no matter how much you try to regulate blood glucose, it will cause problems somewhere else, but four organs that are affected by high glucose in diabetes are: firstly, the kidneys, secondly, the brain and nerves, thirdly, the cardiovascular system, and fourthly, the eyes. Diabetic nephropathy is a very common complication in diabetes. In diabetes, the kidneys are destroyed by the fact that blood with high glucose passes through them. In general, typical symptoms of kidney problems are anemia, high blood pressure, as I already said, itching, swelling, foaming matcha. Since kidney function is lost, they no longer filter proteins and matcha begins to foam. Another symptom is the smell of ammonia from the mouth, a metallic taste in the mouth, frequent urination, which usually occurs with excess glucose in the blood. Therefore, the best remedy for frequent urination is to give up carbohydrates and evening snacks. This gives an amazing effect. In a matter of days, you will stop getting up at night. A link to a video about this will be below. The last important symptom of kidney problems is darkening of the urine, it becomes almost brown as more and more decay products penetrate through the damaged filter, so here is a list of what needs to be done to cleanse the kidneys, I think it would be better to call it improving the kidney detoxification pathways, first and foremost, get rid of the effects of toxins on the kidneys, you need to start eating cleaner, switch to organic foods, install a water filter, try to take as few medications as possible, in general, eliminate everything that destroys the kidneys, you can even just quit smoking, you can try to no longer eat soy products, second, a low-carb diet will give the kidneys enormous relief, because then much less oxidation will occur in the kidneys, third, you need to establish a normal ratio of sodium and potassium, I'm not saying that you need to reduce sodium, you just need to ensure that there is at least twice as much potassium as sodium, how to achieve this, eat more avocado, eat more lettuce, ideally 7-10 glasses daily, if you eat other vegetables, the portion may not be so large, but you need to eat more foods rich in potassium, potassium has a protective effect on the kidneys, I will also leave links to all this data below 4 if yours  Your kidneys are already overloaded, don't strain them with excess protein. You need a moderate protein diet. If your kidneys are overloaded with excess protein, matcha starts to foam, which puts them under more stress. The body can handle a limited amount of protein; it doesn't store proteins the same way it stores fats and carbohydrates. Something needs to be done with excess protein. You have to either convert it into urea, an excretion product, or convert it into glucose, a fuel. Too much protein is pretty bad for your kidneys. Next, number five, there are foods you should eat to improve natural kidney detoxification. Let's go through the list. Garlic. Garlic will improve clearance, that is, the cleansing of urea and other excretion products. Next, asparagus. When you eat asparagus, your urine starts to smell strange. It's not a toxic substance. This is something else. I'll make a video. Overall, asparagus is very useful for kidney detoxification. Parsley is also excellent for detoxification. Parsley is also great. Parsley is also good for removing heavy metals from the body. Kenzo is also very good.  Turmeric is great for the liver, colorful vegetables are good for the liver and are just as good for the kidneys, berries, especially blueberries, are very good for kidney detoxification, and green tea, the phytonutrients in green tea help the kidneys effectively remove toxins. If you haven't watched my video about the best way to cleanse the liver, I think it's right on topic. Here it is, watch it.