Did you know that you can determine health problems by your feet? In other words, early signs of many diseases can appear on your feet. By the end of this video, you will learn how to determine what is happening with your body or something else just by looking at your feet. So, here is the heart, and here is the foot. And this is the rope that connects them. These are blood vessels. The heart contains the most oxygen, and the feet contain the least oxygen. The feet receive oxygen and nutrients through tiny capillaries. If there is a high level of sugar in the blood, such as with diabetes, then this will primarily affect the feet. I will tell you about several indicators that will tell you what is happening in the body. First, I want to talk about peripheral neuropathy. It can begin with numbness or even tingling, which can develop into strange sensations and abnormal sensations. This is because nerve endings begin to deteriorate due to a lack of one vitamin, vitamin B1. It is also thiamine. The nerve does not have enough thiamine to function. Nerves depend on vitamin B1. You need a special type of vitamin B1, namely, fat-soluble, it is called Benfotiamine. You can see below the video how it is written in anime. The nerve does not have enough thiamine to function. There are a couple of things that can deprive the nerve of vitamin B1. Sugar destroys nerves. If you drink alcohol, it destroys the liver. Sugar and alcohol deprive the body of vitamin B1 and it needs to be replenished. You need benfotiamine. Take it in a dosage four times higher than what is indicated on the packaging, because you need more vitamin so that it gets here and copes with this problem. Another sign that something is wrong with the body is if your fingers or fingertips begin to turn blue. This is associated with the sympathetic nervous system. It is also called the Beat Swans. The problem is that this system is too often activated. With this problem, calcium channel blockers are usually prescribed. Fingers and toes turn blue when exposed to cold. What natural calcium channel blocker is magnesium? Magnesium is the main calcium regulator that gets stuck in cells. One of the causes of high blood pressure is excess calcium because calcium is associated with contraction and magnesium is associated with relaxation.  Magnesium helps with excessive contractions, but keep in mind that you don't need to take just any magnesium. Take magnesium because it is 80% absorbed by the body. The following problem is associated with leg cramps, especially at night or early in the morning. The least amount of magnesium in the tissues occurs in the morning. Cramps can also occur in the calf muscles. Cramps are an early symptom of magnesium deficiency. A simple remedy for this is magnesium glycinate, which we have already talked about. Take at least 400, 500, 600, or even 800 mg for several weeks to get rid of the deficiency. Taking it once will not help. The problem with magnesium deficiency is that it is very difficult to detect and many people have it. Magnesium is important for many things. When there is a deficiency, cramps occur. Magnesium can help against cramps. We will talk about swelling of the feet later. It usually occurs with diabetes. When there is a lot of sugar in the blood, if there is a lot of sugar in the blood, the tissues will begin to retain more sodium and water, and the feet will begin to swell. The solution is to stop eating sugar with diabetes.  One problem that may arise is redness of the feet, this is when the skin begins to change color and looks unhealthy, this is a problem with blood circulation, this can be due to deep vein thrombosis, this is when blood clots form in the veins that cause fluid retention in the feet and redness of the lower leg, blood clots and blockages can form for many reasons, for example, with high stress levels, vitamin E prevents the formation of blood clots because it thins the blood if you experience pain or weakness during training, you may have intermittent claudication, and you should make an appointment with a doctor, because this is a problem with the blood vessels, sleep will help relieve this problem, then pain in the big toe is gout, usually gout is a problem with excess uric acid, some people even note that if they eat less oxalates such as spinach, almonds, or chocolate, their toe goes away, remedies for high oxalate levels for kidney stones or something else are magnesium, it prevents kidney stones or oxalate arthropathy, which occurs in some people, another indicator can serve  This is a typical sign of diabetes in which the foot does not receive oxygen. In diabetes, the big toes are destroyed first, and then the destruction goes higher and higher. Therefore, sometimes diabetics have their big toes amputated. What is unnecessary is benfotiamine and a low-carbohydrate diet, but the doctor, unfortunately, will not tell you this. Doctors like to treat symptoms. A few words about the nail bed. Find out about the health condition by the nail bed of the big toes. For example, if they are yellowish, then it could be either fungus or jaundice. If it is fungus, then you have intestinal problems. And you should take probiotics to get rid of the fungus and improve intestinal health. There are different remedies for nail fungus, for example, tea tree oil or iodine. If you have a weak immune system due to a deficiency of vitamin D, then the fungus will win. And of course, fungus feeds on sugar. So you will have to give up sugar. If the nail looks strange, for example, it splits or bends up or down, then this is an indicator not of a disease, but of a nutrient deficiency. In this video, I wanted to tell you how you can determine  If you have health problems, and if you want to learn more about nutrient deficiencies, then pay attention to this course. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the nutrient deficiency course, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, concepts and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.