In this video, we'll talk about how to increase prigneolone and boost hormonal energy. What is prigneolone? It's a precursor or basic building block for sex hormones and stress hormones. These are DHE, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, other androgens, and also cortisol. Prigneolone is formed from cholesterol. In my videos about cholesterol, I'm saying that cholesterol is a building block for hormones. Well, that's true. If you take statins that block cholesterol synthesis, the level of all these hormones decreases. So, we really need cholesterol. If we don't have enough prigneolone, our memory suffers, we get tired, mental fogginess occurs, sleep is disrupted, vitality decreases, libido appears in abundance. Because cortisol reduces inflammation, sometimes when you have stress, a lot of prigneolone is used to produce cortisol, and it's not enough for other hormones. There's even a term called prigneolone theft when the adrenal glands take most of it for themselves, to the detriment of other hormones. So, stress is one of the possible reasons for its deficiency. In addition, if the function  The thyroid gland is underactive. This can also cause its deficiency in this case. Pay attention to the course where I talk about how to solve the thyroid problem. It is very important to get enough cholesterol. You eat enough eggs, high-quality meat, and butter. If not, it's time to start. It is also important to lower insulin levels and stress levels because we need to lower cortisol levels. I have a large course called anti-stress, if you haven't taken it yet, the link to the recording is below. It really helps with stress. Spend enough time in the sun because vitamin D lowers cortisol. And by the way, vitamin D is found in mushrooms, especially those that grow in the sun. We also have sea salt when the adrenal glands are overloaded and depleted under stress. A little sea salt will help recharge them. Finally, you can take it with Gninalon as a supplement. It's easy to find and inexpensive. It can add energy to you, especially. By the way, if you are in menopause or premenopause, I won't name a specific brand. Look for it yourself and read the dosage on the label. It helps many people very well, and you can also do all this. Thank you very much for watching. I invite you to my ovarian course.  and body type, this is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, product lists, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.