Today I will tell you how to diagnose the condition of the liver by the feet. In fact, we do not make a real diagnosis, we just look at the feet to see signs of a possible liver problem. I think the main problem in medicine is narrow specialization. One doctor deals only with the feet, and another doctor deals only with the liver, a hepatologist. But sometimes, focusing on one thing, we do not look at the whole picture and may not see various relationships. But today we will see them. The better you understand such things and various relationships, the better you will understand your body, especially the liver, and I think the better you will take care of yourself. I made another video about this quite a while ago, but one comment in it simply prompted me to make this new video. One woman wrote that she drank a lot, but thanks to this video, she stopped being impressed. Let's get started and go to my board where I will explain the next part. Let's start with purple, brown, or red dots on the lower legs. Here we are dealing with leaking blood vessels. I will tell you one medical term. It's a difficult term, but I will explain it. It's called  Thrombocytopenia is a condition that usually occurs with liver problems. Let's look at this term. What is a platelet? What is it? It's a cell that helps blood clot. The Greek word thromba means blood clot, and CITO means cell, and pinia means few. That is, it means few platelets. Essentially, with thrombocytopenia, the blood does not clot, so the vessels seem to leak and these dots appear. They occur with advanced liver disease and also with diabetes. By the way, the liver can cause diabetes. So, these dots occur with both diseases. Further, spider veins are red blood vessels in the form of stars in some places on the body. They occur on the ankles, feet, shins, and other places. These are problems with estrogen, because estrogen dilates blood vessels. That's why this happens in pregnant women due to high estrogen levels, and also because of birth control pills, hormone replacement therapy. And it also happens due to liver problems, because the liver helps regulate estrogen levels, and with a damaged liver, estrogen levels are elevated in both men and  Women also have cracked heels. Sometimes the skin on the heels can be cracked, dry, bleeding, and usually this is a sign of vitamin B3 deficiency. B3 deficiency. A very acute vitamin B3 deficiency causes pelagra, but opelagra can also be subclinical, that is, not expressed without all the symptoms, but only with some symptoms associated with the skin. B3 deficiency affects the area of ​​the body with a higher rate of cell renewal, that is, the skin must constantly renew itself. With B3 deficiency, effective cell replacement is impossible, and this manifests itself as cracked skin. How this can be caused by liver problems, for example, due to excess alcohol, and it can also be caused by excess corn. I'll talk about this a little later. The next symptom is dry, flaky skin on part of the foot. There may be very rough, dry, flaky skin. This is usually a sign of a lack of omega-3 fatty acids. What could be a lack of bile? For example, part of the liver may be fatty and cannot produce bile to extract fat-soluble nutrients such as  Omega-3 fatty acids, this is also possible due to excessive consumption of omega-6 fatty acids, they are found in corn, soybean, rapeseed oil, even in peanut, safflower, sunflower oil. The next sign is itchy skin, usually a sign that the outflow of bile is blocked because there is some kind of sediment in the bile ducts, this is called cholestasis, in which bile flows back to the liver, enters the bloodstream, and then into the skin. And when bile gets into the skin, it causes itching, and often this itching occurs on the bottom of the foot. It is possible that in this part of the foot, urine will also probably be darker, the skin may be slightly yellowish, especially the whites may turn yellow, and the stool may become lighter. And a bad odor appears, because one of the goals of the liver is to remove toxins. If the liver cannot remove toxins, they come out through the skin. Working with patients, I learned about one method that really helps with lower back pain by working with the feet. And so I worked with people's feet, performed various manipulations, massaged the soles, but then people began to come with  I have a liver problem and I stopped working with my feet because they smelled bad. Some people, even if they regularly wash their feet, still have a bad smell if the liver is toxic. Something else about the soles of the feet: if they hurt, go numb, there is a burning sensation. This is usually peripheral neuropathy. This is often diagnosed as plantar fasciitis. But here's what's interesting: insulin resistance, which first develops into prediabetes and then into diabetes, begins in the liver. So, everyone with insulin resistance with diabetes or diabetes has a liver problem, and the more fat in the liver, the more inflammation in it, the stronger the insulin resistance. And this aggravates the condition of the liver and the problem with blood sugar. There is such a sign as gout. Gout is usually associated with the kidneys, because the kidneys filter the blood and remove uric acid, but there is the so -called urea cycle. It includes the breakdown of protein and the formation of uric acid, and this puts the liver in order. Gout attacks, gout symptoms are significantly reduced. The main symptom of gout is pain in the big toe.  in his joint and inflammation in it, then nail fungus on the feet. It is usually caused by an imbalance of microbes in the intestines, there must be different microbes that prevent excessive growth of fungus. So, nail fungus on the feet is associated with an imbalance of microflora, it is also associated with the liver, because the liver and intestines are closely interconnected, and when the liver does not work, it, in particular, cannot produce bile, and bile prevents the presence of microbes in the small intestine, their excessive growth. A healthy liver helps prevent excessive bacterial growth in the small intestine and curb all these microbes so that one bacterium or one fungus does not grow stronger than others. The next sign is calluses on the fingers, usually on the inside of the finger, which is very irritating. A callus actually indicates a deficiency of vitamin A. Vitamin A is needed for the differentiation of some cells, and with a deficiency of vitamin A, there are always various skin problems, these can be some strange growths, dryness, roughness. So, in addition to a deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids, there may also be a deficiency of vitamin A, which is caused by the same reason. A lack of bile salts. Bile salts help break down fat-soluble nutrients. Vitamins A and D. A fatty liver can interfere with the production of bile. Another symptom of a diseased liver is that the feet become very, very hot. If liver function is impaired, the temperature of the feet changes. The last symptom is associated with the liver: puffiness. If you press on the shin, a small dimple will remain. This is a problem with the liver. It must produce special proteins that maintain fluid balance in the body. If there is a deficiency of these proteins, fluids are retained in the body. Fluid accumulates in the intercellular space and also in the abdominal cavity. This can usually be seen in men with cirrhosis. They have a spherical belly. There is fluid in the abdominal cavity, this is ascites, or there is swelling in the lower body. Usually, in the shins or feet, at first. This is more noticeable on the right side because the liver is on the right side, and there are many lymphatic vessels on the right side. They can fill up if there is swelling on both sides. This can affect the heart. Now, let's go back to the office. We're back. I'll tell you very clearly about two things you should avoid and what you should do if you have a problem.  with the liver So number one, one of the biggest problems with a diseased liver is taking a lot of medications. Of course, I'm not urging you to give up the state, but you can talk to your doctor to find alternatives for some medications. If you take a lot of medications, they greatly damage the liver because drugs have a toxic effect, and the liver's entire job is to remove toxins. So, reducing the load on it is perhaps one of the most important tasks. Number two, reducing the amount of sugar and other empty carbohydrates will greatly change the condition of the liver. The more sugar and other empty carbohydrates you eat, the more fat your liver has. I think some people don't know that cholesterol in their blood and fat in their liver most likely formed from sugar and other carbohydrates. They are fat and low cholesterol that they didn't eat, that is, sugar turns into cholesterol. Fat settles in the liver. Number three, the worse your liver is, the less you should eat fried and boiled foods. Fried, boiled, canned foods essentially deplete the reserves of enzymes necessary for the liver to digest. Foods with a long shelf life are very hard on the liver. Number four, this is something like alcohol, as you know, alcohol to a huge extent.  puts a strain on the liver and many other organs. If you drink alcohol for health, it has recently been established that it does not bring any health benefits. The body has to eliminate alcohol, it creates a deficiency of many substances, especially vitamin B3. This causes symptoms like pre-pelager, that is, dermatitis, many other skin problems. Not to mention the deficiency of B1, magnesium, zinc, and many other nutrients. If you can do without alcohol, reduce it to a minimum. Number five, and this is obvious. You already know about it. Junk food, fast food, food from fast food places is simply deadly for the liver. Of course, when I was in college, I lived on all sorts of specialty dishes from Burger King, McDonald's, and the like. I paid for it. I justified it this way: I will start eating right after college. And after college, when I get older, I will eat right. And so it continued. Number six, you need to avoid corn. Why do I say corn? Because there is something very special in corn: corn has extremely little vitamin B3 and extremely little tryptophan, which is converted into vitamin B3. I already talked about pilagri, which is caused by a deficiency of vitamin B3 and it happens. Also, subclinical pelagie when a person has very, very little B3 and tryptophan, which does not convert to B3, and various symptoms associated with the skin are possible, such as dermatitis and even symptoms such as diarrhea and even dementia. This creates various problems: heels crack, the skin becomes very dry and flaky. You may say that I don’t eat corn at all, but did you know that the average person in America consumes 1,540 pounds, that is, 700 kg of corn every year? To be fair, I think that this consumption. Although they are quite sure it can include Ethanol, because people buy gasoline with ethanol. So, I’m not sure what is included here. Maybe a little less. But certainly not less than one and a half hundred kilograms. But there is corn mu in different products. Hundreds of products contain corn, corn porridge, corn chips, high-fructose corn syrup. Children drink it in huge quantities. Some alcoholic beverages are made from corn. There is corn oil. It is found in many products in salad dressings. Maltodextrin is a synthetic sugar usually made from corn. There is  Popcorn, dextrose is also a synthetic sugar found in many products. Modified starch is made from corn, and 60 percent of livestock feed is feed for cows, pigs, and chickens. Animals eat all this corn. So, you indirectly eat corn, as I said, corn causes a deficiency of vitamin B3 and a deficiency of cryptophan if you do not eat other foods rich in B3 and tryptophan. These are animal products, eggs, various products, and so on. Let's talk about what is good for the liver. For any problems with the gallbladder, you need to take the remedy Tutka. Tutka is a type of bile salt that is extremely beneficial for the liver. It liquefies bile, which flows through the bile ducts of the liver, and toxins freely flow through these tubes into the small intestine. Number two, one of the best plants. I would even say the best plant for the liver is milk thistle, perhaps it grows in your yard. Milk thistle has special properties that protect the liver. Milk thistle is used for poisoning, whether it is poisoning by mushrooms, snake venom, or a medical drug. If  You are taking medications, you need to take milk thistle to protect your liver. Milk thistle and kale help reduce the amount of fat in the liver. Number three, eat more cruciferous vegetables. These include kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and cabbage. These vegetables are rich in sulfur, which is very important for the liver detoxification process and also for neutralizing excess estrogen that accumulates in the liver. Number four, fasting. I'm talking about regular daily fasting. If you can eat once a day, this is excellent because the more you fast, the more benefits you bring to the liver. At most, two meals a day without snacks. Number five, healthy chum salmon. A healthy version of the keto diet. High-quality foods greatly relieve the stress on the liver. You can reduce the amount of fat in the liver even within two weeks. Yes, this is a very effective liver remedy. Number six, cod liver oil. Cod liver oil is unique in that it contains a lot of omega-3 fatty acids, which help reduce fat in the liver, inflammation, and resorption of scar tissue.  The tissue in the liver, as well as cod liver oil, contains vitamins A and D. They are also very beneficial for the skin and help fight some other symptoms on the feet. And if you really want to take care of your liver and learn how to get it in order, I suggest you take my course on the liver. It has much more information on what to do. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course practically below. See you there.