I have a video about the dangers of distilled water and today we'll talk about how it can be useful. Many people get amazing results when drinking distilled water, so I want to talk about what it is, how and when to drink it and what are the benefits of distilled water. This is essentially pure H2O without any impurities. There are no viruses or bacteria because they die during boiling. All minerals and heavy metals are also removed from this water. There are no artificial compounds that have an estrogenic effect. They are also removed. And finally, there are no toxic gases, the so-called volatile organic compounds. By removing all this, you get water in its pure form. It is also called hungry water because it is a very strong solvent. You simply boil the water, turn it into steam and then collect it in some container. Like rain and snow, the sun evaporates the water. It collects in the clouds and then falls down. Of course, these days, because of all the pollution in the air, including even plastic waste, rain  You shouldn't drink water and snow. But once upon a time, this water was probably quite suitable for drinking. Distilled water has a pH of 7, it is completely neutral, and it has very interesting advantages. Of course, I recommend that you do not buy distilled water in a regular store in a plastic bottle that sits there for years. The plastic from the bottle walls dissolves in this water. I would probably advise making it yourself. Buy a stainless steel distiller and collect the resulting water in a glass container. This is an option. So, distilled water has beneficial properties. Firstly, it helps remove heavy metals such as mercury, cadmium, and lead from the body. Nowadays, we literally swim in a sea of ​​​​various chemicals; they fall on us from all sides. And we don't know exactly how all these chemicals affect our body. So, by starting to drink distilled water, you can understand how you feel without all these toxins in the body. Secondly, it can help remove deposits of various minerals from joints where they don't belong, for example, if you have arthritis or joint stiffness. Distilled water can destroy and remove from the body. Some of these deposits, many feel that mobility and flexibility increase when they drink this water. It also helps remove rings from the vessels. There are several things that can remove calcium from the vessels: vitamin K2 and also a good chelator, for example, EDTA, but distilled water can also play the role of a chelator, washing out not only calcium from your vessels. With age, calcium accumulates in other tissues, for example, in the eyes, forming cataracts. So there is a benefit here thirdly. If you have a predisposition to kidney stones or even in the gallbladder. And these stones contain calcium, that is, here. It would be useful to drink distilled water. If you want to reduce the risk of stone formation, you may have doubts. I think I heard that if you drink distilled water, I will be left without minerals at all. And it also disrupts the balance of electrolytes, red blood cells will burst and I will die, but this, of course, will not happen and all you need to do is return the minerals that you want. You need to get the electrolytes back into your body, just take them with distilled water, so you can increase the amount of minerals you need, and others, on the contrary, reduce, for example, we don’t need excess calcium in our joints, eyes, and blood vessels. So, all these minerals and metals that are usually difficult to get rid of can be partially removed with the help of such water. One thing that can happen is that if you drink distilled water, you will urinate more frequently, you will go to the toilet more often, just drink more water to wash out harmful substances and cleanse your body, take minerals to return them to the body, and also eat foods rich in minerals. I will answer one more question. Do you need to drink distilled water during fasting? I think this is a very, very good idea because although it is responsible for electrolyte reserves, you can easily return them to the body. Imagine what happens during fasting. The process of autophagy is launched when the body is cleansed of dead cells, you clean and detoxify the body. And the body produces a lot of antioxidants during fasting, a lot of good things happen, if you also add distilled water. This will help remove  The body releases a multitude of toxins from various tissues, the main thing is to return the minerals it needs to the body. Many people drink tap water from the city water supply, some install filters, all this is great, but it is worth remembering the following: yes, it is true that tap water may have few bacteria, but this is because they add a bunch of additional chemicals for sterilization to kill all these microbes. So, although this water may have very few bacteria, it may also contain a lot of harmful chemicals. These chemicals have an estrogenic effect, they affect the skin, the brain, and generally the entire body. Fragments of toilet paper, fragments of tampons, in short, all sorts of nasty things are sometimes found in tap water. So, at a minimum, install a filter and also think about buying a good steam distiller. And on that note, if you haven't watched my video about how much water you need to drink, I recommend watching it here.