You can learn a lot about your body by the pH of your saliva and urine, and you can buy these pH strips very inexpensively. I don't know if you can see it that way, but you can see it that way. You just need to have different pH values ​​indicated on the front. Just tear off a piece of the strip and put it in your mouth. Find the same color on the package, your pH will be indicated there. The same goes for urine. You need to know that on the pH scale, the values ​​change from 0 to 14. The average value is 7. This is a neutral environment. Environments with a pH greater than seven are alkaline, and environments with a pH less than seven are acidic. You also need to know that when it comes to pH in the body, we are talking about many different pH values. If they tell you we need to increase alkalinity, ask. What part of the body are you talking about? You are probably talking about blood, certainly not the stomach. In general, all tissues in the body have different pH values. I prefer to measure the pH of urine and saliva because it is very easy. You don't need to take blood, you just need to buy it. These cost about 6 or 10 dollars, and you can check the pH periodically to find out what is happening. I want to say one more thing: this is just one small indicator or a hint of what is happening with your body. This is necessary.  Compare with a lot of other data to understand if you have a problem if saliva and urine are too acidic or alkaline this does not reflect the full picture and is not an urgent diagnosis, but it is a hint of what is happening inside So we will start with the pH of urine normally urine should be slightly acidic pH of urine should be from 4.8 to 7.8 however I would say that on average urine pH is somewhere from 5 to 6 but can be a little higher What is urine urine is filtered blood kidneys are real hard workers they are busy processing everything that can be processed they are very efficient they extract proteins vitamins extract minerals and so on stores all this and return it back to the body but the pH of urine allows you to get excellent information about what is happening inside the body So ​​if your urine is too alkaline say 8 or 9 it can be caused by the fact that you drink too much alkaline water some bought devices for alkalizing water I saw people whose urine page was 9 simply because they drank a lot of this water such a pH is much  above normal, this may also be due to the fact that you checked the pH of your urine immediately after eating, this can also distort the result, do not check the pH immediately after eating, it is best to do this about 2 hours before eating. And if you check the pH immediately after sleep, this indicator may turn out to be very, very acidic. So do not check the pH of your urine the first time you urinate after sleep. And do not check it immediately after eating, do it before eating. Urine that is too alkaline may mean that you are a vegan and eat a lot of alkaline foods. Urine that is too alkaline can also be a sign of a bacterial infection, because a by-product of bacteria is excess ammonia. Ammonia is alkaline. However, very alkaline urine does not mean that you have an infection. I am simply listing the possible causes of excess alkalinity regarding the connection with a disease called gout. If your urine is too alkaline and you have gout, this increases the risk of uric acid crystal deposits in your big toes, so you need to increase the pH to reduce these crystals. In fact, an attack of gout is only possible with urine that is too alkaline. Urine can also become too alkaline due to taking diuretics, due to taking antacids, due to the fact that you just vomited, the pH may change, and as for example, kidney stones, they usually form with alkaline urine. So if you make sure that your urine is more acidic and drink enough, the risk of kidney stones is greatly reduced. After all, when fluids in the body are too alkaline, calcium is usually not mobilized but falls out of solution and forms crystals. You may have seen this yourself if you have well water or hard water at home, you can see small calcium crystals deposited on the faucet. This means that the water is alkaline and calcium, released from the water, precipitates on the faucet. Another reason for excessively alkaline urine can be kidney failure. Now let's consider what happens if urine is too acidic. Don't forget, I'm talking about pH values ​​outside the normal range for urine. If urine is too acidic, it may mean that you eat too much meat. It may also mean that you have uncontrolled diabetes. In this case, the urine may be due to so- called ketocidosis.  Ketones are acidic. On a keto diet, urine is usually not overly acidic. But if you are on a keto diet and fasting for a particularly long time, your urine will probably be very acidic. This is usually not a cause for concern. This is normal, but it may bother some. If you are concerned, you can take a little baking soda on the end of a spoon to neutralize the acid, but I would not worry about it, because then you will still eat and the pH will normalize. So, fasting, and especially praying to yourself with starvation, can increase the acidity of urine. Urine can also become overly acidic due to dehydration. And lastly, if you check your urine the first time you urinate, it is very, very acidic during the day, you should not worry. I am just warning you that in the morning your urine will be overly acidic, because throughout the night you are fasting, now you understand a little better how to evaluate the pH of your urine. Now let's talk about saliva. Normally, saliva should not be as acidic as urine, it should be slightly acidic or neutral. The normal pH range of saliva. from 6.2 to 7.6 one of the purposes of saliva is to help wash out carbohydrates from the mouth and acids that act as food for bacteria because bacteria in the mouth love sugar and other carbohydrates and feed on them constantly secreted saliva washes all this away reducing the food for these microbes also saliva reduces the amount of acids secreted by bacteria because bacteria and yeast ferment sugar and other carbohydrates secrete lactic and other acids that can cause caries this is one purpose of saliva and another purpose is buffering acids because saliva has alkalizing agents that promote buffering of acids saliva has many other substances there are enzymes that help break down carbohydrates I discuss this topic in more detail in my other videos if you are interested So if you took these strips checked the pH of your saliva and the saliva turned out to be too alkaline that is its pH was too high this may mean that you have too many bacteria in your mouth if the oral environment is too alkaline There is a risk of tartar formation and tartar is what plaque turns into over time it is a deposit of crystals because firstly you have bacteria  and secondly, an alkaline environment. Remember I said that calcium precipitates from a solution in an excessively alkaline environment. This also happens here. So, calcium is deposited on the teeth, it is deposited in the kidneys in the form of calcium stones. It can be deposited in the joints, this is arthritis, and it can be deposited in the heart in the form of plaques. So, calcium deposition is closely related to pH. And by the way, if the blood is too alkaline, a tendency to pneumonia may occur, this is a slight twitching or muscle spasms. And if the blood is too acidic, it affects the energy level, causes fatigue, and it also affects breathing, but I don’t want to go into the pH of the blood, because it is very difficult to determine. Let’s get back to the topic. And by the way, bacteria use calcium to protect themselves from extreme pH values. So, if the urine is too alkaline, bacteria can still survive. Bacteria do not like extremes. They live in a certain pH range, but they try to survive by defending themselves in every possible way. The following is fraught with the dangers of too alkaline saliva: gendevit. Gendevit. This is a mild form of periodontitis, that is, inflammation of the gums. If tartar is deposited on the teeth directly under the gums, inflammation occurs. But  This is a mild inflammation of the gums, it's called gingivitis. What if the environment in the oral cavity is too acidic, what does this tell us? It could mean that you eat too much sugar, because bacteria can also thrive when the oral environment is too acidic, and you feed the bacteria sugar. So if you eat a lot of carbohydrates, or you chew a lot of sweet gum, or chew taffy, or drink sweet soda, or drink a lot of juice, all this sugar serves as food for bacteria, and a byproduct of this will be a large amount of acids, and all this acid then causes demineralization, calcium is washed out of the teeth, this is what we call a hole in the tooth. Therefore, if you have children, it is worth checking their pH with these strips and explaining to them what this means. You can say, "Oh, your pH is too acidic because you feed the bacteria in your mouth with sugar, and because of this, there will be a hole in the tooth." This may encourage the child to give up sugar. If your environment is too acidic, you may have chronic halitosis.  Because of the bacteria, they release a lot of certain gases and you can have a more serious gum infection called periodontitis. So, with excessive alkalinity, as well as with excessive acidity of saliva, you can have bacteria. Now the important question: How to normalize pH, whether it is too alkaline or too acidic, I have made many videos on this topic, you can drink apple cider vinegar, there are certain foods to fix, but ultimately the best thing you can do is focus on eating healthy food. What does this mean? To answer this question, I will refer you to another video, but Proper nutrition is the best way to correct pH in various areas of the body, unlike other methods that only patch up the situation. So, to find out what you need to eat, you need to watch this video.