Long-term fasting is extremely beneficial for the immune system, for getting rid of cancer, for brain health, and for slowing down aging, but there is one rather dangerous aspect associated with long-term fasting. You can potentially die, I must warn you, this is refeeding syndrome. What is it? This is when, after a long fast, say you fasted for 4 days, you eat too much too quickly and not what you need. This can be a problem. But before we begin, I will note that this usually happens to those who have nutrient deficiencies, eating disorders, those who suffer from alcoholism or have had type 1 diabetes for a long time, and also to those who starve themselves, because this is not the same as long-term fasting. But if you follow my recommendations, the risk of this problem is very low. Because you will not have a nutrient deficiency. I always recommend that when fasting, with any fast, take at least electrolytes and secondly, B vitamins, because many studies show that people with this syndrome usually have very low reserves of nutrients, but I do not know your situation, I do not know how you ate before, I do not know what you are taking. So this is very important.  A video for everyone who is planning a long fast, in addition to death, a coma, seizures, and convulsions are potentially possible, but I repeat, this happens rarely. This is what happens when you fast for a long time, say 3-4-5 days or longer. Usually, a blood test shows that you are fine, you do not have any deficiency of minerals, electrolytes, or anything else. But you need to understand that most of certain minerals such as potassium, magnesium, and phosphorus are located inside the cells and not in the blood. 95-98 percent of these minerals are in the cells. And when you fast, the body releases all these minerals and electrolytes from the cells into the blood to maintain them at a certain level. This is a kind of stable rule of the body to always maintain a normal blood composition, even if it means taking nutrients from the cells of the bones and muscles. When you take a blood test for electrolyte or nutrient content, they do not determine their content inside the cells; the nutrient content is determined outside the cells in the blood. So, you will not know what is happening inside the cells without an intracellular analysis. But if you fast for some time, many nutrients are not stored for a long time. Many of them dissolve. Not in fat, but in water, and over time, their level can decrease quite quickly, especially if you had previously been eating improperly or ate few nutrient-rich foods, and so you decide to fast for a long time. They praise me, “ I’ll fast for four or five days,” and you fast without taking any electrolytes or B vitamins. But then it’s time to eat, and you go wild, you start eating everything in a row, and in large quantities, carbohydrates, sugar, anything, and this can cause refeeding syndrome, and your insulin level rises very sharply. And here you need to take into account that after 4-5 days of fasting, your insulin sensitivity has become extremely high. The receptors have prepared the cells to absorb nutrients from the blood very quickly, and there is a rapid movement of electrolytes, especially phosphorus, an important electrolyte, as well as potassium, magnesium, and sometimes calcium. They all move from the blood into the cells to replenish the deficiency. As a result, the level of electrolytes in the blood becomes extremely low, which puts a strain on the heart and can increase swelling and puffiness because the balance is disturbed. You see, when you fast, the insulin level is very low because insulin levels are low and the body loses a lot of fluid and sodium. Some can lose 59 kg (13 kilograms of water weight), this is a lot, but when you start eating, insulin begins to rise, you begin to retain sodium and edema may appear. The body suddenly begins to retain fluid and you do not understand what is happening. Moreover, if you eat a lot of carbohydrates, these carbohydrates will turn into glycogen. And for this, potassium is needed so that the body can store this sugar. So, you will use up a lot of potassium from food and, taking into account the movement of minerals from the blood into cells, you will have very low potassium levels. You will also store fat and protein. And these two macronutrients also need vitamins and minerals. So, they will also run out and you will also lose a lot of vitamin B1. When you eat carbohydrates, vitamin B1 is needed as a factor for carbohydrate metabolism. So, when you eat carbohydrates, you lose a lot of B1. One of the serious symptoms of B1 deficiency is memory loss. This can cause confusion, anxiety, and a host of other problems from neurological to heart problems. That's all. What is refeeding syndrome? How can you avoid this problem? Well, number one when you go follow a healthy version of this diet Eat nutrient- rich foods number two during the fast take electrolytes and B vitamins at a minimum You might want to take other things like cod liver oil to get fat-soluble vitamins omega-3 fatty acids and maybe it would be good to also take vitamins D and K2 and also some micronutrients then there will be no nutrient deficiency this will help you and when you start eating after the fast do it slowly I mean this Eat maybe an egg and wait a couple of hours then Eat something else Maybe some soup you wait another couple of hours then Eat I don't know some sauerkraut Wait Eat some nuts So on the first day don't eat more than about half of your usual calories So let's say on the first day you ate a thousand kilocalories and then slowly increase the amount of food over several days it all depends on the length of the fast If you fasted for a long time say 21 days or  30 days, then you need to act even more slowly than after 3-4 days. Understand that with intermittent fasting, let's say you eat once a day. You don't need to worry about this. This video is about fasting for 3-4-5 days in a row. So, you learned about the dangers of this syndrome and ways to avoid it. Fasting is good for the health of many organs and the body as a whole. I have a video about the effect of fasting on the kidneys. I recommend watching it.