Hello.  Today we will discuss the eight main benefits of long-term fasting.  Long-term fasting is one that lasts from two to three days or longer.  Sometimes a week, sometimes 3 weeks, sometimes even longer. This method has interesting and useful effects.  The body goes into survival mode.  It's like a physiological vacation for the organs, especially the digestive ones.  After all, every time after eating, this system seems to switch off. Those who eat frequently, say three times a day plus two snacks, have no chance of experiencing this amazing effect. Let's start with the first one. Brain cells begin to regenerate, not the entire brain, but certain parts of it, including the deep camp, parts of the brainstem, and other parts.  This is very cool.  Who would refuse extra brain cells?  The part of the hippocampus that regenerates is related to memory.  It’s as if a relay switches there, which provides access to the database, to the memory, to the card index of memories.  This means you can restore this brain structure to improve your memory.  This is very cool.  Second.  The number of mitochondria increases.  Mitochondria are the body's energy stations.  You will find that the energy will be in full swing.  Incredible amount of energy when you don't eat.  Remember that you are burning fat, that is, you are eating, but not food calories.  Third.  Autophagy is a state of the body in which it processes old damaged proteins and other things like bacteria and damaged mitochondria.  That is, useful self-cleaning occurs.  And these proteins are processed into new proteins to build new tissues.  This is real natural rejuvenation.  But for it to begin, a long period of fasting is necessary.  I recommend doing long-term fasting once a month or once every 2 months.  Even four times a year would be wonderful.  Next.  Enhanced stem cell production.  A stem cell is a cell without function.  It has not yet turned into any specific cell.  She just waits until the body says: "We need a new cell. This one is damaged and needs to be replaced."  and you get new cells.  With age, the number of stem cells decreases.  The more stress you have, the more sugar you eat, the more often you eat it, the less of them there are .  By fasting for long periods of time, you replenish your stem cell reserves.   Stem cell stock.  This is another reason why you look younger and feel younger, because you are being renewed more.  Long-term fasting is an absolutely amazing restorative process. Anti-inflammatory tablets generally dominate the market. Most of the money in pharmaceuticals is tied to anti-inflammatory drugs.  Interestingly, rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune diseases, just pain and inflammation. Long-term fasting is an extremely important tool in helping a person get to the root causes of chronic inflammation. With diabetes there is a lot of inflammation.  If you have arthritis, bursitis, rheumatoid arthritis, or any other type of arthritis, you need to fast for a long time.  All autoimmune diseases involve inflammation, so treatment for autoimmune diseases, whether multiple sclerosis or rheumatoid arthritis, always involves taking steroids such as prednisone or cortisone injections.  They relieve inflammation.  But the problem is that this backfires and brings new inflammation and destroys the adrenal glands.  And fasting is a very safe way to reduce inflammation.  And if you have an autoimmune condition, fasting is extremely important.  It can significantly reduce your illness by influencing your immune system.  Sixth.  Inhibition of tumor growth.  If you have polyps, stauruncle, or fibroids, prolonged fasting will help you with this situation. When you fast, your body feeds on ketones, and tumors cannot live off ketones.  Cancer feeds on sugar.  When we fast, we deplete our sugar reserves, our glycogen reserves, and live on ketones and fatty acids.  Tumors can't feed like that, so we starve them. Cancer feeds on glucose and elglutamates.  And with prolonged fasting we starve cancer.  And this is another plus that I didn’t write down.  Seventh. Increased amount of antioxidants.  The body has an antioxidant network.  This is vitamin C, vitamin E. Zinc can also act as an antioxidant.  Glutathione, lipoic acid.  There is a whole list of them.  When you fast, your antioxidant levels increase significantly.  Why?  Because this is how the body recovers and protects itself from microbes and the like. Zinc levels increase during prolonged fasting.  And zinc is a component of many antioxidant enzymes.  Uric acid also increases.  You may think this is bad, but it is one of the most powerful antioxidants the body uses during fasting. It goes up, but then goes down again.  So it's a short-lived effect, it's a short-lived spike.  The body simply needs it to get rid of certain things. Next, the eighth.  Cellular resistance to stress. There was an opinion that prolonged fasting is a strong stress for the adrenal glands. In fact, it is beneficial for them, as it increases resistance to stress. You are no longer dependent on sugar level fluctuations .  Essentially, you enter an interesting recovery mode in which the body begins to build up resistance to all kinds of stress.  On the one hand, due to the level of antioxidants, and on the other hand, for example, if you are receiving chemotherapy and fasting at the same time, your cells will survive better due to increased resistance.  That is, the cells become stronger.  It is a survival mechanism that is genetically built into us through many years of past adaptation.  When the body doesn't eat, it needs to survive, and it goes into this mode.  How to conduct long-term fasting? I recommend letting your body tell you how long to fast, especially in the beginning.  Let your body get used to it.  Let's say you tried it for the first time and after holding out for only a day, you started eating.  It's normal, there's no need to rush. Maybe in a month you’ll try again and last for a day and a half, and next time for two days.  Let your body tell you when to eat. I'm not talking about mild hunger now, rather, I feel weak, my sugar levels have dropped, I'm very hungry.  Then, of course, you need to eat.  Eat.  But you will soon find that when you fast, the feeling of hunger goes away, and you feel good both mentally and in terms of digestion.  If you're feeling good, ride that wave and keep going.  The only time I don't recommend fasting as such, either intermittent or long-term, is if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you are following a healthy diet, but not intermittent fasting.  Another situation where I don't recommend long-term fasting is if you are very thin and trying to gain weight, because you will lose weight, which can be a problem.  You can fast intermittently and eat twice a day.  If you fast longer, you will lose weight.  Here's a small disclaimer.  Move gradually and let your body tell you how long to fast.  Many people do this.  They just start starving, feel great, and continue as long as they can.  They can go up to three days and then feel it's time to eat.  Over time, you will be able to fast longer, but don't force yourself to do so.  At the same time, you live off your nutrient reserves. So I recommend taking multivitamins and supplements. I recommend electrolytes and sea salt. Some lost consciousness while trying to fast too much.  They just didn't take in enough sea salt and electrolytes, and the body needs that.  Do n't forget about them under any circumstances. When you finish fasting, don't eat a huge portion of food right away. You need to restore your diet slowly, because eating too much will be a shock to the body.  Eat a little, wait a while, eat some more gradually and little by little.  It is very good to drink green tea while fasting.  Naturally decaffeinated is fine.  This will help increase antioxidant levels. Another drink that is very useful during long periods of fasting is hoodia gardonii.  It will help suppress your appetite, which will make the process much easier. There is a product called DTA, you can find it on the internet. This is Healator.  I really like this product because it removes some metals, especially iron and calcium, especially if you have calcium deposits, joint stiffness, kidney stones.  Other elements are also output. Too much iron can cause many problems in the body.  And this is a good healer.  It removes excess iron.  If you take EDTA, say, twice a week in the morning, and take electrolytes in the afternoon, that will be great, because EDTA removes other elements as well.  So we need to replenish those that we need. I recommend EDA to remove excess calcium from the body and excess iron from the mitochondria. As you will see, this will increase your energy levels even more.  It is beneficial for improving blood circulation, the functioning of the cardiovascular system, and also for the functioning of mitochondria.  Just another supplement that is very beneficial to take.  But you need to take it a couple of times a week, not every day.  It may output too many elements.  So, here they are.  Eight benefits of long-term fasting, in brief.  Thanks for watching.