Let's talk about afternoon snacks and when you want to take a nap and why carbohydrates are the main reason for this. The custom of siesta is in many countries. In Spanish, siesta means a short nap from the Latin word meaning the sixth hour, meaning 6 hours after dawn, that is, noon, and so the siesta is held in many countries in Mexico, in some countries of South America, in Italy, in the Philippines, in Vietnam, in some Mediterranean countries in southern Europe and of course in Spain. Of course, in the USA, we don't officially say that we have a siesta, but we just fall asleep in front of the computer right after lunch. The question is, is it normal for a person to feel tired after eating? There is a medical name for this. A post about the ideal, what does drowsiness mean after eating? This term means food coma. Of course, this is a common occurrence in diabetes, especially when you consume empty carbohydrates combined with a large number of calories. This can cause a spike in blood sugar and a surge in insulin, and both cause fatigue. But why does this cause fatigue? There are several mechanisms besides insulin resistance, in which the cell does not receive fuel number one, you activate the so-called parasympathetic nervous system of the autonomic nervous system. There are two parts: the sympathetic fight or flight and the parasympathetic, it is responsible for rest and digestion. When you eat a lot of food, especially empty carbohydrates, you activate the second system and at the same time block the first and you want to take a nap. So, this connection between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain, while less blood flows to the brain and more to the digestive system. Try to stay awake when less blood flows to the brain, it's difficult. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salt, it's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. Number three, the excitability of the brain, the hypothalamus, decreases, causing fatigue and 4. It's interesting. On a high-carbohydrate diet, we absorb certain amino acids but not others, in particular, valine, leucine, isoleucine, but not  Tryptophan, a depth of an, passes through the blood-brain barrier and then directly converts to serotonin and melatonin, the sleep hormone. So, if you live in any of these countries or in the United States, conduct an experiment. For example, in Mexico, they eat corn products in tortillas, rice in Italy, they eat pasta in the Philippines and Vietnam, they eat rice noodles in the Mediterranean, pasta and bread in southern Europe, there may be potatoes or other starches. In Spain, they also eat carbohydrates. So, here's a challenge for you: try not to eat any carbohydrates at lunch for just one week and you will see how your energy levels go up. You will no longer want to sleep during the day. And for beginners, watch this video on my channel about a low-carb diet. From it, you will learn exactly what you need to eat.