Today we'll talk about blackheads and how to get rid of them naturally, as I've said more than once, to deal with the problem, and you need to understand, so I'll first tell you a little about blackheads, and then we'll discuss how to get rid of them, but not with classic external remedies when you try to act from the outside in, applying something to the skin or sticking and peeling off all sorts of sticky strips. No, I'll show you how to act from the inside out, get to the cause, and continue to treat the symptoms, because in the end, you need to ensure that this problem doesn't come back. What are blackheads and what are whiteheads? They are very similar, and they are called comedones. This word comes from Latin, where this word meant to eat. This refers to a parasitic worm, because when this name was invented, comedones seemed like worms to the author of the term. Comedon means worms. The difference between a whitehead, which is called a closed comedone, and a black coal, which is called an open comedone, comes down to just one thing. In blackheads, the black material in the pores is exposed to air or oxygen, and it  It oxidizes like an apple that was cut and left to lie, it will turn black, the same applies to the skin of a closed comedone, which is like a white pimple, there is a membrane over the white material, oxygen does not affect it and therefore it does not turn black, this is the whole difference, we are dealing with a clogged hair follicle and also with a problematic sebaceous gland, that is, several things are happening at once, and this material is a combination of a substance that is essentially a sebaceous secretion of bacteria and keratin, which is a protein, that is, sebum, bacteria, a little protein, form a kind of plug, most people do this, by the way, this is a big mistake, they begin to vigorously wash off these blackheads, thinking that this is dirt or dirty pores, and whereas blackheads are not this, they have nothing to do with dirt in the pores, but if you do not know this, you might think that you did not wash your face well, and people vigorously wash themselves using scrubs of a special liquid, they stick some kind of band-aid, sticky strips, to their skin and tear them off trying to pull out all this substance from there, but in this way they only aggravate the problem because they do not They understand that the skin is home to many beneficial and friendly bacteria that are part of the immune system and protect the body from harmful bacteria. If you wash these areas vigorously, they become sterile and leave a gap for infection to penetrate. Because various inflammatory processes can occur in these pores. Why is this material formed? Where does it come from? What does this mean? If you look deeper, you can see what is happening: a surge in androgens, which usually occurs during puberty. That is why blackheads are common in adolescents. Testosterone is one of the androgens. Both sexes have weak testosterone and strong testosterone. 2 is called "do-prepare." So, in people with acne with whiteheads and blackheads, DHT raises the question: "Why is this?" What is it? This appears due to a surge in insulin and another hormone similar to insulin, which is called insulin-like growth factor number 1. But don't bother with these names. Just know that in this case, the reason is twofold: both increase sebum production, pore size, and protein production. All this is certainly interesting, but it does n't tell us what to do.  unless you know what activates insulin and spikes in IGF-1, there are three types of foods to blame: empty carbohydrates, by the way, a fairly broad category that includes sugar, bread, pasta, crackers, waffles, pancakes, and all that jazz, and our beloved empty carbohydrates will cause a strong surge in insulin and create this problem. Next on this list are certain dairy products. Think about what dairy products are. They are essentially milk. It helps raise a cow or other animal. It helps with growth, and there are many hormones that can affect the body. So, any dairy product, be it yogurt or even kefir or cheese, especially milk, can affect the skin, especially if the products are in stores where they can easily add something. Store-bought milk is taken from grain-fed cows, which means it has a large amount of omega 6. These cows are not often fed grass. Grass-fed milk is much healthier when it comes to inflammation. Now, you only need to know that dairy products can get in the way. The third product is a certain type of fat, which aggravates the situation with whiteheads and acne. This is  Omega-6 fatty acids are not all omega-6 fatty acids, but most, for example, corn and soybean oil, which are found in many products with empty carbohydrates, are found in restaurant dishes. That is, omega-6 fatty acids are found in corn, rapeseed, cottonseed oils, and so on. If you look at the time graphs reflecting our diet, over the past 20 years we have begun to eat much more empty carbohydrates, sugar, dairy products, especially sweet yogurts, and a huge amount of omega-6 fatty acids. This is of course interesting, but what to do about it? This is the plan first, and it will work. The body will do everything itself. You need to stop eating empty carbohydrates. You need to reduce carbohydrates. If you don’t know what this means, follow the link in the description. Second, eliminate dairy products absolutely everything. Remove them from your diet, even cheese, and your skin condition will become much better. Third, you need to reduce or completely eliminate the consumption of all these omega-6 oils. You probably need more information, especially if you don’t know what I’m talking about. I’ll leave the links below. There are so many omega-6 fatty acids in our diet.  What's amazing is that if you reduce your intake of omega-6 fatty acids and increase your intake of omega-3 fatty acids, your skin will be very grateful because it will no longer have acne or pimples. What are omega-3 fatty acids? This is fish oil, especially cod liver oil. By the way, it also contains vitamin T and vitamin A. Regular fish oil doesn't have them, but eating more seafood and fish is a good idea, especially salmon. Or you can just take cod liver oil. If you don't like the taste, we have it in capsules. The link is below. And the fourth thing is just the icing on the cake. Sorry, I probably shouldn't talk about borage oil cake now. Borage oil is a type of omega-6 fatty acid called homo linolenic acid, but it doesn't cause inflammation like other omega-6 oils. It's anti-inflammatory. It resolves sebum. It helps break down that protein plug. It helps reduce oxidation and even plays the role of an antioxidant. Many people who take this oil note positive changes in their skin, so it's worth taking into account. I have a course about  How to use various products, including nutrition, to improve skin health. The link is below the video. I invite you to my mini-course: Skin health diagnostics. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects; such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below and see you there.