Hello, I'm Dr. Berg, let's talk about a very interesting substance, dopamine. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter, something that, like a hormone, carries information or a message through the nervous system. While hormones carry messages through the bloodstream, the action of this neurotransmitter causes a feeling of pleasure. That is, it is responsible for pleasure. It does many things associated with joy and even movement. If a person lacks dopamine, they may have a resting tremor, that is, Parkinson's, but that's not what we're talking about now. Dopamine is mainly associated with pleasure. It's the hormone of joy. It also gives us vitality. If you can imagine, I'm not advocating for taking cocaine, but you can imagine this feeling. A person feels intense pleasure, feels the ability to cope with anything, and only because cocaine and other drugs stimulate dopamine. So, the physical sensations themselves give a person dopamine. The drug itself only provokes the body to produce more dopamine. That's why not increase dopamine naturally. If a person has a dopamine deficiency, he has no motivation, lacks drive, feels exhausted, forgets about his addiction goals.  A person becomes weak-willed, has no mood, anxiety and depression, resting tremors, and the like. As you can see, this is a very popular neurotransmitter. People try to increase its level in every possible way, especially with drugs. What causes dopamine deficiency? Caffeine abuse. It's interesting. At first, caffeine makes us feel good, but if you consume too much of it, over time, dopamine production will decrease. Alcohol lowers dopamine levels. Some drugs, cocaine, and the like, even sedatives and drugs, such as Prozac, Paxil, Wellbutrin, all increase dopamine levels, so over time, its reserves are depleted. This is a deception: dopamine increases and then decreases. The same thing happens with drugs. If you are addicted, the dopamine reserves will be depleted, and this forces you to take more and more of them over time. insulin. Sugar depletes dopamine reserves. Stress depletes dopamine reserves. Adrenal cortisol depletes dopamine reserves. If a person has low stomach acidity, they cannot digest proteins, resulting in difficulties with the production of all neurotransmitters.  A deficiency of many neurotransmitters is developing. I'm talking about how to know if the acidity in the stomach is low. Do you suffer from heartburn, acid reflux, or indigestion? These are signs that you may have low stomach acidity. With age, you need more of it. Simply taking apple cider vinegar or betaine hydrochloride can increase neurotransmitter reserves. Further stress on the adrenal glands. The internal part of the adrenal glands produces dopamine. So, if the adrenal glands are burned out or exhausted and the required level of dopamine is not there, chronic stress depletes neurotransmitter reserves, and not just dopamine, but all neurotransmitters. What can be done about this, of course, is to consume less caffeine and alcohol, no drugs, no sugar, reduce stress, increase acidity, support the adrenal glands from the inside. You can take tyrosine, a natural amino acid, for low dopamine levels. You can also take l-theanine, for low dopamine levels. It will help replenish the reserve. This is a natural amino acid. Vitamin D. Get more sun to restore dopamine reserves. Vitamins B6 and B5 are Two B vitamins are necessary for the production of this neurotransmitter. I've already said in other videos that all this depletes the reserves of these nutrients, so they may not be needed if you stop doing this. This exercise increases dopamine levels. As you can see, this problem can be combated. I just wanted you to learn more about the hormone behind it. If you have the symptoms I mentioned, you need to take action. Thanks for watching. Take 5. Let's go, and Hollywood is crying for me. Click the subscribe button. Let's throw this out until next time, and I'll be there. Click yes, you will receive notifications. I definitely remembered. Click the button below to receive notifications about new videos.