Let's discuss five mistakes that dieters make when trying to speed up their metabolism and when we talk about metabolism we mean the rate at which fat fuel is burned. So this is the topic for today, number one. The first mistake associated with trying to speed up metabolism is trying to speed up metabolism. Understand that a slow metabolism is not actually slow but economical. Efficiency means that the car uses less fuel more efficiently. This is a slow metabolism. It is not necessarily slowed down, it is simply adapted to work with less fuel longer. This is good. If you are trying to survive without food, but this is bad. If you are trying to lose weight, stimulate metabolism with caffeine, some herbal stimulant or drug, this is very bad because because of this, the metabolism will burn out, the adrenal glands will burn out, perhaps at first. You will lose a little weight, but over time, fatigue and many different problems will appear. Number two. The second mistake is going on a diet. I am talking about a low-calorie diet. Your body will only adapt again to fewer calories and become even more economical. I guarantee that if you take anyone over 40-50 6 and who has similar  Slow metabolism will turn out that in the past he was on a low-calorie diet, because of this, the metabolism becomes very economical and the body no longer needs much fuel to work, perhaps your soulmate. You can eat a lot and not gain weight, but as soon as you eat a little, you gain weight because your body has adapted. Diet, reducing calories simply makes the metabolism be more economical. Number three, perhaps, if this is keeping the fire in the fire of metabolism with six meals a day and under no circumstances skip meals, because this will slow down the metabolism and this is absolutely not true. If you eat more or more often, this does not maintain the flame of metabolism, does not stimulate it and does not speed up anything, because every time you throw food into this flame, you stimulate insulin. insulin is a switch that determines what type of fuel will be burned. For those who do not know, if you want to burn fat, I think the goal is just to force the body to burn fat and not glucose reserves. Otherwise, there will be a feeling of hunger and cravings for food. Then you need to burn fat, then you will live on fat. And if you have a lot of it, your appetite will go away and you will be able to go without eating longer.  but to do this you need to lower your insulin levels you need to eat less carbohydrates this is the only way to start burning fat because insulin is one of the main fat storing hormones and even a small amount of it can prevent you from starting to burn fat So reducing carbohydrates in your diet is one of the most important actions and number four avoid Petra I'll tell you a short story about one patient This woman came to see me I'm not kidding I'm telling it like it is she trained it seems from 6 to 7 hours a day in the gym 7 days a week it's like a full time job and suddenly she began to gain weight and she was beside herself because no matter what she did she couldn't lose weight and any talk about training less made her even more angry this is a classic example of training because of overtraining the body does not have time to recover and think about this When you train you actually do not necessarily burn a lot of fat fat burning occurs in the recovery phase Here's another story a lady came to me she weighed 250 kilos and wanted to lose weight but she decided not to work with me instead she started going to the gym with  friend and train to lose weight well A year later she came to my office again she was very depressed and even looked a little plump she told me that she lifted I do n’t remember how many thousands of kilos in weight in a year she trained, it seems, three times a week for 2 hours That’s how much effort she had to put in, it seems, she said that she lost half a kilo or a kilo, but she was very depressed Here’s another example of overtraining and the real problem of this woman was that she couldn’t sleep she didn’t get any benefit in the recovery phase after training because she couldn’t sleep she was simply overtrained and it was just terrible I just helped her solve her sleep problem and it seems within 3 months she lost a lot of weight and began to look great and number five protein shakes that everyone advises drinking to stimulate metabolism well here’s information about protein Yes, protein really stimulates three fat-burning hormones, but the quality of the protein is a very, very important factor protein shakes are often not of the best quality usually they are made from purified protein powder not natural even whey protein powder is not Natural, all the fat has been removed from it, it is very lean, it has one of the highest insulin indices. And we need to lower insulin levels. So, instead of cocktails, I recommend real meat as a source of protein. Animal protein is the best, the ideal protein is soy protein isolate. I am strongly against this. I see that some people lose weight on this protein, but they look bad. They look shabby, they have dry hair. Unhealthy skin is not the best means for losing weight. Here is a very important principle: you should not lose weight to become healthy, but become healthy to lose weight. Just work on becoming healthy by using fat as fuel, you will lose weight. But realize that first you need to bring your body into a state of ketosis. This will take some time, and you will understand that you are in ketosis because your appetite has disappeared, you no longer have cravings for anything. You can fast intermittently, go without food for longer, but since you have adapted to burning fat, this will not be stressful for you, your metabolism will not become more efficient because of this. Think about this: let's say you have a very fuel-efficient car, so to speak.  Someone with a slow metabolism and you have a Hummer is essentially a fuel guzzler, it really spends fuel, this is what you need, you need to create a body that burns a lot of fat in order to get rid of this fat, you don’t need to create a more fuel- efficient body unless you are in a place where there is little food, then this would be good. Like in the reality show Naked and Afraid, where you have to get your own food. A person with a very fuel-efficient metabolism would survive in such an environment much better, perhaps an fuel-efficient metabolism would be a plus. If you were filming this show, otherwise, this is not the best idea. We need to burn a lot of fat fuel. This can be done in ketosis by reducing carbohydrate intake. We need to burn fat as fuel. How to do this: Moderate consumption of high-quality protein stimulates glucagon, growth hormone and testosterone, and high-intensity interval training. Lots of rest and good recovery stimulate adrenaline, which also helps burn fat, but it is much more important to understand what to avoid. It is much more important to understand what to avoid than what you need to eat. There are two fat-storing hormones, the main one is insulin, which stimulates carbohydrates. So you need to eat little of them. And Cortisol is a hormone that stores fat, especially in the waist area. It even converts body proteins into sugar, which is then converted into fat, mostly fat. The fat-storing effect of cortisol is due to the fact that it ultimately stimulates insulin. So, keeping stress low through exercise, walking, and sleep is extremely important. Another question is what you need to eat to be healthy. To find out, just look at the nutrition recommendations. Nutrition recommendations compiled under the influence of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. They present scientifically based data on nutrition and food therapy. Most of their authors are nutritionists. Other nutritionists, their assistants, have the greatest influence on food policy, on the basis of which this food pyramid was created. These nutrition recommendations, which are considered healthy, say that half of the plate should be cereals and the other half fruits and vegetables, and that you need to eat protein, which is low in fat. If you go to this site, you will see at the very top that this is a trusted source of information on nutrition, but you know, I have only one tiny problem with it. There is a man named Ruskin, he requested documents under the Freedom of Information Act.  and he received 80,000 documents of electronic correspondence between the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and food industry enterprises. Many of them point to a close connection between the two groups. This is how I would use this site. I would look at what they advise and do exactly the opposite. So you will really learn what a healthy diet consists of and to find out which foods are really healthy, you need to watch this video N.