awesome recipe from the Koran and Eric and here we are again hi today we are making khash for dad and when you say and shoes dishes and when you say we I mean you exactly well many think that you are naked and have to give up a whole bunch of dishes some sacrifices and infringements are needed but not in the house of the biorgs well oh well ok khash pobed a simple recipe but the dish turns out very tasty in my opinion usually khash for dad is made from corn corn and these from what and love atrox wow you know what I like that salt I don't remember it being in the recipe but at the end I salted them on top just sea salt and a useful thing that's the thing carno to do salt is needed what is your business there salt is important I think people eat chips because they like the salty taste yes of course that's why it is very important to hide the chips if a person has become addicted to chips and we Karen a long time ago last week I'm kidding sometimes she brought the kids chips I said hide the damned things they  They were so delicious, I just needed salt. I could eat 3 pieces, put the pack aside, and I ate the pack in 1, and then he says, Karen, hide the chips. You talk like that. Hide the chips. You know that in college I devoured a mega-pack of Doritos in one sitting. This giant bag. You know my weaknesses. The funniest thing is that I hid them, hid them in a bathroom cabinet or something. The next day he comes with these chips and I'm like, "What's wrong with you? Did you hide them so badly?" He worried the whole house looking for them. That's why it's so important, especially when you're on chum salmon, to consume at least a teaspoon of salt a day because otherwise you'll want chips. Sea salt, I do n't know where it is. Salt really prevents, gets a grip, relieves weakness, fatigue, helps with muscle cramps, and in general, the group has a sign of symptoms, and some are drawn to fat. They take bread and scoop up fat with it. Dakar, I have a very topical question. By the way, what do you think of our bag? It's very tasty.  I'll take another good one then look at the recipe for ketu hash papa 110 grams of almond flour a tablespoon of baking powder half a tablespoon of ground garlic mix well 60 grams of cheddar cheese a large egg 120 milliliters of low-fat cream mix well 8-10 drops of Stevie and chop 4 stalks of green onions add the onions to the dough mix well add a pinch of salt heat half a liter of oil to 175 degrees over medium heat use an ice cream scoop to form a ball and drop it into the oil and fry until golden brown for the sauce 2 tablespoons of mayonnaise 4 tablespoons of sour cream a tablespoon of chili sauce like Sriracha mix well