Hello everyone, let's start with answering questions on social networks. James from Facebook, what do you think about eating tomato peels? They are considered harmful. Do you need to peel tomatoes before eating them? No, you also need to eat the peels. There are not many nutrients, such as lycopene, and it is very useful for the prostate. It has a lot of benefits for cancer. Yes, I remember once we had a lot of tomatoes, my wife was going to can them and said, "I'll peel them." But I said, "No, leave the peels on, I'll eat them." I want to eat them with the peels because there are excellent nutrients in the peels of many fruits, vegetables, and other plants. Rebecca from Facebook asks well. Is it possible to breastfeed on chum salmon and during fasting? Well, I recommend not going to any extremes. The main thing is to get the right nutrients. So, I would eat more than once a day, but maybe twice a day without snacks, three times a day without snacks, because this is the most important time when you need to get the most nutrients, so there is no need for any extremes, and at the same time, you need to get enough of the very important ones. Nutrients are firstly vitamin A also magnesium zinc enough protein let's say you get little vitamin K2 because you don't eat some foods or little vitamin D then the child may develop subclinical bone problems he may have bow legs X-shaped legs scoliosis lordosis fos various deviations in the development of the spine And probably he will need braces So the combination of trace elements all cofactors for proteins and fat-soluble vitamins for a child is vitally important and in breastfeeding mothers apparently often there is not enough vitamin D in breast milk That's why children are recommended to give liquid vitamin D I highly recommend and this is extremely important You should take from 8000 to 10,000 vitamin D3 every day if you breastfeed so that the child has enough vitamin D otherwise there will be a deficiency there will be problems Here is your answer here is your answer Laura asks with tuba if there are symptoms of vitamin deficiency she does not say what dose is recommended to take daily and whether it is possible to take it with food you need to take it with food you can also without food if it  In oil, after all, it is fat-soluble, but I think the prophylactic dose is 10,000 e and there are a thousand reasons for that. Even 10,000. So, 10,000 is a prophylactic dose and this is a non-toxic dose. If you need to fix something, then the therapeutic dose will be even higher, and we get 10,000 vitamin D3 in 20 minutes in the summer sun. It is toxic, no, fortunately. So, someone from the tube asks with Nick with Nick Mona, I apologize, what do you think about using sunscreens to protect against ultraviolet radiation? I do not recommend them. I do not like them. Unless you have extremely fair skin and you are unable to tan. This happens, then you need to take vitamin D. If this is not your case, I strongly advise against using sunscreens. People have become afraid of the sun. The sun is dangerous. In theory, in the Eighties, the incidence of skin cancer, especially melanoma, should have fallen, but it continued to grow. I believe that melanoma is a type of skin cancer caused by a deficiency.  Vitamin D, but read about it yourself. So, sunbathe until your skin is slightly pink, and then get out of the sun, no need to. Just be in the sun to tan over time. The sun is very beneficial. So, you don't need sunscreen except perhaps in cases where there is nowhere to hide from the sun, that's another matter, but don't overdo it. After all, they block the conversion. And some sunscreens don't block the ultraviolet light that harms us, but only the one needed to produce vitamin D. There are three types of ultraviolet light. So, watch my videos about this. Be sure to watch the video. In the meantime, let's find out the quiz question for today. Why do even non-toxic doses of vitamin D cause negative reactions in some people? Dear viewers, we are waiting for your answers. Let's return to social networks. Swap asks on Facebook. Oh, these nicknames. Can you advise something to a person with fibromyalgia? I can. If the pain in the right upper quadrant is not fibromyalgia, the bile ducts are blocked and there is bile sediment in them, you need to take tuka, it will relieve it.  bile ducts and then the pain will disappear right away that you thought was fibromyalgia, especially here. Of course, you need to change your diet, but there is another type of fibromyalgia. It is caused by a virus that has come out of hibernation, such as the Epstein-Barr virus or the cytochrome P450 virus. Since you were stressed and now the virus is active, and now you have a mild infection, but something like systemic inflammation. In this case, increase your vitamin D dose. Start a stress management program. Get plenty of sleep, take walks in nature, exercise to reduce stress, and fibromyalgia should go away if it's a virus. Today we have very interesting questions. Ayda from Facebook writes about copper. Does wearing copper bracelets or other copper items promote healing? I'll add absorption. I think it promotes healing of certain things in a certain way, but it doesn't solve the big iron problem in people. Tracy Rambla. Are there any remedies for chronic dizziness at 72 years old on a Keto diet without any sugar at all? What do you recommend? Metal testing is not specified. Was this before ketone? Watch my latest video about dizziness and use the method shown there. But you need to take more vitamin D3 to remove calcium crystals that do not stabilize near the cilia in the vestibular apparatus that help us maintain balance. That calcium deposits are released and float there, they need to be eliminated, and vitamin D helps absorb calcium. This is one point. Watch these videos to find out all the data. Where should people search for these videos? YouTube sometimes deletes them. What should they do? Look for them on my website dog.com. There you will find all my videos. And besides, I want to say that all my videos about cancer are on Rambler. I also want to say that some recent videos were deleted because there are certain things that I cannot talk about. You will also find them on Rambler. I will not give their names, otherwise they will delete this video too. Look for our videos on Rambler. Get all the knowledge. Mandel asks from Facebook. Do you have any thoughts on using Rana to treat schizophrenia? It is a terrible disease. I have thoughts about this.  but I won't say anything about them, I'm kidding, I think this is an acceptable therapy, but there is something better: high doses of vitamin D3. Read Hoffe's study, it's amazing, in essence, he says that schizophrenia is a deficiency of vitamin D3. Wow, that's very encouraging. So, the quiz question today was: Why do some people even have negative reactions to non-toxic doses of vitamin D? 78% answered that the reason is a magnesium deficiency, 12% said it's a vitamin K2 deficiency, and 10% said it's a zinc deficiency. How smart our viewers are. Great. The thing is, quite a lot of people, well, I would say about five percent or less, have a reaction to vitamin D. Sometimes right away, sometimes later, everything is fine, and then suddenly they have cramps, leg cramps, they may have hallucinations, confusion, an altered gait, high blood pressure, a lot of different symptoms, and they think it's vitamin D toxicity, but that's not true. You need more cofactors such as magnesium, zinc, vitamin K2. When is the dose of vitamin D increased? And if you start taking vitamin D?  D according to the protocol and you have a slight magnesium deficiency, this deficiency will worsen and you will have symptoms of deficiency of this cofactor D, take magnesium K2 and this will not be just terrible. If you do not know this and think vitamin D is toxic, I will stop taking it and you stop taking exactly what you need, but you do not understand that you have a deficiency of these cofactors and the problem remains. So it is very important to have the right data to help your body, but unfortunately, it is difficult to get the right data because of this fear. Vitamin D Oh my God, it is toxic. Vitamin D3 very, very rarely causes a toxic effect very rarely.