Today I will tell you about the best remedy that will get rid of tartar and protect against its occurrence. What is tartar? These are yellowish hard calcium formations on the inner surface of the teeth. Because of it, gums can become inflamed and bad breath can appear. Upon closer examination, it turns out that tartar is a colony of bacteria inside a kind of mucus that is covered with calcium. This is a way for microorganisms to survive in nature. More than 95% of bacteria in nature survive in biofilm. If you go to the forest, find a stream there and take a stone out of the water, you will see that it is covered with a thin layer of mucus. This is biofilm. Even in a pool, if there is not enough chlorine or its natural substitutes, the bottom of certain bacteria becomes covered with mucus over time. Biofilms are not only bacteria, there are some yeast fungi and Candida, and they are not on a diet. In other words, they love carbohydrates, they ferment carbohydrates in the mouth and then secrete lactic acid, creating an acidic environment in the oral cavity.  and the acid is already capable of corroding calcium and destroying the tooth, causing caries and increasing tooth wear. I will tell you about the best toothpaste for tartar that you can make at home. It turns out very inexpensive, but effective and natural. When they studied the mummies of the ancient Egyptians in the tombs, they noticed that their teeth were not very good, there were many problems, probably the reason for this is a lot of beer and bread in their diet. And this is ideal food for bacteria in the mouth. The paste they used consisted of ash from ox hooves, burnt eggshells and volcanic ash. A good mixture, but perhaps too abrasive. The ancient Greeks had a different toothpaste recipe; they made it from burnt eggshells and talc powder. Talc is a mixture of magnesium and silicon. Salt and honey were also added to it. The Romans used crushed oyster shell bones, charcoal and a little bark. In my opinion, this formula is too abrasive and can increase tooth wear. My formula is not at all abrasive. Take clove oil, peppermint oil, or cinnamon oil, or turmeric powder. In a small container, add three drops of one of the oils, or a pinch of turmeric if you choose it. Next, you need to add hydrogen peroxide to this container, just a quarter teaspoon, 1.25 ml. The peculiarity of hydrogen peroxide is that the body itself produces it to kill bacteria and other microbes. So this is not something unfamiliar to the body. Hydrogen peroxide is a strong antimicrobial agent; it suppresses biofilms. The next ingredient is baking soda. You probably think that soda is too rough and aggressive. But in fact, it has very low abrasiveness, that is, in fact, abrasive properties. There is a so-called abrasiveness index or relative abrasiveness of dentin, a substance under the teeth. RDA. The abrasiveness index is a kind of rating system that shows how much something can destroy teeth, and on this scale, the baking soda index is Seven, and for regular toothpaste it is somewhere between 1 and 2. So  Baking soda will not wear down your teeth. Baking soda is sodium bicarbonate. It adds alkali, interacts with acids and helps neutralize them. It is also a substance that the body itself creates to compensate for the action of some acids. So, hydrogen peroxide and sodium bicarbonate are substances that the body produces. Take a quarter teaspoon of baking soda, then add either raw honey or manuka honey, just a quarter teaspoon, you do n’t need much. The main thing is that it’s unprocessed because processing kills what fights biofilm. Raw honey also contains hydrogen peroxide. Manuka honey doesn’t contain hydrogen peroxide, but there are other things that are in short supply in regular unprocessed honey. In our case, then add half a glass of water, which is 120 ml. Mix everything well and you can brush your teeth with this with a soft- bristled toothbrush. This will save your teeth and destroy the film that becomes tartar. Do this twice a day. There is also research on the interesting properties of vitamin K2, it can also Preventing tartar formation is a bit of a mixed bag, but I've heard from many people who swear that when they take K2, their teeth become smooth on the inside. Vitamin K2's job is to move calcium from soft tissues to bones, and since vitamin K2 is something new and important, I think you should learn more about it by watching this video.