What happens if you drink lemon water every day for 30 days?  We talk all the time about high blood pressure and rarely about low blood pressure, when the blood volume in the body is too low.  In the morning, when we wake up, our blood volume is at its lowest compared to the end of the day.  When there is little blood, you may feel dizzy when standing up quickly, and your blood pressure may be low.  If you compare a professional athlete with an ordinary person who does not train, the athlete has 50% more blood volume than the ordinary person. Their training results are different, and they feel different.  I do n't like drinking anything in the morning at all. If I drink something in the morning, I feel somehow wrong.  I only drink coffee and nothing else until midday. Finally, I figured out what the reason was and I want to offer a solution.  If you drink just water, especially in the morning when your blood volume is lowest, you will simply dilute the electrolytes in your body, especially sodium.  And this is a mistake that leads to dehydration, because blood volume depends on more than just water.  You also need to add salt, which helps retain water in the blood.   A pinch of sea salt and lemon will help you feel much better, especially after 30 days.  It is good to drink this an hour before training.  Some people need to add even more salt.  If you look at circadian rhythms over a 24-hour period, you'll find that cortisol is highest at 8 a.m.  It is at its highest in the morning.  Do you know what can lower cortisol?  You guessed right.  Some people eat a little salt at night to lower cortisol and sleep better.  In the morning, when its levels are high, it can increase feelings of stress, as well as glucose production by the liver, which affects blood sugar.  Remember, salt helps lower cortisol, and salt in the morning can mean a stress-free start to the day, along with plenty of fluids to give you energy for your workouts.  And if you feel dizzy when you stand up suddenly, it will go away when you have enough liquid.  These are the benefits of salt.  I would choose pink Dimalay salt.  If you are prone to high blood pressure and need magnesium and potassium, you can buy Bach Gold salts.  It contains only 70% sodium, the rest is other minerals.  Now let's talk about the benefits of lemon.  Take a fresh lemon, cut it in half and squeeze the juice from both halves.  getting the juice of a whole lemon.  Fresh lemon contains vitamin C, which is not found in bottled lemon juice .  Vitamin C is beneficial for the skin and as an antioxidant for blood vessels.  Yes, it's not always convenient to mess around with lemon, and a bottle of lemon juice in the refrigerator is more convenient.  I recommend organic lemons and lemon juice.  After all, you don't need pesticides in this drink.  Interestingly, if you spray lemons or limes, they absorb pesticides. Citric acid is also useful.  Citric acid helps reduce the risk of kidney stones because it binds to axolates and reduces the likelihood of axalate stones forming.  Lemon may also reduce the likelihood of developing gout by lowering uric acid levels.  So it is good for the kidneys.  And some of its phytonutrients improve the first and second phases of liver detoxification, which remove toxins from the body.  Lemon also affects the release of bile due to its sour taste.  It helps thin bile and reduces the risk of gallstones. By improving liver detoxification, it also helps the stomach.  The combination of lemon and salt is very beneficial for digestion.  It stimulates digestive enzymes and juices, improving the entire process.  The properties of lemon also help solve cholesterol problems.  Lemon provides antioxidants for blood vessels, reducing the risk of some heart problems. Polyphenols in lemon increase microbiome diversity.  The intestinal microflora begins to feel great.  Both lemon and salt have antimicrobial properties.  Lemons may also help enhance the absorption of non-heme iron.  This is iron in plants.  So lemon juice can help with anemia.  And here's another thing.  If you are prone to kidney stones, take additional magnesium and potassium.  Don't make the same mistake.  If you drink lemon water in the usual way for a long time , the acid can negatively affect your tooth enamel.  So use a straw.  And when you finish drinking, rinse your mouth with water.  I myself drink water with salt and lemon immediately after my morning coffee.  I also sometimes take a whole organic lemon, with the peel and seeds, and blend it with a glass of water. Then I add a pinch of sea salt.  The thing is, lemon peel has a lot of additional benefits.  Just under the skin are bioflavonoids that are beneficial in many ways.  For some people, salt water with lemon may be too acidic. Then add a couple of drops of liquid stevia.  This turns the sour drink into an amazing lemonade.  Kids will love it too.  You can also add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar if you want even more benefits.  Anyway, I just wanted to give you some helpful advice.   Please let me know if this helped you.  Don't know what to drink with chum salmon?  Wondering if a drink will break your fast? Diversify your diet with the book Healthy Drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar or harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes.  There is benefit in every ingredient. Order the book Healthy Drinks using the link below.