I've tried some of the most extreme celebrity biohacks.  And today I'll tell you about the results, my experience, and how to get almost the same results for a fraction of the price.  After all, some of these things are very expensive. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. I'm a guinea pig.  I have tried many more therapies than those on this list, but these therapies are usually mentioned in the news about various celebrities.  They are based on a very simple mechanism.  We stress the body to activate certain biochemical pathways that help it heal faster or more effectively.  But understand that the source of healing is the body itself, not external factors.  External factors are epigenetics.  which can trigger this healing mechanism.  Let's get started. Number one.  Peptides.   A peptide is essentially an instruction to the body what to do.  Peptides are used by many athletes, celebrities and people with a wide variety of problems.  I have been trying peptides for osteoarthritis due to injuries from years of playing sports, riding motorcycles, etc.  These are injectable peptides.  I entered them myself.  Peptides are a completely new field.  It takes time to conduct research and understand what peptides are truly capable of. I injected peptides several years ago.  I have only tried two types of peptides. One is called like this. This peptide sends signals to the body to improve joint health, accelerate blood flow, and restore tendons and nerves.  I used it mainly for arthritis.  To be honest, I didn't feel much of a change.  I also tried a peptide called Thymasin alpha1. It has a greater effect on the immune system, reducing inflammation, especially chronic inflammation. I wanted to know if it would help with arthritis.  Many people swear by these peptides and see great results.  They didn't help me much , but I found that myofascial release worked better for my arthritis .  Every night before bed I do a series of exercises that include stretching not only my joints but also my fascia.  Fascia, like a wetsuit, envelops the entire body.  These stretches helped me more than anything else.  And, of course, omega-3 fatty acids. Cod liver is very important and no seed oils.  But so far, fascia stretching has definitely helped me with arthritis the most .  Number two.  Stem cells.  This is an interesting topic. Many people undergo stem cell therapy.  I went to a clinic in Los Angeles that uses very advanced technology to extract stem cells from a patient's fat.  I had to gain weight so that I would have some fat in my belly from which to extract stem cells.  The stem cells are separated using a centrifuge, extracted, and then injected into you while you are unconscious.  It is very expensive, unlike other types of stem cell therapy, where various animals are used as a source of stem cells and then they are given to you. I tried that too.  It's cheaper.  Personally, I haven't noticed any big changes. I definitely felt some improvements.  I don't think I would do this again.  But again, I went there because I saw a lot of success stories.  Many people swear that this was simply a miracle for them .  But I did it to cope with arthritis.  And I had 125 injections in my spine and also in my elbow.  and shoulder. It was pretty tough.  And the recovery was also difficult.  After that, everything hurts a little, and you have to walk slowly.  I remember I had to stay in Los Angeles for a couple of days.  I was wearing sweatpants and an oversized shirt. After the stem cell collection, there was not a single living place on me.  I walked down Hollywood Boulevard, shuffling like an old man.  I couldn't take a shower right away. The hair was disheveled. I walked and hoped that no one would recognize me. And so I walk along and see a very, very expensive natural food store.  I went there, bought some groceries, and, of course, there was a whole group of people having lunch near the store.  Hey, Dr. Burke, how are you?  I have watched all your videos.  I'm fine, but I look like an old man, like I just woke up.   I walk like a cole and hope that no one recognizes me.  Overall, stem cells are a very interesting topic.  They can be activated in a different way.  I wouldn't discourage people from using them, as I've heard amazing things about them.  Personally, they didn't help my arthritis the way myofacial stretching does. Stem cells are immature cells that have not yet developed into anything. These undifferentiated cells can transform into any cells the body needs .  into new employees. Stem cells can also be stimulated through prolonged fasting.  3 days of fasting can trigger a massive surge in stem cells, and it's completely free.  Fasting is very inexpensive.  Anyone can afford it.  By the way, if you are fasting for a long time and want to benefit from stem cells, heal and cleanse your cells, this is called autophagy.  If you are fasting for a long time only to lose weight, then you need to exercise intensively if you can do it. But, as a rule, there is no need to go to extremes, because you are in healing mode. You need to rest so that your body can do its job, heal and repair itself.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Next comes a very interesting topic. Interval hypoxic hyperoxic training. You exercise on a treadmill or an exercise bike. In this case, you put on a mask connected to a machine that controls the oxygen supply.  You warm up when you put this mask on.  And at some point you flip the switch to reduce the oxygen supply for a very short time, maybe 30 seconds, maybe up to 1 minute, but start with gentle modes.  And then we simply flood the body with oxygen, increasing its proportion to 80%. We give the cells plenty of oxygen while continuing to exercise.  And here's what's very curious. We induce mild oxygen deprivation, simulating training at high altitude.  The cells begin to lack oxygen, and over time, we even develop new capillaries and the vascular system expands.  After all, this stress forces the body to compensate for it.  And we literally pump oxygen into those areas of the body that at some point lacked oxygen, especially in areas of inflammation.  When there is inflammation, there is always a lack of oxygen, and this is an excellent way to speed up recovery and eliminate inflammation.  But of course I did the same thing as I always do.  Reduced the oxygen content and overdid it a bit.  And then I literally had an immune reaction for 2 weeks .  After all, we either decrease or increase blood flow where toxins may be , and this causes an immune reaction.  So if you do this , do it gradually and slowly.  I did it to increase my VO2 max, the body's ability to use oxygen, but it's an expensive machine, $10,000.  Almost the same effect can be achieved with an inexpensive hypoxic mask.  I think they're called altitude training masks.  There, on the monitor, you can set the resistance of inhaled air to simulate different altitudes.  I have a mask like this, I use it too. You can run a short distance, restricting your air supply, and then open your mask and breathe.  This mask is affordable for everyone .  I highly recommend it so that your body can adapt and you get more benefits.  The next point is ozone therapy. I had a procedure where they take your blood, run it through an ozone machine, and then put the blood back in.  As a result, ozonized blood flows through the vessels .  This procedure provides a very deep cleansing of the body and is excellent for fighting hidden infections, but you can achieve a similar effect to ozone therapy by simply exercising, visiting a sauna, eating cruciferous vegetables, and doing intermittent and long-term fasting. All this strengthens the body's detoxification systems .  Next, dry fasting.  Dry fasting is when you don't eat or drink anything.  You probably immediately thought, "Wow, that's dangerous. Apparently, a person can only survive without water for 3 days. But I'm a guinea pig." Of course I had to do it, because I was told not to do it.  This has long been my second nature.  Tell me not to do something, I will definitely do it. There are groups that practice dry fasting.  They fast for literally 11 days straight, sometimes longer.  Dry fasting has a more powerful effect on the body and activates many survival genes that were likely never turned on before. Experiments have shown, especially with people who had cancer, that a type of dry fasting helped to get rid of cancer faster.  But again, this must be done gradually.  It was very strange to go to bed that evening knowing that I hadn't had anything to drink.  I was able to do that.  But the problem was that I was working in the garden when it was hot and I was sweating.  I needed to rest in a cool place. I don't recommend doing this unless you have a clear understanding of what you're doing and you're being watched.  After all, this is a lot of stress for the body.  And the last thing about dry fasting.  This is amazing. When we don't drink water, we actually burn more fat.  The fat is actually converted into water.  1 kg of fat is converted into more than 1 kg of water.   Isn't it strange?  This is biological water.  It also has a healing effect. We are constantly told: "You must constantly drink water, otherwise you will die." You must drink, drink, drink, drink. But in ancient times, people did not drink so much water all the time. They drank, and then didn't drink for a while.  I always ask, is it good to drink water all the time?  This can deprive you of minerals, especially sodium, and create another problem.  And with dry fasting, the effect of fasting is much stronger.  And people say that dry fasting brings them great benefits. You can read about it yourself.  Okay, let's discuss ice baths.  I have a bathtub like this.  I don't cool the water below 10°.  I tried, couldn’t, stopped at 10°. You might even want to start with 15°. The point is that we change the body temperature to create stress and trigger a healing effect.  And I've noticed that with my arthritis, it has a powerful effect on inflammation.  It's very painful, especially in the beginning.  After all, every cell in the body says: “Don’t do this, don’t do this.”  And I just tell my body: "You will plunge, you have no choice." And I dive in.  And here you need to concentrate on your breathing, because the belibega mechanism is activated , and you breathe.  I don't put my forearms in the water, otherwise they get very cold.  And I can sit in such water for 5 minutes.  I wasn't able to do this right away, but if you do it several times a week, it's super helpful.  And most importantly, I noticed that it affects the brain the most.  I feel that my attention, my concentration, my memory are becoming much better.  If I have to shoot a video, I have to think clearly.  So I take an ice bath and then I shoot a video.  And this video requires almost no editing. Everything works out right away.  And my mood also improves dramatically, I become happier.  Incredible.  This is what's going on here. The body must maintain 37°. You go down into this icy water and your body has to generate a lot of heat.  How does he do it?  With the help of mitochondria.  Instead of producing energy, mitochondria produce heat, which is something else.  At the same time, it expends a lot of energy, and this is what you need if you want to lose weight.  After all, if there is excess fat in the body, it has become a very economical machine.  He doesn't want to waste this energy, he saves it.  So, hardening , as well as other methods such as training, helps to spend it.  Instead of a bath, you can take a cold shower and you can cool only part of the body, not the whole thing.  This is a little easier to do.  So, all these extreme celebrity biohacks work by creating stress on the body, forcing it to then repair itself better.  I would like to offer you a free document.  My daily actions in the form of a checklist.  I do all this every day and feel 18, even though I'm 60. I give it away for free. There is a link below.  Go ahead and download. Dr. Berg's workshop course. Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience , which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a keto coach, help people and achieve huge success.  Work from home on your own schedule.  Do what you like.  Sign up for the course using the link below.