This video is an expanded version of my older video about natural antibiotic drinks. My advice is not a substitute for medical care. Consult a doctor before doing what I show you. I will give you a formula for the composition that you can make. This is a homemade drink that you can drink at the first sign of illness, whether it be a sore throat, exhaustion, or stress. Here are a few things to know when to drink it. If you are taking an antibiotic, you know that it only kills bacteria. It does not kill viruses, Candida, fungi, or anything like that. You will be taking a remedy for any microorganisms. For this, we will borrow very strong substances from plants. Plants produced complex, amazing compounds with all sorts of properties. Long before humans appeared, plants cannot run. They are tied to one point. They have to create all sorts of defense mechanisms to survive in a difficult battle, not only with bacteria, but also with fungi, viruses, pests, and so on. We will take these substances from them and use them for our own benefit. So, this is not exactly an antibiotic, but a remedy for all microorganisms, bacteria, viruses, parasites.  and it has much fewer side effects than antibiotics, to which resistance sometimes occurs when you use the antimicrobial properties of plants. There is no such resistance. There are no such side effects. When they talk about herbal remedies, they are classified as alternative medicine, but in fact, pharmaceutical companies borrow many ideas from plants. Medicine came from Mother Nature, so in my opinion, modern medicine is actually alternative medicine, and primary medicine is based on natural remedies. But you also need to understand that if you have a fever, you don’t need to immediately run and take medications to quickly lower it because fever is part of a normal immune response, and immunity is your best weapon against infections. Many don’t talk about this and don’t attach importance to it, but it is the immune system that fights the disease. We only use natural substances to strengthen the immune system’s defenses, and if you take something to relieve fever, it may turn out that the infection will last much longer and it will be more difficult for you to overcome the disease. The next point is the most important, so if you get distracted, come back. This is very important. Stress. If you are currently under stress, and if you  You are sick, you have it because stress always provokes the suppression of the immune system. You should reduce stress in any way possible. Why is this because stress activates cortisol, and in the presence of high cortisol, the immune system cannot function, it goes on pause. This means that pathogens can very easily take over the body, so the problem of stress and cortisol must be solved. You also need to know that there is a natural form of cortisol that can be used, vitamin D. This is actually not a vitamin, but a hormone. So, the more you are in the sun or take vitamin D, the better your immune system works, and you get the benefits of cortisol, but without the side effects. Because vitamin D does not paralyze the immune system, it regulates it, it does not allow an excessive immune response, and at the same time helps to strengthen the immune system. It enhances the immune system's ability to fight back. So, we use several components that we mix in a blender and pour into half-liter jars and store it all in the refrigerator. Over time, the mixture will become more powerful due to fermentation. We need garlic. It contains certain phytonutrients. It contains thirty-three additional sulfur-containing substances that directly give  Garlic has an antimicrobial effect. It's the most important ingredient. It's also a powerful antimicrobial. You'll also need turmeric, which is probably second only to garlic in antimicrobial properties. We need its active ingredient, curcumin. We'll also take apple cider vinegar. In the first video, I recommended taking two glasses, but I think it's strong, so we'll take much less. Apple cider vinegar will help increase the body's acidity to strengthen phagocytes, the cells that help get rid of infection and fight germs. Bagats, and you can stimulate by increasing acidity. We'll also take a whole lemon, peel and all, and chop it up. This will give us a very powerful complex of vitamin C and bioflavonoids for immunity. So, you do n't need lemon juice, but the whole lemon. You need to add a special type of honey to this mixture. Manuka honey. I didn't recommend it in the first video, but in this one, I'll recommend it, just a little bit, because it has very strong antimicrobial properties. The benefits and pros of this honey significantly outweigh the cons.  and the downside is that it interferes with the ketogenic diet. This mod contains a very interesting substance, methyl glyoxal, and hydrogen peroxide can greatly speed up the process. Here's how to prepare the mixture: take 15 cloves of garlic. No need to crush them with a press because they will be crushed in a blender. So, 15 cloves, take a whole lemon, an organic lemon, and put it in a blender. Take one tablespoon of ground turmeric. Then grate a quarter cup of ginger. Take the ginger and grate it to get about a quarter cup. Put it in a blender. The taste will be very spicy. Now take a quarter cup of Manuka honey and pour it into a blender. Add two tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil. Why? Because the oil will help extract fat-soluble substances from these plants. Instead of olive oil, you can also use coconut oil. You need to take a little more than a heaping teaspoon and place it in a blender to extract fat-soluble substances. This is what we use for when we water salads. Carotenoids are plant substances in the leaves.  Salads are fat- soluble. To break them down, you need fat. Now measure out about 100 milliliters of apple cider vinegar, pour it into a blender, and then add a glass of water. Mix everything in the blender for one or two minutes. Then pour the mixture into a half-liter jar, then add more water until the jar is full, leaving about a centimeter from the edge. Close the jar tightly with a lid and put it in the refrigerator. You can use the mixture immediately. Well, you know that the longer it steeps, the more effective it will be. At the first signs of illness, such as a sore throat, fatigue, or exhaustion, drink a glass of this drink. Then, during the day, you can drink 4 more glasses. This is how a natural antimicrobial drink is made. Now you will need to watch a video about immunity. Look here.