Here's another nutrition lie, and our topic today is gluten-free products. It's believed that if the package says gluten-free, then the product is healthy. Here are Rios cereals with honey and nuts, gluten-free glazed. Rios gluten-free. I made this video because I constantly hear that. I'm on a gluten-free diet, I eat less gluten, but I have a couple of questions. The first is what they replace gluten with. Sugar and cornstarch are used in ironing to make clothes stiff. But would you eat the starch itself? There's no starch in this cereal. Brown rice flour and cane syrup. 29 g of carbohydrates per serving is a lot. But the fine print says the composition of this product. There is a bioengineer in the food ingredients. This is just a fancy way of writing. GMO gluten is the only protein that humans cannot digest, but there is more of it in our diet. And it has created a lot of intestinal problems for us. My main point is that gluten-free food doesn't mean healthy food. It's still full of oils.  Seeds of sugar and starches may not be written as corn starch, but as food starch, that is, some other starch. We know that gluten destroys the intestines. But these refined starches and sugars also destroy the intestines. Good bacteria need fiber, bad bacteria thrive on refined sugars and starches, and when you go down and decompose, they often release substances that are very toxic. This creates a whole chain reaction, inflammation in the liver, fatty liver, and many people have skin problems, inflammation of the skin, that is, dermatitis, and they smear themselves with creams, lotions, decoctions, and so on, but they don’t look at what’s in their intestines. People don’t associate what happens in the intestines with the skin, but an excess of bad bacteria makes the skin terrible, creating a lot of problems. This is the first and second question I want to ask. How do they generally remove gluten from grains? Should the grains be soaked so that the gluten dissolves in water? No, they add chemicals, enzymes, and acids to extract this protein from there, and the result is an even more refined product. It was already refined. And now to be truly refined, you also need to understand what starch essentially is.  Starch is the same as sugar, it's a chain of sugar molecules linked together, it raises blood sugar more than sugar itself. If you suddenly think that starch is healthier than sugar, no. Starch is worse than sugar on the glycemic index, it makes your blood sugar soar. Gluten-free cookies, gluten-free bread, all kinds of crackers and granola bars. Don't be fooled by the fact that all this is healthy food. Another feature of gluten-free products is that they have little protein. Protein is what saturates us, but here there is so little of it. What you eat is what you eat and don't add to such food. This is rice flour and tapioca flour because they are gluten-free. But what about rice flour? Rice has a unique ability to bind with arsenic in the soil. And this is poison, and it turns out that arsenic is also added to carbohydrates and sugars. Gluten-free products should, in theory, help with digestive problems, but they lead to small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, where they multiply. With good bacteria, they essentially take and eat your vitamins and minerals. A person thinks that fiber will help him. But the more fiber he eats, the worse he gets because it is fermented not in the large intestine, where it should. And in the small intestine. If a person continues to eat like this, he develops inflammation and leaky gut, and the state of the intestines affects the head, mood swings, negative emotions, as well as anxiety and depression, and the reason for all this is the intestines. I talked with many patients who had SIB. It’s interesting that when they took an antibiotic, it doesn’t matter. For what reason, they felt very good. It really relieved them, and they thought that antibiotics were an excellent solution and took more. Yes, antibiotics kill bacteria. But both good and bad, and some microorganisms begin to multiply rapidly, especially yeast and especially candida, therefore, among the side effects of antibiotics, candidiasis or a yeast infection, these pathogens are no longer restrained by anything and they get out of control. At first, the antibiotic helps. But then the person gets worse and needs a new antibiotic, better again, then worse until the antibiotic The microbes will stop working, they become resistant to the antibiotic, and now you are taking it, but it does not work because the microbiome is so damaged that there is no longer a variety of microorganisms, digestion worsens, allergies and autoimmune diseases can develop. One of the reasons for the proliferation of unfriendly bacteria is a lot of gluten-free products in the diet, another reason is an anti-inflammatory solution. If you see a gluten-free product, read its composition. If you cannot eat gluten, you do not need to buy products that are even worse. I strongly recommend that you take all grains, all oils from simian and all sugar and push all this as far away as possible. Eat whole foods, meat, vegetables, and so on. But if the cell from vegetables makes you worse or you have bloating, a month of carnivore diets can help improve the system. The fact is that on a carnivore diet, you exclude many things that can create problems in the small intestine, and you are getting better. The question is: Can you stay on this diet for a long time? We do not know. Do you need to return fiber to the diet and when? We do not know. But here's what we know: the probable cause of this problem is a lack of Microorganisms that digest fiber. They help break down what our body is not capable of. Any problems with digestion are caused by a lack of microorganisms, probably due to antibiotics or similar crap. In this case, you need to return the microorganisms back to the intestines. One way to do this is to eat fermented foods. You can use fermented milk products if you are not allergic to them, such as raw milk cheese, kefir, yogurt, or fermented vegetables, sauerkraut, kimchi, salted or pickled vegetables. All this works great. If you don't know what to cook for chum salmon, the book "Keto Menu for 2 Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of chum salmon and fasting. Follow the link below.