Let's talk about the only carbohydrate that doesn't affect insulin. As you probably know, insulin is a hormone that makes you fat and prevents you from burning fat. It's a fat-storing hormone. In the presence of even a drop of insulin, it will be very difficult to lose weight and enter ketosis. The only carbohydrate that doesn't affect insulin is fiber. The problem with fiber is that it comes with other carbohydrates that affect insulin. For example, bread, cereal, crackers, cookies, pasta, waffles, and similar products. These products are often recommended because they contain fiber. What about other carbohydrates that aren't fiber? They should be avoided. By the way, just a note: pure fat won't raise insulin either. What raises insulin is sugar, starch, and excess protein. So, what do you need? Take fiber, a spoonful of Metamucil, and pour pure fat over everything. No, the fiber you need is found in non-starchy vegetables. 100% leafy greens are in vegetables. That's why on a ketogenic diet you don't need to count carbohydrates in non- starchy vegetables. There should be fewer carbohydrates in your daily carbohydrate intake. 30-40 grams per day, maybe even less than 20, but counting carbohydrates in non-starchy vegetables like greens is not really necessary unless you have damage or inflammation of the intestines that causes bloating when trying to eat a lot of vegetables. I recommend eating more vegetables while you are on a healthy ketogenic diet. At least 7 glasses is not that much, just uncompacted greens. What do vegetables give you besides fiber? They give you minerals, potassium, magnesium, so that you don’t get muscle cramps, which happens at the beginning of a ketogenic diet, to prevent this fatigue that also happens at the beginning. They also contain many trace elements and vitamins, vitamin C, folic acid, B vitamins. Vegetables contain many phytonutrients that go beyond regular vitamins and minerals. Phytonutrients have anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties, and they help with many problems. Fiber in vegetables is also food for microflora, for beneficial bacteria, they feed on it and convert this fiber into a type of fat, namely short-chain fatty acids, into a type of ketone, beta hydroxide butyrate, butyric acid, and  And it's produced by bacteria, and it's related to ketones. Bacteria eat fiber and produce compounds that help reduce insulin resistance, which directly helps with weight loss by lowering glucose levels. They can increase insulin sensitivity, which also helps with weight loss because the body won't need to produce as much insulin. This helps with weight loss. Fiber also increases bacterial diversity, which also has a positive effect on weight loss. That's all for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.