Today we will discuss the 10 most dangerous ingredients on Earth. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. The problem with some ingredients in junk food is the ingredients themselves. The problem here is much broader.  It's about the intention behind it.  The goal here is one: to hook you, to create a dependence on them. Manufacturers had a problem of how to take a cheap industrial, so-called food product, although it is just a chemical, modified food starch, and make you eat it.  And in order to create a dependence on something so bad and low-quality in a person, you need to remove the protein from it.  After all, it is protein that saturates us during meals.  If junk food had protein, you would eat it in small amounts.  When there is no protein in the food, you go and eat, trying to get protein that will fill you up, but it is rarely found in junk food.  Secondly, you need to cause a surge in blood sugar.  You have to lift it up first so that it falls later.  And even when you've just filled your stomach, your body will crave even more sugar.  That's why when a person eats something sweet for breakfast, an hour and a half later he wants to eat again like crazy, because he is not hungry.  They also have to add flavorings to food , and a lot of them.  There are literally a hundred or even two hundred chemicals in one fragrance.  And they do not stimulate the receptors on the tongue in any way.  But they do stimulate receptors in the brain, creating all sorts of strange tastes. The brain becomes confused.  He seems to explode, amazed by such a bouquet of flavors.  But everything is done in such a way that the pleasure quickly passes, so you are not satisfied with one chip, and you want to eat them again and again.  I remember I used to be addicted to Darits chips.  I would sit down and eat them one after another without thinking until I had finished the whole bag.  And all this because they had so many tastes and smells.  But the pleasure didn't last long, and I had to keep eating them.  It was an addiction.  Next we have monosodium glutamate.  What is this?  It makes food taste better than it actually is. Food should also have texture.  People don't like it when a product is loose, dry, and unpleasant in the mouth.  For you to eat it, it should create a pleasant sensation in your mouth.  You should also experience a point of bliss.  The perfect combination of sweet, salty and fatty.  All this has been carefully studied.  Certain substances cause a surge of dopamine, which is linked to different parts of the brain, particularly pleasure.  And people get stuck in this trap.  So what's interesting here is the intention with which this food is created.  The goal is to get you hooked on it.  Let's go through the ingredients.  Number one.  Trans fats.  They are trying to ban them, but they are still present in products, although in smaller quantities.  They are very harmful and even more harmful when combined with refined carbohydrates. When combined, these two elements can actually destroy the liver.  The liver will be in very bad shape.  But people don't eat just one ingredient.  It's always a combination.  According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in three people eats junk food every day.  And most Americans do it at least once a week.  It's horrible.  We have a big problem in the health sector.  Second. High fructose corn syrup.  We already know that it goes straight to the liver, overloads it, makes it fatty and creates insulin resistance. When it is combined with alcohol in cocktails like Margaritas or other sweet drinks, the harm becomes an order of magnitude greater.  This creates serious problems for the brain, nervous system, heart, and liver.  And if you add seed oils here, the harm will be even greater. What foods contain corn syrup, alcohol, and seed oils?  Well, let's say you have a large Coke with corn syrup, along with some French fries with seed oils, and maybe drink something alcoholic later that evening.  I don't know how people survive such a deadly combination.  Number three. Sodium nitrite is a preservative and also a substance that allows meat to retain its color and look fresh.  It is added to bacon and sausages.  It has some toxicity, but when you heat it, it turns into something that causes cancer in animals.  There are only observational studies on humans, but it is known for certain that it can cause cancer or tumors in animals. Number four.  Highly heated carbohydrates. These include, for example, French fries, potato chips, and burnt toast. When you heat starch, deep-fry it, fry it in seed oils, or simply toast it, byproducts are created .  These are aldehydes or acrylamide, toxic substances that create inflammation in different parts of the body.  And add advanced glycation end products to the mix .  When you combine starch, which is essentially sugar with some kind of protein , or starch or sugar with some kind of fat, as in these cases, for example, this mixture gets into your body and damages the inner surface of blood vessels, eyes, kidneys, brain, nervous system, causing harm through oxidation and inflammation.  And a few more words about seed oils.  You often hear that seed oils are not inherently harmful.  But here's the problem.  Nobody eats these oils cold.  They are usually heated very strongly.  Moreover, they arrive in stores after industrial chemical processing.  They are heated, solvents like dexane are added , and you get a processed product. But for some reason they forget to mention these details when they call these oils essential and harmless.  After all, they are plant-based.  But my question is, how can they stand on the shelf for so long, even without refrigeration?  After all, these are very unstable and delicate oils.  Nobody eats them cold or pours them over salads.  No, they are used for frying.   Right ?  In addition, these seed oils are incorporated into cell membranes and negatively affect insulin receptors, leading to insulin resistance. Below is a link to a study on soybean oil. Soybean oil was found to be more obese and more likely to cause diabetes than coconut oil and fructose in mice. Interesting data.  It turns out that seed oils lead to obesity and diabetes. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Number five.  Artificial sweeteners.  They have been used for a very long time, and they affect our body.  But most of all they affect our microflora. We cannot live without microflora.  She helps us a lot, and we help her.  And what she doesn't like is artificial sweeteners.  They have a negative impact on our health.  Just like number six. Glyphosate.  This is a herbicide.  One of them is Roundup.  It is applied to GMO crops, but the word GMO is not popular.  And now they write bioengineered ingredients on product packaging. Glyphosate manufacturers claim that it is safe for humans, as there are no studies showing that it is harmful to humans.   Okay , but what about microflora? Glyphosate is, among other things, a patented antibiotic.  The World Health Organization even included it on the list of probable carcinogens. Bayer bought Mansant along with their Roundup and are now probably kicking themselves over the avalanche of lawsuits that have fallen on their heads.  There are so many problems from glyphosate all over the world.  People don't want to eat that.  Unfortunately, even if something says non-GMO, it doesn't mean there's no glyphosate in it, because it's sprayed in large quantities on non- GMO wheat to dry it. Moreover, three times more.  And then we eat it all.  Number seven.  Monosodium glutamate. This substance is injected into rodents to make them gain fat.  It acts on the hypothalamus and makes them eat a lot. Of course, someone might say, "No, no, you can't transfer these results to people. It doesn't work that way for them."  And the Chinese restaurant syndrome is completely unproven.  But the question is, what does monosodium glutamate do?  It makes food very tasty.  You have to understand that it really does create a craving for food.  That's why it's so harmful to combine it with refined carbohydrates.  It overloads glutamine receptors.  It turns out that you can take low-quality food and make it taste much better than it actually is.  Why do I know this? When I order food without MSG at a Chinese restaurant, it tastes kind of bland.  In the end, I can't finish it. She's not very nice.  Basically, MSG is a flavor enhancer and it is part of the addiction strategy.  Number eight.  Phosphates. Orthophosphoric acid is added to cola. It's a stimulant.  It seems to invigorate you, but it mobilizes a lot of calcium.  And if you don't have enough vitamin K2, vascular calcification can occur.  You also need to take care of your kidneys, because excess phosphates are very destructive.  But I see people drinking cola by the liter, even little children.  Number nine. Potassium bromate.  It is a dough or bread improver.  And it is a probable carcinogen.  Usually they add sugar and a lot of other things to it, which makes the situation even worse and more confusing.  I recommend avoiding it.  And finally, synthetic fragrances. When you see the word flavoring, keep in mind that there are actually many flavorings, sometimes two or even three hundred different substances.  They are mixed in such a way as to create a brain explosion.  They confuse and manipulate the brain, creating a spike and then a crash to make you want to eat more.  By eating like this all the time, you become unaccustomed to normal food.  It was the same with me.  I literally couldn't wait until tonight to eat Daritos again.  I kind of got stuck in this habit, eating them over and over again and not even wanting normal food.  I could live on fast food alone. Today I can’t even compare how I ate before.  I don't eat that anymore with the way I eat now.  When I try to eat it for the sake of a video, for example, to find out what it tastes like, it makes me feel disgusted.  I can't understand how I could have fallen for this.  But the body gets used to it.  Now I eat real food.