Today I will describe a dish that is, without a doubt, the best protection against heart attack and stroke.  Heart attacks and strokes have one unique feature.  Between 80 and 90% of heart attacks are caused by blood clots.  You might think that they are due to plaque in the vessels? No.  Most heart attacks are caused by blood clots.  And 87-91% of strokes also occur due to blood clots. Original Dr. Berg dietary supplements are not available on OzOne or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. And the dish I'm going to tell you about today helps prevent blood clots. The information in this video is based on the work of Professor Douglas, The Body, Reality.  Below will be a link to some of his materials.  Well, he stumbled upon something amazing.  This is due to dormant microbes, many of which are actually pathogens, meaning they cause disease. They are sleeping and waiting for the right opportunity to come to life.  For example, in winter, microorganisms in the soil freeze, entering a dormant state or spore form.  They are waiting for the season to change.  Then they emerge from hibernation and flourish again.  And here's what you need to know. Normally, when a blood clot forms, such as when you cut your finger or something happens inside the body, certain proteins travel to that location and form a clot.  And when this place heals, the clot dissolves.  This can take minutes, sometimes hours or even more.  This is normal blood clotting.  Without this survival mechanism, we would bleed to death.  However, in some cases, especially heart attacks and strokes, other types of blood clots form. There are dense, woven, spadetti-like fibers that also harden.  Because of this, they are very difficult to dissolve.  It is important to understand that in heart attacks and strokes, we are most often not simply talking about a blood clot.  This is a different type of clot.  The normal blood clotting process is altered, turning into something abnormal.  What causes the normal blood clotting process to change and become abnormal?   The first element of this perfect storm is a leak.  There are two options: from the gums in the mouth or from the intestines.  If you have a certain type of pathogen that breaks down part of its protective shell, called the outer wall, it releases a substance called endotoxin.   It only takes a tiny amount of endotoxin from this pathogen to trigger a switch from normal to abnormal blood clotting .  Even when examining calcium deposits in blood vessels, soft plaques can be found there, and this endotoxin is often found inside the plaques, although it is just a tiny particle of the pathogen. Another factor is excess iron. Here's what you need to know about hardware.  The body has mechanisms to strictly regulate iron levels, because when there is excess iron, pathogens grow like crazy.  We need oxygen to live , and iron to survive.  Therefore, there is a constant battle between beneficial and harmful bacteria for iron.  If there is too much free iron, it can increase the amount of this endotoxin. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Free iron can actually awaken dormant microbes and increase blood clotting.  Therefore, people with a genetic problem associated with excess iron have a higher risk of heart attack, stroke and inflammation.  Be careful not to take too much iron orally, especially as you age when the risks increase and especially if you have endotoxins.  How does excess iron occur?  It often comes from fortified foods.  They enrich cereals, bread, and pasta by adding iron. You also get iron from red meat.  The body uses this iron for red blood cells and muscle tissue. People also take iron in supplement form, but I never recommend getting iron from supplements, even if you are anemic.  Instead, I would recommend getting heme iron from red meat or liver and similar foods, but not the type of iron found in supplements, especially in iron supplements.  I also do not recommend cooking in iron pans.  By the way, drinking alcohol also increases the level of iron in your body.  Keep this in mind. Now let's talk about stress.  During stress, adrenaline levels rise, and adrenaline takes the problem to a new level.  It actually charges these pathogens 10 times more powerfully, making them able to absorb more iron.  If you think about it, adrenaline is stress, and stress shuts down your immune system, which throws these microbes out of balance, allowing them to multiply even more.  Therefore, even when taking steroids, a kind of synthetic cortisol, another stress hormone, the immune system can shut down completely.  This is why, under stress, the risk of dying from a heart attack can sometimes increase 20-fold, especially after severe stress or grief from the loss of a loved one.  I want to add a couple more things about leaking gums and intestines. You need to know what causes this leak.  In the gut, this can happen due to gluten, a protein that we don't digest very well. It is found in some grains, and also from alcohol, smoking, oils, and seeds, which have a strong oxidative effect on body tissues due to ultra-processed foods, refined sugars, and starches.  It is food for microbes, especially pathogens. Because of NSAIDs - these are painkillers that can destroy epithelial tissue and especially antibiotics.  Now I'm writing about the perfect anti- clot dish that protects against all of this.  Most people would think that foods that prevent heart attacks or strokes must be low in cholesterol and that they should eat less saturated fat.   Right ?  This is definitely not something I recommend.  This approach is based on outdated information that has proven to be false.  If you're concerned about the link between cholesterol and heart attack, watch the video about it at the link below.  It will help to figure it out.  And I'm moving on to the ideal dish for blood clots.  Let's start with its protein component. We need a protein that doesn't contain too much iron.  Of all the suitable protein sources, the best is wild salmon. Other fatty fish will also work.  But commercial salmon is not only low in iron, but also contains the most omega-3 fatty acids, which are very good for preventing blood clots. They thin the blood and reduce inflammation in the vessels.  Yes, salmon also contains iron, but much less than red meat.  Now let's complement our dish with a salad of certain products.   The first one is arugula.  Rucala is unique in that it contains the highest amount of nitric oxide.  I didn't say anything about nitric oxide in the first part of this video, but here's what's important to know.  Nitric oxide is a super-powerful anti-clotting agent.  It also helps with high blood pressure.   The second product rich in nitric oxide is beetroot.  Therefore, beetroot and arugula make a powerful combination of ingredients for an anti-clot salad. But that's not all.  Let's dress our salad with Extra Virgin Olive Oil, which contains essential polyphenols that bind iron, helping to reduce its levels in the body.  In addition, polyphenols significantly reduce inflammation, and extra virgin olive oil also lowers blood pressure if it is elevated.  Adding apple cider vinegar to this will help tighten any leaks in our tissues, especially in the intestines.  He tightens all the connections. Adding garlic to this salad or even seasoning the salmon with it will support the cardiovascular system.  Thanks to blood thinning.  Polyphenols will bind excess iron if you have any .  Garlic is also a powerful remedy against pathogens. This will help to deal with microbes in the body that should not be there. So this is the salad that goes with the salmon.  If you add just about a quarter cup of sauerkraut, you'll also get lactic acid bacteria, which bind endotoxins and help neutralize them. There are also other sources of lactic acid bacteria: tea flu or, for example, pickled cucumbers.  So sauerkraut is not the only source.  But that's not all.  Let's add more polyphenols, which will bind excess iron.  After all, free iron is the basis of the problem of thrombus formation. So let's add some green tea or black tea to this to bind some of that iron.  And the last addition is dark chocolate.  Find eighty-five or ninety percent chocolate. Add a little bit of it too.  It also binds iron, because it contains a lot of polyphenols.  In addition, dark chocolate is rich in magnesium, which is good for the heart and blood vessels.  Heart problems arise from excess calcium and lack of magnesium.  Magnesium is one of the best remedies for atrial fibrillation.  Plus it helps lower blood pressure.  You can even take cocoa powder and add a little to your morning coffee, like I do.  This way you will also get polyphenols.  After you've eaten this dish, take a walk for 10 minutes, or better yet, 20. Breathe through your nose. Nasal breathing increases nitric oxide levels and actually improves oxygen flow.  Physical activity itself can help dissolve blood clots, not to mention normalize blood sugar levels and increase oxygen levels in the body.  So combining this food with physical activity will seriously reduce the risk of both heart attack and stroke.  Don't know what to cook for chum salmon ?  The 2-week keto menu book will help you .  Diet for three and two meals a day.  Simple but delicious recipes made from readily available ingredients.  Basics of ketosis and fasting.  Follow the link below.