Can sugar be part of a healthy balanced diet if eaten in moderation? Well, sugar helps make healthy food also tasty, and Dr. David Katz said that sugar is the brain's preferred fuel. He also asked who needs it, your health, if it interferes with enjoying life. If you go to the sugar association website, you can find out their opinion about cardiovascular diseases. Here's what they write. The dietary model can influence some of these factors. However, scientists from the Armed Forces have not yet fully agreed on whether carbohydrates or sugars affect the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases. This is a common tactic used by tobacco companies. They just need to sow doubt in the public consciousness. In scientific research, we know that the American Heart Association is sponsored by food giants, and we know that the national TI association, a group that organizes events for nutritionists, is also sponsored by them. They received as much as 23 million dollars from them. I have a question: how much sugar do you think the average person eats every day? 23 teaspoons. That's about half.  A glass of sugar every day. Yes, that's a lot, but is that all the sugar? There are also hidden sugars that no one talks about, and I want to tell you about them. What I mean by hidden sugars is, for example, there's no sugar in this bag of chips. There's no sugar here either. There's no sugar here. No sugar here. What about these crackers? No sugar. This is an interesting and good comparison of calories in junk food. Ultra-processed foods, but they don't contain sugar. Why are they harmful then? If you take the total carbohydrates, subtract the sugar and fiber, what's left is starch. Look, its glycemic index is much higher than that of regular sugar, and these products don't use potato or rice starch. There's no maltodextrin or modified food or corn starches. In other words, starch has a stronger effect on blood sugar levels than sugar. If you look at how much starch the average person eats per day, guess how much sugar that is. If you thought 75 teaspoons of sugar, you guessed right. That's about one and a half glasses of sugar every day. These are hidden sugars. Starches. I'll give you another example.  In college, I ate packs of Doritos that were much bigger than this. There are 11 servings in this pack. I guarantee that no one will stop after eating 1 part of this pack. Cheese growls. No sugar, but hidden sugars and starches. There are 30 teaspoons of Pringles. There are about 60 teaspoons of hidden sugars and starches. One and a half cups. So, this food contains a lot of sugar. But what's so bad about it? Sugar is natural. At least this sugar can be natural and can be synthetic. There is a big difference between refined sugar and the sugar in bananas, fruits, and other real food. What is it? Refined sugar is not just empty calories. It has no nutrients. It has no antioxidants and is very different from the sugar in fruits. People don't understand that if you eat this sugar and use it as fuel, its absorption requires a colossal amount of nutrients, namely magnesium, calcium, zinc, and B vitamins. Many people don't know this. Biochemical processes in the mitochondria, the energy plant of cells, consume  nutrients to process this type of fuel if you constantly consume this fuel, the body will have no choice but to use up the stored fuel. You will have no choice but to use up the stored fuel. The body has a spare engine, not in the mitochondria, but the trouble is that it does not produce much energy. It produces only two units of energy, the so-called ATP, while mitochondria produce 36-38 units of energy, or ATP. Now the body is running on the old one. They rattle and everything starts to get worse because there are no antioxidants that would protect cells from damage. This is why chronic diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, inflammation, and skin problems occur. We have known about this for a very long time. And therefore, if you look at the composition of this food, you can see that it is enriched with nutrients because it is known that with a deficiency of at least one nutrient, you can become seriously ill. So you know, if you completely block one nutrient, vitamin B3, a person dies. Food manufacturers enrich their products with synthetic vitamins. You might think that this is enough. But in fact, no. Synthetic vitamins from oil are not the same as natural vitamins from normal food.  Junk food has virtually no nutrients. Here's what I recommend to you first: Stop eating sugar. Most likely, you haven't thought about giving up starches, and we're not talking about the starch found in vegetables. I mean starches. If you start giving up these starches, diseases will begin to go away. Blood sugar levels will drop, the liver will begin to get rid of fat, the body will begin to burn its own fat. This condition is called ketosis. Ketones are much better for the heart as fuel than glucose, and suddenly the body will begin to function better. Cravings for certain foods will disappear, and your mood will improve. In this video, the topic of skin health was touched upon. In fact, I have a whole course dedicated to this topic. The link is below. I invite you to my mini-course: Skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there. L