Wilde, today I have a very special guest in N. Patrick. If you have knee pain, back pain, or anything else, this is the person you should learn from. They call him " knees for socks." In fact, I signed up for his program and I swear my lower back feels great today. We'll discuss this in general. Orthopedic surgeons give exclusively positive opinions on all his videos about his work. They talk about gainers on Olympic teams. Professional athletes. Physical therapists are very impressed with his work. So, welcome to this interview, Ben. Thank you for being so kind. I think I can hire you to always introduce me. It's easy, no problem. I've been a longtime supporter of yours. You've done a lot for me, and today I hope to repay you in kind. Today, I want to talk about knee pain. Because your rehabilitation program is simply amazing. I want to say that you don't know this, but some time ago, my back was terribly painful. Of course, in school, I trained incorrectly. I wrestled back in college. I did everything incorrectly. I slipped a disc and ended my career. Every time I tried to deadlift, I felt  some weight to do deadlifts and all that and heavily loaded this disc it shifted sometimes for as long as 2 weeks so I decided to do an MRI and nothing was found no protrusions nothing my back was really intact in general then I found your materials and I began to use your discoveries on the knees but applied them to my lower back walking backwards sled pull behind me backwards my god it worked like magic so I would like you to share your knowledge because now a lot of people listen to us and they have pain not only in the knees and they sit a little they have lower back pain and your material is just the bomb but first I wanted to ask what does it mean knees over toes what does this mean in general this phrase is connected with a common myth that arose about fifty years ago do not put your knees over your toes and when I was growing up they always told me this I had very bad knees prosthesis in the kneecap by the age of 18 I could no longer play basketball I did not put my knees over my toes in  sports, but when we go down the stairs, jump, or land after a jump, our knees go beyond our toes and are heavily loaded, and 50 years ago, only one conclusion was made: when the knees go beyond the toes, the load on the knees increases, but there was no talk about it being bad, just the load increases, and we will see how to get rid of knee pain by loading them safely to overcome this class, I'm sure you know, I read your books, in essence, the methodology of how we are now taught in school, in college, in vocational schools, it is wrong, it is completely outdated, that is, in fact, you had a lot of knee pain, it seems at an early age, because of this, you had surgery, and then you had to kind of study all this deeply and figure it out yourself, tell us about this, chronic knee pain began at the age of 12, I had n't even fully developed yet, I worked hard on my basketball skills, but I hadn't developed yet, at 12, my knees began to hurt, so by the age of 18-20, my knees were killed, there were no muscles around the knees that would protect them, I could no longer play  basketball by that time I had already transplanted someone else's meniscus, they installed a plastic kneecap in one knee [music] the quadriceps tendon that holds it all in place had to be operated on all of this happened with my left knee in my right knee I was still trying to play basketball although I didn't receive a scholarship nothing like that in my right knee there was a torn anterior cruciate ligament and other tears so at that time I was at rock bottom in terms of knees I thought that it ruined my life and at that moment I quit basketball I just wanted to understand how to restore health to my knees how to protect them and then I started working on it I was lucky surgeons cut up one knee the other, although it had tears, had not been operated on, so it needed surgery but I was too depressed and did n't want any more surgeries and since the knees were completely different this greatly complicated my task because surgery can lead to stiffness well yes but without surgery the joint is too mobile it is not fixed and this became an excellent starting point for me that allowed me to understand a lot about knees I understood the fundamental principle namely in sports all  The emphasis is on accelerating faster, jumping higher, rushing forward, this creates a strong imbalance, we are very weak at walking backwards, we don’t train this movement enough, it restores circulation and strength, this is the main principle in how to become stronger at walking backwards, I just want to point out something, my philosophy is in many ways the opposite of generally accepted views, which is quite logical, we strive forward, forward, and here backwards, in general, yes, I understand, well, yes, and I not only walk backwards, I pull a sled uphill, I now live on a farm and train on a hillside, and this is a higher level of difficulty, pulling a sled uphill, about, I don’t know, for about a hundred meters, this is the best workout in the world, all this cardio training, knees, and you know what’s interesting, explain the difference between eccentric and concentric muscles because we train eccentric muscles and it hurts less than when moving forward, can you tell us a little about this, yes, here’s a good simple explanation if a person saw how they pull themselves backwards, I have a great editor, he will send the footage and you can see it now, traction  Pulling a sled backwards is the basic starting point. Pulling a sled 200 meters in your case is also uphill, but let's leave that for now. Let's imagine that you are pulling a sled backwards on a flat field. Even if I accidentally put half a ton of weight in the sled, you are unlikely to get injured. You simply won't be able to move it. If I accidentally hang half a ton on a squat bar, you will bend your knees. A catastrophic injury is almost guaranteed. Both of these positions allow you to increase knee strength, but with a sled, the risk of injury is much lower, and you can still get into the rankings. When lifting a forest, you won't get into a rhythm. You have to be careful. You can't just start squatting, get up, and get into a rhythm. So, there's safety and circulation here. Children have incredible circulation. Their injuries heal easily, but with age, injuries in us heal worse. So, pulling a sled backwards, firstly, strengthens the knees, and secondly, improves  circulation, we probably also need to heal something in the body. It's much easier for children; they don't have injuries or pain. With age, pain and injuries arise and you try to strengthen the body. It's like a double blow, and so what doesn't allow you to solve both of these problems. I pull the sled uphill only because I do n't have flat areas on my land. There are hills all around, and so what is possible and the city. I just wanted to explain about the sled itself. Why uphill? Because walking backwards uphill is much safer than downhill. So, many people on my program love hiking and they started it because they can no longer go hiking. It's too painful to find downhill. Going downhill is too painful. But the sled can be replaced by going uphill because it provides resistance. New ones, then you control it. You can go uphill backwards, stepping centimeter by centimeter. Great. You've climbed uphill backwards, then go down slowly, taking small steps. Ideally, it's just a hall. The mountain is a smooth, gentle hill with even slopes. This workout is for increasing strength. In your case, once you've trained yourself to climb  uphill you are better protected than someone else with the same characteristics if you both had to go downhill and endure the descent that is true after the sled it is a little easier for me to go downhill I feel much more stable for those over 50 60 70 for older people what should be the right level they apparently need to just walk backwards without load walking backwards is a great start and everyone can find so we looked at the sled someone who listens to us has a sled in the gym and he will say I can pull the sled backwards 200 meters before training to get the blood going someone else will say there is a good hill nearby I am in Florida there are no hills it rains but we have a sled if you have your own treadmill don't do it in the gym the staff may not like it but if you have your own treadmill lean your butt against the handrail but just don't turn it on with your own strength push the belt away from you for about five minutes of this work is approximately equivalent to training using with many  People got rid of knee pain, became stronger and started jumping higher and all that just by walking backwards on a turned-off treadmill. You can even tilt the treadmill and turn on low speed. Some do this. Some treadmills can be tilted, turn on low speed, and turn around. The treadmills are good because you can hold on to the handrails when you work on this, as I have been working on for a long time. To find a solution for people, there are many alternatives. You can even use a partner. You know, there are elastic bands that are plenty in riding even on a flat surface without weight. In writing without a treadmill, you can take a long band or, as I do, tie two round bands together. I put the band on my back, she puts the guy on hers, and we walk 200 meters in each direction. The person creating the resistance deliberately walks slowly, and the one who trains to control himself as much as possible, this resistance will increase the strength in walking backwards. These are some of the alternatives. It's wonderful. So, if a person has pain when walking, then when walking backwards, we use the antagonist muscles and in fact, we create symmetry and achieve  more symmetry because there is an imbalance yes yes the body is designed to work properly if we follow the principle the body is designed to work properly then where we deviated from it most people were engaged in different activities they accumulated more injuries but they did not restore the reverse side of more injuries or the reverse side of what we strive for so this is the basis it gives us balance circulation for healing the body is very capable of healing itself but this requires the right efforts and all that yes even I myself always thought it was hard for me to evaluate myself I need someone else to say well let's see what's going on I go evaluate others as much as I like but in general I think that I just need to stretch the psoas muscle that the problem is in this and when I saw your material I thought I need to develop the opposite muscles because I sat at the computer for a very long time and I do not develop the opposite muscles enough I rode a bike a lot I ride a bike and ride in the mountains oda after a bike my back hurts terribly because you don't ride a bike backwards so when I saw your material I finally thought something logical and I saw that  You can do it, you do a slam dunk, you're 186 and you can dunk incredibly, I'm 189 and I'll never do a slam dunk in my life, maybe someday I can if I try, and can you do the splits? Yes, I can do a slam dunk and the splits. The ability to do both is rare. Many people can dunk, but until I was 20, I couldn't even jump to the basket. It's very unusual when someone can't dunk, but ten years later, they can not only dunk, but do it easily and any way they want. My former coaches, when they were interviewed, were perplexed. The guy couldn't jump to the basket, now he does any slam dunk, and so this is something unusual, but over the past 10 years, hardly anyone has strengthened themselves by walking backwards as much as I have, and when I jump, my knees can withstand this load. I can jump at full strength as a young man who hasn't had any more injuries, so I can tell my body  and I want to jump higher, but if there is pain or weakness in the knees, the body will balk. You can develop strength by moving backwards to cope with the force moving forward. The balance is still the same. I can jump from different heights, but not 100 floors. The balance is still maintained, but it can be adjusted through effort. I understand you. This is how it is in my practice. I had many patients over 60, and some were 18 at heart, and they started doing CrossFit while in very bad shape. A person trains excessively, damages a joint, and that's all he does, he stretches the Achilles tendon, and this is how and what now it will take God knows how long to heal, and while it heals, he will not walk backwards and train the opposite muscles. This is so destructive. There is an incredible amount of false information in the world. It is incredible, and you can understand how every false data or data that interferes with healing. You can understand how they initially came to this conclusion about it. It is difficult. Let's completely avoid this, but by avoiding this, we condemn someone to a life on painkillers for surgery. I have already been down this path of casting, I have been so worn out.  I was working on my body in my youth, so I was on painkillers, so I literally reversed it and got off the painkillers, and it became my profession. I didn't expect this, I just wanted to get rid of the pain. So I think there are powerful methods, but they require the right technique. They are not necessarily easy, but usually they are simple. I think a person first needs to realize that it might not be easy. They wo n't have to find a safe hill themselves. A good one, and the local gym might not have what they need, because it's already equipped in a certain way for bodybuilding and all that. So it might not be easy, but usually the solution is quite simple. You need to learn and understand a little more, and not run away instinctively at the first difficulty. Let's watch a short video, and maybe you can give some pointers on what to focus on when walking backwards. Share some basic principles, tips, or rules to remember. When starting this exercise, it's great. Great. Intentionally start slowly. This is the first thing. At first, I intend to do it slowly. Then, when walking backwards, you start the step with your toes. In normal walking, we start the step with the heel when we walk forward.  we kind of direct the vector of force into the body, and when walking backwards, we start the step not from the heel but from the toes, that is, with each step we actively strengthen instead of passively accepting the body weight. Each step back is active, we press with our toes. These are two points. We begin deliberately slowly, we think about pressing with our toes, then we think about smoothness. That is, with each step we load our knees, but there is nothing wrong with the load. We cannot cope with a sharp load. A jump from too great a height is what hurts, and this is our chance to fight back and become stronger to withstand the forces that arise in life. This must be done smoothly. Start intentionally slowly, press with your toes, walk more smoothly. So, over a distance of 200 meters, you can walk more, but I think it is necessary. You are walking uphill with a sled, so 100 meters is probably a heavy load. The point is that you need to take not five or ten steps, but more than a hundred steps. You need many steps when you begin to enter a rhythm and feel increased blood circulation. It takes more time for the blood to reach the tendons.  It's easier to pump blood into the muscle, you can take a weight, bend your arm into the muscle, it's easier to direct the blood flow than in the knee, tendons attach to muscles and bones and usually it's the tendons that hurt, not the thigh muscles, although this doesn't mean they can't hurt, but knee pain is usually not related to the muscles but to what holds it all together, and so it takes more time for the blood to begin to reach the tendons, so take your time to do this, start slowly, first your toes, a smooth rhythm when circulation begins to increase, don't think that you don't need it only for heavy weights, start accelerating your step, when you accelerate your step, keep it smooth, this greatly increases the load, just imagine that you are pulling 40 kilograms backwards forward, if you accelerate your step while maintaining smoothness, the muscles and tendons will work very intensively, and if you just add weight, you may just lean back more if you just lean back more, does the intensity actually increase, so this is a very interesting exercise, because since it's not just about the weight, usually a medium level of resistance is needed, without resistance there is no load, and too much resistance interferes with the natural smooth shawl, that is, the step should be natural. In our gym, we do not add more and more weight. We have an approximate weight for men and women and it can be reduced if necessary. We do not add weight, we just walk faster until we achieve a glide, a real glide and the tension of all forces, so the weight of the load is ideal when the tension is maximum but there is no pain and this is great. After all, many of us, with age, would like to strain all our strength, but the risk of injury is high. This is a way to strain all our strength. Children do not stretch their hamstrings by running headlong, they strain all their strength to the maximum and do not get injured. So, this is a basic exercise that allows you to strain all your strength and not get injured. Yes, that is what I understood: you need to master the technique so as not to go too fast, do not put on excess weight, avoid injury. I remember my guitar teacher, he said no, no, slower, master the form, do not try to do too much. Such a game sounds terrible, but the point is the same. So, I think you gave me good advice because if I do what I did, I definitely can’t run uphill. Backwards and I can't do it and it's not a fact that it's safe, and so I walk backwards forward, stepping, but then there comes a moment when I can no longer do it at all, I can't do it at all, this is good, this is what we strive for, to really tense the body, it's interesting how we relieve knee pain and rejuvenate, we find a way to strain all our strength and tell the body, hey, you're a young body, we're trying to apply all our strength, slow down, don't strain, we don't preserve the body, it declines faster, a sedentary lifestyle does not prolong life, it shortens it, but how can I strain myself in this way and not get injured? This is a unique exercise for increasing strength when walking backwards, it is very energetic, requires a lot of effort, but it is much safer and the benefits from it are enormous. Next time, and the next time, and a year later, you are better protected. And which muscles work more when walking backwards compared to normal walking? With normal walking, we essentially have to pull the surface under ourselves, then straighten the leg. Here, the muscles of the back of the thigh work a lot.  The gluteal muscles also work when walking backwards, but with normal walking, the muscles closest to the knees are not particularly stimulated. When walking backwards, the muscles start working, the muscles of the feet work, then the calf muscles work, the medial vastus muscle is the teardrop-shaped muscle of the knee, it contracts. 1 When loading the knee, you not only get an effect, you actively strengthen the medial vastus muscle. This muscle is associated with a decrease in knee pain, so you develop proportionally. I would say starting from the very bottom and top, starting with many muscles in the feet. Most people wear shoes whose shape does not correspond to the shape of the foot. And in the gym, if you do a leg press with your feet straight, when you extend your legs, your foot does not rest anywhere. Squats, deadlifts, stabilizers, and straight legs. And suddenly we walk backwards, we immediately load the feet, we strengthen the big toes, the arches of the feet, the Achilles tendons of the lower gastrocnemius muscle, then we move up to the muscles near the knees and it seems this has a strengthening effect on the lumbar muscle.  but only when it is sort of stretched because now we have to move the surface underneath us in the opposite direction, you move your foot to the site and then here if you look at what the lumbar is The muscle is a deep hip flexor muscle. It is often associated with back pain. If you simply stretch it, some people experience a decrease in back pain when they stretch it. But if you don't lead the body to become stronger in this area, then you don't tell the body, " Listen, I need a young lower back." So, if I only stretch without load, without circulation, without strengthening, there are indications that walking backwards reduces back pain. In science, this has barely been researched, but even those studies that have been conducted have shown that back pain decreases. So, I would assume that we provide balance or create powerful circulation or strengthen some muscles that may never have been loaded and strengthened. When you use a sled and walk backwards, is there a rule about how much to walk backwards and how much to walk facing forward? The rule is that walking backwards is at least no less than walking facing forward. It's clear that they usually pull facing forward. I think if you apply the same principle, I intend to start slowly with medium weights so that there is not much resistance, but also a lot of it. Walking forward will also give a lot of benefits and strengthen the glutes, the hamstrings, and others. Pulling a sled facing forward is great, but in our gym we have a rule: no more moving forward than backwards, backwards, at least no less than facing forward. So now, in my program, people train 4 days a week on Wednesdays, and on weekends, too, anyone can. On Monday and Thursday, we walk 100 meters facing forward and 100 meters backwards, and on Tuesday and Friday, 200 meters backwards, so in a week it turns out to be 600 meters backwards and 200 facing forward. It's incredible. Regarding the balance between flexibility and strength, you introduced this topic. Can you tell me a little about it? Now I can explain it better than ever because I had long flights. The last few days, I've been thinking a lot about how to explain how to train for longevity and youth. How to protect the body. Here, we've covered one important point so far: increasing strength when walking backwards, and this will be my next topic, which I consider extremely important. So, if you look at a child, we won't see much. My child is now a year old and he does n't seem to have strained his back yet. As for back pain, I haven't had anything happen to me for a long time, but  Before these workouts, I sometimes pulled my back by picking up a pencil or awkwardly getting out of a car. My back wasn't injured by forces around me. I was injuring my back from inside my body. Children don't injure their bodies from inside their bodies. Children don't have non-contact injuries, but children are weaker and therefore constantly get injured from what's around them. They aren't strong enough, and if something falls on them or hits them, or with age, we become stronger, so we are better protected from what's around us, but we lose mobility, so we are more susceptible to injury from the inside. Therefore, training to protect the body requires us to combine mobility and strength. So, I use a sled to warm up through almost every exercise I do, even before warming up. Yes, we go into the gym, and here's what's interesting, and I want people to understand this. The fact that I can do a slam dunk is only important because I couldn't before. I trained and eventually changed that. The fact that I can do the splits, I think, is only important because I hardly spend time stretching. Just a minute, who does the splits without doing much exercise? stretching before the reason for this is that I do a full range of motion strength exercise. I maintain the ability to do a front split with two strength exercises, a full range of motion split and a full range of motion hamstring deadlift. Looking at the plate before it becomes clear why I can always do a split and I don't stretch for splits. That's why it's interesting because I haven't seen anyone who can do a front split without stretching. I only build strength, but I don't do traditional squats and deadlifts. I do full range of motion squats and deadlifts. My flexibility is extraordinary, and I have strength in every inch of this flexibility. That's why I can do unimaginable poses almost every day, filming myself jumping from this and that. I just have a younger body because I have more, but I can also do slando because I try to firmly follow the principle of strength through extension. That is, not only strength, not only stretching. A child has mobility. A weightlifter has strength, but both get injured. A severe response.  The child himself is injured by the outside world. By combining these qualities, we reduce the chances of getting injured by ourselves and the outside world. And with age, we lose strength and flexibility, so we become completely fragile. Again, this is a double blow. The sled restores circulation. With age, stiffness, weakness, and deterioration of circulation work against us. Asana improves circulation and develops balance so that we can safely increase the range of motion. This is my system in a nutshell. We pull the sled before each workout. We enter the gym. We pull the sled to achieve powerful circulation and balance. Then we train all the traditional areas. We squeeze, pull, bend, and all that. We squat. All the traditional exercises, but not in the traditional way. We do them all with full control and full range of motion. That is, often at first, extremely light weights are used, no weights or negative weights. That is, what helps to take the desired position is sending a signal to the body. It is the movement itself. Contraction at full youthful range of motion tells the body to strengthen healing and send more nutrients here. Try to become younger. We are all at different levels, but you can change your workouts to become more  young and protected my goal is to get younger with age so far it works but now you have inspired me to reach a new level so I will continue your program until I can do a slam dunk that will be the first task and in about a week it will blow up the internet yes I think the internet will blow up I would really like that and then it seems I will be 50 7 or 8 next week so I will continue the program incredible and we will see if I can do it with your advice of course and those who are watching this should definitely subscribe to ben's channel and do his online program below there is a link you need to see this and not only because of knee pain it is much broader this is how to lay the foundation very few people work on the lower body usually all of you go to the gym about working the upper body people ignore not only the lower body well and the correct training for flexibility and strength what you have discovered is actually so wonderful and it is just logical I am grateful to you that you discovered all this I regret that you had to do this because of an injury but if not for the injury and surgery maybe you would not have discovered all this thank you yes it is better that  It happened to me now I can play with my son and do a slam dunk every weekend I play basketball and you can't even imagine how much joy I get from an amateur game on weekends with friends when I can do a slam dunk with my back to the hoop as if I were a player Andrey now we fathers do a slam dunk and when my son can do the same this is my whole goal in training all training is built with the expectation that I will do a slam dunk and at 50 teach him to do a slam dunk and my program should be because it's not in his genes it will be the greatest moment in my life when I can do a slam dunk and together with my son we definitely think there is hope that I will someday be able to do a slam dunk I think there is hope everyone starts from different heights will accept 89 maybe you can reach a non-competition level but if you look at a master of athletics, that is, a master of long jump or sprinting and so on if you bring your joints to such a level and I think it will be possible to achieve all the other qualities. I will try my best. I will film it and let's see if it works. Thank you very much. It was excellent. And for those who are watching this, be sure to check out Ben's work. This is amazing material. Thank you very much. I hope it was definitely useful today.