Today I'll tell you about the only sugar that doesn't raise blood sugar. I see you're already on alert. But before you lick your lips, listen further. There is a classification of sugars. There are so-called monosaccharides. There are disaccharides. Let's discuss them first. A monosaccharide is a single sugar molecule. For example, glucose is a disaccharide. This monosaccharide means one saccharide, which means sugar. There is another monosaccharide called fructose. By mixing different monosaccharides, you get different types of sugar. For example, table sugar is about half fructose and half glucose. There is also honey. Honey contains 30 percent fructose and 70 percent glucose. There are other sugars, such as lactose. This is milk sugar. Lactose consists of glucose. Another monosaccharide is galactose. There is also so-called high-fructose corn syrup, a mixture of glucose and fructose, and the fructose in it can be from 55 to 90 percent. There is also agave syrup, which also consists of glucose and fructose. Agave syrup contains about 85 percent fructose, which is polyfuctoses. Fruits contain glucose and fructose, and fructose in fruits can range from one to thirty percent. In which fruits is it one percent? Well, maybe in avocados. It's considered a fruit, or maybe in olives. They're also considered fruits. They're almost not sweet, and there's very little fructose. Fructose is interesting because it's the only sugar that doesn't activate beta cells, which are the cells in the pancreas that secrete insulin. Fructose doesn't raise blood sugar, at least at first. Think about this: when you donate blood to check your sugar levels, doctors don't check the level of fructose in the blood. They check how much is in the blood. Glucose is two completely different monosaccharides, and fructose is twice as sweet as table sugar. This is another reason why manufacturers add fructose to products, because one is sweeter. Artificial sweeteners are 10,000 to 100,000 times sweeter than sugar, so very little of them is needed.  But people don't have an enzyme to convert fructose into glucose. When people studied this and realized that fructose doesn't raise blood sugar levels, they began to recommend it to diabetics. But let me tell you the second part of this story. It's a slightly different biochemical reaction than with glucose. Glucose is absorbed by all cells, but fructose is actually absorbed only by the liver. Part of it passes through the intestines because it is poorly absorbed and reaches the colon, and there your microflora begins to go crazy. Fructose is like a drug for it. Microorganisms begin to eat fructose and grow quickly. A lot of gas appears, sometimes diarrhea, bloating, and a lot of digestive problems. That's why many people can't eat fruit or fructose at all. And what about the fructose that gets into the liver? I want to discuss it. In the liver, fructose turns into glucose and is deposited as glycogen. If there is already enough glycogen in the liver, the body immediately begins to create triglycerides, blood fats, and cholesterol. It has been completely proven that fructose makes the liver very quickly become very fatty if you eat it.  It's enough, but we don't really eat it. But for example, children get 25 percent of their calories in the form of fructose. This is crazy. So, we consume a huge amount of fructose in a variety of forms. Another problem is that the liver becomes fatty and you create triglycerides. This is how this leads to insulin resistance. Moreover, fructose leads to this faster than glucose, and a person becomes diabetic much faster, and the body produces more insulin indirectly. Although the glycemic index of fructose is low and it does not raise blood sugar, it does this indirectly and creates many more problems than glucose. But it does it differently. Sorry. You were already happy and decided that you can eat fructose. Well, fructose also turns into uric acid, this aggravates gout, and the more uric acid in the kidneys, the less vitamin D is activated in you, and vitamin D is activated in the kidneys. So, this is another problem. As a result, inflammation increases and deep atherosclerosis develops, which is how this leads to blockage of blood vessels or the formation of plaques in them. Experiments on mice. By the way, mice, like humans, lack the enzyme to convert fructose into glucose. It has been shown that fructose causes a 72 percent surge in homocysteine. It also reduces leptin A levels. It is closely linked to appetite. So, of course, you don't achieve satiety and overeat when you consume fructose. This is probably why high-fructose corn syrup is added to drinks so that you drink more of them. After all, you won't be able to get drunk on them. You can use alternative sugars, they are called sugar alcohols. And to learn more about them, you need to watch this video.