 orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange From this time, it may be a spasms and arrhythmia because of the loss of the heart. So, here we are talking about what we are talking about. Lakryza. People often eat lakryza. They drink tea from her, they can eat in the form of confetti. But many eat the root of lakryza for the post-pocci, especially when stress. In the body there is a ferment-protectant, which is a safety, which is protected from the excess of the cortisol, hormone stress. And the name of this ferment is written on the desk. Here are these letters and numbers. Not to mention it. But this is a ferment, which is protected from the excess of the cortisol, which may be dangerous. It is a disease of the cortisol, which causes the acid and the acid, increase the pressure, causes the spasms and arrhythmia. And it just happened that lakryza block the enzyme. Because in lakryza there is an active connection, which is a glycerin. So when this is a ferment, the level of cortisol in the body starts to grow. So, if you eat too much lakryza, it causes all these problems. Now, our body was designed to keep in mind and orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange If you choose all the notifications, YouTube can't remember any new videos. This simple action will help you to continue to develop the channel. Let's continue. Let's talk a little about the Kali. There are data about 98% of the population who have enough Kali. But we can consider that all 100%, because we need 4700 mg. What does Kali do? It's the main electrolyte for heart. It helps us generate energy in nerves and muscles. It helps to protect the body from the blood. It helps to save glycogen in the stomach. So the Kali is not a rare. If you have too much Kali, drink a coffee or drink a coffee, then the Kali is even serious. The Kali can seriously hurt the heart, especially in terms of arrhythmia. So, people eat Kali in the Kali in the form of confetti. A lot of kids eat. A lot of kids eat. A lot of kids eat. A lot of kids eat tea or drink a coffee or drink a cup. And they eat it every day. I don't recommend it. A lot of orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange So, how much tea with a lakrys? It's too much. If you drink more two cups in a day, this may be enough for the balance of electrolytes. Or if you have more 100 mg lakrys of a day, two weeks per day, this may be a problem. This may even cause to hospitalization. The real danger is not in a regular diet, but in a constant consumption of lakrys. And it's interesting, because you know what a medicine is that it's a medical book of 1926. Lakrys. Lakrys use more than 3000 years for the treatment of different diseases, such as a pain, a pain, a pain, a pain, a pain, a pain. So it's been a test for time and many people helped. But lakrys is a very powerful tool. It's not a safe tool for everyone. There is a certain type of lakrys, which is a very powerful tool for the treatment of lakrys, which is not a benefit from this treatment. Lakrys without this treatment is called DGL. So this is a lakrys, which is a very powerful tool for the lakrys, which is not a very powerful tool for the lakrys, which will cause problems. So this is just a thing to do with it. If you want to lakrys, you can buy lakrys, you can buy lakrys, which is a very powerful tool for the lakrys. Okay? So, you will not have all these problems. And you will get all the benefits for the body of the body, if you have a disease, for example. You will get all the effects for the immune system, not having the body of the body, and not having problems with electrolytes, even during the period of time. The Lackriza can cause symptoms, similar to symptoms of the body of the body and the hormone of the body, because it can cause a pseudo-alderaism. It's like a kind of a increase of levels of aldosterone. And it's happening because of the Lackriza, not because of the ophthalates. And this is the doctors. So, it's important to tell doctors that you eat Lackriza, because the reason is because of the cause. And otherwise, the diagnosis may be wrong. The good news is that if you have symptoms of Lackriza, you can stop eating Lackriza, and symptoms usually go away. So I'm talking about some of the risks of some of the other things that are useful. I support the methods of Lackriza, which used to be previously. But, unfortunately, now the doctors practically I have a free document. I have a free document. My daily activities in the form of checklists. I do this every day. I feel like a 18, although I'm 60. I will give you free. So, there is a link. There is a link. And you can see it. You know what are superfoods? It's products that bring the body to the body a great pleasure. The course Dr. Berga helps to learn all about these products and their advantages. I will give you a short video about more than 40 superfoods, which help improve health, improve the risk of the disease, improve the work of the ЖКТ, improve the immunity and energy. Also, you will be waiting for the conspents, recipes and additional materials. Go to the link below. Subscribe to the course Dr. Berga, to be able to eat with the польз of the health. orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange orange