As my 30 years of practice has shown, almost 100 percent of people suffering from insomnia, especially people with chronic sleep problems, always have problems with the intestines. They have either irritable bowel syndrome or celiac disease or Crohn's disease or diverticulitis or heartburn or bloating or indigestion. Something is happening in the gastrointestinal tract. This is probably why when people take probiotics before bed, they sleep better. So today I'll talk about the relationship between digestion and sleep and give a couple of tips for improving sleep. I have a lot of videos about sleep, especially about how sleep is related to light. How light affects circadian rhythms, how it improves sleep or interferes with sleep. Depending on how much florescent or LED light is around you. If you haven't watched the video, it's also important to watch the link. There is a kind of clock in the brain. This is the suprachiosmatic nucleus or suprachiosmal nucleus. I'm not even sure what the correct answer is. But there is a clock in the brain that controls the sleep phases and the main hormone that this clock uses is Melatonin. How can we get enough? Melatonin for this clock to work correctly, take it as a dietary supplement. I don't recommend it. By taking the hormone, you affect the symptom, but you don't eliminate the cause. And I want to know what really causes melatonin deficiency. In addition, by taking hormones, we turn off the gland that produces them. Melatonin is created in several ways. Melatonin is produced from another hormone, serotonin, and 90 percent of all serotonin in our body is produced with the help of our friendly bacteria. These bacteria help us in many ways. They take cryptophane, which is an amino acid, and converts it to serotonin. And this is probably why people take eltryptophan as a supplement to improve sleep. It helps because it turns into serotonin, and then turns into melatonin. If you take tryptophan to improve sleep, always take it on an empty stomach. After all, if you take it with food, protein from food blocks the absorption of tryptophan. Take tryptophan on an empty stomach. Yes, it works very well. Tryptophan also reduces anxiety, and that's amazing. Tryptophan used a very long time ago more than 20 years ago to fight depression it was used by many people then suddenly there was an infection if I'm not mistaken in China or Japan because of fear the US Department of Health withdrew tryptophan from sale and somehow it happened that the next week a new drug for depression and anxiety appeared namely Prozac I just think that this is a very interesting coincidence but in my opinion an even bigger coincidence was that tryptophan was put on sale again If I'm not mistaken its sale was re- authorized as soon as the patents on Prozac expired Maybe I'm wrong Maybe not So tryptophan is converted into serotonin and serotonin is converted into melatonin with the help of our microbes That's why one of the side effects of antibiotics is insomnia sleep disorder for tryptophan to work you also need vitamin B6 with B6 deficiency tryptophan simply does not convert Christian and that's why people with B6 deficiency also suffer from insomnia I'm just showing you what can happen and pointing out the huge importance of the microbiome that's the name for all friendly bacteria friendly yeast  and other friendly organisms that help us, in fact, the microbiome in the gut is sometimes called a separate organ, we depend on it, we cannot live without it, we cannot sleep without our microbes, so if you have problems with sleep, this is another important area that requires attention. Pay attention to your intestinal flora and improve its condition, you can take probiotics, you can watch my video about the need to drink kefir before bed or at least in the evening to sleep better, kimchi works great, sauerkraut can also help you, these microbes feed on fiber and personally, I notice that if I have not eaten greens, I sleep worse, so I see that fiber and greens help me sleep. Those who have intestinal problems can see that fiber does not help them, they probably sleep better without it. But if there are no problems with the intestines, fiber can help, because greens also contain potassium and magnesium, and they improve sleep, I want to mention in this video Another very important point. This is for those who are fasting. Previously, I advised some fasting schemes, say you follow the scheme  18 for 6 fast for 18 hours and go within a six-hour window, but meal timing can also greatly affect sleep. There is new data I presented in another video, a link to it below. Essentially, we are talking about moving the meal window to an earlier time of day. This contradicts old advice, but you can try it. That is, you eat breakfast in the morning and the second meal. If you have a second meal no later than 3 pm, perhaps your sleep will improve significantly. There are genes associated with food that are normally inactive. But if you stimulate them with food, they can make you more alert. So, late- evening snacks have a terrible effect on sleep. Eating too late can have a bad effect on sleep. In general, you can try making your last meal no later than 3 pm and don’t worry about the amount you eat. It’s good if you go once a day. Eat no later than 3 pm and this can greatly improve sleep. If you haven’t watched my video about the relationship between the sleep cycle and light and darkness, you need to watch it here.