Of all the indicators by which you can judge whether you are on a diet, the main one is probably bloating. When we are dealing with bloating, we are dealing with the small intestine. This tube is almost 8 m long and it has a huge surface area. If the small intestine is pulled out, opened and straightened, it will cover an area of ​​about 2,700 square feet or 250 square meters. The point is that you have a huge area of ​​tissue for the absorption of food. All digestion and assimilation of nutrients occurs in the small intestine. During inflammation, infections, taking medications or allergies, the inner surface of the intestine becomes irritated and the area of ​​tissue that could absorb nutrients decreases. Then, nutrient deficiencies occur in the body, for example, vitamin D and bile salts. Bile salts are reused. And without bile, the body cannot absorb fats. The purpose of bile is to remove excess cholesterol. There is such an ailment as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. Because of this, many bacteria can appear in the small intestine that should not be there. And when you eat  Especially fiber, you will begin to experience severe bloating because fermentation will begin in the small intestine. Fermentation is a process that should occur in the large intestine. If it occurs in the small intestine, a lot of gas will appear. You will experience bloating in the wrong place. Pain and discomfort will occur. There are certain bacteria that can help with this, but I do not recommend taking probiotics because you already have bacteria there. Or let's say you do not have siberia in the small intestine, but you have inflammation or damage or scar tissue there. Where could this come from? Usually, this occurs from processed foods, seed oils, synthetic starches and sugars. They cause inflammation, deplete nutrient reserves, and provide food for pathogens. As a result, inflammation occurs. The more inflammation you have, the worse you absorb nutrients. A carnivore diet for at least a couple of months and intermittent fasting will help cope with this. It will be useful to understand the acidity of hydrochloride. This will help strengthen the stomach. If you constantly eat something, you do not give  The stomach needs to digest food and this promotes bacterial growth. We looked at two diseases, but it happens that a person does not have stomach ulcers but has bloating. Other problems such as constipation or floating stool may also arise. This means that you have a stomach ache. This could be due to the gallbladder or pancreas, or digestive problems. In some cases, it may be useful to reduce the amount of fiber in the diet and then gradually increase it because fiber feeds bacteria. This will improve your digestion and stool. Personally, I get all my fiber from greens. I don’t eat cereals and bread because they are too refined products. When you eat greens, in addition to fiber, you get many nutrients beneficial for microflora, as well as phytonutrients, which can also be useful. You can improve microflora by slowly increasing the amount eaten with a couple of handfuls and then over the following weeks. Gradually increase the portion to seven glasses of greens a day or more if you want to diversify the bacteria in the intestines, which is also good. Eat a variety of greens; intermittent fasting can also help with this. Vitamin  B1 can also help with constipation because this vitamin supports the nervous system. Magnesium, potassium, and sodium can also help you. The body needs electrolytes, which prevent intestinal spasms. The best way to understand whether your diet is correct is to assess whether you have bloating or not. If your stool is fine, if there is no bloating, there is no pain, and you feel well, then you do not need to change your diet. I have a popular video in which I touch on this in more detail. If you haven't watched it, then watch it here.