I wonder what will happen if your only source of protein is eggs, will your blood vessels become clogged with cholesterol and you will die from a heart attack or stroke? Well, actually, no, I'll explain why six large clinical studies were conducted and it was found that eggs do not lead to an increase in heart disease and they are in no way associated with such diseases in healthy people. They tell you about the benefits of eggs and that they do not create problems, but on the contrary, contain good cholesterol and other nutrients, but at the same time they recommend eating even less than two pieces a day. It's interesting that if eggs are so useful, why is it not recommended to eat more of them? We'll come back to this later. If you read all the studies where some harm from eggs was found, you will see that all these studies are based on surveys and observations, and such studies should not be trusted. When someone has political goals or a biased approach and wants to present the data in the right light, they conduct a regular survey with questionnaires. This allows you to get any desired result. In fact, you give people a list of questions and force them to answer in a certain way. Let's start with the fact that People don't remember what they ate 2 days ago, not to mention what they ate a month or a year ago. So, what happens if eggs are your only source of protein? In fact, your health will only improve. This is exactly what I'll talk about in this video. I think the main reason people don't eat eggs is because they've been washed. Sorry, they were told that eggs have a lot of cholesterol. There really is a lot of cholesterol in eggs, but they also contain lecithin, an antidote to cholesterol. They have a lot of halin. It is part of bile salts and helps break down cholesterol. Eggs also contain vitamin B3, perhaps the best remedy for cholesterol problems. So, if you're worried about cholesterol in eggs, which can make you worse, worry about it. No, how are eggs different from other sources of protein? Eggs are the source of the highest quality protein in breast milk. Eggs contain almost all the nutrients we need, including a full range of amino acids in a ratio close to ideal. The bioavailability of nutrients and amino acids is high. Eggs are digested almost completely because all this high-quality protein is used by the body. So,  Eggs are first, meat is second, dairy products are third, and plant protein is at the bottom of the list. In fact, protein from plant sources is quite poor. Unfortunately, there is a very popular idea now that we need to switch to a plant-based diet. All men, women, and children should become vegans. You need to understand that this is based on surveys. And that in this area there is a lot of politics and prejudice against plant foods and not real science. And of course, there is an active campaign against red meat. It is placed in the same category as processed meat and even put on the same scale as refined sugar. These days, the meat that people have eaten for thousands of years is no longer as nutritious. But if you eat completely grass-fed meat, you get an excellent source of protein that is very useful not only for muscles but also for repairing proteins in all parts of the body. Sometimes people think that protein is only muscle, but the body has many enzymes and many metabolic pathways. All of this is protein. Skin is partially made up of proteins. Bones contain proteins. The immune system is based on proteins. Therefore, to replace and repair damaged proteins, the body needs enough protein. Its bioavailability is effective. So, eggs in this  I mean, champions, from one egg you get 7 g of protein and literally all the necessary nutrients. You probably won’t get all the necessary vitamin C, but you will get B vitamins, vitamins A, D, E, K1 and K2, omega-3 fatty acids. So, this is a whole complex of nutrients. Another type of protein food is essentially protein from muscles. An egg is a unique source of protein, it ’s not muscles. There are many amazing components, as well as additional substances that are beneficial for health. One of them is sphingomyelin, what is it? This is a compound that can prevent the formation of plaques in blood vessels. So, if you still have the idea that eggs clog blood vessels, you know that this is not true. On the contrary, they prevent the formation of plaques. Halin is a very important nutrient, thanks to which the liver does not become fatty. By the way, a deficiency of halin leads to fatty liver. In addition, halin is needed for brain health and is an excellent remedy for high cholesterol. Lutein and zeaxanthin are two compounds that are very beneficial for the macula, which is on the back wall of the eye. The macula performs the function of central vision, it also helps act as a filter for violet radiation. Also, blue light, there is the so -called age-related macular degeneration and these two substances can help to avoid it. Next, we have the so-called phospholipids. What are they? This is a combination of lipids and phosphorus. Excellent anti-inflammatory and also a very important element for building cell membranes. Now, let's deal with the proteins in the egg. People are confused about the protein and yolk. Some think that all the proteins are in the egg white. But look, if you compare the protein content in 100 g of egg white and yolk, you will see that the yolk has 16.4 g of protein per 100 g, and the egg white only has 10.8 g of protein per 100 g. So, the percentage of protein content is higher in the yolk. Yolks also contain a lot of other substances that are necessary for recovery and even the prevention of so- called sarcopenia, which is age-related muscle loss. Below, I will leave a link to one study that compared the consumption of whole eggs and only protein and it was found that if you eat whole eggs, it will give better results in terms of recovery after training and muscle  mass So if you want to build muscle mass, it is better to eat not only proteins, but whole eggs. I will answer. It seems that one more question is in order. Can I drink raw eggs? It is permissible in a certain amount. But there is one problem. Raw eggs contain protease inhibitors. This means that they suppress the enzyme that helps break down proteins, which is why you get less benefit from such an egg. And if you eat a lot of raw eggs, you can develop a biotin deficiency, and this substance seems to neutralize it. If you heat or cook the egg, my recommendation is to do the simplest thing: fried eggs with a runny yolk and fried whites. But even if you make scrambled eggs or boil hard-boiled eggs, you will still get a lot of benefit. I don’t want to go too deep into the description of different ways of cooking eggs, but I’ll just say that eggs in general are a super healthy product. Especially if you need a high-quality source of amino acids. There is even evidence that some substances in eggs have an anti-cancer effect, as well as an immunomodulatory effect, that is, they help regulate the immune system, so it’s a good idea to eat eggs as your main source of protein. The only downside is that  I don't see this as having anything to do with health, it can get boring, and you'll want to diversify your diet by adding other sources of protein. But if you made eggs your main source of protein, you would probably improve not only your health but also your digestion, because eggs are digested quite easily unless you have an allergy. You need to understand that there are only 7 g of protein in an egg. Your body size, your weight, your muscle mass, and your age are factors that determine how much protein you really need to replenish all the amino acids. So, less than two eggs a day is nothing. If you eat 10 or more eggs at each meal, it will already be close to the amount needed to satisfy the body's needs. You don't know what to cook for chum. The book "chum menu for 2 weeks" will help you. A diet for TH and two meals a day, but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of chum and fasting. Follow the link below.