I was recently asked a question by Dr. Up. If sugar is so harmful, why then are fruits so healthy? Well, firstly, I never said that fruits are healthy, they are not included in the diet of a healthy chum, and in this regard, I want to tell you something else. Today we eat crossed fruit species, that is, hybrids, which means that as a result of selection, fruits become sweeter and sweeter. For example, one honey crunch apple has 19 grams of sugar, but take a wild apple tree, there are no 19 grams of sugar in the Runet. That is, we consume fruits with a high sugar content. This is the first thing. Secondly, fruits should be seasonal, eating them all year round is not very natural. Some do not see the difference between whole fruits and fruit juices. They say they are the same thing, but this is not true. Juice lacks not only fiber but also nutrients because juice is pasteurized, it is heat treated, and this kills many enzymes and heat-sensitive vitamins. That is, juice is essentially naked sugar, while whole fruit contains macronutrient vitamins.  and microelements, phytonutrients, fiber. Yes, these fruits contain nutrients that protect against DNA damage from complications of various diseases, such as diabetes. However, fruits contain a large amount of a certain sugar called fructose. Fructose does not go to all the cells of the body like glucose, it goes to the liver. One hundred percent of the time, fructose goes to the liver. What does this mean? It won't cause the same spike in blood sugar if you eat fruit and check your blood sugar. Wow, your blood sugar hasn't gone up. It should be a good thing. But people miss the fact that the liver will have to deal with all this fructose, and its excess can lead to the end of the resistance line, which will cause insulin to rise. If an excess dose of fructose hits the liver, the liver has to do something with it, and it converts it into fat, cholesterol, and triglycerides. So, my advice is that so many people have problems with blood sugar, and before diabetes, I recommend limiting yourself to a small amount of berries and not eating other fruits. Think for yourself what diabetes is. Diabetes is high blood sugar, so why?  For those whose illness is associated with excessive amounts of sugar, there are fruits that will only add sugar. That's all for watching. Thank you for watching and see you next time. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.