If you add guacamole to your daily diet, the benefits will be enormous, let's talk about this. I just love avocado, especially guacamole with eggs, with steak, with other dishes, salad, and also with keto chips and keto crackers, and this is really the biggest problem with gok. Molly eats it with chips. Where can I get chips without corn, corn oil, and vegetable oils that cause inflammation? This is the main problem. You're in a restaurant, and you won't eat it with a spoon. People eat it with chips and end up with pain and inflammation in the joints. But if you eat it with healthy food, you'll be in great shape. Guacamole contains a lot of useful things, and I'll talk about this below under the video. I'll leave the recipe. It's very simple. Let's start with avocado. Why are they so healthy? Everyone talks about these monounsaturated fatty acids. The same fats are found in olive oil. They are very useful for insulin resistance and also for heart health. Avocado contains  71 percent monounsaturated fatty acids in olive oil is about the same. But for your information, lard contains 50 percent monounsaturated fatty acids. Solid beef tallow also contains 50 percent monounsaturated fatty acids. And butter contains 29 percent of such fatty acids. Without going too far into the wilds, I want to tell you one fact. In every study I have seen, without exception, where it is claimed that saturated fats are bad for the heart, and so on, no distinction is made between a high-fat diet and a high-carbohydrate diet. People everywhere consume a lot of carbohydrates. How can one then say that fats create problems, not carbohydrates, or even their combination, which causes glycation? Your fats and proteins seem to stick together, creating problems for the heart and for the eyes, clogging up everything that could be. A large-scale study was conducted with the participation of 135 thousand Canadians. They studied what happens with a high-fat diet compared to a low-carbohydrate diet and which of them has a greater effect on mortality. Here is their conclusion: reducing carbohydrate consumption and fats increases life expectancy.  The risk of death is significantly reduced by 23 percent. In addition, the risk of stroke is reduced by as much as 18 percent, but if there are other fats on a healthy Keto diet in combination with intermittent fasting, this will help you feel fuller and fast longer. This will allow you to enter the ketosis much deeper because frequent hunger and frequent meals lead to an increase in insulin, this is one of the most important reasons for adding fat to food, prolonging the fasting time and avocado. Avocados are an excellent option; they also contain a lot of phytonutrients, glutathione, a very powerful antioxidant for the liver, and carotenoids that are good for vision and also protect against mucous generation. Avocado helps against inflammation in blood vessels and the brain. So this is a very healthy food. The next ingredient is lime or lemon. I have a lot of videos. If you have lemon or lime and you add them to guacamole, you will get a lot of vitamins. This is the first thing. Secondly, there is citric acid, which protects against kidney stones. For some people, this can be a problem with the diet, but not in that case.  If you drink enough water, 2.5 liters a day, and also consume citrates, they bind axalates and protect against stones. Vitamin C also prevents the accumulation of fat in the liver, which is good for the liver in general and for weight loss. So, we have avocado, lime or lemon, and sea salt. It contains at least 84 minerals, all the essential minerals, and also many microelements that are difficult to obtain from food. If you are on a Nateto diet, you definitely need more sea salt. If you are lacking salt, you feel physically weaker. This is one of the common symptoms. If you are concerned about excess sodium, there is one wonderful type of salt with less sodium but more other minerals. I will leave the link below. The next ingredient is tomatoes. There are many different varieties, those sold in stores today. Unfortunately, they are practically tasteless. But if you find good tomatoes and add them to bocamole, you will get a lot of benefits. Firstly, they contain lycopene, a phytonutrient very beneficial for the heart. It has an anti-inflammatory effect. It protects the skin well from ultraviolet rays and acts as a sunscreen. It has anti-cancer properties and is good for bones. The next ingredient is onions. If If you find red onions, it will be even better because they contain more of the main phytonutrient, quercetin, which is actually a very interesting compound, especially for allergies. It reduces histamines in hay fever and other types of allergies. It is very good, it helps lower blood pressure, is useful for gout, strengthens the immune system, and can even reduce the risk of certain types of cancer. If you don’t have red onions, take any onion. All onions contain quercetin, but red onions contain the most. Onions also contain a lot of vitamin C, and in the past, it was used as a remedy for scurvy. Sailors ate onions to get the necessary amount of vitamin C. Onions, as well as the next ingredient, garlic, greatly help the liver complete the first and second phases of detoxification. This is an important process of converting toxins into harmless particles. They turn from fat-soluble substances into water-soluble phytonutrients, in which many have heard. This is allicin, it is very, very useful. Garlic is literally overflowing with beneficial properties, especially antimicrobial ones. For example, if you have parasites or too many harmful pathogens in the body, it doesn’t matter if they are viruses, bacteria, fungi, yeast, mold, or Candida. You need exactly  Garlic can be called a natural antibiotic, but without side effects, garlic is also an excellent natural blood thinner. It is good for the heart, it lowers blood pressure and helps protect against cancer, it is good for the microbes in the gut and has an anti-inflammatory effect. So, the more you add it to different foods, the better. And finally, another ingredient in guacamole is cilantro. Cilantro also has very interesting properties, for example, it protects the liver from heavy metals, it binds these metals, acting as a natural chelate, in other words, it extracts these metals and removes them from the body. It has been established that cilantro helps with seizures due to its anticonvulsant effect. So, guacamole is a powerful remedy that can improve your health if you eat it every day. Here's what will happen: your blood sugar will be much lower because you will be able to fast longer, you will improve the condition of your cardiovascular system, and you will have fewer pathogens in your body, your immunity, and you will have more energy and less inflammation, and all this in addition to the benefits of a healthy diet and intermittent fasting. So, I think guacamole is worth eating. Please share your thoughts on guacamole in the comments. Do you like it? Don't know what to cook on Keto? The Keto menu book will help you. A two- week diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from readily available ingredients. The basics of Keto and fasting. Follow the link below.