Today I'll tell you about the Seven Foods You Need to Eat After You Turn 50, and I too, because I'm 49 now. Just kidding. I'm already 59. And I eat a lot of this myself, but first I want to explain why you need to eat all this. It's obviously better to eat what prolongs life, so let's turn to longevity expert Dr. David Sinclair, a leading specialist in this field. He studies genes that are essentially chamomile. Chamomile is a longevity gene, one of the substances that activates the serum and converts food into energy, which is then passed on along the conveyor belt, charging the necessary batteries. With age, the amount of niacin in the body drops by half in midlife. Many longevity experts teach people how to increase it. Various supplements help to do this. Some people give injections. I think David Sinclair also offers his supplement. There are many heated debates about this, but we'll leave that out. All of these substances have a common precursor from which they originated, and that's our good old niacin. Vitamin B3. Why not just drink more niacin? Cin is very  cheap but that's not the whole picture, although it is an important piece of the puzzle. Other things and I'll tell you about them, but first I'll show you one interesting book. What's the connection between this book and cyno? Well, I'll explain now. At the end of the 10th and beginning of the 20th centuries, one disease, pelagra, was very common. They thought for a long time that it was an infection. But it turned out that people themselves created this problem. In the end, they found out that it was all about a diet consisting only of corn. The fact is that in corn, vitamin B3, niacin, is kind of locked up. If you eat only corn and a dish made from it, as many did, the result will be pelagra. But wait, corn has long been eaten. For example, the Aztecs ate corn and, as far as we know, they did not get sick. Pelageya's news is, you can say, calcium carbonate, and it released how much of the disease is caused by a lack of niacin. And certainly no one realizes how many diseases can be cured with mega doses of niacin. Dr. Hofer was one of the founders of the Artomonov direction. High doses of nutrients as a remedy for various health problems. And in this The book says that niacin is a precursor, a raw material for NADH, which allows mitochondria to do their job. So, we've sorted out the basics, now let's talk about why NADH decreases with age. I don't want to go into too much detail, but I'll name just one important compound, CD38. Read about it. With age, CD38 levels rise, but NADH levels fall. Let's see which foods increase NADH. So, number one, what could it be? Let's start with the product that has the most niacin, because that's important, isn't it? Where is it found in the most amount? If you ask the gpt chat, you'll get the wrong answer. I even argued with the gpt chat about this. The thing is, this bot put chicken in first place, but that's not true. The correct answer is beef liver, in second place, the product they advise avoiding, which is very strange, and it's grass-fed red meat. It contains not only niacin B3, but also other B vitamins and other important nutrients for a long and healthy life. Chicken isn't first in this ranking.  It has a lot of omega-6, which causes inflammation. It is lower on the list. Although it does contain niacin, organ meats and red meat are better. I often recommend red meat to many people in different situations. In my personal diet, it is the main source of protein for many reasons, and one of them is to get enough niacin. If you do not eat red meat and organ meats, then an alternative is nutritional yeast. Number three is products with probiotics or microorganisms such as sauerkraut. Unpasteurized sauerkraut. Why I put it first is that sauerkraut has quite a lot of niacin. If you find sauerkraut, it will be even better. Some yogurts also belong here, but buy high-quality ones or make them yourself. Number four is parsley. Personally, I don't like parsley, except as a spice. Celery and even chamomile tea are also useful. I'll note, by the way. Although this is not on the list, cruciferous vegetables contain a lot of sulforaphane, especially broccoli sprouts.  and radishes, they can also be added to salads, in principle, any cruciferous vegetables contain quite a lot of sulforaphane, and it increases over cruciferous vegetables are generally very useful, they help remove toxins and bring many other benefits, and another class of substances, then we will return to the products, these are anthocyanins, they are found in everything blue and purple, for example, in blueberries or blackberries, and also in red cabbage, which I already mentioned, black grapes also belong here, but they are too sweet, blueberries, blackberries, and also red cabbage, next on the list, curcumin from turmeric, one of its best sources, a dish with a mixture of spices, curry. Unfortunately, sugar is often added to them, but for example, grass-fed lamb with curry is a gorgeous dish, or grass-fed beef, this will be what you need, number six, you need to get more quercetin, and the most quercetin is in onions, I constantly eat them, onions are part of my daily diet, I eat them with eggs and red meat, you will get a lot from onions  Quercetin and number SE omega-3 fatty acids EP and DHA sources Commercial salmon and other products You can eat any fatty fish or take an example from me I eat canned cod liver at least once or twice a week Commercial cod liver I love it I mean the liver itself fatty acids have many benefits for example they reduce inflammation And cod liver oil contains not only omega-3 fatty acids but also vitamins A and D And how else can you improve your health I will talk about this in my course I invite you to the program on healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting From Dr. Berg it doesn't matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down this program Can help you a huge number of video tutorials are available there are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed there are lots of examples of what and how to eat I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details When you are trying to lose weight You often face barriers such as parties and holidays family dinners  Eating to relieve stress, eating to relieve boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is that nutrition is an important part of a healthy whale. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.