Women after menopause need to eat more butter and egg yolks Why does the risk of osteoporosis and osteopenia increase due to changes in hormones Estrogen and progesterone levels drop and the body needs to somehow support bones Most women make the mistake of starting to take calcium supplements like calcium carbonate A big mistake because It increases the risk of a heart attack If vitamin In this situation, it is vitamin K2 that is needed, specifically vitamin K2 and not K1 Guess where you can get it from grass-fed butter from egg yolks and other products Here is a list Grass-fed butter from feed It can be spread on chum salmon Bread Meat by- products Cheese Yolks Meat Fish caviar Natta is fermented soybeans Some people can't stand it, but in Japan they eat it quite well Breast milk I added it here just so you know that it contains vitamin K2 But it is clear that you are unlikely to get vitamin K2 from it Lard and beef fat, that is, fat obtained from pigs and cows It is very good to cook with them and in them  They contain vitamin K2, they also contain vitamin D, they are in any case better than seed oils, which are very harmful, vitamin K2 binds calcium to protein in our bones, there is a lot of protein and a lot of calcium, and we need vitamin K2 to strengthen them, vitamin K2 also helps direct calcium to the bones, this makes bones very strong, vitamin K2 reduces vascular calcification, it helps regulate blood sugar, reduces the risk of kidney stones, reduces the risk of cancer and even the risk of dementia, there was a dentist, Weston Price, and he wrote a book. This was many years ago, long before the discovery and recognition of vitamin K2, in this book he called vitamin K2 the X activator. Vitamin K2 did not yet have any and he had to invent his own, he discovered that for many problems, especially those related to bones, teeth and their formation, one nutrient was missing. If you have already reached menopause, do not take calcium supplements, instead, it is better to get calcium from cheese. Eat the foods I talked about and under no circumstances go on a low-fat diet. Thanks for watching  I invite you to my course " Ovarian Body Type" this is a course for women with cycle disorders, menopausal symptoms and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. You will find my unique videos, product lists and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.