Hello everyone. Today, as per tradition, we'll start with a question from our quiz. Doc, what beneficial property of onions has been researched the most? I adore onions, and now questions from social networks like Ramble. I started intermittent fasting and fast for about 6 pm. I found that in addition to the obvious health benefits, it helped me stop grinding my teeth. I don't know if this is typical. But it's interesting. It must be said that a low-carb diet reduces the activation of the sympathetic nervous system. It reduces stress, significantly reduces anxiety, and even depression. There's no doubt about your results. Excellent. Keep up the great news. A question from Muhammad about a natural way to cure or reverse hepatitis B. I wouldn't want to touch on this topic, but I'll gather information. You can watch my videos, but I'll say right away. Don't look for them on YouTube. Diseases. So, look on other platforms. Go to Ramble. Muhammad. I wish you good luck. Sand. S. Tube asks what you think. This question has already been asked, so let's see. A thread from Facebook asks for recommendations.  to eliminate oxalate stones This is what is so interesting about oxalate stones You can add more magnesium to your diet and the chemical affinity of oxalates with magnesium is 100 times higher than with calcium, they combine better with each other due to this, you can replace the calcium in them as a result, you will get magnesium oxalates and there will be no problems with them, they do not form stones This is an excellent way to reduce oxalate For calcium stones and they are most common, I think this is the solution to the problem of kidney stones, just get more magnesium there are many other remedies you can take, for example, magnesium citrate I think magnesium is the most important remedy Excellent, so let's see The next question we have is rambla, why are my salivary glands swollen, the doctor advised only to suck on lemon candies Help, this is one of those cases when I would look at what you are going, what you are taking It must be caused by something What are you doing nothing in particular, but I would just look Assess whether your diet corresponds exactly to what I recommend or not Because I think if you follow the basic diet, many problems will go away well on the s YouTube What  The best remedies for eliminating the symptoms of menopause are enough raw materials to create hormones. And this is cholesterol, so anything that lowers cholesterol, I will not name these drugs, can hinder your success. Here's what else is interesting about menopause and hormones to turn cholesterol into steroids. And these are sex hormones, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, and even cortisol. You need two key minerals, enough zinc, especially zinc and magnesium, thanks to this, you will produce enough of these hormones. The fact is that after menopause, the level of these hormones decreases and disappears, and this is a problem for the skin and many other problems. So you need to get enough minerals and nutrients. You need an impeccable diet. Add exercise. Continue all this throughout your life. This will also prolong your life. Excellent, we received answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this: What beneficial property of onions has been studied to the greatest extent? And as usual, viewers have an opinion on this matter. 5% said blood sugar, 40% said eliminating infections, and 55% said inflammation. So, most studies are devoted to quercetin in onions, but most studies talk about  about improving the cardiovascular system, especially blood pressure, it improves the endothelial layer inside the vessels, this is a layer one cell thick. So, pressure is a natural blood thinner, it prevents blood clots and also protects against plaque formation and calcification, it is good for blood vessels and many other things. I eat literally onions a day and I love it. It is delicious, I re with Yutu. Recommend a remedy for relieving irritable bowel movements with constipation and do not take Abik ozempic. And if you do not take it, then understand that gastroparesis is a problem with the autonomic nervous system, sometimes this happens with diabetes. How to strengthen the autonomic nervous system? Vitamin B1, mania, they are very, very important. I would increase their doses and perhaps this is what you need to eat and other means. But I do not have your history of all the data, but I would try these two things well. I wish you good luck. Jen with Yuba, how much vitamin D should you take daily for insulin resistance? I would take it. I think.  Everyone who is considered healthy needs a prophylactic dose of 10,000 IU of vitamin D3. If you suddenly think that this dose is toxic, then you need to watch my videos because this is absolutely not true. It is not more toxic than what we get in 20 minutes in the sun. You could have been told that this dose is toxic. In general, if you have a problem and insulin resistance, then you need at least 20,000 IU more. Also, take magnesium K2 and zinc. Thanks to them, vitamin D works better. Understand that vitamin D comes from the blood mainly into one system that supplies bones with calcium, but there is another system that is not associated with calcium and is needed for everything else, for the immune system of organs and everything that vitamin is beneficial for. Firstly, we need to get some daily dose of vitamin D, whether from the Sun, from food, or from dietary supplements. But we need more than 800 to avoid problems with bones. In other words, the more problems you have, the more vitamin D you need. For example, you have diabetes and you have many vision problems. Let's say you  Glaucoma Or let's say you have a growing tumor, then you need to have more than 100, maybe 150, 100-150 nanograms per milliliter in your blood. So if you tell your doctor about this, he will be shocked, because doctors are not told about this second system. Many studies on the benefits of vitamin D are not published. It is perceived with hostility because it directly competes with pharmaceutical companies. You need to find the data yourself and find out all this, but the therapeutic level for eliminating some problems is much higher than normal levels, because there will be no effect from small doses or if you take it once a week, you need to take it every day. I think the more I learn about vitamin D, the more interesting it becomes. Yesterday I found even more information about it. And I oh my God, I need to make another video and tell these amazing things about vitamin D. That's all, stay tuned and see you next time. L