There is one product you need to eat if you want to reduce an enlarged prostate. The prostate is a gland that covers a small tube under the bladder. When it is normal, it is the size of a walnut, but when it enlarges, it makes urination difficult, which prevents you from sleeping at night. In addition, an enlarged prostate can lead to cancer. This enlargement of the prostate is called benign prostatic hyperplasia. What is the connection between this and the theory? For the prostate to enlarge, it must be activated by certain hormones. One of these hormones is called testosterone. The fact is that testosterone is an anabolic hormone; it promotes muscle growth, etc. With the help of a certain enzyme, testosterone is converted into DHT. This is a more potent form of testosterone. DHT is apparently associated with prostate enlargement, and one of the best-selling drugs for this problem blocks this enzyme, thereby reducing DHT. With age, testosterone levels decrease. DHT levels also decrease, but with age, men also experience an enlarged prostate. How then does reducing DHT levels solve the problem? DHT usually decreases with age. It's very confusing. It seems that the problem is that with age, the activity of this enzyme increases, resulting in more DHT, its effect on the prostate is enhanced. I will not name this best-selling drug, but it has been found that taking it can reduce an enlarged prostate by 23%, but this drug causes minor complications, side effects, decreased libido, an increased risk of prostate cancer, and a syndrome that can occur when the drug is stopped. And this syndrome has its own side effects, signs of suicidal impulses, penile atrophy and breast tissue development, but otherwise everything is fine. The question is this: Is there a natural blocker of this enzyme and the answer is yes. According to one study, it can reduce the risk of prostate enlargement by 21% and reduce the risk of prostate cancer. A natural blocker of this enzyme also reduces inflammation, has a powerful antioxidant effect, and this compound is called lycopene. lycopene belongs to the class of carotenoids, which includes many plant compounds. lycopene is found in watermelons, carrots, and even grapefruit. But if you want to get a lot of lycopene, you need to get it from tomatoes, tomatoes from your own garden or from  farmers, this is excellent, you can buy canned tomatoes, tomato sauce or tomato paste. The fact is that lycopene in tomatoes seems to become more bioavailable, but natural lycopene is also interesting because this compound is fat- soluble. Therefore, if you cook something with tomatoes, olive oil is used, since fat and heat will help extract more lycopene from tomatoes. If you eat some tomato dish, perhaps twice a week, whether it be tomatoes in a salad or some other dish, it will be very beneficial for the prostate. There are other products that are beneficial for the prostate. First of all, zinc, resveratrol, is another compound that is used together with lipin. By the way, probably the worst product for the prostate is milk, because growth hormones in milk can also lead to prostate enlargement. When I was practicing, several men of age came to my appointment and said that every time they eat dairy products, the next morning they have much more difficulty urinating, probably due to an enlarged prostate. So, avoid dairy products. Now that you know about the best product for the prostate, if you haven't watched my other video about prostate health  I recommend watching this video