Hi all.  Today we answer questions on social networks.  Can you take berberine with Eroyteri yogurt? Yes, no problem. Wonderful, writes Barbara from YouTube. Please recommend the best remedy for chronic histamine problems. So, there is a product from Standard Process. Antranex. It helps with histamine issues, but I think it's more of an allergy issue, possibly in the sinuses.  You can take a drop of kimchi juice, dilute it in water and rinse your nose with it. Microorganisms will be restored there and will help with many sinus problems. If you want to strengthen your immune system to fight allergies, there are a couple of things I recommend. High doses of vitamin D3 with magnesium. Propolis is an immunomodulator. It also helps against fungi.  This is a bee product. Of course, colostrum is another remedy.   That's what I would do if I were you. Fine.  Someone trambled with the nickname Svix 890. You recently said that if you have cancer, you should avoid beets.  I was just diagnosed with lymphoma.  What's the problem with beets in iron or sugar?  And we wish you a speedy recovery. Swix, you said beetroot.  Did I hear that correctly?   Yes.   I do n't remember saying not to eat beets if you have cancer.   I don't remember that. If I said that, it's a mistake.  If you want to know the protocol, there is a protocol that is based on an interesting study.  You can download it from my website.  I'm not making statements.  I do not sell anything to remove cancer.  But you can watch my recent videos about cancer on Rambler, but not on YouTube.  For some reason they don't like my videos there. Well, this is certainly something that interests a lot of people.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Inbank from YouTube asks: "Is elcarnazine zinc better than elglutamine? Does it help with gastritis? I almost broke my tongue."   Yes.  Yes. If you have gastritis, zinc carnasin is a good remedy. Cabbage also contains vitamin U. Yes, there is such a vitamin.  Vitamin U. It has a special property.  They were used to treat ulcers.  It has been used for duodenal ulcers and stomach ulcers for a very long time. Today, of course, we are told that it doesn’t work.  Cabbage is interesting because it helps with gastritis and ulcers. It restores the gastric mucosa and protects it.  And it suppresses Helicobacter pylori.  The reason for some of these problems. And cabbage contains a lot of sulforaphane. This phytonutrient suppresses Helicobacter pylori, which causes many digestive problems. I think cabbage is what you need. Yes, great.  Here's an interesting question from Teeny Johnson of Rumble.  Why does the right side of my belly bulge more than the left?  I'm not sure how this can be understood. Maybe his stomach hurts more on one side than the other. Well, on the right we have the so- called liver, the so-called gallbladder.  They are located on the right and above. Also on the right is the ascending colon, as well as the iliac valve.  There are many places where blockage is possible, but I suspect the problem is more likely in the junction of the liver and gallbladder, that is, in the bile ducts.  If you gently massage this area on the opposite side, the accumulated sediment may be released. There is a good remedy for this problem. It's called tutka.  This is bile salt. She is very helpful.  It's a pity I never knew about it .  I had a problem with swelling on the right side.  Steve, that's a perfectly reasonable question.  But when people ask me why my right foot itches, I answer: “I don’t know, just scratch it. I don’t know.” Good advice, dog.  Tiny Johnson, we hope all of this helps you, writes Yarn Mama from YouTube.  My husband has stents installed. The doctor says that calcium is deposited on them because they are made of metal. Will high doses of vitamin K2 help eliminate these deposits?  Maybe, I don't know. High doses of vitamin K2 prevent calcium deposits.  But your situation is different, because you have a stand there.  And, unfortunately, biofilms accumulate and grow on them .  And these are microbes that form a kind of gel.  If you find some river or stream somewhere in a park or somewhere else, and you take a small stone from the water , sometimes it will be slippery.  These are biofilms, they are slippery and growing. These microbes create shells and shelters for themselves .  We have them in our tartar and in our blood vessels.  They usually accumulate on devices such as a catheter or stent. How can we prevent calcium deposits on them?  That's a very, very good question, but I don't know.  But I think I would do anything to stay healthy.  I would take enough vitamin E to prevent blood clots.  Low-carb diet to avoid inflammation. Nitric oxide is very helpful in improving the condition of the inner surface of blood vessels. And here are a couple of ways to increase its level.  Take more vitamin D3, exercise regularly. Beetroot juice powder and even arugula contain nitrates, which increase nitric oxide levels. So pay attention to all of this. Eat garlic, because it thins the blood a little .  These are practical means.  Please note.