Let's discuss the best products for cleansing the liver, or better yet, to make the liver cleaner, because many do not realize that the liver does not retain toxins like a sponge. The liver is a detoxification organ, it removes toxins. If only it is lean, there are three possible problems with the liver: fatty liver, liver inflammation, or both. And then, due to inflammation, scar tissue appears, and then rose can develop. The question is what foods can you eat to make the liver healthier and cleaner. First, I will briefly tell you what the liver does. I will not talk about the five hundred functions of the liver, but it does a lot of things. It converts ammonia into urea. And if there is a problem with the liver, ammonia accumulates in the body and you can even smell ammonia in the breath of such a person. In nursing homes, you can smell ammonia. The fact is that when the liver is damaged, ammonia accumulates and can get into the brain, and it is very toxic. So, one of the functions of the liver is the removal of ammonia, which is formed during metabolism, the breakdown of proteins, then the regulation of levels.  There are substances in the liver that regulate hormones. If there are too many or too few, the body regulates the level of the active form of a certain hormone based on its needs. This is especially true for estrogen, cortisol, and even testosterone. For example, with liver cirrhosis, a lot of estrogen can accumulate in the body. And if a man is older and has liver cirrhosis, the skin becomes very smooth, body hair falls out, and the chest can become effeminate. There are many estrogenic effects. The level of cortisol can increase. Stress can cause this because the liver regulates cortisol. And since estrogen increases, testosterone decreases, as a result, you lose muscle, lose activity, and lose libido. T4 is an inactive form of thyroid hormone. You know that 80% of thyroid hormone is converted to the active form T3 in the liver. That is, for T4 to turn into T3, a healthy liver is needed. And if this does not happen, hypothyroidism begins to develop. Hormone R is an anti-aging hormone. It is closely related to the construction of proteins, promotes nighttime sleep, and longevity. This hormone also works with the help of the liver. There is a kind of supplement.  The growth hormone is called P1 and performs similar, if not the same, functions as growth hormone. If there is a problem with the liver, growth hormone seems to work worse, then vitamin D. Vitamin D is activated in the liver and kidneys. If the liver does not function well, you do not benefit from the active form of vitamin D. Blood tests always detect the inactive form. The active form of vitamin D is not detected. They detect the inactive form, assuming that it is activated. But what if the liver and kidneys are damaged? You will not know what the real situation is with vitamin D. If you detect only its inactive form, one of the main functions of the liver is to convert toxins and poisons into harmless water-soluble particles. Be it pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, heavy metals, or even toxins from cigarettes, alcohol, or processed foods, the body breaks them down. But if this function of the liver is not performed, toxins accumulate. Another function of the liver is the production of bile to extract fat- soluble nutrients from food, including omega-3 vitamins A, D, E, and K. Without bile, you will have all sorts of problems with nutrients.  You won't be able to fight inflammation because omega-3 won't be able to get into the body and help you further. Glycogen is a reserve of glucose stored in the liver. The liver has a reserve of glycogen so that we burn this fuel when we don't eat. But let's say your liver is fatty or it doesn't work, you have cirrhosis and you can't burn glycogen when you don't eat. You have problems with the brain because the brain doesn't have a reserve of glycogen. It needs glycogen from the liver or from food. This is its fuel. Unless you're on a keto diet, in this case, ketones will be the fuel, but the liver produces the bulk of ketones. So, there will still be a problem with fuel if the liver is damaged. Especially with fuel for the brain, but also for other cells, too. Immune function. Until recently, I didn't know how important the liver is for the immune system. The liver has specialized immune cells. It has many lymphatic sinuses that help the immune system in many ways. So, the worse the liver works, the worse the immune system works. First of all, it's important to avoid certain things because you can eat a lot of healthy things. But if you eat and  This food will simply make the liver function worse. I will not talk about obvious things like alcohol, regular sugar, and all that. I will tell you about hidden things you need to know about them. Number one is soy protein isolates. They are in many products. If you search on Google, they will probably tell you on the first five pages that they are absolutely good for the liver. I do n’t believe it because I saw patients who came to me when I was practicing who had been on a certain diet for some time. On the ideal protein diet for weight loss, there were many others, but in many weight loss programs, the main protein is Malozhitomirskaya [music]. Problems with the gallbladder, a feeling of heaviness and pain in the lower abdomen on the right. Some had to see a doctor and have their gallbladder removed. So I do n’t believe that something so processed is good for the liver because the liver feels great from whole foods, not from refined ones. So I read the composition and avoided soy protein isolates. Perhaps soy protein meal is suitable for animals, especially if the fats have been removed from it so that it does not become rancid, but it is hardly the best protein for people. Seed oils  They undergo deep technological processing, using the solvent hexane, and this is how these highly purified fats, omega-6 fatty acids, work. Yes, they cause oxidative stress and inflammation, but I think they also replace parts of cells and penetrate deep into them. It is unnatural for us to consume so many omega-6 fatty acids. I also definitely would not eat high-functional so that the meat is marbled, how does it affect us? They also make high-functional ones from it. At the end of this process, they get something that has nothing to do with corn at all. And we eat all this. All this is present in our food, it seems, in 1977, when farmers received subsidies for growing corn. The trouble is that there is a lot of all this in the syrup. It is unique in that the liver processes the lion's share of it. Not all of it, but the lion's share. So, the liver gets it. It causes inflammation. It leads to insulin resistance, problems with fats in the blood, cholesterol. It leads to fatty liver, and increases the feeling of hunger. High-functional starches. I'm talking about maltodextrin.  I'm talking about modified food starch. For example, this product contains corn starch, corn syrup, and dextrose. This is all made from corn. That's what it's all made from, and children and some adults eat it. I wouldn't call it food, because it doesn't fit the definition of food. Food is what gives us fuel, nourishes the body. This fuel doesn't give energy, it causes severe fatigue, and there are only synthetic nutrients sprinkled on top of it, all of them derived from chemicals and all that. Then there's glucose syrup. It's interesting that there's no sugar from sugarcane here. Sugarcane has been replaced. I think even when I was a kid in the early seventies, there was a lot of cane sugar in soda, etc. Now it's been replaced with synthetic whole sugar, and I'm sure it works completely differently than cane sugar. There's a clear connection with ultra-early, highly refined corn and other starches. And also GMO products, and I think whole foods. Let's first discuss fats. The best fats include olive oil, as well as other types of fats. Medium chain triglycerides are fats like MCT oil and also butter. So you need to cook with it, add it to food, but it should be from grass-fed milk. MCT fats are very different from other fats because they do not need bile to be digested, so they put less stress on the liver when we consume them. I found a study that MCT oils or fats help protect the liver from obesity. Cook with them and add high-quality extra virgin olive oil to greens. Do not use seed oils. Make your own salad dressings to save your liver. Number two, fish. Commercial fish is preferably rich in omega-3 fatty acids. After all, they reduce inflammation and protect the liver. They help normalize cholesterol. Number three, organic eggs. Not store-bought. Egg yolks probably have more halin than any other product I know. I'm not sure about the liver, maybe it has more halin, but yolks have a lot of halin. Halin is a great thing for a fatty liver. A deficiency of halin can lead to  fatty liver Choline helps remove fat from the liver I'm not even talking about the fact that eggs have high-quality protein and other nutrients then We have a whole category of Dark leafy greens or just leafy greens why because they have vitamin C they have phala they are very important for the liver they have magnesium potassium and phytonutrients leafy greens have many antioxidant anti-inflammatory properties very beneficial for the liver I don't recommend greens only to those who, due to intestinal inflammation, cannot cope with fiber But I recommend it to everyone else number five is also a category of vegetables cruciferous vegetables And of all the cruciferous vegetables, radishes are probably the most beneficial for the liver unfortunately I can't eat radishes I don't like them my wife loves radishes she eats them like candy But I can't eat radishes But if I liked them I would eat a lot of them radishes contain a lot of sulfur compounds which greatly contribute to the first and second phases of detoxification we are talking about the conversion of poison water-soluble particles during this process a complex of enzymes begins to break down a very toxic poison And in Cruciferous vegetables and other plants contain substances that activate our first and second phase detoxification enzymes, and they themselves also contain enzymes that help break down these chemicals, which is why cruciferous vegetables are recommended. Radishes are useful in second place. Arugula is bitter. And everything bitter is good for the liver. And of course, Brussels sprouts. Cabbage is very useful for the lower intestine, and it also promotes liver health. There is a close connection between the intestines or beneficial bacteria and the liver. If the bottom gets worse, it gets worse, and so on. Cabbage is useful for any inflammation in the intestines and even in the liver. There are other cruciferous vegetables. But these four are my favorite category number 6. Products with probiotics. I just mentioned this. Beneficial bacteria are very helpful for the liver. If you have taken antibiotics or something else, what destroys beneficial bacteria? The liver suffers if you consume aspartame or another synthetic body. This changes the intestinal microflora, this leads to an increase in liver enzymes and the risk of fatty liver. My three favorite products from this are sauerkraut.  Unpasteurized cabbage, unpasteurized kimchi, and kefir must be organic and unsweetened, and the last category is different types of grass-fed meat. You can eat lamb, goat, beef, venison, but take completely grass-fed meat. This is ideal. If you can, if you can’t, then take it. What you can, I speak from personal experience. When I eat quality meat, my liver feels great, it feels good. Unlike when I eat peanut butter, nuts, or seeds. I have experience with liver problems. I destroyed my liver because I ate ultra-processed junk food for years. I remember one year when I drank Margarita cocktails every night, every night, and it was sweet. At first, everything was fine, but then by the end of the year, my health went downhill, and of course, I replaced the cocktails with ice cream. I ate half a kilo of it a day to fall into a sugar coma. Otherwise, I could n’t sleep. Before all these events, I lived on junk food for years. I never ate anything raw and healthy.  I ate everything refined, a lot of pasta, a lot of bread, a lot of empty carbohydrates, a lot of cereal, a lot of corn and other chips. As a result, I began to notice that I had a feeling of heaviness under the ribs on the right, I did not suspect that it was the gallbladder and it is connected to the liver, then it began to give a referred pain to the right shoulder, I suffered from this pain for years, 12-15 years, I did not know what was the matter then and of course I had a lot of bloating, not with digestion, but I did not understand what was the matter and only when I began to exclude grains, cereals and replace it all with meat, I began to feel relief, I began to notice Wow, this feeling goes away, it helped me lower my blood sugar, remove the foggy feeling in the liver. Sometimes someone tells you that meat is harmful, but he does not distinguish between completely grass-fed beef and processed and technologically processed beef, all this is lumped together with junk food. Let's compare this with artificial meat products, they contain soy protein isolates and modified food starch and potato starch, possibly pea protein, possibly rice syrup solids, etc. How will you feel? Once, a long time ago, I was in the supermarket in the meat section. I was very hungry and thought these chicken wings looked damn good. I bought them all, they were the same size and the same shape, but I didn’t even have any doubts. I thought, Well, okay, maybe they just shaped the chicken meat into wings. I didn’t know that it was artificial meat made from soy protein isolates with textured wings. On the way home, I thought it was pretty tasty, but when I got home, I felt really bad, I was bloated, there was a feeling of irritation in my eyes. It’s not cool, and finally, I’ll probably recommend two badans. In case anyone has cirrhosis of the liver, because the problem with people with cirrhosis is that many of them are waiting in line for a liver transplant, and you have to wait a long time. But why not try to bring the liver back to life? If this is possible, before it’s your turn, tocotrienol is one of the forms of vitamin E. It is very useful for any liver problems. Then, here and there, here and there - this is  A type of bile salt that strengthens liver health, prevents the formation of bile sludge, and will significantly improve your well-being. Two capsules in the morning on an empty stomach and two capsules in the afternoon, also on an empty stomach. I will not use any brands. Do your own research, read about different products, read reviews to find a good product. These two Bados invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there. CH