How can a woman increase fertility? There are two points here. First, you need to avoid things that ruin the endocrine system. To do this, you need to avoid so -called hormone disruptors. Eat organic food, no pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, and so on. I have a lot of information about this in the link below. But in this video, we'll talk about what you need to take to increase fertility. If you have polycystic ovary syndrome, endometriosis, or other ailments that disrupt the menstrual cycle, or if you've had miscarriages or any other problem, the most important thing to do is maintain a healthy diet. After all, how do you know if you have high insulin levels? If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, the ovaries produce more androgens in response to this, which seriously impairs fertility. Start with a healthy diet. This will also give you all the necessary nutrients. So, let's start. Number one, there's a substance called methyl lettuce. Without enough, DNA can be severely damaged, and lettuce protects DNA, especially when you're pregnant. You don't need it.  Mutations and other DNA damage, because then the body can spontaneously miscarry, so fall is very important. Number two, zinc, zinc is very, very important, it is responsible for the proper maturation of the egg and the transformation from a small follicle to a fertile egg. There is a lot of zinc in sperm and this zinc is absolutely necessary for the survival of the egg. The next element is selenium. Selenium is a powerful trace element. It is an antioxidant and performs many different functions. One of them is reducing the risk of miscarriage. In addition, it maintains the fluid around the egg in the presence of free radicals or oxidation. The fluid will protect the egg by absorbing free radicals. Number 4, vitamin D, vitamin T is necessary for the uterus. It is also necessary for the placenta and it reduces the risk of polycystic ovary syndrome. Number 5, omega 3. Omega 3 includes itself and pee and children. Omega-3 is needed for the mucus secreted by the cervix. This mucus ensures the survival of sperm and allows them to move so that they reach their goal. Omega-3 also strengthens  uterine health and prevents inflammation, sixth, B vitamins, they are found in nutritional yeast, they are very important for ovarian health, 7 iron, iron increases fertility, it is interesting that iron is also needed by plants to increase fertility, next number eight is vitamin E, vitamin E is called the fertility vitamin for both men and women, in particular, it is necessary for the mucus secreted by the cervix and there are also some herbs, number nine, moving on to herbs, chasteberry increases fertility, it has been used for a very long time, it also reduces prolactin levels, which increases the risk of infertility, next number 10 shatavari is an extract, it increases the secretion of mucus by the cervix, which is needed by sperm and reduces polycystic ovary syndrome, promotes the development of the follicle that turns into an egg and generally improves the quality of the egg itself, number 11 is the root of make, it improves the condition of the endocrine system of women, number 12 white peony root improves fertility, reduces the risk of polycystic ovary syndrome, reduces prolactin levels, it also stops endometriosis, it also contains  Aromatase converts testosterone into estrogen. White peony root is also very useful for polycystic ovary syndrome. This form of inositol, which is called tichiro inositol, is a necessary substance for communication between the hypothalamus and pituitary gland. Over the years, it helps solve many women's problems. It increases insulin sensitivity. If you noticed during this video, polycystic ovary syndrome is a common factor causing infertility and how to combat it by lowering insulin levels. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposition on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, product lists, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.