Let's talk about arterial stiffness and vitamin D in the norm. The arterial system of blood vessels should be very elastic. Arteries should be able to expand and contract. This is necessary for blood pressure control. This is necessary for heart health and it also prevents stroke. The stiffer the arteries, the harder the heart has to work and the higher the pressure rises. There was an interesting study. The link is in the description. It was the first of its kind, a randomized clinical trial lasting 4 months, where only 4,000 IU of vitamin D3 was used, which is very little. Personally, I recommend taking 10,000 IU of vitamin D3. I'll tell you a little later why it was conducted on young African Americans with overweight or obesity and vitamin D deficiency. The study found a significant decrease in arterial stiffness in just four months. If a person had high blood pressure, it dropped to normal. What is it about vitamin D that promotes arterial elasticity? What is the main cause of arterial stiffness? It is inflammation, and vitamin D is one of the most  powerful natural anti-inflammatory, it will reduce inflammation in back pain and any type of arthritis, it is very effective, it also reduces inflammation in the arteries, making them more elastic, as part of the treatment protocol, vitamin D3 is very important, yes, it was said here 4000 IU, but I would increase the dose to at least 10,000 if the problem is serious, I would even raise it even higher, it is a very powerful natural anti-inflammatory, I also recommend adding vitamin K2, why is vitamin K2 directly responsible for preventing calcium from going where it should not be, it reduces the accumulation of calcium inside the arteries, it also removes calcium from the joints and keeps it in the bones, the combination of D3 and CO2 is very important, and in what proportion and for every 10,000 IU of vitamin D3, I recommend 100 micrograms of CO2, in this proportion, if you drink up to 3 times 20 thousand, only 2 you need 200 micrograms, the second thing I recommend is fasting, I will give a link below to an amazing study on how  Fasting affects the stiffness of arteries. Fasting can make arteries very elastic. Fasting together with vitamin D is a very effective weapon against hypertension. And of course, the ketogenic diet. Why? Because by lowering insulin levels, you promote elasticity, and with a high-carbohydrate diet, inflammation occurs in the vessels, which causes stiffness. Therefore, a low-carbohydrate diet will also reduce insulin resistance. Prince, or resistance, which occurs in both diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Its very presence will prevent you from absorbing vitamin D3. The cause of vitamin D deficiency may be that people are not exposed to enough sun, almost never leave the house. Also, fatty liver or liver damage, or a problem with the gallbladder or its absence. Bile from the gallbladder, which is produced by the liver, is necessary to be able to break down and absorb vitamin D3, or as I already said, insulin resistance can suppress the absorption of vitamin D3. The older you are, the less vitamin D you can absorb. The more you weigh, the The more fat you have in your body, the less vitamin D you absorb. Of course, if you don't eat enough fatty fish, you won't get any vitamin D. It's very difficult to get from food at all. That's why most people are deficient in vitamin D. If you have high blood pressure or have had heart attacks or strokes, and you want to prevent them, you need to monitor these three points. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course: Vitamin D, Vitamin Health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on Longevity Health, Nadeta, at the 2019 Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you at the course.