I know many people don't like their belly fat, it looks bad, but you realize that belly fat is just the tip of the iceberg. A lot is going on that we don't see. I'll tell you about it. Yes, it looks bad, but let's talk about what's really happening inside the body. For a belly to get big, the liver must first become fat. Here's a simple explanation. The liver becomes fat because you eat a lot of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates turn into fat in the liver and other places, but the size of the liver is limited. The liver can only hold a limited amount of fat, but then it becomes overflowing, and then the fat spills into other organs. Fat outside fat cells is called ectopic, and around the organs it's called visceral. If a person has a big belly, they have a fatty liver. The reason for all this is a high- carbohydrate diet and frequent meals. Three meals a day, barely a snack. This increases insulin, and this fat-storing hormone. insulin takes these carbohydrates and turns them into fat inside the liver and around the organs. A person usually only sees their belly on the outside, but they don't see the connection between this and other problems. At least at first, their sugar levels are usually normal. Why is that because insulin? It lowers insulin, it comes in, it takes glucose from the blood so that its level is within the normal range, so blood sugar levels do not rise for at least a couple of decades, and we do not know about the high insulin that causes all this, because doctors do not check it; the analysis would show that it is very, very high, by the way, there is an excellent test for determining insulin levels, homo i.r.  So we have a masked problem here: high sugar is masked by insulin, and insulin works very hard behind our eyes, storing all this fat. Without a liver ultrasound, you won't know you have fatty liver. You only see that you have a belly. But as the years go by, the liver becomes completely filled with fat and insulin resistance develops, and more and more insulin is needed to lower blood sugar. But at some point, the body can no longer compensate for the excess sugar, then sugar begins to rise, prediabetes occurs, and then diabetes. So, the underlying cause of insulin resistance is fatty liver, because the liver can no longer function. The process is slowed down. Essentially, fatty liver can be briefly described with the phrase "high-carbohydrate diet." Many people don't see the connection with other symptoms caused by high blood glucose and insulin levels, for example, fatigue, frequent urination, especially at night and in sleep, weakened immunity, joint inflammation like arthritis, cravings for sugar, and metabolic syndrome, high blood pressure, heart disease, fatty liver, and type 2 diabetes. You see, all of this and belly fat have the same cause: a high- carbohydrate diet, high glucose levels, and  insulin in general, yes, belly fat looks bad, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. A lot is happening out of sight. If you want to solve this problem, I have a great solution: healthy chum salmon intermittent fasting. Below the video is a link on what exactly to do to get started. I invite you to my healthy chum salmon course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.