Before talking about the liver, I want to read an amazing, stunning success story that was sent to me. Listen to it. A certain Genevieve Sylvester sent it to me. She works at Countess Stomach and performs ultrasound diagnostics of various organs, including the liver, kidneys, abdominal cavity, and so on. Ultrasound helps to see what's going on inside the body. Dr. Berk, my son, Countess Stomach. I've seen a lot. About nine months ago, a girl came to me for an abdominal ultrasound. Her liver enzymes were elevated, very elevated, and her liver didn't even look just fatty; it was dense and what we call hard-to-penetrate. She grew up on processed foods and soda. We talked. I told the food industry how it has a detrimental effect on people. Six months later, the patient also came for a repeat examination. Before the new examination, I read her medical record, and when I put a sensor on her stomach, a sensor is a thing that is inserted through the skin that emits ultrasound. I decided that I had mistakenly taken the wrong medical record. Previously, her liver was 19 centimeters thick, which is a lot, but now it's 14. centimeters, that is, normal, I asked if she changed her diet and she said yes, after our conversation, she switched to those to see what would happen, then I asked if she watches anyone on YouTube, I was going to show your channel and she said one doctor named Berg, but a couple of days ago, progress stopped, I wanted to quit this, and I said no, don't quit now, I'll show you why, I showed her what my liver looked like six months ago and what it looks like now, she burst into tears of happiness, I haven't said this yet, but I work on an Indian reservation where everyone has at least fat and a liver, and 80 percent have type 2 diabetes, this girl, she was about 25 years old, was halfway to diabetes, she was very happy and left knowing that she healed herself, just like her ancestors healed themselves, she said that she will continue to watch your video to heal, she said that my brother also started Keith along with her and he also has excellent results, this is my story of a girl who literally turned her world upside down and broke the ancestral curse of being doomed to diabetes, thank you  Thank you very much for God's wisdom, this is what I understand as success, and by the way, we are actively and persistently collecting success stories on our website. I can't wait to receive a story of your success. I will be making many more videos about success stories. I thought it would be great to share this amazing story with you before talking about the liver. Many people with fatty liver also suffer from diabetes. What is the connection? The connection is that both diseases usually have one cause, and this is insulin resistance. What caused insulin resistance? Excess insulin. Every time an excess of some hormone enters the receptor, the receptor will defend itself against this excessive influence by resisting it, reducing sensitivity. This is what insulin resistance is. This compensation. Now, when resistance to this hormone has developed, signals do not return to the pancreas. There is a lack of feedback. It's like talking to a person with headphones; he doesn't hear your remarks and you start shouting. The same thing happens with insulin. If we have resistance at the receptor level, the pancreas does not receive confirmation via feedback and begins sending more and more messages. Hormones are sending this message. As a result, we have a situation where the receiving end does not accept The sender of the signal from the signal is pushing it harder and harder and this will continue only until the pancreas finally becomes exhausted and says, "I've had enough," and then diabetes begins. We lose the function of insulin to regulate blood sugar and now nothing lowers its level and this level grows higher and higher and now with all this insulin, which is a hormone that stores glucose, and with all these carbohydrates that caused high insulin, we get fatty liver. From 25 to 46 percent of the population have fatty liver. When fat fills the liver, it spills out of it into other organs and between them into the abdominal cavity. This is called visceral fat. If you now look down and see something protruding forward, that is, an obvious belly, most likely you have fatty liver. If you do an ultrasound, you will see that the liver is fatty. What can be done about this? It's simple. If you are new to my channel, follow the link below. I have a whole plan for you. First, you need to start a healthy lifestyle. Reduce carbohydrates and eliminate sugar completely. Second, you need to stop snacking every meal. It activates  insulin and you also need to start intermittent fasting, skip breakfast, eat twice a day to start, and I also recommend adding Halen to your diet. Halim will help speed up the process of removing fat from the liver. I'll also note that artificial sweeteners, such as those in Diet Coke, can also lead to insulin resistance. But overall, here's a plan I highly recommend following so you can experience the same success as that girl. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.