So today we'll talk about the real reason why autophagy occurs. What is autophagy? Autophagy is a condition in which the body, instead of using what it no longer needs, utilizes and produces new amino acids, using them as fuel and as raw materials for building its own tissues. A significant part of the body is built from amino acids and proteins. In simple terms, this is the whole point. Why did we create this system? There is only one reason: to cope with hunger. Hunger is perceived as a threat to survival. Hunger does not allow us to exist for a long time. This system has been created for thousands of years, not only in our body, but also in other organisms. To cope with hunger when there is nothing, as a survival mechanism, the body takes damaged proteins that it no longer needs and uses them as fuel and also converts them into raw materials so as not to experience a shortage of building materials. But that's not all the benefits. The fact is that these damaged proteins are very toxic to the body. They are behind type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's diseases. Therefore, it is very useful for the body to get rid of all this. What else can be added? Thanks to autophagy, microbes and viruses die. There is a problem. You cannot kill a virus, however, this is one of the ways to remove some microbes from  bodies, what are damaged proteins anyway? Let's take an incorrectly packaged protein. To explain this, we'll have to talk a little about DNA. DNA is essentially a program, a blueprint by which proteins are synthesized. DNA is copied and becomes what's called rnk, and this r-n, that is, a copy leaves a well- protected fortress called the nucleolus to the outside, but still remains inside the cell. It's a protein factory, called a ribosome, and those same blueprints are transferred to this factory to synthesize proteins. They release a chain of amino acids in a certain sequence, then it folds, that is, it connects in a certain way. It looks strange, but that's how proteins look, and then it is activated. That is, a folded or packaged protein is a three-dimensional activated protein. I'm not only talking about hair and nails later, but also enzymes that help digestion, hormones, proteins that help remove toxins, and much more. When a protein folds incorrectly, that is, not as it should, it doesn't perform its function, but accumulates in the body, and it can also turn into so-called amyloid plaques in type 2 diabetics.  They are found in insulin-producing cells, and in the case of Alzheimer's patients in the brain, the problem with them is that they get stuck there and interfere with organ function. You see, autophagy helps get rid of them. By the way, to break down these proteins, the body needs zinc, which is one type of protein. Further, oxidized protein, when combined with oxygen, can lead to structural damage. For example, if iron is exposed to oxygen, it becomes covered with rust. In the same way, imagine that oxygen covers rust proteins and damages them, and they stop functioning. It turns out that the body is capable of utilizing them. There are also mutated proteins, for example, due to chemicals, radiation, or something like that. It turns out that these non- functioning proteins can also be utilized. There is also glycation of proteins. If you combine sugar with protein, the protein structure is disrupted, it becomes useless, sticky, and clogs everything. My favorite example is barbecue ribs. You take ribs, that is, meat, pour sugar sauce over them and fry them. When you eat this, you eat damaged protein, which is not at all good for the body.  This leads to clogging and as a result, advanced glycation end products are formed. I have a lot of videos on this topic. They can accumulate and create blockages that can even penetrate the lens and cause cataracts. But it turns out that autophagy cleans this out as well. But here's what you need to know: this autophagy system doesn't work according to the principles. That is, the body is constantly busy with autophagy, but maybe not constantly. If you have a lot of sugar in your body, most likely no autophagy is occurring, or if you have some kind of serious inflammation, autophagy probably does n't occur either. Most people still have at least some waste disposal going on in the body, especially if you're a model or involved in sports, and certainly if you fast, and the longer you fast, the more benefits autophagy can bring to the body. It all depends on how deep the autophagy process goes. People ask me how long you need to fast for autophagy to start. Well, it's already going on, but if you fast for 18 hours, it's already quite intense, and autophagy for 20 hours is even more intense. That is, the longer the more intense, but at some point, a price will be paid for important things.  In the texts, there are pokes every other day, in others, what is more, in others, less, it is not exactly known. The whole point is that different parts of the body have their own autophagy. For example, there is a type of autophagy that utilizes mitochondria, which are the energy plants of cells. Autophagy in bones is completely different, in the lungs and in the liver, it is so different that it is very difficult to calculate it. In your place, I would focus on those sports and fasting and try to hold out for 18 hours or a little longer. Also, the effectiveness of autophagy is affected by sports activities. This is how good shape you are. The better your shape, the more intense autophagy. So, the benefits out of a de are enormous. It helps against aging and also with its help the body gets rid of what is very harmful for it, what can cause degenerative diseases and inflammation. That is, you get rid of all this and improve the condition of tissues. Great, really. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don’t miss new videos.