Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Today I'll show you how to get rid of horror. Very often, people treat it and now it's completely topsy-turvy. If you use what I'll show you, you'll be amazed. The only thing you need for this is the help of another person, but I'll show you how to do it yourself. Only this is more difficult. Let's get down to business. Let's say this person has erotic pain on the right side. You must understand that the sciatic nerve comes from this point, passes through the buttocks behind the hamstring, and goes to this point. If your leg hurts here or in front, then it's not eat with eat with this sciatic nerve pain, it's as thick as my thumb and goes all the way to here. And here's what you need to do. If you have it now, on the right side, the sciatic nerve comes from here. You need to work from the opposite side. You need to massage the opposite side of this nerve. Start here. The sacrum begins here and you need to massage a place called the sciatic notch. You need to press on it. Then we begin to trace the nerve. You find it. This is how you stimulate the nerve from the opposite side. sides, this will help with this side because they are connected, this is a stuck standing wave and to get rid of it you need to work with this side, you can not take my word for it, but try it yourself and see for yourself, press on the center of the leg, move down it, trace the nerve, then you can do it slowly and continue massaging the leg up to here, this is what happens when you press on the opposite side, it becomes very sensitive and begins to hurt almost twice as much as the sore side, I will not go into detail why this is so, but you need to look for sensitivity without exceeding the pain threshold of this person and massage this nerve, massage this side and ask the person where it hurts on the other side, he can say the pain has shifted here, then massage this place on the opposite side, or let's say the calf hurts below, then massage the opposite shin, the most important thing is never, never work with the sore side, work with the opposite one, you need to find the same point, start here and move here, massage each point for a couple of minutes all over the leg to the very foot, and here's another thing, if you really want to do this on yourself, you will need to lie on your back and  At some point, you need a tennis ball to sit down. A tennis ball or something like that. You need to sit on that spot where your nerve begins, let the ball press on it, then slowly lower and lower. You will need to sit on this small ball and massage the sciatic nerve with it. I showed you how to do it, but you just sit on the ball and let gravity put pressure on these points. You can massage the nerve lower and lower while sitting on a chair. The tennis ball presses on the nerve. You lower the ball lower and lower, and the lower part of the leg, the calf, you can massage yourself. It's easier with two people, but you can do it yourself. This is how you can get rid of sciatica.