Why take apple cider vinegar before bed? There are many reasons for this, and I'll talk about those related to blood sugar. Acetic acid is the main acid in vinegar, a very anti-glare dream. What does this mean? It means that it lowers blood sugar after eating. Acetic acid also helps lower blood sugar in the morning. There's something called the dawn phenomenon or effect. This is elevated blood sugar upon waking up. Normally, blood sugar should be low before waking up, because you have n't eaten all night, especially if you're on a whale and don't eat carbohydrates. Why does your blood sugar suddenly rise in the morning? This is because this sugar comes from uneaten food. Its source is the liver. The liver produces additional glucose from proteins, fats, and ketones. This is called gluconeogenesis, the production of glucose from non- carbohydrate sources. This happens because you have insulin resistance. Blood sugar problems with diabetes or diabetes. If you don't have diabetes, it means you have insulin resistance. So why does acetic acid in apple cider vinegar lower blood sugar? Firstly, it Blocks enzymes that break down starch, and if you don't break down starch, it isn't absorbed and simply leaves the body. Secondly, acetic acid reduces gluconeogenesis in the liver, the production of new glucose. This is very important. If you are a diabetic, you should take apple cider vinegar at night when you wake up. Your sugar levels will be better, which means the need for medications will decrease. Thirdly, acetic acid is beneficial for blood sugar because it increases cell sensitivity to insulin, which is very helpful with insulin resistance. This will increase the need for insulin and help the pancreas reduce insulin production. So, WSUS is useful for both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia. If you have hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia, start taking apple cider vinegar before bed and after meals. Dilute two tablespoons of vinegar in a glass of water. If you haven't seen my other videos about vinegar, the link is below. Watch. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't return. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do.  To fix this without harming your health, hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.