Hello, today we will talk about how to get rid of mucus, especially in the sinuses. On the inner surface of the sinuses there is a special layer called the mucous membrane. It is very sensitive to irritants and allergens. The question is, do you have an allergy or is your nose constantly stuffy all year round? The allergy can be to food or to the environment. If it is an environmental issue, you will understand. If you have milk or grains in your food every time you drink milk or sugar, your nose will be stuffy. Then you need to avoid these foods. The mucous membrane contains so-called goblet cells, they produce mucus, they need vitamin A. So, if I personally faced this problem, I would make sure to get enough vitamin A from food. Among the symptoms of vitamin A deficiency is night blindness, that is, a person cannot see in the dark. This is one symptom. There are also many skin problems. The main role of vitamin A is, by the way, its active form is called retinol. Vegetarians get little vitamin A in its active form; they absorb it only 4 percent. Vitamin A is found in cod liver oil and butter, but  Again, you may be allergic to dairy. Vitamin A is found in many animal products because it is fat-soluble. My recommendation is that if you need a good source of vitamin A, buy high-quality cod liver oil. It's the best source. It's good to take it in winter for immunity to fight colds. It's a great option, by the way. Vitamin A is found in butter from grass-fed cows. But here's what I found out: If you take vitamin A but it doesn't work, the reason may be that the gallbladder doesn't digest it due to a lack of bile, which helps absorb it. So, you need to make sure that in the body, if the gallbladder has been removed, if you feel bloated after eating, if you have pain in your right shoulder, these are all symptoms of bile deficiency. Then you need to take bile so that the vitamin is absorbed. You may not need more vitamin A, but you need bile salts to absorb it. If you haven't heard of bile, follow the link under the video. I told you about two reasons, there is another one. What's called a microbial biofilm can exist in the sinuses. What is it? You can say that this group of microbes  Living together in the nasal sinuses, they produce all kinds of mucus and similar secretions. Many people have these films. If this is your case, take an enzyme called serapid pelvis. Take 200,000 units and only on an empty stomach. This is perhaps the most powerful enzyme that can be found. Once it enters the body, it begins to cleanse it, liquefy excess mucus and remove it from the sinuses and other places. It is very useful for the lungs. This is one of the best remedies I know for problems with the nasal sinuses and sleep apnea. I hope you find my information useful and leave comments. Thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe to the channel and see you soon.