Why do people run to get a snack when they're stressed? Well, today we'll find out. Stress triggers the production of the hormone cortisol, and cortisol is a glucocorticoid. This means that this hormone regulates blood sugar levels to some extent. Specifically, when blood sugar levels drop and sugar becomes low, cortisol is released. Cortisol helps the body convert proteins into fats or ketones. Sugar is called gluconeogenesis. Gluconeogenesis means sugar. Neo means new and genesis, the production or creation of something. The body produces new sugar, but not from carbohydrates. But from others, and this happens in the liver. Let's look at this picture. During stress, cortisol rises. Cortisol releases sugar, and blood sugar levels become high. Glucose leads to the production of insulin, which lowers blood sugar to a low level, hypoglycemia, low blood sugar. This creates a craving for carbohydrates, a feeling of hunger and a desire to snack, you snack, and the whole cycle repeats. So, there are two reasons for the rise in cortisol: the first is stress, and the second is hypoglycemia, that is, low blood sugar. So,  that stress is equivalent to consuming sugar to some extent. And when you eat sugar, you crave sugar, and when you are stressed, you also crave sugar. The same symptom, but two different causes. Another feature of stress is that it reduces willpower. Try to exercise willpower when you are hungry all the time and want to eat, or when you are stressed or depressed, all you think about is how to get relief. So here are some tips. First, never never never never ask yourself what is wrong with tonight, because the body will not give you the right answer when blood sugar is low. So don't ask yourself about it. Second, ignore your body's desire when it requires refined carbohydrates or sugar. Imagine a situation where you have small children and you brought a hungry child to the grocery store. He immediately wants you to buy something sweet because such things are everywhere there: shelves with candy, racks with snacks, and so on. As a result, you will get a walking stressor next to you, especially if you do not give the child what he requires. Children are not capable of rational judgment. Usually, they just want what the body requires: sugar, and so on. They  They can't stop and say to themselves No, I'll eat some greens better. I'd like them to do that, but unfortunately, that's not the case when you're craving something. Tell your body No, you won't get that. I'll tell you when it's time to eat, and it will be healthy food, not this sugar. The next point is to eat a minimum of carbohydrates because as soon as you start eating them, the desire to eat them will begin to grow, and this is a trap similar to a roller coaster. Fourth, take more B1. Nutritional yeast is good. What will this give you? It will reduce your stress levels, your cortisol will decrease, and you will feel better. And finally, the fifth free bonus tip is MCT oil. This good fat can be eaten throughout the day if you are having difficulties because it quickly turns into ketones. If you have glucose and ketones in your blood, the brain makes a choice in favor of ketones and not glucose. It prefers ketones. So, this oil will give you energy. Another thing you can do is buy beef fat in capsules. Yes, beef fat comes in small quantities.  capsules, you can buy them online and take them throughout the day if you need it, what will it give you? The fact is that beef fat contains nutrients and fat that are very filling, they reduce hunger and do not increase insulin levels. In my previous videos, I said that any food with calories raises insulin, but I recently found an interesting study where it was found that pure fat does not increase insulin levels, this is very good news and these capsules with fat, literally beef fat, can help you overcome difficulties instead of satisfying hunger with chips, swallow a couple of capsules of fat and thousands, you are fine. I invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down. This program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available. There are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as  Parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.