Hello, today we will discuss magnesium, a very interesting element, there will be a lot of data, so I will start from the beginning, magnesium is a cofactor, what is a k factor, it is an auxiliary element that activates certain enzymes, there are about 300 different enzymes that contain magnesium, and I will talk about those that are involved in the production of energy inside the mitochondria, I will not get into the details, but we are talking about the Krebs cycle, perhaps you remember it from a biology course, if very simply, it is mixing fuel, that is, glucose, if you use glucose or another fuel with oxygen, biochemistry may seem complicated, but imagine a carburetor, what is it, this device in your car or lawn mower that mixes a drop of fuel with oxygen in the right proportions and then ignites this mixture, spark plugs to produce energy, the same thing happens in the mitochondria, but the spark plug that activates the enzyme that ignites the mixture of fuel and oxygen is magnesium and vitamin B1, of course, there are other nutrients, but these are the most important, so if the body does not have enough magnesium, the energy level will be low, you will be tired, there may be others  manifestations of inability to relax magnesium helps relax muscles, calms nerves, slows down nerve impulses in the body and is very important for the functioning of the heart. With a lack of magnesium, there will be cramps in the shins, muscle spasms and will be very tense, atrial fibrillation may even develop. This may be associated with other elements with similar functions. With atrial fibrillation, the heart beats irregularly and seems to shudder. This may be due to a lack of magnesium or potassium. You may have constipation. The muscles around the intestines seem to pulsate, this is called peristalsis. If you do not have enough magnesium, the muscles cannot relax and do not work. The entire intestine is very tense. This can lead to bloating and constipation. Because the muscles do not relax, blood pressure rises. If you cannot relax, you will not be able to sleep. There will be problems with heart rhythm and rapid heartbeat. Chronic back pain is possible. Often, when muscles are very tense, a spasm can cause a pinched nerve and migraines. As you can see, magnesium deficiency can cause many problems and you also need  Vitamin D is needed to absorb magnesium. It is generally believed that vitamin D is needed to absorb calcium, but it is also necessary for magnesium. Magnesium and calcium are both needed. In other words, if there is too much or too little calcium, it will affect the level of magnesium that you can use and absorb. Whether it is a prince or a nasty girl, this is when insulin does not penetrate the cell well. The receptor does not let it in and resists it. This is why, by the way, insulin will always be elevated because the feedback is broken. The body thinks that there is not enough insulin and produces even more of it. insulin resistance is when there is too much insulin and it is simply blocked. So, with insulin resistance, magnesium is not absorbed just like other elements. Taking more magnesium can correct insulin resistance, increase insulin sensitivity so that it works better. Taking magnesium can also improve the absorption of potassium. As you can see, vitamins, macro and microelements, hormones, they are all interconnected, they work together. Where can you get magnesium? One of the best sources is food with a high content of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is like blood in plants. Biochemistry.  Chlorophyll is very similar to our blood, but the main element in our blood is iron, and chlorophyll is a magnet, so you need to eat a lot of leafy greens to get enough magnesium. The great thing is that you will also get potassium, calcium, vitamins, magnesium is found in nuts and seeds. And finally, the volume of leafy greens that you will have to eat is about 7, 8, or even 10 glasses a day to get the minimum dose of magnesium, but you will also get potassium. Thank you for watching. This information is needed by many people, so click the share button and let's spread this video together.