Urinary retention, what does it mean? This means that the bladder is not completely emptied. The remaining matcha can sometimes re-enter the body, which can lead to urine stagnation in the kidneys and many complications. I will talk about the causes of urinary retention and a very good solution to this problem. A third of the adult population and 80 percent of women have problems with the bladder. There may be a desire to urinate, but little matcha comes out. How does this affect a person? The kidneys are a filter and they must filter the blood. They work closely with the liver. By the way, it also filters the blood to some extent. The liver breaks down caffeine, alcohol, medications, toxins, and so the liver and kidneys work together. If you cannot completely remove urine, this can lead to tags in the feet or shins. This can lead to a loss of protein in the urine, which is detected as albumin. When you lose too much protein, the level of protein in the blood decreases and the tissues fill with fluid. If, when urinating, urine emits a very strong odor, for example, an extremely pungent smell of ammonia. This is due to the incomplete breakdown of proteins. There is the so-called urea cycle in the liver.  It breaks down protein, and the protein is broken down into ammonia, then it must break down into urea, which must be excreted in the urine. But if this entire biochemical pathway does not work, then ammonia accumulates in the urine and it can even get back into the blood. It can get into the brain and cause many other symptoms, such as fog in the head, even up to loss of consciousness. A strong smell of ammonia from urine is bad. So, with diabetes, there can be sugar in the urine. By the way, the main cause of kidney damage is excess sugar, that is, diabetes. This is called diabetic nephropathy. Not neuropathy. Nephropathy is a kidney problem. If there is a problem with protein metabolism, muscle mass is lost. This condition is called sarcosyngeia. It occurs with age because protein simply cannot get into muscles and other tissues. Other complications of this include fatigue, itching, and, as I said, fog in the head. Before I tell you what needs to be done in this regard, let's briefly consider what causes this. It is caused by diabetes, since high sugar levels damage the capillaries in the kidneys, the nephron.  A small filter in the kidney is essentially a small ball of capillaries, that is, small blood vessels that help filter blood, and high levels of sugar circulating in the blood damage these vessels, causing scarring. The damage can become irreversible. In addition, a person with diabetes usually eats a lot of carbohydrates, which alone leads to the retention of a huge amount of fluid. The average person on a high-carbohydrate diet carries somewhere between five and six kilograms of excess fluid. The goal is to get rid of this fluid and not retain it, and therefore we must understand why the kidneys retain fluid. Possible causes of diabetes include excess carbohydrates or you are simply aging and naturally losing these small nephrons, the filters in the kidneys. The cause may also be increased urgency, which puts pressure on the bladder, which can also cause urinary retention. Women may have a fibrous tumor that puts pressure on the bladder. Another common situation is that people consume huge amounts of sodium and very little potassium. The standard American diet is very high in sodium, including monosodium glutamate, and very little potassium from potassium-rich foods like vegetables. I know this because the average person  eats only one and a half glasses of vegetables a day, which is quite a little, and the concept of vegetables is quite elastic; it includes potatoes, corn, and tomato juice. Another common cause of urinary retention is a problem with the autonomic nervous system. This system is controlled by corr. I don't eat yet, and relaxation of the bladder, as well as many valves in the genitals. If you have a problem, say, the sympathetic nervous system is dominant, and the parasympathetic is weak. This alone can lead to a loss of the ability to hold urine, to excrete urine, to control the valve that also controls its excretion. Also, the longer the pregnancy, the more the tissues stretch, their shape is disrupted. Another reason is kidney and bladder stones. Because of them, matcha can also get back into the kidneys and further. Finally, antidepressant and other medications have a side effect: they cause urinary retention. All this is very interesting, but what to do about it? What's number one? It's probably very important to start reducing the consumption of sugar and other carbohydrates, because carbohydrates usually destroy the kidneys. First aid must be provided to stop oxidation and damage to the capillaries in the kidneys, and when This will cause you to lose a lot of water, probably lose 12-15 pounds of water weight in the first week or two, which will greatly reduce kidney stress. Number two, you really need to drink more fluids to increase the volume of fluid in the body, increase its pressure and thereby begin to cleanse the kidneys and the tubes and canal connected to them. I recommend drinking about 3 liters of fluid, that's 12 cups a day, and it's so difficult. I highly recommend drinking all this in the first half of the day, in the afternoon, especially not before bed. Here's something else you can do instead of taking a synthetic diuretic. This is not a call to give up medications. Talk to your doctor. I'm saying that there are alternative remedies, natural diuretic herbs. One such remedy is dandelion greens. You can just buy dandelion greens at the store and add them to a salad. It's a very powerful diuretic. Another powerful diuretic that I recommend is watercress. It's sold in health food stores and others. It's a type of leafy green cruciferous, by the way, and it's probably one of the first vegetables that people started eating.  A powerful diuretic. The next point is potassium. You need to get more potassium. Why? Because potassium is a natural diuretic. It pushes out fluid. To get more potassium, you need to eat more vegetables. I say at least 8 cups of greens a day. It seems like a lot, but you can divide it all up throughout the day and eat not only lettuce but also celery, asparagus, and other leafy greens. Additionally, you can take a high-quality electrolyte powder that contains a lot of potassium. Yes, I recommend my powder because it is high-quality. The link is below. The phytonutrients contained in greens also protect against any conditions that you may have. If you have any chronic disease, say, diabetes, arthritis, or already have chronic kidney damage or inflammation, phytonutrients are a very powerful factor in reducing the complications of this problem. They will greatly reduce the symptoms, even if you never get rid of this condition. Lastly, if your urine smells strongly of ammonia, you should not overload your liver and kidneys with even more protein. I recommend eating a moderate amount of protein with each meal. You eat from  85 to 170 grams of protein food with each meal, but no more, so you don't overload both your liver and kidneys and absorb the protein you ate. Watch another important video about the kidneys. Here it is. Watch it.