People don't go to the doctor unless they have some symptom. That's right, they don't go to the doctor for prevention or health reasons. They go to him when they probably already have many symptoms. Symptoms are how the body tells us about a problem. That is, the information that the body tells us is important. But the problem, especially when it comes to the kidneys, is that most often there is no sign or symptom indicating a problem with the kidneys. So, in the initial stage of kidney disease and even liver disease, there are no symptoms at all unless you do a urine test that will reveal protein or impaired filtration in the kidneys. You won't know that you have a problem, but as the disease progresses and the condition of the kidneys worsens, when different stages occur: the first, second, third, fourth, and ultimately, 5, symptoms arise that you need to know about. I'll tell you about them. Many people actually have a problem with their kidneys and they do n't even suspect it. Let's look at these symptoms to raise awareness, then you can do something about it. First, you get tired easily, weakness and fatigue occur very quickly. You can get tired from exercise, but I'm talking about normal daily activities. Number two, periorbital edema, swelling around the eyes, means  fluid accumulated in the kidneys got into the lymphatic system and the eyes became swollen. God. Sometimes I see this in someone and I really want to tell the person about it, but I have to restrain myself. Knowing what it looks like, you are surprised at how many people suffer from this and do not even realize what causes it. But I think it would be strange to approach someone and ask if you have been checked for periorbital edema. They may look at you askance. Well, number three is swelling or puffiness of the lower leg or foot. This is due to the fact that the kidneys lose protein. And when the protein balance of the body is disturbed, fluid always accumulates around the cells. And since the fluid goes down under its own weight, the ankles and feet swell. If you press on the ankle, there will be a dimple, this is pastosity. It is incredible that I had pastosity years ago when I was over 30. I remember I pressed on the ankle and looked and what the hell is going on. Now I do n’t have any pastosity, but in those years I had the following symptom: at night you urinate more often than during the day. The cause of this could be diabetes.  Pre- diabetes or insulin resistance, many people have it, they don't even know about it, this is one of the main reasons why kidney problems arise. By the way, I have a video about frequent urination, especially at night, and many people get excellent results by getting rid of this problem by changing their diet. And the link to the video is below, then foamy urine, it's like with beer when you pour it into a mug, foam forms on top. This means that there is protein in the urine. The next point is high blood pressure. You know, high blood pressure can have several causes, its cause can be a problem with nutrition, diabetes, a heart problem, and also a problem with the kidneys directly, since they are damaged. The next symptom is nausea, especially in the morning after waking up. Sometimes you even want to vomit. This will probably start a little later in the later stages of kidney disease, and then you will feel kind of nauseous in the morning. The reason for this is that toxic waste accumulates in the body all night, these toxins have not yet been eliminated. So, they have accumulated in the body. The next symptom is a metallic taste in the mouth, which is essentially toxins accumulating in the body, they come out through the pores in the mouth. This also happens So-called Purim frost, in which the sweat glands release uric acid crystals, they get on the skin and it looks like frost on the skin, this is a specific sign of a kidney problem, especially problems with protein metabolism, and the last symptom is loss of appetite, probably accompanied by a metallic taste in the mouth and nausea, but loss of appetite does not mean that there is a problem, because on a keto diet. When you fast, your appetite also disappears. But if your appetite suddenly disappeared, it might be worth checking your kidneys. In general, there are different stages of kidney damage from one to five, and at stage five, the only solution is a kidney transplant and / or blood. In this case, you need to go to the hospital every week and lie there for hours while your blood is filtered, this is devastating, and modern methods of treating kidney diseases essentially teach you to live with the symptoms and problems, because doctors use drugs, and drugs are toxic. The more drugs a person takes for the kidneys or even for the liver, the worse his affairs are. So there is no truly good medical solution for kidney disease in the late stages, it all comes down to regulating something. Doctors regulate blood pressure. They regulate diabetes and the symptoms of diabetes, they will probably prescribe you  A drug for swelling, for example, hydrochlorothiazide, an anticoagulant. Where is the second type of Abode? You will probably be on metformin, and with high blood pressure, you will probably be called an ACE inhibitor or something like that. Kidney problems can have different causes, so you need to work with the underlying cause. If the cause is diabetes, then you need to focus on diabetes and not on the symptoms associated with the kidneys. If the kidneys are sick due to an infection, of course, deal with the infection, but I want to show you natural substitutes for some of your medications, but talk to your doctor before using them. Let's start with high blood pressure. If we talk about nutrients, there is almost always a deficiency of two substances: the first is potassium and the second is vitamin D. Taking potassium and vitamin D can often lower blood pressure, and this brings us to the topic of potassium. You have probably been told that potassium is dangerous for the kidneys, so people avoid potassium, because with high potassium levels there is so-called hyperkalemia. There is a risk of arrhythmia and various other heart problems. Take a look at this interesting scientific article. It talks about potassium and chronic kidney disease. It says potassium here.  Often perceived negatively in nephrology, because patients with chronic kidney disease are prone to hyperkalemia, which is a high level of potassium, but new data suggest that dietary potassium may be beneficial for patients with chronic kidney disease. According to studies, higher urinary potassium excretion is associated with lower blood pressure and lower cardiovascular risk, as well as better renal outcomes. Moreover, increasing dietary potassium intake may have a pressure-independent effect on the kidneys, reducing the harmful effects of a low-potassium diet, inflammation, oxidative stress, and fibrosis. So, with low potassium levels, inflammation, oxidative stress, and fibrosis increase. These are the three things that are not needed for kidney problems. There are many other studies that talk about potassium protecting the kidneys. Sometimes people hear things out of context. For example, in stage 5 kidney disease, of course, it is impossible to regulate potassium levels, so potassium will be toxic, but what if you have stage 4, 3, or 2? Some people think that potassium is harmful at any stage of kidney disease and say that it is harmful for any kidney problems. But this  Absolutely not true. Phosphorus is very, very destructive to the kidneys at stage 5. Should I avoid anything that contains phosphorus, even if my kidneys are n't that bad yet? Taking potassium in the form of a supplement or electrolyte powder and eating foods rich in potassium won't cause kidney problems. It won't cause hyperkalemia, that is, high potassium in the blood. After all, if the kidneys are healthy or at least functioning, they regulate potassium levels and remove excess potassium. But there's another factor. Our body requires a huge amount of potassium to stay healthy. Of all the existing nutrients, we need the most potassium, about 4,700 mg every day. So, if you start to see symptoms of kidney problems and you're taking potassium, you may experience increased inflammation, oxidative stress, fibrosis, and your sodium levels will rise. Because potassium and sodium work together, and potassium can help change your body's pH so that it doesn't go too far on the pH scale. Let's take a second to look at the pH scale. So, there's the pH scale, the acid-base scale. The center of the scale is 7, a neutral environment. Anything above 7 is an alkaline environment.  that below seven is an acidic environment, this scale goes from 0 to 14, so the pH of urine can change in the widest range from 4.5 to 8, and other fluids in the body have a much narrower pH range, especially in blood, it should be slightly alkaline, and one of the important functions of urination is to ensure that the pH of the blood remains in this very narrow range of 7.4. So the kidneys are constantly removing something from the body to regulate this pH, they remove bicarbonates or calcium, these are alkalizing agents, or they remove acids to balance this pH, usually urine should be slightly acidic. But if it is very acidic, say 5 all the time, there are certain signs that there may be kidney problems, but the data on this is ambiguous. A couple more points about pH in diabetics, urine is usually more acidic than in people without diabetes. Especially if they forget to take medications and blood sugar levels go beyond the normal range. On the other hand, if you have a urinary tract infection, then the urine is usually alkaline. In this case, you have bacteria that produce more ammonia, and it is very  Alkaline is not an acidic environment. When dehydrated, urine is usually more acidic. The more severe the kidney failure, the more alkaline the urine will be. Do you think it is acidic? It is alkaline during fasting. Urine is very acidic. During fasting, urine also becomes more acidic because you burn fat. You secrete citronella and not acidic, as in the case of something very bad, say hunger, so very good fasting. Urine can be acidic. So, if urine is acidic, this does not mean anything. This is just one of the signs. It must be associated with many other data, say, with the background. If someone usually eats only meat and does not eat vegetables that would alkalize all this, then the urine will be more acidic. And for someone who eats almost only vegetables without animal protein, the urine will be more alkaline. As for kidney stones, your pH can correspond to either an alkaline or acidic environment because different stones can form, for example, uric acid stones and even oxalate. Calcium stones are more often formed in  acidic urine, and calcium-phosphorus stones form if you have an alkaline environment. I'm just expanding your knowledge, and pH, after all, you can't just mindlessly say, "I'll change my pH to help the kidneys," you need to really understand what's happening. Here's an example: someone bought one of those fancy machines that alkalizes water and started drinking this artificially alkalized water. I checked the pH of his urine in my clinic. His Page was 9, which is an extremely alkaline environment. People usually think that this is useful, but you artificially change the pH of water without understanding what is happening throughout the body. If you eat healthy food and become healthy, your pH will become exactly what the body needs to cope with everything. But forcing a certain pH on the body is not always good, but let's say you don't have Stage 5. Let's say you have some kind of kidney problem and you have a fairly acidic pH. You can do something, for example, you can add potassium, especially if you are prone to kidney stones. Calcium oxalate stones are most often found in kidney stones. They form in an acidic environment. If you have gout, and uric acid crystals form.  acids, then alkalizing the body with potassium can reduce the symptoms. They don't like potassium because it can also protect the kidneys. You can also take a little baking soda to protect the kidneys, especially if you have high blood pressure and your blood pressure is too acidic. But keep in mind that baking soda contains a lot of sodium. Sodium is one of the substances that is advised to avoid with high blood pressure. But if you have enough potassium to counterbalance the sodium, everything will be fine. I started talking about replacements for high blood pressure medications such as potassium and vitamin D, but there are others. Garlic is a natural ACE inhibitor, but without side effects. Lion's mane mushroom is another natural ACE inhibitor, and pycnotenol is also a natural ACE inhibitor. If we talk about diabetes, cinnamon is a powerful spice that can help lower not only sugar levels but also insulin levels. Diabetics who take cinnamon need slightly less medication because it lowers sugar. Apple cider vinegar is another excellent remedy for normalizing blood sugar. Diet and intermittent fasting are great for helping with type 2 diabetes. What is diabetes? Too much sugar in the blood. What is Keto? Intermittent fasting, reducing carbohydrates in the diet, in general. It's elementary when it comes to swelling, whether around the eyes or in the ankles. Potassium is a natural diuretic because it helps remove fluid and counteracts sodium and water retention. You see, we always talk about potassium as something good. It protects the kidneys, eliminates swelling and even high blood pressure, contrary to what is usually thought. Besides, on a keto diet with intermittent fasting, especially if you combine them, you lose a lot of excess fluid, an average of about 6 kg of fluid in the first 1-2 weeks. Because you no longer need such large reserves of sugar in the form of so-called glycogen. When the body gets rid of sugar reserves, it also gets rid of associated water. Finally, there is an excellent Indian plant for chronic kidney disease and fluid retention and edema, it is called unary. And finally, one of the most important measures for preventing kidney problems is proper nutrition, and I am talking about healthy Keto with intermittent fasting, and in this course I will show you how to do it correctly step by step.  I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.