If we consider a virus from the point of view that it is our enemy, it has strengths and weaknesses, so we should never attack the enemy. In our case, viruses are where they are strong, we need to attack where they are weak. So, what are the strengths of the virus? Its ability to kill those who are old and those who already have health problems, or in simpler terms, to attack those who have a weakened immune system. But what is the virus's weakness? It has practically no ability to affect healthy people. It is very important to change your diet. Eating nutrient-rich foods is very important. But what about stress? People under stress eat fast food. You can't imagine anything worse. So, during times of stress, the most important thing is to maintain a good, healthy diet. What is quite interesting is that stress itself is about anxiety and fear, which is essentially caused by a threat to life, continuous problems without solutions, an excess of bad news. Stress, fear and anxiety cause a surge in the hormone cortisol, and cortisol has a very interesting effect on immunity. Sudden and short-term stress strengthens the immune system, while chronic suppresses it.  The immune system, and what is immunity anyway? It's your army, your defense against viruses and pathogens. This is why many viruses cease to be emitted precisely when a person experiences stress. Stress usually destroys our defenses, increasing vulnerability to certain pathogens. That is, it is necessary not only to strengthen the immune system through nutrition and creating a healthy body, but also to strive to reduce stress as much as possible. Many people talk about this, but this is an extremely important point. If you watch bad news all day and night, it subjects you to stress and potentially weakens the immune system. If you're new to my channel, there will be a link in the description about what you need to eat. Here's what else you can do: first, lead an active lifestyle, engage in useful activities, remove your attention from what causes fear, take long walks, and continue to actively strengthen your health. If you haven't seen my videos about stress, watch this very important one.