Let's talk about selenium, it's an amazing trace element. It participates in completely unique processes. It's a coenzyme. It's an auxiliary enzyme for more than 25 different proteins. It's a very powerful antioxidant necessary for the functioning of glutathione. Glutathione can be called the main antioxidant. It fights oxidation. If the body contains heavy metals or chemicals, too much sugar or glucose, which destroys the brain and nervous system, as in diabetes, then glutathione protects tissues from such damage. Therefore, it is very useful for diabetics. It can help with insulin resistance and alleviate insulin resistance. Glutathione is also good for the heart, so with selenium deficiency, the risk of heart disease increases. Glutathione prevents oxidation. It also helps get rid of hydrogen peroxide. This is good, for example, for vitiligo, that is, and pigmentation disorders. Because hydrogen peroxide seems to whiten the skin. Hydrogen peroxide is produced by mitochondria, this is their byproduct. One of its purposes is to kill microbes. Our body produces these to drain or get rid of hostile microorganisms, but for balance, we also need antioxidants. It's strong.  The thyroid gland also needs selenium to convert T4, the inactive form of thyroid hormone, VT3, and also to reverse T3, another inactive form of thyroid hormone. It is necessary for the transformations that make thyroid hormones work. Thyroid hormones affect every single cell, so they all need selenium. It also helps remove mercury from the body. People worry about eating fish that contain a lot of mercury, such as salmon, but besides mercury, everyone needs selenium. If there is enough selenium, the body produces enzymes that help bind mercury and make it inactive. It is so strong that it helps protect the body from damage caused by mercury. Selenium also reduces susceptibility to certain viruses. It has an anti-inflammatory effect, like most antioxidants, and can also reduce the risk of male infertility. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease associated with hypothyroidism. There is a study that has shown that taking selenium can reduce the level of antibodies to the thyroid by 21 percent. That's interesting.  The best places to get selenium are Brazil nuts, fish and seafood, for example, halibut, sardines, salmon, organ meats, and eggs. It's also found in other foods, but here it's found in the highest amounts. The recommended daily dose of selenium is 55 micrograms. You shouldn't take more than 400 micrograms. This is the upper limit, after which it becomes toxic. Selenium deficiency can cause serious damage. An excess of selenium can be detrimental. A happy medium is needed. Thanks for watching. If you don't want to miss new videos, click the bell next to the " I'm subscribed" button.