Did you know that your body cannot produce vitamin A? Your microorganisms can. Your microorganisms are friendly bacteria. Your intestinal microflora. This is a vitamin factory working at full capacity. They create many vitamins. They produce vitamin K, which is directly related to the establishment of bleeding. Any vitamin that is synthesized in the body is important for the body. Internal bleeding is very harmful to a person, and this is one of the reasons why the body produces vitamin K to prevent it from happening. They also produce vitamin B12. It is necessary for the functioning of the nervous system. If you have a B12 deficiency, your nerves may be permanently damaged. It is also necessary for the blood. A lack of B12 can develop anemia. It also produces vitamin B1, one of the most important water-soluble vitamins due to its effect on the nervous system, the brain, and the heart. Many people lack it because they eat a lot of carbohydrates, sugar, and refined carbohydrates. They eat a lot of refined grain products, which use up B1, which causes anxiety, attention problems, panic attacks, and other troubles. If you want to learn more about A1, look at the symptoms of Berry Berry. The link to this video will be  below But even if a person does not have such a serious B1 deficiency that he already has Berry, he may have a clinical B1 deficiency, he does not have enough B1 But this is not yet a catastrophe However, this is enough to irritate the nervous system, worsening mood, anxiety, also important for memory for some parts of the brain and for the heart, microorganisms also produce B2, which helps break down proteins, carbohydrates and fats, converting them into energy. It is involved in the work of the mitochondria microenergy plant. They also produce vitamin B3, which helps regulate cholesterol, supports brain function and joint health, it is also involved in the production of energy in mitochondria. Your microorganisms also produce B5, a coenzyme in many biochemical reactions, including protein synthesis, it also supports the adrenal glands by helping to produce adrenaline and nordenalin. Vitamin B6 is also produced by microorganisms. Many women drink B6 for PMS symptoms and swelling during pregnancy. B6 expels excess fluid, it helps with carpal tunnel syndrome and is good for the nerves. Your microorganisms produce and  Biotin I have a separate video about it the link is below biotin helps to synthesize proteins and certain fatty acids in the body It is important for hair nails and skin So if you have something wrong with the intestines you may have a deficiency of all this And finally they protect your DNA and also participate in the synthesis of DNA formation in general the body cannot produce vitamins and microorganisms here are some of them that create B vitamins and you can get them from fermented foods especially from sauerkraut this is an excellent source microorganisms help us in different ways they produce vitamins enzymes that help remove toxins they produce acids that give you energy and all this from the food that They get fiber they create amino acids that become neurotransmitters and help you with mood with concentration and cognitive functions some microorganisms in the small intestine have the ability to produce lactase an enzyme that breaks down lactose in the small intestine there are also enzymes that produce lactase but with age this gradually stops for this reason probably half of the population is lactose intolerant So it's not just  When eating healthy, it's also important to maintain the friendly bacteria that produce vitamins. Thank you. I recommend watching this video about digestive enzyme deficiencies in more detail.