Today we're going to discuss something I've never talked about in my videos.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. It has to do with censorship and what happened to the natural health scene a couple of years ago.  You will be very interested in this interview.  Yes, it was very, very scary, but this story has a happy ending.  and I'll tell you about it.  But a few years ago, I don't remember the exact date, but it was in May, I decided to go to my YouTube channel and suddenly I couldn't find it.  Before this, my videos were everywhere, and suddenly they disappeared. I was subjected to total censorship.  I was told that I had to delete a whole bunch of videos.  I deleted all of Araki's videos and moved them to Rumл.  I had to delete all the videos about vitamin D and natural immunity, all the videos about Covid.  I've had to delete entire series of videos often just to be left alone. Instead, medical topics emerged. That is, to find me through a search engine, you had to scroll down far , since at the beginning there were websites of the Mayo Clinic, Harvard, and others.  At the time I didn't know what was going on, but now I know for sure.  Covid has been used as a Trojan horse to reshape the natural health industry.  And today I invited a terrorist.  At least that's what he was branded as.  This is one of the dirty dozen terrorists, my good friend, a wonderful person of the SRD.  Greetings, SRD. Thank you very much for the invitation, Dr. Berg.  I am simply amazed by what you do.  I interviewed you a few years ago. There is a ton of research on your wonderful channel.  You help people with natural remedies. This includes sunlight, herbal remedies, and much more. For some reason you were included in the dirty dozen.  Tell us a little about it.  Were you really included on the terrorist list or what?  Yes, it sounds too weird to be true, but that's how it was.  And yes, I, along with other people, was essentially branded as local extremists. And the US Department of Homeland Security at one time labeled as terrorists those who advocated natural health, dietary and lifestyle changes to improve people's lives and health, and those who championed medical freedom. This happened from 2000 to 2021, until the recent change in the power structure. We will discuss this change further. Tell me what it was like?  You had a website, you had a business, you had a YouTube channel, you were simply pulled out of all platforms. What's interesting is that, as you noted, people have mostly started to notice censorship on Google. Essentially, they deleted search results there in 2019. I know this has touched you too, because you, like me, have spent your entire life sharing information with people , and we are both passionate about doing so.  And so in August of 1919, Google, so to speak, burned books in a digital bonfire.  removed 99% of search results about natural health at once. This was the beginning of what became a kind of nightmare for us in terms of free speech. Opportunities to express alternative views on health, including natural, integrative, and functional medicine. But it was during the dozen disinformation campaign launched in May 2021 that we were put on the target list, after which we began to be attacked.  Let's discuss your crimes. Disagreement with the consensus. When these people talk about consensus, are they talking about scientific evidence or is it essentially what doctors have agreed on ?  Is this the consensus? I think this definition hits the nail on the head.  Peer review is intended to create consensus on specific topics.  And I have now collected 100,000 published, peer-reviewed studies in support of natural health on the website greenmetinfo.com. It would seem that consensus implies the exchange of this information, but in essence, our medicine, I think, is more a medicine of authorities than evidence-based medicine. So, the CDC essentially always just makes a statement, so to speak, proclaiming their opinion, instead of saying, "Here are all the studies showing that the keto diet, for example, is harmful to health, but they don't do that. They're relying on people's blind faith in authority." Yeah, I think if you look at the essence of what happened, I read YouTube's disinformation policy, and it basically boils down to this: if you don't agree with the consensus, then your information is disinformation.  I think you and I, and everyone watching us, understand that science must disagree.  After all, it was thanks to disagreement that all major discoveries were made.  But now it's all gotten to the point that, yeah, what planet am I on, am I in the matrix?  What's going on anyway?  Even in the twenty-first edition of the United States Pharmacopoeia in 1926, it was used by physicians, and more than 3/4 of the remedies described in it were herbal. And in the latest edition there are zero such funds. So essentially we are now doing what doctors did back then, and we are being attacked.   They shut our mouths.  There are certain things we can't talk about and that's mind-boggling. We are literally forced to choose which side of science we are on.  Are you in our group in science or are you on the side of real science?  It was very unpleasant to deal with all of this, but you found yourself in the middle of it.  It literally destroyed your business, your family, everything. It was very similar to the Inquisition and persecution.  Which I think is ironic. After all, as you accurately noted, today people think: “Let’s trust science.” Or science has already decided on this.  But science is something else.  It is rather a methodology of discovery and achieving an understanding of reality through testing, retesting, and changing hypotheses. And in essence, I discovered that instead of science we have santism.  And Saintism is, I believe, a religion that has absorbed all other religions.  During the so- called pandemic, which some called a plandemic, all our religious leaders from the Dalai Lama to the Pope said: "We believe in Ahimsa, and we are against, say, introducing tissue from aborted fetuses into the body , because it violates the principle of protecting life. But now the situation is so extreme that we are forced to suspend all our religious beliefs, because science knows better. This is what I call medical monotheism. That is, scientism inevitably leads to medical monotheism, where there is no room for dissent. You cannot deviate from the established standards of treatment or disagree with them, otherwise you will, in fact, be destroyed. This is what happened to me. I was declared a heretic and told: "Off with your head." And then followed years of persecution simply because I believed that a person should have the right to breathe without a mask or to choose vitamin D and turmeric instead of a mandatory pharmaceutical drug. Very sad. But on the other hand, I am glad that this happened. I will tell you why. I wanted to touch on an organization called  The Center for Countering Digital Hate. Tell us about it. It's a tiny organization, I think it has 15 employees. It's based in the UK, but it influences a huge number of people, at least in the US. Yes. The Center for Countering Digital Hate began in 2018 to influence the UK election. There was a candidate, Jeremy Corbyn. He was a leftist, and people were saying, "He's an anti-Semite, so he should be cancelled." I think that later turned out to be untrue. But it was a very effective way to harass him. Initially, it was the UK's Labour Party that orchestrated all of this for political reasons. And with the onset of the pandemic, the Center for Countering Digital Hate immediately switched gears and began using the same tactics, including cutting off income from opposition media. In the UK, that media outlet was Kennery. And what does the Center for Countering Digital Hate stand for? It's a very grandiose name for an organization that has, in fact, spent years inciting hatred against American free speech advocates who advocated for medical choice, parental rights, and religious freedom. They're against hate. Excellent. It seems... This group needs to be supported. Digital hate. And you're puzzled, right? What does this have to do with you? What does this have to do with health? Explain. Essentially, it's a proxy or a front. That is, non-profit organizations are being created with ties to intelligence agencies and government agencies to, in effect, whitewash the suppression of free speech. After all, in the US, we have a wonderful thing called the Constitution. And we're not allowed, even if someone lies, the Constitution still protects their freedom of speech. This is as far as you or I could go. And people like our dear colleague Robert Kennedy Jr., we said that children's health, the principle of informed consent, and quality science are important to us. It's hard to call it hate, but the CPC used a whole range of tactics to portray our statements as dangerous, irresponsible, and even violent. And thus, they essentially transferred us to a semi-criminal status so that they could kick us off platforms and deprive us of income. And in the US, there were even threats of a legal war against  A dozen pieces of misinformation, searches for alleged wrongful deaths. Like, someone might have read what we wrote and not gotten their tenth injection, which means we might have harmed them. After all, these injections supposedly save lives, and they're, of course, safe and effective. So, this organization was somehow able to influence all the major social media platforms to remove certain influencers. And it wasn't just about COVID, because they removed content not just about COVID, but all your content, about sunlight, walking, natural vitamins, everything. Yeah, absolutely right. There are 10,000 topics on greenmetinfo.com right now. Because I'm a health information addict . I've been sitting at my computer for 16 years, sifting through a million abstracts in the US National Library of Medicine's abstract database to pick out the real clinical gems, the papers that show that natural health is truly scientifically sound, and, Maybe we should consider an alternative. These guys wanted to make it seem like we were only interested in vaccines. Yes, we have one vaccine database. It has 1,400 studies. And they show that there are problems with both the safety and efficacy claims of some vaccines. So, essentially, they wanted to destroy my entire project and my life. Horrible. Just think about it. I am amazed by their terminology, their definition of the word disinformation. Disinformation is the same as any activity in the field of natural health. And here's something else interesting. Every can of dietary supplements has a disclaimer for the FDA. This statement has not been verified by the FDA. The product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease and is not a drug. Basically, by their definition, a drug is anything that does any of these things. That's why there is this disclaimer everywhere . After all, that is the definition of a drug. If you say that broccoli helps prevent some disease, it can be classified as a treatment for the disease. And if you also sell broccoli or broccoli pills, you immediately fall under  The FDA's jurisdiction, and it takes you on. But it's curious how they manipulate the words " medicine," "disease," and " misinformation," and suddenly natural health turns into terrorism. In fact, in Florida, where I live, even now, unless you're a nutritionist or a doctor, you have no right to recommend, say, cherries for arthritis. Even though Michigan State University showed that it's more effective than Buprofen, which, in fact, has a very serious toxicological profile. It's like with Vioxx. That one had a lot of problems, too. Such actions are considered a class D felony. As a result, naturopaths and nutritionists were simply eliminated in this state . And essentially, it's impossible to practice natural medicine properly here, including homeopathy. It's considered dangerous and irrational here, even though the origins of medicine are precisely in traditional knowledge and practices. So the situation is astonishing, although we know that it's largely connected to what you mentioned. Take, for example,  Merck's Handbook. I've written a lot about the 1899 Merck's Handbook . It's amazing. It's packed with natural remedies, from organic remedies to local herbal remedies. And this conflict has been going on for decades, maybe over 100 years. Right? What's really great about this whole horrible story ? It's a happy ending. I think all this stress you went through, I think Robert Kennedy Jr. was also on that dirty dozen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he was on that list too. And as you said, it has a happy ending. Because look where we've come to. Yeah, the last thing they wanted was for him to be in that position, right above the Department of Health and Human Services . Wow, what a twist. You could n't make this up. And here's what I notice even from your channel. You were brought back on the platform. It was like they said, "Okay, you can come back." I'm sure they apologized profusely to you and probably compensated you.  I'm sure they did. That's what strikes me most about the story of restoring our three accounts that were taken away from me four years ago. They said they looked at their community standards and realized that, in fact, they shouldn't have deleted our accounts. This is astonishing, because I filed a civil rights lawsuit against the tech giants in connection with this. It turns out they did us a huge favor by admitting that a month before the accounts were restored, the head of Alphabet said: "The government essentially forced them to take these measures." This, of course, is a convenient excuse, because now they themselves are seeking protection from the European Digital Services Act and the British Online Security Act. In essence, the tech giants are now being persecuted by censorship authorities themselves. Although it was they who previously introduced censorship on an industrial scale. Which is what millions of Americans faced. But if you look at the situation now from the perspective of restoring justice, I'm very glad that they did it. This is a very good sign. People who  They slandered and kicked people like me off the platforms, and now they're bringing them back. And I think that's exactly what they had to do. That's the happy ending to this whole story. If it weren't for what just happened, I don't think we would have this explosion in the natural health space. People want lifestyle alternatives. As many people know, 80-90% of chronic diseases are lifestyle-related. And the amount of research on this topic is barely 2%. It's a vastly undervalued, ignored area of ​​healthcare. But it turns out that people still want exactly that. They want natural remedies. They don't want to take a bunch of drugs. Now Robert Kennedy is cleaning up his department. And it's funny that someone says, "But he's not a doctor, and in this position we need a lawyer to eliminate the mass of unethical practices and corruption that have flourished in this area for years." We need to clean up the mess, not just keep things the same." We spend $4.9 trillion on health care. And we have one of the worst health care systems in the world. And now Robert Kennedy, what a turn of events, is cleaning it up. And you and I , of course, support that. I think we've had some victories recently. Would you like to talk about some of those victories? I think you're absolutely right. There are 100 times more people in the world now who have begun to understand the importance of sovereignty over their own bodies. This is a nonpartisan, grassroots, global movement. Because without the right to decide for yourself what goes into your body, whether by force or through gentle coercion and manipulation, you essentially have no other civil liberties. Sovereignty over your own body is the foundation of any sovereignty whatsoever. So, in essence, those who have profited greatly from this blatant violation of bodily sovereignty, which, in my view, has occurred with these mRNA injections, are themselves beginning to understand:  "Wow, we can take back control of our health and the health of our families.  People are turning to natural medicine, changing their lifestyle and way of thinking on such a massive scale that I could not have imagined.  We were just in Brussels for the launch of the Make Europe Healthy Again commission. It was an amazing event, and now I can clearly see the spark that was lit in every country, inspired by what happened here. And I think ultimately, those who may have intended to do harm or just profit from people's naivety and trust in these institutions are starting to realize, "Wow! We can take charge of our own health and be empowered." And I'm incredibly excited to see that happening. People are hungry for that. They want the freedom to choose whatever they want to take care of their health. Exactly. I think people value that more than ever before. Because there are still these very strict, mandatory vaccination schedules. The pharmaceutical agenda is incredibly ingrained. But if you look at the statistics of how many people are choosing natural medicine or the food-as-medicine approach, the numbers are growing exponentially. And that's partly because of your amazing work. It's great to see people going to social media, to different platforms, to get information about those they trust. And I think that's wonderful. Trust in the pharma giants is at an all-time low right now. I think their ratings have dropped in the last couple of years.  by about 28 points. How do you think they plan to control the agenda in the future? How are they trying to do it now? I think we can see how they operate. There are certain influencers who claim that they are not saying all this for money, but simply because it is so important to them to talk about the benefits of pharmaceuticals and vaccines, and at the same time they vigorously attack natural health. It is quite obvious that they are secretly paid a lot of money. I know there was even an investigation recently about Dr. Mike. It is astonishing, but he claimed: "I do not receive money from a pharmaceutical company.  Although there is publicly available information that the pharmaceutical company paid him a million dollars as its consultant. So that's one of the ways they try to manipulate. They reach out directly to individual influencers. I have also noticed a whole wave of influencers who repeat the same points. This is not a straightforward call to action like, "Buy this medicine."  These are very carefully constructed messages that carefully navigate the right path.  If they promote junk food, they won't say, "Eat junk food."  They'll say, "There's no such thing as a bad product. Don't demonize any one product. If you eat everything in moderation and exercise, cornflakes won't do you any harm. They're actually attacking the competition. They're viciously attacking Robert Kennedy, Jr., Mac, me, you. They're trying to find something online that we said a long time ago, take it out of context, and thereby devalue it. They don't realize that this is just getting us more attention. People are n't stupid. They're drawing attention to an issue and ultimately helping to get our message across, while they're getting themselves deeper into the swamp. If I had to give these people advice, I'd say this: "Listen to what people want. Own up, make amends, and work on what people want." People want to be healthy. Talk about it. Don't try to destroy anyone. And people don't like it when you take money from big corporations and industrial giants. When it's found out, you lose credibility. But, alas, 95% of the influencers who take money don't disclose it. It's only a matter of time before it's found out, and the fine for that is $50,000. Unfortunately, they will be in serious trouble. But all of this is still something new. It's a new way of controlling the media, or trying to control it. And the good thing is that it helps us promote natural health among ordinary people. Because people see through these schemes. Do you agree with you? If they hadn't tried so vigorously to attack, slander, and demonize people like Robert Kennedy Jr., he would never have received the massive popular support that brought him to the most influential position where he really  can carry out the reforms that we all need. So I think these guys' tactics are already outdated, and even all their attempts, no matter what you do to remove me, to harm me, in reality I now have even more people who are walking this path with me , like you, and they give me tremendous support. And spiritually, this is the only thing that helped me endure all of this. People who care, who respond to the truth and then join this movement. I really hope that someday the pharma giants will finally understand. You don't have to inflate your margins a million times by deceiving people. You can build an honest business model and really try to help the people you work for, patients, consumers, improve their health. I know it sounds naive, but I truly believe that they will eventually join our movement. Maybe they will accept the move, become happier themselves, make their families happier and bring more benefit to themselves and the world. I know that you and I believe in peace. This is what we  and we want to. I wish they had chosen a better photo of you . Where did they even find that? It looks like you just woke up there, and your hair… Me? You could have chosen a much better photo. I already got a professional photo of me put on Wikipedia . They helped me with that, because they screenshotted this one to make me look like a villain. Oh my god, but I'm not a villain. Exactly. I'm a pretty nice guy. You're not just a nice guy. You're one of the most wonderful people I've ever met. You are, at your core, nothing but caring and loving. I really appreciate everything you've done. Thank you. I feel the same way about you. That's the beauty of it . People found kindred spirits. With all the stress and all the division they tried to sow, it ended up bringing us together even more, and now we're stronger than ever. Thank you so much . Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. And we'll continue our conversation. Thank you very much.