Hello everyone, this video is mainly for beginners who are new to the diet. It's called the Healthy Body Diet, what can you eat? There will be a link to a document in the description. You can download it and print it out. There's a list of everything allowed on the healthy ketogenic diet. This way, you'll have everything in one document. I'll just tell you briefly what's in it. New wars. Print it out and read it yourself. So, let's get started. You'll see a list of different fats, seeds, and nuts, and various proteins. If you take any food, the fats and proteins in it are usually combined. You won't find either pure fat or pure protein. Offal, fish, seafood, and vegetables, fruits, including berries, drinks like Italian proteins and fats. All of this is on the list. Carbohydrates should be from 20 to 50 grams per day, not in one meal throughout the day. As for vegetables, I don't take them into account in this dosage. They go beyond that. People ask whether they need to eat vegetables raw or whether they need to be cooked. I recommend A-50/50 ratio. I usually recommend 7 to 10 cups of vegetables, but I don't recommend, for example, 10 cups. Brussels sprouts if you eat all 10 cups of vegetables I'm talking about salad or leafy vegetables and it doesn't even have to be spinach and since it has a lot of oxalates I mean leafy vegetables like lettuce and the like if you make a salad say five or six cups and so watch out for cooked for example fried or steamed cruciferous vegetables for example vegetables like Brussels sprouts or broccoli or asparagus this is good because when you cook certain vegetables you increase the bioavailability of nutrients when you eat raw vegetables you get more of other nutrients because it's hot 1 shahid certain substances so 50/50 this combination is possible raw leafy and cooked cruciferous vegetables go well as for fruits then you will have to limit yourself to lemons and limes berries I have given a list of berries that you can eat but you need to be careful not to exceed this norm then drinks and vegetarian fats and proteins that you can consume but here you need to monitor the quality for example  They should be organic farm-raised, and I'm not just talking about free-range and natural eggs. I'm talking specifically about free-range farm-raised chickens. When they're not roaming, they graze on grass and eat this forage. The fish should be wild-caught. Grass-fed meat is preferable, organic if possible. The volume is as indicated here. Don't forget about bioavailability, for example, from by-products you'll get high-quality active vitamins. Elements are available, for example, iron, and even trace elements in vegetables. This isn't true, for example, vitamin A in vegetables is actually a vitamin, but it still needs to be converted. Vegetables also contain many other nutrients, for example, folic acid and vitamin C. I've included in this list specifically healthy foods for you. It's just that sometimes, when you find out, the diet allows you to eat low-carb foods made from ingredients that aren't particularly healthy. This list may differ from those you found when you were interested in the keto diet, so download the file from the link, print it out, and you'll have reference material on what you need to eat and what you don't need if you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body.  Subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos. Just click the bell to stay up to date with new videos.