Today we will answer a very pressing and burning question why you need to sleep with a pillow between your legs. First, it can reduce lower back pain or even prevent lower back pain. Because when you lie on your side, your knees come together, your pelvis turns forward and your spine ends up in an unnatural position. If you lie down and can’t sleep for several hours, and your pelvis is too turned forward, this will create tension in your lower back and change the position of your spine quite significantly. This can also affect the largest nerve in the body, the sciatic nerve, and cause irritation. Third, it can reduce knee pain. When you bring your knees together, it can cause pain in them, especially inside where the medial meniscus is located, which is perhaps the most common source of knee pain, there may be either a tear or weakness. Fourth, it can reduce pain in the hips and fifth, it can improve breathing. Because if you have sleep apnea or any problems with the sinuses, when you sleep on your back, it reduces the volume of air passing through the nasopharynx. Sleeping on  Sleeping on your side will increase the amount of air passing through the sinuses. I would also recommend sleeping on your right side rather than your left. You may find that it's better to sleep this way, especially if you have liver problems because your liver is on the right side, and if you sleep on your left side, the heavy organ will put some pressure on your lungs and interfere with air flow. I usually sleep on my right side so that my heavy liver, which weighs one and a half kilograms, doesn't put pressure on my lungs. Try this. It might help. As for the pillow size, I like to use thin pillows, not too big, but not too small. The pillow should just lift your knee so that your spine is aligned. Try it too. I invite you to my course on the adrenal body type. This is the most common type due to stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of adrenal body type problems with immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will find a gift: a unique new course on how to strengthen your immunity. I will tell you how your immunity works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.