So, this is a very important and interesting video about how to get rid of plaque and tartar that may have accumulated. You have already filmed a video on this topic, but it was not quite finished. So, this is like the second part, because something very important must be added to this formula to remove plaque, and this is due to vitamin C. There is a vitamin C complex in nature, it consists of many components. One component of the vitamin C complex is ascorbic acid. Vitamin C is often called ascorbic acid, but this is not true. It is only part of the complex. However, ascorbic acid can help get rid of plaque, but first, I will tell you how vitamin C is related to oral health. You have probably heard assessments of a serious deficiency of vitamin C and all sorts of consequences of this. Zinc was first discovered in sailors. They had many problems, in fact, that there was no vitamin C in their food. Later, it turned out that sailors could be given lime, lemon, onion, even potatoes so that they would receive vitamin C, and then scurvy would pass. Why is this vitamin so important? Well, with a lack of vitamin C, collagen cannot be produced. Vitamin C is essential for the production of collagen. I  I'm talking about cold in the skin, in bone tissue, including teeth, in ligaments, tendons, in muscles, in joints, in all vessels, including capillaries. Let's say, with a lack of vitamin C in the capillaries, blood penetrates through the walls of the capillaries and bleeding occurs. Therefore, one of the important signs of vitamin C deficiency is bleeding gums. Any diseases such as gingivitis or thiasis are usually associated in one way or another with a deficiency of vitamin C. You probably already know that sugar is harmful to teeth and gums. Sugar serves as food for bacteria that produce acid, which causes cavities in the teeth, inflammation of gum tissue, as well as plaque and tartar. So, what is plaque? Plaque is a biofilm. What is biofilm? Biofilm. These are colonies of microbes that are bound together and they create a kind of house or shelter made of calcium where they hide from the immune system. In nature, 90-95 percent of all bacteria form biofilms. If you go, say, to a small stream, you will notice that the stones in it are very slippery and covered with mucus. This is  Biofilms, that is, in nature, as one of the defense mechanisms, microbes use this kind of protective shell. So biofilms form tartar, they create plaque in blood vessels, they also create calcium deposits in joints. So biofilms are all around us. I will talk about the relationship between vitamin C and biofilms in a minute, but first, I will finish my thought about vitamin C and its function in the body. Without vitamin C, very bad breath appears due to excessive bacterial growth. Vitamin C suppresses pathogens including viruses, bacteria, yeast, fungi, mold, and of course, biofilms. Vitamin C also has an antihistamine effect. Histamine in the body is associated with allergies, so taking vitamin C helps reduce sneezing, runny nose, and mucus secretion. Vitamin C, as I said, is necessary for the creation of connective tissue and collagen. Vitamin C also activates folates, that is, to convert the inactive form of folic acid, folates are needed. Vitamin C is also necessary for the conversion of cholesterol into bile salts, for the conversion of tryptophan, serotonin, for the conversion of dopamine into epinephrine. So  that vitamin C is involved in many functions of neurotransmitters, adrenal steroid hormones such as cortisol cannot be created without vitamin C, and as you already know, vitamin C is very important in fighting infection and reducing the duration of an infectious disease, as well as increasing resistance to infection. If you have little vitamin C, you form biofilms more easily. Here's what's interesting here. We know that vitamin C is a sailor's vitamin, but there's another problem associated with sailors. And they'll tell you this: so -called growths form on ships, and these growths on the bottom of the ship significantly increase the ship's mass and resistance to movement. These growths are formed, in fact, from various organisms, even from mollusks and lobsters, as well as from smaller organisms with a calcium shell. With these growths on a ship, fuel consumption increases by about a third due to the added weight, this creates many problems. The formation of these growths is called marine fouling. People have tried many means to combat these biofilms, used paints with chemicals. Of course, all this is very toxic, but in 1990, one sailor developed  brilliant idea when he was eating a sandwich with red hot pepper He wondered if red pepper would kill these growths and he discovered that red pepper effectively kills these microorganisms So he invented a paint with red pepper added and it worked Excellent It must be said that red pepper not only contains substances that kill biofilms, it also contains a lot of vitamin C Moreover, one of the substances that vitamin C turns into is hydrogen peroxide and hydrogen peroxide also kills biofilms Our body itself produces hydrogen peroxide to protect against excess biofilms It's quite interesting in the first video I talked about a formula that can be used to brush your teeth it helps reduce plaque tartar but I did not include vitamin C in this formula and Now I'll tell you what I recommend Here is the first component of this new formula and there are only 4 of them in it Take a quarter teaspoon of baking soda and dissolve it in half a glass of warm water Dissolve completely then add a quarter teaspoon of three percent hydrogen peroxide Hydrogen peroxide is an excellent mouthwash and Very  a powerful remedy for biofilms and the next component will be something else a quarter teaspoon of ascorbic acid without GMOs you just need to brush your teeth with this product once a day and then spit it all out This is probably one of the most powerful compounds for fighting biofilms I recommend brushing your teeth everywhere from all sides then the essence and rinse your mouth you can also add mint peppermint cloves they have excellent essential oil this will also help the taste will not be so bad and the smell from the mouth will be better but the main thing is just understand what vitamin C does and that vitamin C deficiency greatly affects oral health you need to regularly eat foods rich in vitamin C here are some of them pepper red pepper hot pepper bell pepper green pepper green vegetables almost all green vegetables have a lot of vitamin C then Lime lemon just keep in mind that lime or lemon juice in a glass jar or other container has been pasteurized and vitamin C is very sensitive to oxygen and heat so such juices have very little vitamin C It is found in the lemons and limes themselves and of course they are fermented  Sauerkraut has a lot of vitamin C. So, you've learned more about vitamin C. I really want you to understand the difference between natural vitamin C complex and the synthetic version, ascorbic acid. This is very important for a complete understanding, so I recorded this video for you. Watch it.