Is it possible that your depression or anxiety is caused by the absence of a certain microbe in your gut? This video has shocked you. I will share with you completely new incredible information about your intestinal microflora and its connection with your mood. And I have a brilliant solution. I think you will be delighted with it. This is a special recipe. I will show you everything. Let's take digestive enzymes. A person produces 17 digestive enzymes, and the microflora produces more than 60 of them. Only these microbes digest fiber. We humans cannot break down fiber, but microbes can. They break down fiber into acetic fatty acid, which helps nourish the cells of the colon, as well as into butyric acid molecules that imitate ketones. One of the most important functions of microbes that is associated with our mood is to help create neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are similar to hormones, but they move through the nervous system. I am talking about serotonergic ones. If you have depression or anxiety in your head, this affects the intestinal microflora. And the intestinal microflora can also break down toxins, medications, it turns antioxidants in food into amazing compounds that are beneficial for us. I really want you to know that we have mostly good bacteria and we have some bad bacteria that are held in check by the mass of good bacteria. The bacteria strengthen the intestinal walls so that bad bacteria do not penetrate anywhere, but because of the antibiotics we take, because of glyphosate. This is a herbicide, it is found in many products, because of junk food, medications, stress, alcohol, smoking, pollution, because of all this, the microflora decreases, fewer neurotransmitters are created, blood sugar changes, and at the same time, certain pathogens begin to migrate upward. The intestine, which is 6-7 meters long, we do not need a lot of bacteria in the small intestine. When bad bacteria enter the small intestine, they compete for nutrients and we develop them. A deficiency is an excess of bacterial growth in the small intestine and we get more inflammation, leaky gut, allergies, we cannot eat certain foods. Now let's talk about something very interesting, the doctor who wrote  gu wheat kilograms book supernik and whom I will now interview developed an absolutely amazing protocol It allows you to grow a probiotic on a certain dairy product but this is not yogurt but an extremely concentrated probiotic and it can bring enormous benefits to the body Dr. Davis found a way to grow one microbe about the World Cup I will now tell and then we will talk with Dr. Davis firstly this microbe has been well studied there are many studies on how this microbe reduces depression and depression is also one of the side effects of taking SSRIs So the good news is that there is a potential solution to this problem Dr. Davis writes about this in the book when they make yogurt it is usually fermented for 4 hours and Dr. Davis discovered that this microbe needs to be fermented for 6 hours and this microbe needs to be grown at a temperature like inside the human body that is at 37° Celsius So this is what Dr. Davis developed we take a yogurt maker and we use a dairy product I will demonstrate all this we add a special microbe there give it a certain fiber I will explain all this leave it for  36 hours at 37 is ready. He advises to eat half a glass a day. I do this right before bed. Yes, about the results later, but for now, here's something else about this: microbeton survives in stomach acid; secondly, it secretes a substance that does not affect good microbes but only affects bad ones; antibiotics help many people with skin problems; they get rid of rashes from infections such as barley on the eye and so on, but they take regular antibiotics. And this does not go for free; this is a natural process; so resistance will not develop since this substance kills pathogens in the small intestine. In addition, this microbe produces Oxytocin; this amazing hormone is much more useful than we thought; it not only strengthens social connections but also actually reduces cortisol, which is associated with anxiety and even depression. So this is an amazing hormone for stress; there are interesting reports of cases of increased muscle mass, excellent deep Delta sleep, improved hair, skin rejuvenation, but the main benefit is in improving overall mood. Now I will interview Dr. Davis and then I'll show you how to make this amazing highly concentrated probiotic that can be taken at night or during the day to help you cope with any problem. So, Dr. Davis, how did you come across this special microbe? How did you find it? There are other microbes, but as I understand it, you're mainly talking about lactobacilli. Can you tell me a little about how you came across this particular bacterium? Everything is very simple. I come to most of my ideas by mistake as a result of big blunders. So I came to the idea of ​​wheat kilograms. I wanted to minimize the expression of small LDL particles. These are they. The real cause of heart disease, not LDL cholesterol. We have successfully helped people regain their health by removing wheat and other grains, sugar, and using nutrients that everyone lacks today. The results were pleasing: getting rid of type 2 diabetes, fatty liver, weight loss, etc., but something was clearly missing. Even basic strategies for microflora are powerful, many probiotics, prebiotic fiber, fermented foods. They didn't completely solve the problems.  For example, someone with rheumatoid arthritis says I feel much better. I no longer take biological injections, I don't take prednisone, but I still take proxen for occasional mild flare-ups. Why did I start looking for other factors? I started thinking about the hormone oxytocin. By the way, why were those completely crazy experiments conducted by Irina Kon? She worked at Harvard and Stanford, and now she seems to be at the University of Berkeley. She did something completely creepy. She took an old rat and cloned it. She got a young rat with immunological networks identical to the old one, and then connected their circulatory systems. This is called chronoparabiosis. And lo and behold, the old rat became young. The question arose. What mediators are active here? This is still being investigated, but the first identified mediator is a bunch of peptides. The first identified mediator was oxytocin, it is considered the hormone of love and empathy. And some women believe that this is a drug that they are given to stimulate labor. Then a group of Massachusetts technologists studied the anticancer properties of lactobacilli. dig and they discovered a lot of unexpected properties. Firstly, they discovered that the animals' fur became, according to them, rich and luxurious. Wow, they started doing all sorts of crazy things with mice; they damage twice as fast. They saw how old mice became young, say, in the atrophied muscles of old mice, young muscle cells appeared; the mice's libido was restored; mating behavior; their immune system was strengthened. Well, that is, everything changed. There was even such a crazy study. Two groups of mice were specially fed junk food, and the mice that received only junk food became fat; they aged; they stopped mating and eventually died. The mice that received the same food became fit with rich fur; they mate for the sake of oxytocin to increase its level. Yes, but they wanted to do more than just this. This was discovered by accident; this often happens and I succeed in a lot. Firstly, they wanted to understand the reason for this rich, luxurious fur; it became clear that they had opened a real Pandora's Box. I used the same microbe; it was sold by a Swedish company; but in the form of tablets for babies, and there are very small doses. So I just decided ferment them and get something like yogurt, but I decided to ferment them longer, so, as you know, microbes have no sex, they don't have moms and dads, they just divide. The fermentation doubles every 3 hours at our body temperature. I made yogurt, of course, it's not yogurt, but it looks and smells like yogurt. I fermented it for a long time so that there were 12 doublings. Counting the number using flow cytometry showed 300 billion, which is about a thousand times more than in those tablets for babies. I started telling everyone about it, gave it to all the neighbors, started eating it. Wait, I have a question. When did you immediately know how to do this or just try it out? This and that. How did you know that you need to ferment for 36 hours? Trial and error. Clearly repeating flow cytometry, I realized that the initially chosen time of 36 hours is optimal. During this time, we get the maximum amount of bacteria in the form of yogurt. And after 48 hours, there will be a plateau and more dead microbes. By the way, the fermentation process is only 6-12 hours. Yes, that's right. Yes. 612 hours to laugh at chickens Yes, I think the reason you initially wanted to just take the drug with this microbes and it will work Yes, it is possible, but in the original product which is called BioGaia strus in tablets for babies there are so few microbes that after taking them nothing happens I called the company and said hello I make yogurt from your tablets you can’t no one has ever made yogurt from them MIT This is the first time I hear about you I don’t know don’t call here anymore in fact they themselves refused Oh well, anyway I made yogurt And now thousands and thousands of people are doing it and here’s what Amazing Although that MIT work was elegant We learn something new Both from human experience and clinical trials we observe a lot of phenomena and here’s another thing as you know the results obtained on mice usually cannot be obtained on humans but here to my great surprise everything we see in mice is also observed in people Yes, the muscles are restored and become youthful, strength increases in men over 50 testosterone increases by about half in women of age power and sensitivity increases libido Which leads  to awkward moments I think immune responses improve people recover faster small wounds heal faster and I tell women I'm sure Among your viewers are mostly women like me it's incredible but they all tell me I care I just want my skin to be better and I say that Well okay I did a small clinical study on overweight ladies I said don't change your diet and exercise and take This is it it was a dig and something for the skin collagen peptides hyaluronic acid and carotenoids Ultrasound of the skin showed a significant increase in the thickness of the dermis the ladies were delighted After all, their wrinkles around the eyes and everything disappeared Tae Wow I measured their waist circumference it's free we do n't have billions like pharmaceutical companies we can probably spend tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars on clinical trials I measured their waists for free and how surprised I was on Christmas Eve seeing the results of the measurements it can't be the waist reduction was huge up to 22 cm and the diet did not change this  It's amazing it has n't decreased How is this possible Judging by the results obtained on animals and Judging by what I see in thousands of people, abdominal fat goes away but muscles grow and rejuvenate oh we see it I think I accidentally stumbled upon a way to change body composition this is by the way the complete opposite of this garbage of p1 agonist drugs Yes, they definitely cause a huge loss of weight waxing it is the person's choice not to take the drug and watch how health collapses and fat returns or take it forever and be a hostage of a pharmaceutical company so it seems in one video you said how much muscle mass you gained yourself I'm over 60 I'm over 60 I gained about 6 kg of muscle And my strength has increased one and a half times I wrote to you I hate going to the gym I can't stand it yes when I have a lot of things to do I go to the gym for 15 minutes once a week I have n't been there for 5 months I have a lot of other things to do I don't know if this happens to everyone but some women get angry at me Hey I follow your program I take roite she took 3 C5 kilos And me And did you look at your waist in the mirror measured Yes, the waist has decreased, the shoulders have become stronger, the hips, the buttocks and neck have become stronger. More precise studies are needed, such as densitometry to measure muscle changes and all that, but we only replenish in the body. So, everyone should. I want to dwell on one point. So, obviously, this microbe must have been with us initially, and I think it was destroyed by an antibiotic, bad food, or something else, and it seems you mentioned in your book or in a video. And what percentage of the population no longer has this microbe? About 96%, it is very vulnerable to conventional antibiotics, like many of our lactobacilli. If you took amoxicillin for a cold 30 years ago, it destroyed our entire colony, and that's what. Amazingly, we studied the microflora of people living in New Guinea in Brazil, the Amazon, and they have not encountered antibiotics. Well, and so on. And they all have colony, everyone. Wow, wild mammals such as deer, giraffes, lions, they all have colony, it turns out it is necessary for the health of mammals. And we have lost it.  Dr. Gerhard Reuter, who discovered this bacterium, wrote that in the sixties it was everywhere. He found it in the breast milk of a German woman, in stool, in other body fluids. During his 40 years of scientific activity, it became increasingly difficult for him to find it. It began to disappear, and today it is almost gone. In microbiomed, we are returning what we lost, and in very large quantities. Yes, that is, we are depriving this microbe, and by the way, it also protects against excessive bacterial growth, brings a lot of benefits in the small intestine, and then, probably, since it is gone, microbes from the large intestine begin to penetrate up and invade the small intestine, this happens sometimes. Yes, absolutely right. Due to the loss of these beneficial types of bacteria, lactobacilli and others, a rapid proliferation of fecal proteobacteria such as E. coli and Kleptomania is possible, and all this has practically caught the population of the United States. So, this is perhaps the worst epidemic ever to befall our species, and all this is scientifically substantiated. So, more than 7 meters The small intestine is infected with fecal microbes. The small intestine is very permeable. These microbes, which live only a few hours, don't live very long. They secrete components of their cell walls. This is endotoxin, and it gets into our bloodstream. This is endotoxicosis, and of course, this is a powerful factor in weight gain and the development of dementia. This is probably one of the main factors in the development of many forms of cancer, as well as type 2 diabetes and cognitive impairment. In this regard, we need to reconsider almost all human diseases in light of how they cause or aggravate endotoxicosis. So, what's even worse is that on the topic of endotoxicosis, somehow some bad micro- pathogens secrete something harmful, which then causes an infection that gets into the bloodstream and causes an avalanche of negative effects. Yes, there has been a suspicion of a problem with intestinal leakage for many decades. In 2007, this was confirmed by Patrice Quinn and his Belgian group, as well as many others after them. This is the main factor. I'm horrified that we didn't know about this. That's the beauty of it. Dig. Most microbes inhabit only the large intestine. The large intestine.  intestines Yes, and Roite populates 7 m of the small intestine and the large intestine. Wow. And it does something amazing. It secretes bacteriocins, which are natural antibiotics effective against fecal microbes, and the loss of Roite apparently played an important role in all this. Waxing is an important part of solving this problem. We see that Sibor is retreating in normalizing exhaled hydrogen with the restoration of Lactobacillus Roite, but I added Lactobacillus Gasse, because it also secretes a lot of bacteriocins, which populates the small intestine, and we added a strain of Bacillus subtilis due to its exceptional bactericidal properties. Now, with the help of yogurt, yogurt from these three bacteria, pro-90, normalizes the hydrogen content in exhaled air and we get all these wonderful effects. People are emerging from the plateau, glycated hemoglobin drops below 5%. Wonderful things happen simply by consuming these. I consider the main microbes in something that looks and smells like yogurt, and you began to sleep. Yes, I had terrible chronic insomnia. Deya, my sleep is improving.  Well, it's not possible for everyone, but in half the cases, by the way, there are other microbes that have a great effect on sleep, in particular, lactobacilli from goat and the latitude strain, sold in small jars called Yakut, this is a terrible product, skim milk with sugar, but this is a good source of this microbe, and with my insomnia, thanks to Royte, I sleep 8-9 hours, rarely waking up. I was with goat and latitude, and I slept for 12 hours, I had to stop because it was too much, but different people have different experiences with this, and these effects have not yet been described in the scientific literature, and all this happens extremely widely. You found something very interesting for me, because I am engaged in a farm with soil microbes, and all this is connected with our body. I want to stay in touch with you and receive information from you. I strongly recommend everyone to purchase the book Super Intestine. I will leave a link to your site below, and you have a course where you recommend specific microbes. I will give information about it, because there are different strains, and you figured out which strains we need, and it is very important to know this. I will give a link to it, and Wow, this is great. I am very interested in this topic, you know.  I'm just shocked, but I wanted to chat with you and not take up much of your time. Thank you for this information, and I'll now show you how to cook. All this is for those who want to do it, and they can find details on your website. What do you say? Excellent. Yes, among other things, I'm interested in the World Cup. All this happened during unprecedented social isolation. Divorces and suicides are definitely at a record level, a 36% increase from 2000 to 2020. I didn't know that psychologists are assessing and recording the growth of narcissistic behavior. This growth looks like this: a 45° angle. And now we have. Maybe, yes, we won't cure all social diseases with yogurt, but perhaps we will be able to influence them, because I see that strong love and sympathy for other people are restored. The desire to be in the company of people. People become more generous and accept the opinions of other people. This is my goal in all this. I think we can improve people's behavior. I support it. Excellent. Bravo. Thank you very much. Watch VS. It's very simple. We take a probiotic, open it, now we take Inulin, a tablespoon, two tablespoons.  We take organic spoons, Malozhitomirskaya, mix well, take a container, two containers, pour some of them here equally, put these two containers in the yogurt maker very carefully, now add water to the yogurt maker, I will pour water like this, we need the water level to match the level of the mixture in the containers, the water level turned out to be slightly higher than I wanted, this is not a problem, then if you have a different yogurt maker, you need to do the same thing on the left, the temperature and time buttons, press once like this, we need 37 ° Celsius or 99 Fahrenheit, like this, press Start, now the time is set to 8 hours, set 36 hours, like this, press Start again, that's it, put the lid on top and now wait 36 ​​hours, after 36 hours, you need to put the containers in the refrigerator for storage, after 36 hours, we took the containers out of the yogurt maker and put it in the refrigerator for a couple of hours so that it cools down. And now we will eat half a glass of this every day, an amazing, delicious thing, a rich taste, you can add berries, you can add sweetener if you want But I think you will really like the taste of half a glass a day and