Sometimes people make big mistakes when taking magnesium. It is very important to understand this. Firstly, magnesium is without a doubt the most important mineral for the whole body. It is involved in hundreds of biochemical reactions, affecting atrial fibrillation, high blood pressure, insomnia, heart disease, leg cramps, and especially fatigue. But it is almost impossible to know how much of it is in the body because most of the magnesium is not in the blood, there is only 1% of the rest of the magnesium inside the cells. Without a biopsy or special analysis, it is impossible to know if there is a magnesium deficiency, but based on our diet and other factors, most people have it. Without knowing this information, someone can stop drinking it and switch to something else without solving the problem of deficiency. Magnesium is a cofactor; it helps a large number of biochemical processes in the body. Let's start with the possible causes of deficiency. One of them is genetically determined absorption of magnesium. But this is an extremely rare phenomenon. The likelihood that you have such a problem is low. The effect of magnesium depends on the presence of vitamin D. But there are simply a huge number of genetic problems with vitamin D in people. The average person has such a severe deficiency of vitamin D that magnesium  It doesn't work because magnesium depends on vitamin D. You need to understand that the minimum dose of vitamin D is 10,000 IU and this is only a preventative dose. If you take 600 international units or 1,000, you will not absorb much magnesium if you have inflammation in the intestines. Another reason is low acid in the stomach. Acid is needed to absorb minerals, especially magnesium, which indicates low acidity. Indigestion, bloating, and diarrhea are indicators that you need more acid to absorb magnesium. If you have prediabetes or diabetes, or you eat a lot of carbohydrates, you have a problem with insulin and it can interfere with the absorption of magnesium. The absorption of many nutrients depends on the normal functioning of insulin. The best form of magnesium is magnesium glycinate, absorption is 80%. In addition, glycinate helps you fall asleep, calm down, and relax. If you have a lot of calcium and little magnesium in your body, you will have spasms in the calf muscles, you will have high blood pressure, you will have arrhythmia. The fact is that  Magnesium controls calcium. Excess calcium causes a contraction, which raises blood pressure. This is what happened when a woman with high blood pressure started taking magnesium. I must admit that the first time I felt a significant reduction in pain was after taking high doses of magnesium and vitamin D. So, yes, the effect was very strong and I did n’t even expect it. I just wanted to control my blood pressure, but when the pain goes away, my blood pressure also goes down. Now I’ve reduced the dose. I’m taking not 800 but 600 mg of magnesium. I also take 20,000 vitamin D, and as a bonus to taking magnesium and vitamin D, it also has a calming effect on inflammation in my body. It hasn’t disappeared, but it has greatly decreased from what it was before. I’m delighted. It’s interesting, really. And we will continue smoking, and alcohol blocks the action of magnesium to a significant extent. If you drink too many sweet sodas, such as phosphoric acid, this can cause magnesium deficiency. Refined sugars and starches in junk food deprive you of magnesium. And of course, medications can be a serious magnesium blocker. A big mistake by doctors.  It is impossible to determine the level of magnesium in the body by a blood test. It is best to understand the effect of magnesium and look at the symptoms and also start eating foods rich in magnesium, such as leafy greens, pumpkin seeds, chocolate (take the one without sugar) and some nuts. Another mistake that people make is taking magnesium for an insufficient period of time and therefore do not see changes. You need to take it for at least one to three months to see some results. To correct biochemical processes, time is needed. This also applies to arrhythmia, it can take from four to six months for changes to begin. Magnesium needs time to make changes in the body to eliminate cramps in the leg muscles. Three days may be enough, but you need to continue taking magnesium because spasms or twitching of titanium can disappear quickly, but it can take weeks to completely eliminate the problem. In case of insomnia, only after four weeks can a person see changes. If there are no quick changes, this does not mean that magnesium is not working. It just takes more time. Any problems with the gastrointestinal tract, constipation or diarrhea mean that the microbiome is not in order, and this can greatly reduce the absorption of magnesium. Chronic stress can significantly increase the need for magnesium.  If you train or are an athlete, you need much more magnesium than the usual recommended daily intake of magnesium. 400 mg may not be enough for a therapeutic effect. You may need much more to overcome barriers in the body. 800-1200 or even 1600 mg daily, especially if you have some kind of problem that needs to be solved. You can take magnesium in powder or tablets and do it in parts throughout the day. Do not drink 1600 mg at once. The body will not be able to absorb so much magnesium in parts. It will absorb magnesium much better. It will not hurt. Also, at least once a day, wash it down with water and dilute it with a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar. This will increase the acidity in the stomach and improve the absorption of magnesium. Thank you. If you haven't watched this video about magnesium yet, I recommend it.