Hi all.  We answer questions on social networks.  Russian from YouTube.  What is the best natural source of vitamin B1? Garlic, nutritional yeast, sunflower seeds.   These are all good sources. Beef liver is also a good source. Nice, Ladona from Facebook.  My heels are badly cracked.  I have tried every possible cream and I feel like I am missing something.  Can you recommend something for the palm?  Yes, I would solve this problem not from the outside, but from the inside. There is evidence that this may be due to a B2 deficiency.  But I think it's not just that, especially if your heels are cracked.   You probably have too many seed oils in your diet , so you should replace them with something like ghee , saturated fats, olive oil, etc., but not soybean, corn, canola, cottonseed, sunflower, safflower, or even peanut oil.  After all, they create, they enlarge, they get stuck in cell membranes and make them fragile. And they block omega-3 fatty acids. And one of the signs of this is dry, flaky skin around the nose.  But it can also cause dry skin in other areas, especially on the hands and feet, particularly the heels.  Okay, writes Lisa from Facebook.  She thinks there may be three best remedies for fatty liver.  And she wants to know what the three best remedies are. Cut carbs on the keto diet and liver fat will decrease quickly. Eggs contain a lot of halina. Halina.  Halin prevents fat deposition in the liver. Haline is found in egg yolks and liver. Wow, good, great.  Try it and let us know how it works. Jay from YouTube asks which supplements are best for glaucoma and improving the health of the nerves in the eyes.  There is an excellent remedy for glaucoma, not cataracts.  I would use high doses of vitamin D3. There is a book about this.  She's hard to find.   We need to tell its author to advertise it better, because it is hidden.  Its author is an ophthalmologist, a doctor who treats eyes.  He is in Germany.  He treats glaucoma with high doses of vitamin D3.  But I think the root cause of your problem is excess sugar, insulin resistance. After all, it also leads to glaucoma.  So these are things, yes, treat the symptom, but at the same time eliminate the cause.  And that makes sense, asks AQrмбла. I have poor concentration, low motivation and memory problems. These symptoms appeared in adolescence and have been getting worse.  How can I get rid of these problems?  He did not indicate how old he is now. You are not alone.  The same thing happened to me when I was 28 a couple of years ago. I think the best thing to do, if you look at just the brain, is that the brain is kind of a great mirror or reflection of what's going on with blood sugar.  After all, when blood sugar levels rise and fall, like on a roller coaster, consciousness becomes clouded and there is no clarity of thought.  And to improve cognitive function, before taking various dietary supplements, such as Nad, Neocin, there are a million of them.  There are even mushrooms that improve cognitive function. Correct your diet first.  Eat quality protein, meat, red meat. Make sure you do this and eat things that are high in omega 3, sardines, salmon, to replace the bad fat in your brain with this good fat.  It's called DHche.  It is essential for the brain, and protein greatly improves the condition of the brain. If you cut out carbs, your body will switch to an alternative brain fuel, ketones, and your brain will still function despite all this damage. This is what I recommend.  I remember when I switched to this, it felt like someone had taken the helmet off my head. Wow, can I think clearly?  Yes, I would work on it.  Very inspiring.  Here is an interesting question from MP from YouTube.  I am a man, I am 57. Why is all the hair on my legs falling out? Welcome to old age.  I'm kidding.   As testosterone levels decline with age , relative estrogen levels may be slightly elevated, and body hair may affect the androgen situation. And when androgens decrease for various reasons, hair becomes less, primarily on the arms and legs, and in other places as well.  This is a sign of low testosterone, but there may be another reason. Blood sugar, prediabetes, insulin resistance.   After all, blood circulation worsens, the condition of the capillaries in the legs worsens, and the hair roots lack nutrition.  This is one of the reasons.  But usually the cause is androgen deficiency, because the relative level of estrogen becomes high. Great.  Aliya from Facebook asks how to cure acid reflux and burns. This is usually caused by a problem with the valve at the top of the stomach.  A good plumber is needed here .  But seriously, the valve is leaking acid.  It has a sensor that detects the pH in the stomach. Normally, the pH should be between one and three.  It is a very strong acid.  And for you it is, say, four, five or six. Therefore, the sensor does not receive a signal to close the valve.  It remains open and acid rises into the esophagus.  This is reflux, coat of arms.  The solution is to take more acid, not anthocyanin. Take bitainohydrochloride. This will eventually solve the problem. Antioxidants will make things better, but the problem won't go away because you haven't eliminated the root cause.  Or you need more B1 for your autonomic nervous system, which controls all the valves, including the valve at the top of your stomach.  So I have a lot of videos about this, but bitaenoic acid combined with B1 will help you a lot. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Fine.  Nana from YouTube asks how to stop bone density loss. She did not indicate how old she was. It's definitely related to hormones, especially postmenopause. Estrogen causes bone loss, so you need to strengthen it. I would solve this problem.  leading a very healthy lifestyle.  Reduce stress, sleep more.  You need a lot of nutrients from food, you need microelements to create bone tissue.  To get calcium, I would eat good quality raw milk cheese and perhaps plain, sugar-free kefir. I would eat bone broth to get enough collagen. and get enough vitamin C and unpasteurized sauerkraut. These are the natural remedies I would use to rebuild bones.   It can take up to 7 years for bones to recover . And many people simply take calcium and think that it will somehow help their bones. This will not help, but will only increase the risk of cardiovascular problems.  if you do not take cofactors.  There was one study of osteoporosis in women in Japan. They took a lot of vitamin K2.  This corrected the situation with osteoporosis. You can take it.  But regular dietary supplements contain micrograms of vitamin K2.   Let 's say 42 mcgm or 45. And in Japan they took somewhere around 45 mg of K2.   It's much more than that.  And that's what worked. Only a couple of companies sell K2 in milligram quantities.   If I had osteoporosis, I would immediately start taking milligrams of K2 with vitamin D3, of course.  After all, what does vitamin K2 do?  It is responsible for maintaining the strength of bones and teeth.  for preserving calcium in them.  So why not use this data to strengthen your bones? This is truly inspiring. Tiozan from Facebook asks if there is a good home remedy for hypothyroidism. Most often, hypothyroidism is not just hypothyroidism, but Hashimot's disease.  I assume this is your case too, and it is actually an immune problem. A couple of tips: high doses of vitamin D3. I have already talked about autoimmune diseases. In addition, in Hashimotosis, selenium is very important for the immune system and for the conversion of T4 to T3, that is, to the active form.  And gluten must be avoided, because it definitely provokes this disease. Overall, this is what I recommend.  Our broadcast is coming to an end.  Dr. Berg, would you like to say anything in conclusion? There are some really really really interesting things that I can't tell you about for a couple of months, but just so you know, there is an amazing solution to a lot of problems.  which I want to tell you about.  I'm so excited about it that sometimes I can't sleep at night. Wait for the solution to this mystery that I have created for you.  And until we meet again.