What I'm going to tell you most likely rejected the net and the video Turn it off, but still, first listen Avoiding the sun can be as dangerous as smoking cigarettes You probably think I'm exaggerating, but just listen There is a link between at least a network of types of cancer and a lack of vitamin D, as well as autoimmune and vascular diseases Vitamin D is closely associated with the work of more than 2,000 different genes Our immunity cannot function at all without vitamin D However, it is almost impossible to get the required amount of vitamin D from food You will only get 5-10% And then if you eat fatty fish, organ meats, egg yolks And not everyone eats this 90-95% of vitamin D comes from the sun Look at the statistics More than 5,000 people a year die worldwide from excessive sun exposure, and now look how many die from a lack of sun 1,684,677 people a year That is, 329 times more people get a negative effect from a lack of sun than from an excess This is data from an amazing book  Embrace the sun by Marcus Soren Sohn, he studied over 1,300 studies on the topic and it turned out that for every person who died from sun exposure, 329 died from lack of sunlight. Here is the basic recommendation regarding the sun from the American Dermatological Association: avoid the sun or use sunscreen because the sun is dangerous. At the beginning of the 20th century, there were sanatoriums where you could go to sunbathe as a treatment for tuberculosis, asthma, and many other diseases. And what about melanoma, a deadly form of skin cancer, in 1935, melanoma occurred in one in every fifteen hundred people, and in 2014, it developed in one in fifty. If you compare these two years, in the past, we were in the sun much more. Today, we sit indoors. 75% of all melanoma cases occur in areas where people do not expose their skin to the sun. So, lack of sun can increase the risk of melanoma. I'm not saying that you need to sit in the sun until your skin burns. You should n't do that. I mean the sun in In moderation, but the sun gives us something else to protect against cancer. Look, 7% of sunlight is ultraviolet, 39% is visible light, and 54% of all sun rays are infrared radiation. It is a powerful stimulator of melatonin, and 90-95% of all melatonin is formed as a result of the interaction of infrared rays and the skin. This increases subclinical production. For a long time, it was suggested that the sun is harmful to humans, but at least look at it from the other side. Read the information. Follow the links below. Look, I think your next step is to be in the sun more often and get out of the house more often. And if you haven't watched my video about vitamin D yet, you might be interested in it. Here it is.