Let's talk about the dangers of excess salt or excess sodium. This is the risk of getting heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, edema and an increased risk of death. It sounds scary. Yes, but all this happens for a reason other than what you might think. A fair question arises. Is it really about excess sodium? In fact, our body retains sodium if it lacks potassium. When the body retains sodium, this is called salt sensitivity, but it retains sodium and, consequently, water. Due to a potassium deficiency, for some reason everyone forgets about this and doesn't talk about it. They focus on sodium but don't remember about potassium, and potassium and sodium always work together like a seesaw. The body needs 2,300 mg per day to function, but the body needs 4,700 mg of potassium per day. This is more than double. This is a very important ratio. Two to one. You need twice as much potassium as sodium. If you have enough potassium, then there will be no sensitivity to salt and the symptoms of excess salt will disappear if you increase the potassium level in the body. For most people, the problem is precisely that they have excess sodium and a lack of potassium; they don't eat enough. greens They eat a lot of processed foods and get sodium from fast food, refined food, and restaurant food. Few people get enough potassium. People think that one banana a day is enough for them. A banana contains about 300 mg of potassium. Remember, the body needs 4,700, which means that for the daily requirement, you need to eat 12 bananas a day. Imagine how much sugar occurs when a person has a lot of sodium in the body but very little potassium. This causes the problem. And on top of that, 38 percent of the population has a certain genetic variation of a gene called APf. They have this gene that is too active. This means that they are more sensitive to salt. When they have a lot of sodium, this will cause their blood pressure to rise higher. There is a simple solution: get more potassium. Especially with this genetic problem, you don’t need to do what everyone else does: reduce the amount of sodium and salt, switch to low-salt diets, because this will lead to both a sodium deficiency and a potassium deficiency. This is even worse, because it causes constant fatigue. Sodium and potassium are needed for the sodium potassium pump. All cells in the body have this pump, it activates it. Nerves believe muscles, and a deficiency of these key electrolytes can cause a host of problems, such as heart problems, arrhythmia, fatigue, and weakness. All you need to do is take more potassium and sodium, but in the right proportions. The real problem is potassium deficiency. Potassium deficiency causes sodium retention, which leads to heart problems, blood pressure problems, hardening of the arteries, and an increased risk of arrhythmia and stroke. Potassium is not retained in the body because there is too much potassium in the body, and the kidneys easily excrete it. Unless a person has stage 5 chronic kidney disease, which is rare, the body retains sodium, especially with potassium deficiency. This is also a common cause of leg cramps. We need sodium, and we need it in abundance, but we need much more. To learn more about potassium, it is an essential mineral. You should pay attention to this course. What do you know about the most important electrolyte: potassium, arrhythmia, cramps, tremors, high blood pressure, and poor sleep. The consequences of potassium deficiency are how to replenish it safely and correctly. I'll tell you about it in my course about potassium. Sign up at the link.  See you below