Hi all.  Today we'll start by answering questions that have accumulated on social media. ZDK writes from YouTube.  Please tell me about the best ways to get rid of frequent migraines.  If these are cluster migraines, I would take more magnesium.  Sometimes the magnesium dose needs to be increased to 1600 mg per day. Magnesium glycinate. This is the first thing.  Give it a try.  There is evidence that vitamin B2 may help with migraines.  I've found that some people find that simply improving their liver health with turmeric, milk thistle, or resveratrol, something that actually improves liver health, helps with migraines.  This seems to work.  Especially if a person has been taking paracetamol for headaches for many years , and it damages the liver, then milk thistle or turmeric is needed.  I think milk thistle is the best .  It is like an antidote for paracetamol poisoning.  So , perhaps, you should always keep a jar of milk thistle in the house. And if you take paracetamol, then you can take milk thistle as an antidote to reduce liver damage. Great.  Now for the quiz question.  The floor is yours , Dr. Berg.  What should you most carefully avoid to prevent chronic diseases?  Important question - asks N from YouTube.  Should a person with an enlarged liver take a dietary supplement with vitamin D and magnesium?  I would accept.  Accepted.  I would take them, change my diet, take high doses of vitamin D3. Because you probably have scar tissue, you have fat in your liver, and you need to get rid of all of that. Another remedy for fatty liver is Khalin.  Yes, an enlarged liver.  Yes, you can live with a small part of your liver.  Even when they transplant a liver, they can remove it, you know, you can literally leave a quarter of the liver and live, and it will grow back.  But if things have gone too far, if the point of no return has been passed , then a transplant is needed.  So take your liver, Steve.  Fine.  I'm trying my best .  We will continue answering questions on social networks.  Marisol from YouTube.  How can I improve the function of my spleen, which is not working well?  Is this possible?  So, the spleen is engaged in the processing of red blood cells. Every second, 2.5 million red blood cells lose iron, which is then very safely transported to the bone marrow to create new red blood cells.  I think one way to strengthen the spleen is to take whole dried spleen as a supplement. Take this, because it is the spleen bath and it has everything you need for the health of your spleen.  There are other options: phospholipids, B12, micronutrients, but I need more data to understand what exactly you need.  We wish you good health. Ella from YouTube asks: "Can cod liver oil increase cholesterol levels?" Interesting.  No, I don't think so.  I think it can lower cholesterol, but even if it does raise it, I don't think the ratio will get any worse, because it has a lot of omega-3.  I'll make a video about this. This is the liver of commercial cod.  There is 100 ml of cod liver oil here .  I don't know how many there are here.  I'll take a look.  120 ml, and 100 ml contains about 6,000 mg of omega-3 fatty acids, while salmon contains 2,000.  It has more omega-3 than salmon.  But for it to work, the oils from the seeds must be excluded.  This is a powerful anti- inflammatory remedy.  Very good for the heart.  And you said it was delicious.  I adore her.  I actually ate it before I came here.  This was my first meal today.  I eat twice a day.  I ate only cod liver today.  I love her.  It does n't taste like beef liver. Great.  Well, today our viewers showed maximum activity in answering the quiz question.  He put it this way: what should be most carefully avoided to prevent chronic diseases? 60% said seed oils should be avoided .  30% said natural and artificial sugars should be avoided.  And 10% said: "Processed foods should be avoided or kept to a minimum."  This is curious.  And here's why.  What exactly leads to the development of chronic disease? Smoking, alcohol, maybe bad genes, stress? We are interested in an important factor.  Well, the average adult gets over 56% of their calories from ultra-processed foods, things like that.  Teenagers receive 67% of it, children 47%, animals over 50%. I'm talking about dog food.  So what is ultra- processed food?  What is this?  There are basically three components: seed oils, sugars and starches.  Moreover, these are industrial sugars and starches.  They are highly refined.  This is the elephant in the room that people don't notice.  What's interesting is that the doctor does n't even have time to ask about this when he sees you. Pharmaceutical companies sell drugs to treat the side effects of ultra-processed foods.  And doctors don't even ask about it.  That is, it is a vicious circle.  It's perfectly obvious to me what's going on.  And manufacturers, of course, produce cookies for healthy eating.  Does this mean that these cookies do not contain artificial colors, additives or preservatives?  Does this mean that they are much healthier than these?  Both are approximately, oh, that's it.  They contain the same sugar, starch and seed oil, but some have slightly less dyes. So, both types of cookies are about the same.  They affect the body in the same way and will cause chronic disease.  It doesn't matter whether they contain dyes and additives.  The problem is not in them, but in other components.  And then there are marketing gimmicks.  People look at this and think, "Oh, a real cherry! Do you think this is actually healthy to eat?"  No.  But organically.  And what?  It still kills.  Well, let's talk about someone who survived despite all this, writes Nola from YouTube.  My father is 99 years old. He is not taking any medication, but now his calves are swollen.  What should he do about it?  I would look at his diet.  Does it contain sugar, empty carbohydrates, seed oils?  He needs to eat a lot of potassium-rich foods and low-carbohydrate foods to flush out fluid.  After all, carbohydrates lead to fluid retention.  Let's say he does this, but the liquid doesn't go away.  There may be a problem with the heart, liver, or kidneys.  Find out what the problem is and strengthen it with natural remedies, starting with nutrition.  This is the most important thing. Another question, this time from Mika from YouTube.  What supplements are best for healthy sleep duration? I think magnesium is at the top of that list, then vitamin D, because it improves sleep cycles.  And also zinc.  These three components are very important. You can add many others, such as Eltryptophan, different herbs.  But I think with these three you 'll sleep like a baby.  Although babies cry all night, you are not in danger.  Great time has come to an end. Thank you for watching to the end.  Until next time.  Don't forget to subscribe to our channel so you don't miss new videos.