Let's talk about enzymes. What would be the main symptom of a lack of digestive enzymes? Here we are dealing with about five pieces of the puzzle that need to be sorted out: the stomach, pancreas, gallbladder, and although the gallbladder does not produce enzymes, it is connected to them, as well as the small intestine and large intestine. Let's start with the stomach. What enzymes does the stomach produce? Basically, it is one enzyme called pepsin. Pepsin is involved in the digestion of protein. The stomach also produces the enzyme lipase, which helps break down fats, but gastric lipase is a backup option if other organs do not produce it. We will also discuss pepsin - this is a very powerful protein enzyme that helps break down protein. Pepsin is activated by hydrochloric acid in the stomach. When a person lacks pepsin, this usually means that there is not enough hydrochloric acid in the stomach, or perhaps there is acid in the stomach, but its pH is simply not low enough. And if there is no acid, this enzyme is not secreted and various symptoms arise. Symptom number one is indigestion, another symptom is gas. These are the two main symptoms. But if you are protein  Because you don't have enough acid, many other things happen further down the digestive tract. For example, this acid is also needed to activate the gallbladder so that it secretes bile. And if the gallbladder isn't activated, then there isn't enough bile. This means there isn't the necessary detergent to extract fat-soluble nutrients from the fat you eat, and undigested protein gets into the intestines. Now, both the pancreas and small intestine are forced to compensate for this and secrete more enzymes to break it all down. This often causes many problems, namely, gases, bloating, and constipation. All this is due to a lack of acid, which should activate pepsin so that it is secreted. As a rule, in this situation, many take pepsin, but they don't take hydrochloric acid, which is needed for its activation. So, pepsin is of little use. Why hydrochloric acid isn't secreted? Perhaps due to age, less hydrochloric acid is secreted with age. Perhaps you are taking antacids, this is one of the main reasons for the lack of acid. Perhaps you are taking them for heartburn, which, by the way, is caused by a lack of acid in  In the stomach, the valve above the stomach does not close, so the contents of the stomach enter the esophagus, this is gas and many problems can arise, such as acid reflux, it can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamin B1 and also a deficiency of vitamin D. The first thing to do with indigestion and gases is to start taking betaine hydrochloride. Betaine hydrochloride is a very good simple remedy for activating this enzyme in the stomach to better digest protein. Let's move on to the pancreas. If the pancreas does not fully perform its function, there may be a deficiency of pancreatic enzymes; it does not secrete enough enzymes. And most digestive enzymes are created by the pancreas, so it is very important. It works at full capacity so that there are enough enzymes for digestion based on what we chew. The pancreas receives signals and prepares to digest it, be it fats, proteins, carbohydrates, or something else. The pancreas must create enzymes to prepare for incoming food. The amount of acid in the stomach determines whether enough bile is secreted to break down fats into small enough particles, thanks to which the fatty enzyme lipase  It can affect this fat if you do not have enough bile to break down large particles, then the enzyme li pazi really has a very hard time breaking down this fat and then undigested fat gets into the small intestine, then the large intestine, and this symptom that can arise due to a problem with the pancreas is called steatorrhea, that is, undigested fat, while the stool has a large volume and a very bad smell, sometimes it does not sink. Sometimes it leaves marks on the toilet, the color can be from light brown to pale and gray, and this can be caused by a lack of pancreatic enzymes and even a lack of bile. Perhaps you do not have a gallbladder or a bile deficiency, or it is simply not secreted enough, but with a deficiency of pancreatic enzymes, there will be problems with digesting fat, there will be bloating, there will be pain in the abdominal area and there will be a lack of fat-soluble vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin K, vitamin E, vitamin D, and because of this, many different symptoms can occur. I almost forgot that if there is a problem with the stomach and there is little hydrochloric acid, an amino acid deficiency is possible, because of this, it can be very difficult.  Build muscle You may start to lose weight, feel weak, one of the common causes of pancreatic deficiency is pancreatitis, what can cause it? Well, there are rare causes of pancreatitis, such as tumors, some diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, a problem with certain fluids, such as digestive juices, mucus in the lungs, but more often the reason is that a person has either gallstones or bile sediment, and this sediment is stuck in the tubes in the bile ducts. The bile ducts come out of the liver and go to the pancreas and into the gallbladder. Therefore, if there is a stone or sediment in these ducts, it can clog not only the gallbladder but also the pancreas, and all sorts of inflammation can begin. This problem occurs much more often than others. This can be solved with the help of the so- called tutka, this is a type of bile salt that hides the ducts because it liquefies the sediment. Tutka can even help reduce gallstones, and the cause of the sediment can be a low-fat diet, a lack of saturated fats in the diet, which activate the secretion Bile, excess carbohydrates, which increases insulin, excessive stress, taking steroids for one reason or another, or taking birth control, because excess estrogen can create this problem. Here's another common problem with the pancreas. Let's say you have diabetes. Chronic diabetes means you have a big problem with the beta cells of the pancreas. The pancreas produces hormones such as insulin and glucagon, but half of the pancreas produces enzymes, and with diabetes, this is the digestive part of the pancreas. One of the best solutions for problems with the pancreas is taking its enzymes. Pancreatin is a group of pancreatic enzymes in the form of badanine. It puts a huge load on the digestive system and helps you. I advise you to add betaine hydrochloride to pancreatin to get everything at once. And it probably won't hurt to take ox bile with this. Let's move on to the gallbladder. The gallbladder also helps extract fat-soluble nutrients, because bile is secreted by the liver and accumulates in the gallbladder.  and is concentrated in it, and during a meal, bile is squeezed out of the gallbladder into the small intestine, and there bile is included in the joint work of all parts of the digestive system with the help of what enters the small intestine from the stomach and with the help of the pancreas. Lipase from the pancreas is like the cherry on the cake, it helps completely break down fat so that it is completely digested, and although the gallbladder does not produce enzymes, it really helps other enzymes, and this is a very common problem. Many people do not have enough bile. Here are some common symptoms of this: bloating, belching, air coming out of the abdomen. Not to mention the deficiency of fat-soluble nutrients, vitamins A, E, and K, and also possible pain in the right shoulder, here at the top, reaching the neck or covering the area of ​​the rhomboid muscle, as well as heaviness in the right hypochondrium. Let's move on to the small intestine. 90% of digestion occurs in the small intestine. The small intestine also produces enzymes. Normally, there should not be a large amount in the small intestine.  bacteria compared to the large intestine. So here we need the help mainly of enzymes and what happens at the level of the stomach, pancreas and gallbladder determines how hard the small intestine must compensate to work and secrete enzymes. So all these organs work in synergy together. So let's assume that your stomach acid is not strong enough and this is one of your problems. Many bacteria from food can break through further because stomach acid does not kill them. This is one of the main functions of this acid - not allowing microbes to break through further. But now these microbes pass further and get into the small intestine where they do not belong. At the same time, the gallbladder does not receive a signal to secrete bile salts. Namely, acid and bile salts have a strong effect on the small intestine so that there are not a large number of growing bacteria in the small intestine. Therefore, now there are more bacteria in the small intestine that can multiply and grow and cause the so-called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. One of the functions of bile salts, like a detergent, is to kill microbes in the small intestine. And having reached the last section of the small intestine, bile salts again  absorbed and everything repeats itself. So it is very important that there is no SIBR. The same applies to hydrochloric acid and here we have SIBR. What is the problem with intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome? Nothing good occurs: bloating, belching, pain in the abdominal area, and now these hungry microbes compete with you and eat a lot of nutrients from your food and a deficiency of various nutrients occurs. Digestive problems and the fiber you eat is fermented in the wrong place in the small intestine instead of the large intestine. So now the problems are getting worse. When you eat greens, gas problems worsen, which you don’t need at all. Probiotics also make it worse. After all, they add bacteria and aggravate the problem. What should you do about it? Well, there are tests that will allow you to determine if you have this problem. But the solution is to start taking betaine hydrochloride to put your stomach in order. The solution is to start taking ox bile to help the gallbladder. Reduce the amount of fiber you consume. I would temporarily switch to a carnivore diet and also regularly There are other means of intermittent fasting, you can take natural bio-biotics like garlic. This will help kill these microbes, but this is not as important as the other two actions. And what about the colon? Does it produce enzymes? The answer is no, but microbes, the microflora, the microbiome produce many different enzymes that help digest many things, especially what we do not digest, for example, fiber. They work hard to digest all of this. They also digest the remains of sugars and even the remains of protein. If you do not have enough of the right variety of microbes, then diarrhea, constipation occurs, and of course, fatty stools that do not sink and smell very strongly. And the best solution in this case is to strengthen the microflora. If you do not have sibor, you can eat a variety of leafy green plants to increase this diversity and you can take probiotics, which I highly recommend. Or there are fermented foods that contain probiotics. But of course, unless you do not have sibor, I hope you got answers to some of your questions about the digestive tract. But this brings us to the next topic. What is the most important action you can take to avoid all these problems and to answer  I posted this question here, this video about following a proper diet, here it is, watch it