Today we'll talk about Sorry, the root cause of fatigue. I can say that I'm an expert in this simply because I was tired for a significant part of my life, but I dealt with it. So I'll tell you something very important. I remember I'm driving next to my wife. I'm not yet thirty. I'm completely exhausted. I'm looking for Where to buy vitamins that will give me energy. They never helped. I drank vitamins in huge doses and didn't know what was happening. If I could send this video to the past and show it to myself, it would solve my problem. If I understood how the body creates energy. But this video will become a powerful motivation for you, because you will finally understand what causes fatigue. You can take different vitamins, drink energy drinks to give yourself energy, drink more coffee. But this does n't solve the real problem. In any store, usually at the checkout, there's a whole battery of energy drinks. Energy for 5 hours. It all starts with the mitochondria. What is a mitochondria? It's an energy station deep in the cell that produces energy. If you have any forms of fatigue. If you get exhausted very quickly during workouts or you have any health problems like  For most people, mitochondria are the basis of this. Most diseases originate directly in the mitochondria. So, the mitochondria is a machine that creates batteries, because food cannot directly provide energy. Food must be converted into a chemical battery. From it we get energy. And this battery itself is called ATP. So, the mitochondria creates batteries, and ATP is the battery itself. Regardless of whether you have studied biochemistry or not, this can help you understand how simple it is what happens here, despite the enormous complexity of the processes inside the mitochondria. Perhaps you have already heard of the so-called Krebs cycle. This is the pre- battery maker. It is located before the battery maker and the battery maker is connected to it. The Krebs cycle prepares everything that is needed and helps to tear off some of the electrons, but we need to somehow extract electrons from the food we eat. And by the way, some foods contain more energy than others. After deep technological processing, it is almost impossible to extract energy from food because it is simply dead. There is little energy in it. And in addition, there are many nutrients that we need for assembly line of a battery maker at each stage of the conveyor we need B1 B2 B3 folic acid B12 magnesium manganese Selenium vitamin C and something else the so-called coenzyme Q10 these are auxiliary substances without them a battery cannot be created so there is a very, very important enzyme necessary for the creation of ATP this is the so-called ATP synthase the name is not so important to us but what is interesting about ATP synthase it is very, very tiny and this turbine it rotates it helps to generate energy it is very, very tiny you need somewhere 100,000 of these little enzymes for them to reach the thickness of one hair that's how tiny they are and they rotate at an incredible speed Every time this enzyme makes one revolution it creates three ATP molecules How fast they rotate they make somewhere from 7 to 9000 revolutions every minute Imagine how many ATP molecules just one such enzyme creates This is about 27 thousand ATP molecules per minute Let's look at just  one cell and find out how many mitochondria are in one cell, on average, we have from 1000 to 2500 mitochondria in one cell. And how many cells are in our body? 10 trillion cells. Incredible. Just listen. A healthy person creates a huge amount of ATP. The total mass of these ATP molecules is equal to our mass. If I weigh 80 kg, I create 80 kg of ATP every day. This is equivalent to 1200 watts or 282 AA batteries. Maybe this is not so much, but the body uses energy very efficiently, but what is amazing is that the body does not actually store ATP. ATP is created on demand. That is, when you do not move or exercise, you create much less ATP than when you exercise. The point is that the body does not store ATP. When ATP is used, it turns into ADP, which can then be recycled into ATP. But our body stores ADP and produces it into ATP approximately 1000 times.  per day, so at any given time during the day, our body only has about a quarter of a kilogram of ATP, not that much, but as soon as we start exercising, ATP production increases dramatically. The next question is if we don’t store two types of fuel, we have reserve sugar in the form of glycogen in the muscles and liver, the glycogen reserve is not that large, perhaps somewhere around 1,700 kilocalories once its reserve is depleted and you can easily use fat as energy and direct it into the Krebs cycle. But if you are not adapted to fat, you will quickly run out of energy, because without adaptation to fat fuel, energy will simply run out, which is why the keto diet is so important for our energy. Firstly, ketone and fat give us more ATP than glycogen and sugar. And secondly, we have a lot of fat reserves that can be used. The average person without excess weight has about 100,000 kilocalories in the form of fat in the body, and in glycogen reserves we only have about 1,700  kilocalories are enough for one day, so my problem in the distant past when I was not yet thirty was that I ate pure carbohydrates, my energy level rose when I ate and then sharply dropped my energy left feces and I again needed sugar or other carbohydrates to have energy, I was completely dependent on carbohydrates at that time I did not know about ketosis I was always tired especially in the head Even waking up in the morning I was very tired and could not wake up mentally until late morning or even until mid-day and the importance of this is that 70% of all our ATP is used by the brain our brain eats up a lot of ATP if for some reason we do not have enough ATP our brain suffers That is why people have a lot of problems such as dementia ADHD degenerative brain diseases affective disorders Try being depressed When you get a lot of energy from mitochondria It is literally impossible If you remember the moments when you were depressed, you were probably tired at the same time So, in order to have energy, the first thing you need to do is switch to ketosis then the body will have a source of fast and more  effective energy you will create more ATP And also connect to this energy reserve much faster and you will not be tied to a machine that uses only glucose as fuel And also needs cofactors of stress in cells this is the leakage of oxygen and electrons from the mitochondria this leakage increases when there are no key nutrients or protective molecules such as coenzyme Q10 especially if you take statins or something else that deprives us of this nutrient this is a very important nutrient that helps transport electrons and this biochemical pathway in which coenzyme Q10 is involved is needed for energy production This is the same pathway by which we create cholesterol and statins which essentially inhibit this enzyme also inhibit the enzyme Q10 That is why one of the main side effects of statins is muscle problems muscle weakness muscle inflammation muscle disorders lack of energy After all, if you think about it, muscles need energy to work that's how We move we cannot move without muscles Imagine how many mitochondria we have in our muscles And how much coenzyme Q10 do muscles need If you  If you want to eat something in the World Cup, there is a lot of coenzyme Q10, you need to eat muscle, that is, red meat, fish and all that. But most of all, Q10 is found in offal and especially in the heart. In heart extract, there are probably dietary supplements with Q10. People usually don’t eat the heart, but there is a lot of coenzyme Q10 in the heart, but our body also creates coenzyme Q10. So, it is not necessary to get it from food, you create it yourself. If you have all the necessary cofactors for this, all these cofactors, especially B vitamins, are necessary for coenzyme Q10 to work. By the way, if you take statins, beta blockers, or some diabetes drug, you probably have a very, very low level of coenzyme Q10. And you need to take it. There is an interesting study. I will leave a link below. It is dedicated to training. They studied athletes and people who do not train. They were given coenzyme Q10 and in both groups, a significant increase in endurance was found. People could not get tired longer and now you know why. Because coenzyme Q10 is necessary for the production of ATP.  and it also acts as an antioxidant, protects against free radicals that arise during training, this is another important effect of statins, you quickly lose strength, especially if you are tense, you know, as for the food that we need to eat, we need food that has a lot of electrons, a lot of life, a lot of energy to extract this energy if we eat technologically processed food, as is customary in the USA. And this is 83 of all the food in stores in terms of calories, this can hardly be called IDO, it will be impossible to get energy by eating such food, you need food rich in nutrients, red meat is best. When I eat red meat, I have more energy, it's not only the iron needed for hemoglobin, there are many other factors in meat that give me energy, not only coenzyme Q10, but also many other factors that create energy. I just found another interesting study about this, I will leave a link below, the nutrients in red meat were studied in comparison with plant-based meat, which began to appear, this artificial meat, the composition of nutrients on the labels of both types of meat is very similar, it looks useful. But it turned out that the level of 171 biomarkers, and  There are 190 of them in meat, which was much higher than in plant-based artificial meat, if you can call it meat. The point is that food that is truly rich in nutrients has a lot that helps us become healthy, and instead of trying to just improve the taste of food, I would focus on food that is richer in nutrients and on eating more of this food, because artificial meat is trying to imitate the taste and texture of real meat. But what about nutrients? Another very, very, very important factor in connection with mitochondria and with an increase in their number is exercise. This is undoubtedly the best way to increase the number of mitochondria. This is another reason to exercise regularly and this will outweigh a lot of the bad things you may have done in the past. If you have any diseases or problems at the present time, exercise will help you resist them because many diseases are caused by damage to mitochondria. If you exercise and thereby create more mitochondria and at the same time fast, intermittent fasting triggers another process called autophagy. Autophagy is the processing of old damaged proteins, as well as  mitochondria Great and new mitochondria are created This is how we get more energy This is what I wish I knew when I was 20 Even earlier I wish I had known this back in kindergarten I would have saved myself many years of fatigue Here are other ways to add mitochondria to yourself cold therapy I do it regularly and How good I feel afterwards if you can’t decide on this you can use partial Immersion in cold Taking a cold shower is the hardest when you immerse yourself because the heart pumps blood trying to keep you from cooling down and this is like the most vulnerable area but you can always immerse half your body in cold and benefit from it also phytonutrients can speed up the reproduction of mitochondria and repair some mitochondria this is sulforaphane in cruciferous vegetables in broccoli microgreens and radish microgreens it is in many foods in fact many phytonutrients help mitochondria if you consume them at the same time you need to avoid certain things these are refined foods sugar is necessary  To start Keto, you need to avoid chronic stress, heavy metals, smoking, and alcohol. I wish I knew all this at the age of 20, and also understood what mitochondria are. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does n't come back. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.