Imagine if you could adjust your vitamin D levels and it would completely change the outcome of your autoimmune disease.  Dr. Caimbra, who created the Caimbra Protocol, is known throughout the world.  With high doses of vitamin D3, it induces remission of autoimmune diseases.  I'm very glad to see you, doctor.  Nice to meet you. Very nice.  How did you discover the connection between vitamin D and autoimmune disease? I think it was multiple sclerosis. Somewhere around 25 years ago, I think, I was working as a neurologist in a hospital and saw a patient with Parkinson's disease.  And I knew that vitamin D stimulates neurotrophic factors in the brain.  So I decided to try giving this patient 10,000 IU of vitamin D per day.  It was also clear that this patient had vitiligo on his forehead.  So, I prescribed him vitamin D in an attempt to help him with his neurological condition, in an attempt to slow down the progression of his Parkinson's disease.  When the patient returned, it turned out that these injuries had almost disappeared. I asked him what treatment he was receiving from Vitileg.  And he said, "None. I'm just taking the vitamin D you prescribed."  I was amazed and wondered what mechanisms vitamin D is involved in that prevent autoimmune diseases like vitiligo.  We started prescribing 10,000 IU of vitamin D. And as we learned more, we used higher and higher doses. At the same time, we made sure that patients did not become intoxicated due to such doses of vitamin D. Over time, I began to better understand the effects of vitamin D. I saw that it prevented increased calcium levels in the urine. When I ask patients to reduce their dairy consumption, I'm amazed at how diet affects potential toxicity when using high doses of vitamin D. I think the main toxic effect in some cases is excess calcium in the blood.  Yes, that's right. Vitamin D increases calcium absorption from food, so we started using vitamin D. And 10 years later, we were amazed to see that 90 percent of our patients were able to lead normal lives.  Explain why more vitamin D is needed for autoimmune diseases?  Why does it take so much of it for it to work? People with autoimmune disorders may have polymorphisms affecting any combination of nine genes that are needed for vitamin D to work properly.  And if a person has a polymorphism of the genes of the vitamin D system, he does not absorb vitamin D properly.  For most people, vitamin D deficiency is caused by our lifestyle.  We stopped being in the sun. Most doctors are only taught about the effects of vitamin D on bones and calcium in their training, and many studies are related to the prevention of rickets.  Since 1988, vitamin D receptors have not been detected only in tissues associated with calcium metabolism.  They have been found in almost all cells of our body.  This has given rise to research in many directions to find out what vitamin D does in the brain, what vitamin D does in the immune system.  If you have any problems related to vitamin D metabolism, it means that you are prone to developing a large number of diseases. And it is surprising that such a large number of research publications are not mentioned in medical textbooks.  This is not mentioned at doctors' meetings.  Conventional physicians are unaware of these publications, which could potentially reduce the consumption of expensive drugs.  If you have an emergency, you need to adjust your vitamin D levels immediately. You can't wait three months taking 10,000 IU of vitamin D. To reach the desired level immediately, you need to take 600,000 IU of vitamin D in one dose. I have read studies where people were given large doses, 300-400,000 before surgery to improve the outcome.  In this case, I would give the patient 600,000 IU of vitamin D, even twice in 2 days.  And then I would start giving him vitamin D at a rate of, say, 1,000 per kilogram of weight.  But this is on average. Let's say if I had an autoimmune disease, then 1,000 IU per kilogram of weight at my weight of 84 kg is about 80,000 vitamin D3.  For the treatment of autoimmune diseases, I give patients an average of 1000 IU per kilogram of body weight.  This is the daily dose.  So, you can tailor your vitamin D dose to your individual vitamin D resistance. It might be a crazy idea, but will adding magnesium help control calcium?  After all, magnesium really does help regulate calcium. Certainly, with low magnesium levels there can be resistance to vitamin D simply due to magnesium deficiency.  Now I want to move on to an even more interesting topic: vaccines and aluminum.  When aluminum is introduced into the body as part of vaccines, the kidneys do not remove aluminum from the body; it remains in our organs. Aluminum enters immune cells, and the immune cells carry it to the brain. There are a lot of studies that Dr. Christopher Exley has done and he has shown that the brains of deceased people who suffered from autism have a lot of aluminum in their brain tissue.  The researchers traveled to Oxford University in England. and obtained brain samples from patients who had autism at the time of death.  And under the microscope they saw that these samples contained a lot of aluminum nanoparticles.  The number of vaccines is astounding, as is the fact that people simply take things for granted.  I have been treating autism since 2014.  I use high doses of vitamin D because many children with autism have signs of autoimmune disorders.  And also because I see the toxicity that is caused by aluminum.  Aluminum causes many abnormal metabolic changes.  From time to time, children and teenagers are brought to see me.  And I am amazed to see that today many children and teenagers are depressed and commit suicide.  And this problem is spreading at the same rate as autism.  One day a patient came to see me.  She had multiple sclerosis and her 17-year-old daughter was with her.  This woman told me that when her daughter was only 4 years old, this girl was so depressed that she had to take antidepressants.  And this girl was born in 2006, so she was given a lot of vaccines that contained aluminum.  So I decided to give her silicon.  This substance binds with aluminum, and then silicon, along with aluminum, is excreted from the body. kidneys.  She came to me a year later and said that her depression had almost disappeared.  She said her condition had improved by 85% and her psychiatrist was reducing the dose of medication she was taking.  The psychiatrist thought that perhaps she no longer needed all those drugs. This is just the tip of the iceberg. Amazing.  You have trained many doctors, and if I am not mistaken, your website indicates where people can find these doctors.  Right?  Yes.  The doctors we have trained can be found in countries such as Germany, the USA, Italy, and France.  I'll leave all this information below.  I am very grateful to you for this interview.  This was very informative.  I think this will help many people.  Thank you for sharing this invaluable information.  Thank you for the opportunity to talk about this.  Please. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways: from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity.  How to fix this safely ?  Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements should I take?  How and when?  In the Nutrient Deficiency course, Dr. Berg will discuss vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists. Everything you need to get a clear understanding of this topic.  Sign up for the course using the link below.