Most doctors are aware of the side effects of medications.  But hardly any of them know about the side effects of taking multiple medications, or the interactions between certain medications.  Let's discuss very common medications that can cause dementia or seriously increase the risk of developing it.  I would be very upset if I had a side effect, especially dementia, from the medication.  Let's discuss medications that have dementia as a side effect.  The first category is drugs that block acetylcholine.  It is a neurotransmitter.  These include medications such as antihistamines, Benadryl, some depression medications, and medications for overactive bladder.  If you take them for a long time, the risk of dementia increases greatly.  Next, the benzodiazepine group.  They are prescribed for anxiety.  insomnia and seizures.  These are drugs such as Valium and Xanox. They affect the central nervous system, the brain, and can greatly increase the risk of dementia.  Next, the so-called PPIs, proton pump inhibitors.  They are prescribed for indigestion and heartburn.  These are drugs such as Prilosec and Inexium. They may increase the risk of cognitive decline.  And the last major group is apioids, such as morphine and oxycodone.  Anything that creates a sedative effect on the brain, such as anesthetics during surgery, can greatly reduce cognitive function and lead to dementia.  There are also side effects from drug interactions.  Unfortunately, in nursing homes and hospices, people are simply given medications all the time.  Here is an excerpt from an interview with the owner of several nursing homes. Listen to what he says. Many of us take 20-30 medications, and the record was set by a man who took 54 medications.  Your program is unique in that you use the most advanced, sophisticated therapy called real food.  You just feed people real food.  After all, as you said, in many hospices and nursing homes people eat ultra-processed food.  Yes, yes, that's right.  This is what the budget is enough for, so they reduce costs.  And large centers enter into contracts with large food suppliers and feed people with what they receive.  Of course, you need to get consent from the patients' families, but you have a protocol.  Give an example of what you don't feed people.  Do you have a lot of time?  We avoid almost everything sold in the grocery section of grocery stores.  These are any packaged products.  We carefully avoid any sugar.  I have a healthy lifestyle coach.  She trained my cooks and sat down to see what and how to cook. She gave us a list of ingredients that are essentially sugar, even though they are not called sugar.  Sugar has 65 names.  She taught us how to read food labels.  We try to buy foods that have only one ingredient, like broccoli or steak.  This is our approach.  If something has a lot of ingredients or contains any chemicals, we do not feed it to our patients.  It's that simple.  Do any of the people you see end up stopping taking any of their medications?  Oh, very many.  We constantly argue with their doctors.  We often achieve drug discontinuation.  Our goal is to achieve cancellation.  We have a lot of diabetics. And we are able to ensure that people can do without insulin, medformin, hypertension drugs, and statins.  Of course, we work with their doctors and get them to stop taking their medications.  After all, we don’t have the right to cancel medications without a doctor’s order.  But we are constantly discussing what can be done.  A man who was taking 54 medications now lives alone in an apartment and takes about 20 medications. Wow, that's an example.  People who have been in hospice come to you. Yes, they often leave the hospital or after rehabilitation in a hospice and come to us.  We are trying very hard to ensure that they no longer need hospice.  We call them hospice graduates.  What results do you see in people in general?  We see a variety of people with demeni.  One outside company performs many laboratory tests for us .  And we see that people's hormone levels increase, inflammation decreases significantly, and vitamin D and other vitamin levels increase.  We also see external improvements. We receive people who are bedridden.  Then they sit in a wheelchair, then walk with a walker, and then on their own. And then they can spend more time with their families.  We had a man staying with us, he was 98, and he went on a week-long cruise with his family.  Wow.  And when he came to us, he couldn’t even think about it.  We lent them our nurse.  She went on a free cruise.  He had a great time, came back, died six months later, but was very happy in those last six months. Marvelous.  If I hear of anyone in this situation who needs help, I will refer them to you.  Looks like you're in Arizona.  I will provide a link below so that more people know about you.  Incredible.  I want others to learn from your experience. To allow rumors about you.  It is very difficult to understand what is causing what when a person is taking many medications.  Another difficulty is that a person is treated by many doctors.  And everyone has their own point of view.  Everyone does one thing. Adverse drug reactions are unexpected side effects due to the medications themselves.  90% of these reactions go unreported .  Adverse drug reactions account for 10% of doctor visits. And the fourth leading cause of death.  I decided to invite a top- class endocrinologist and ask her a couple of questions on this topic.  We know that drugs have side effects.  But have drug interactions been studied?  Patients don't always know.  Medicines come with a package insert containing small print.  Most people find the fine print too difficult to read .  And in India, where I practice, many medications are sold in blister packs, without any insert at all.  So the patient may not have a list of side effects.  Drug interactions are printed in fine print.  Doctors are up to their ears in work.  Personally, I use free software.  That's what it's called, epokratis.  And there I look at drug interactions to stay informed.  After all, so many new drugs are appearing.  When I was practicing, patients were taking 5, 10, 15, up to 20 or more medications.  You also encounter the fact that a lot of medications are prescribed. A lot of them, especially a lot of them, as we can see, are prescribed for chronic diseases.  Oh, not from the temperature.  And not when someone has pulled their back and takes medication for 4-7 days or drinks a bunch of antibiotics.  For longer-term conditions such as hypertension and diabetes.  As a result, doctors do not think about the fact that these pills should be discontinued at some point.  I constantly review the list of prescribed medications.  to cancel them at the first opportunity.  It often happens that a patient is treated by different doctors.  And, unfortunately, a doctor who has a lot of work to do looks at one thing that he was asked to look at, and does not always take into account the interaction of what I prescribed with what other doctors may have prescribed.  So, although I am an endocrinologist and considered a highly specialized doctor, I ultimately take a broader view and do what a general practitioner often does .  That is, I look at all these drugs.  And this is often surprising.  These two drugs in combination cause constipation, and these two cause drowsiness.   There are a lot of interactions.  For example, over the years, my mother-in-law began to notice signs of Alzheimer's disease in herself.  I looked at what she was taking and there were a lot of medications.  I started talking to the doctor. It causes dementia as a side effect.  All this is necessary.  I think there was bladder medicine in there.  It causes a side effect, dementia.  So we cancelled it.  She felt better.  I'm sure you see this all the time .  Constantly.  And sometimes it happens that I prescribe a painkiller, but the pain sometimes returns.  Or I prescribe antidepressants, and some people experience a temporary increase in negative thoughts.  I really like that you take diet into account when working with patients.  You emphasize this. Someone made a joke recently.  When you go to the vet with your pet, the first thing the vet asks is: "What do you feed it?" Wow, that's amazing. This is a wise question.  Why do n’t doctors ask about this, and why don’t people ask about this?  This is an obvious question when it comes to animals.  I don't know what contributes more to health or disease than what goes into the body.  Absolutely right.  I explain this to people step by step when I work with them for 3 months or 6 months.  There are four pillars of lifestyle.  And the first pillar is nutrition.  What enters the body.  If drugs get into it , their quantity must be reduced. But in our family, food enters our body every day.  And the other pillars are sleep, stress management, exercise, and then maybe fasting.  But the main pillar is always nutrition.  I also want to talk about the most typical symptoms that are directly caused by many medications. Take constipation, for example.  You know that more than 150 medications can cause constipation as a side effect.  Chronic constipation can lead to megacolon, which is an enlargement of the colon.  There may be infections, rupture of the colon, but there are laxatives.  Your doctor may prescribe a laxative to stimulate the removal of waste.  But here's the problem: laxatives destroy the lining of the colon.  It is difficult to stop taking them.  The body can no longer live without them.  And diabetes medications remove sugar from the blood to normalize it. But the question is what they do with this sugar.  They force the kidneys to excrete sugar in the urine, and to treat this symptom, they prescribe a drug that causes urinary retention, which creates a risk of urinary tract infection.  Dizziness is also a typical side effect of many medications.  The big problem with dizziness, especially for older people, is that it is a major cause of falls.  Dizziness is caused by medications for hypertension, antidepressants, and even sleeping pills.  There are paradoxical side effects of drugs.  This is when a medicine is supposed to eliminate a symptom, but ends up causing that very symptom.  This happens often.  You are taking an antidepressant, but your depression is getting worse.  or you take anthocyt and get heartburn.  One of the main causes of chronic diseases, I believe, is related to what people eat.  We are talking primarily about technologically processed products. Junk food is the main reason people go to the doctor with their chronic diseases.  Pharmaceutical giants are creating a wide range of drugs to treat the side effects of processed foods.  Doctors don't look at what patients eat.  They are missing out on real food and the link between junk food and chronic disease.  That is why this whole system is preserved.  And doctors prescribe medications and then add new medications to treat the side effects of other medications.  What one measure can completely change all this? This is the simplest measure.  We need to replace junk food with real food.  And if you want to learn more about how to do this, come to this course. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of healthy theta.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.