If you had to choose between strokes and heart attacks, which would you prefer? It's clear that both options are undesirable. But if you had to choose, what would you choose? Write in the comments. I'm very interested. A stroke is essentially a [ __ ] or plaque that attaches somewhere in the body, in the carotid arteries here or in the heart, and gets into the brain where it blocks blood flow. With a heart attack, we have a [ __ ] or plaque blocking blood flow in the heart muscle. That is, in fact, a stroke and a heart attack are the same phenomenon, but in different parts of the body. Personally, I would much rather have a heart attack than a stroke. Because when half the body is paralyzed, your spouse has to carry you, wash you, bathe you, and drive you everywhere. God, it's so burdensome. And being locked in a body where half of it doesn't function is real torture. The mortality rate after a heart attack is 12 percent compared to a stroke, where the mortality rate is 28 percent. Medicine has become very skilled at saving people's lives. There are excellent resuscitation methods for people with heart attacks that get them back on their feet, but the main cause of most deaths is heart attacks and strokes. In this ranking, they are in fifth place. In connection with stroke, they use the acronym "f" meaning the face, it droops on one side, you lose control of your muscles, which means the arm is weak or even paralyzed on one side. "f" means difficulty with a leak, you mumble, you cannot speak clearly, and the letter "t" means there is no time to waste. If a person has a stroke, you need to call an ambulance and urgently take him to the hospital so that he can receive medications to dissolve the clot as soon as possible, usually within 6 hours, but the sooner the better. What's really strange about heart attacks is that 48 percent of the US population has heart problems, they often don't even know it. You can take all the tests, you can scan your arteries, you can and should take the CC test. This is a tomogram with the determination of coronary calcium. This rapid test measures calcium in the arteries and is one of the best predictors of a heart attack.  and of course, where calcite is, we have plaques, and some of these plaques can come off and reach the brain, but the original root cause of both of these problems is the same. They both originate in the heart. Sometimes a stroke occurs from problems with the carotid arteries located in the neck. But in most cases, everything starts in the heart. Some plaque lags behind the cardiac arteries and reaches the brain. This is the mechanism that causes inflammation on the inner wall of the artery, which then causes a compensatory response. The body tries to treat the inflammation with a band-aid, and the band-aid in the body is calcium, cholesterol, and some proteins, for example, scar tissue. This inflammation, as I have repeatedly said, occurs either from consuming excess bad carbohydrates, empty carbohydrates, and sugar, or from excess omega-6 fatty acids, which are found in almost all foods, such as soybean, corn, and canola oil, which are found in most salad dressings, fried foods, and so on. Of course, we switched to omega-6 fatty acids because we thought that saturated fats were harmful, although in fact they are.  In fact, they are not harmful if you consume few carbohydrates, let's say, for example, you do not want to do tests and you need other indicators to understand whether you have inflammation in your arteries. First, stand up right now and look at your toes. If something called a belly obscures your view, that is, it protrudes, then most likely you have inflammation in your arteries because belly fat is a symptom of excess insulin and excess glucose in the blood, both of which act on the inner wall of the arteries like fiberglass or emery. Second, look in the mirror at your face. Is the liana around your eyes swollen? Are there bags? Are your cheeks plump? If you have a double chin, this is a very good indicator of excess insulin and glucose in the blood, and this means that your arteries are also inflamed. Third, you are a carbohydrate addict. Are you drawn to carbohydrates? Do you eat chips in the evenings? Do you always need dessert? Do you always take fries when ordering a hamburger? Do you eat carbohydrates at all? If so, most likely you have inflammation of the arteries. I will recommend three things.  First, I recommend starting to take vitamin E immediately. The type of vitamin E you need is tocotrienols. Take 300 milligrams every day and this will help reduce oxidation from free radicals inside the arteries. Vitamin E is undoubtedly the best nutrient for the heart. Second, you need to reduce your carbohydrate intake. This is called a ketogenic diet. The third point, which is just as important as intermittent fasting, is to give up snacks. Skip breakfast. This will quickly reduce the amount of insulin filling the body. I bet you've never measured the level. There's an excellent test called Homo and R. Everyone usually looks at their sugar levels, but they don't check their fasting insulin levels. Excess insulin shows up much earlier than high glucose. This is the hidden factor that lowers your blood sugar. When you check your sugar, it looks normal, and it's normal only because very high insulin lowers it. In general, write in the comments whether you look like you're having a heart attack or a stroke. If you still have to choose, I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight.  To prevent the weight from returning, I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.