Let's discuss what happens in the body when you fast. Here we have the starting point of fasting after 24 hours, 48 ​​hours, and 72 hours. When you fast, many wonderful things happen. The human body has developed for a very long time and has repeatedly adapted to hunger and lack of food. We have unique proteins that are activated and manifest themselves. They are responsible for better brain function, better ability of different parts of the body to survive. Our body is not prepared to eat as often as we eat now, every 3 hours, and so after about 12 hours, there is a surge in growth hormone. Growth hormone is an anti-aging hormone. The main fat-burning hormone. This hormone is involved in joint health. It is also involved in protein synthesis in the production of new proteins. Some take growth hormone injections. I do not recommend this. They take it to improve the health of certain organs. But you know that fasting itself activates it. Fasting itself increases growth hormone. Of course, physical exercise also increases growth hormone. This process begins after 12 hours and then intensifies. Somewhere around the eighteenth hour of fasting, the so-called autophagy begins. Autophagy is an interesting process occurring in the body in which old ones are processed.  Damaged proteins and also bacteria are some of the processed proteins, these are advanced glycation end products, they are formed when you combine glucose with proteins and they are very sticky, for example, with a high-carbohydrate diet, sugar combines with proteins within the body itself and begins their glycation, destroying some proteins in the body, they stop working, become sticky and form blockages, now the body begins to clean all this out and convert damaged proteins into new amino acids that the body can use, amyloid plaques that are found in the brain and other parts of the body are the type of proteins that can be cleaned out by autophagy, any cellular proteins that no longer perform their functions during autophagy will begin to disappear, OTG, they will begin to renew, this begins after 18 hours and intensifies during fasting, after about 24 hours or a little more, the glycogen supply will be greatly depleted, this is a reserve source of glucose in the liver, and the more glycogen is depleted in the liver, the more you switch to ketones as an alternative fuel, and if you have, for example, a fatty liver, the body begins to use this fat and convert it into  Ketones, his body can finally begin to use this stored energy and work more and more on titans, which are the best fuel. You get energy from ketones, and they suppress appetite, that is, the feeling of hunger and cravings goes away. Various ideas about ketone antioxidants, you create a reserve of antioxidants for yourself. They provide more oxygen, and the body uses more oxygen and less CO2, which is more efficient. And since ketones are a more efficient fuel than glucose, the thyroid no longer needs to work so much. Perhaps your level 3 will drop slightly, but the thyroid-stimulating hormone will be normal. This means that your thyroid gland is adapting to a new type of fuel. Another pleasant thing that happens in about a day is that all inflammatory processes significantly weaken. If you need to further strengthen this aspect, you can take vitamin D, it will greatly help. All diseases that involve inflammation, arthritis, bursitis, and autoimmune conditions begin to weaken after about a day. The intestines also feel better because they no longer have to work so often. You don’t overload the gallbladder and pancreatic enzymes with work. The intestines finally get the opportunity to rest. If you have such a thing as siber, when bacteria  It is located in the small intestine, although in the house it should only be in the large intestine. At this point, it begins to improve; the number of stem cells in the intestines increases and it begins to recover. The heart loves ketones much more than glucose, and the functioning of the cardiovascular system improves, as does the functioning of the brain. There is such a thing as a bidet n.f.  This is a factor that helps produce new brain cells, that is, the brain begins to recover after 24 hours. With further fasting, it may seem that you are losing muscle protein, but this is not the case. The body now works more efficiently and there are special genes that preserve proteins and muscle protein is not consumed, and so the fuel efficiency is much higher. Plus, with autophagy, old damaged proteins are consumed and new ones are formed. A very useful combination for the body's activity. You need much less nutrition because it is easier for the body and it can work on fewer nutrients. This is a big plus. What else happens during autophagy is that you get rid of bacteria, mold fungi, and yeast to destroy all these microorganisms. The body produces certain oxidants. On the other hand, you also have antioxidants. The body produces substances like hydrogen peroxide to destroy bacteria and at the same time produces its own antioxidants to protect against oxidation. Here, everything is balanced. Only with a small amount of antioxidants and a large amount of oxidants does so-called oxidative stress occur, which is destructive. But during fasting, the amount of antioxidants increases and the body  It begins to recover after two days. You are already actively stimulating stem cells. These are undifferentiated cells, that is, cells that have no purpose. They can transform into one or another, depending on what the body needs. By stimulating stem cells, you get a healing, restorative, and anti-aging effect. The risk of developing certain types of cancer also decreases. Some tumors shrink, more mitochondria are formed. If you push yourself, then after three days, stem cells will begin to be stimulated even more. In addition, immunity will be strengthened. But I advise fasting for three days or more only from time to time because many who fast for a long time suffer from a deficiency of various nutrients. Too abrupt a start can cause dizziness and other side effects, so you need to start gradually and not right away. Here is a general picture of what happens during fasting. I advise you to do intermittent fasting regularly. Perhaps, in most cases, the most suitable regimen would be an 18-hour fasting interval and a 6-hour window. That is, you eat after 6 hours of sleep, you eat, and then fast for 18 hours. This is a very good regimen. Over time, you can switch to a stricter regimen depending on your success.  You can also periodically do long fasts to get additional benefits, whether it's for the immune system due to autoimmune problems, or you just want to improve your skin to look younger, or you want to increase the number of brain cells, improve heart function, bowel function, or let's say you have cancer and you want to improve the situation. One of the effects of fasting is that it increases stress resistance, even if a person is on chemotherapy, fasting will help the body resist chemicals, and I'm at home, which is absolutely wonderful. Be sure to take macro and micronutrients when fasting. I know many recommend either water fasting, when you can drink only water, or dry fasting, when you can't drink anything. I advise doing water fasting with nutrients simply because a deficiency can lead to problems. You need to take micronutrients. B vitamins or salt are extremely important. Around eight o'clock in the morning, there is a surge in cortisol, and sometimes a surge in cortisol provokes the body to produce more glucose. Blood sugar can rise. This happens to many people who have problems with sugar. There is nothing to worry about. Over time, this will pass. You just have to start doing morning exercises and the excess sugar will be burned. During fasting, glucose is not taken from food, it  It appears because it is produced by the liver, and it is produced under torture, perhaps due to excess cortisol. I just wanted to mention this. This is the dawn phenomenon. I have a video about it. The link is below. If your LDL is the so-called bad cholesterol, although there is nothing wrong with it. Low-density lipoproteins are elevated, and the reason for this is especially if you do not eat any noticeable carbohydrates. During fasting, they increase for another reason. Remember that one of the functions of LDL is to deliver cholesterol to various tissues. So, remember everything that happens in the body during fasting, there is more intensive shea and healing. Cholesterol is the raw material for cell membranes for the brain for the production of hormones, vitamin D, bile. 40 percent of all cholesterol in the body is needed to support cell membranes. It is vital for protecting cells and transporting substances into and out of the cell. Perhaps the reason why the body needed a transport protein to carry cholesterol is the restoration of cell membranes or it needed raw materials for the production of hormones. If this worries you, you can conduct various tests to understand where this cholesterol goes and whether it causes harm or not.  But I wouldn't worry about it. I just wanted to make a video to show you what happens inside the body during fasting. Thanks for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.