Hi all.  Let's start with the quiz question.   The floor is yours, dog. Why do high iron levels increase the risk of stroke? Friends, what do you think about this? Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Now let's answer the questions that have accumulated on social networks. Jack from Facebook asks: Does beta-carotene block the absorption of astroxanthin and lutein, which are found in egg yolk? No, the natural beta-carotene in egg yolks does not block their absorption, because they all work together.   They are all antioxidants and do not interfere with each other. One antioxidant can donate an electron to stabilize a free radical and then accept an electron from another antioxidant. But synthetic beta-carotene is a completely different matter, because it is made from petroleum. And this is something isolated that is not found in nature. For example, if you smoke and take a lot of synthetic antioxidants, you have a higher risk of developing cancer.  I would not take synthetic antioxidants. I think things will be better for you then. Svein from YouTube has a great question on how to get rid of excessive scalp oiliness and stop hair loss.  The scalp contains sebaceous glands, and sometimes they secrete too much oil, sebum. One of the best regulators of this process is zinc.  But if you have insulin resistance, if you eat a lot of carbohydrates, this can disrupt the process, and sebum will increase.  By cutting carbs, eating healthy foods, and taking zinc, your problem may go away.  Great.  We're talking to Marcus from Denton, Texas.  I only have audio, but I'll give him the opportunity to ask a question.  Marcus, ask Dr. Berg one question. Good morning, Dr. Berg.  I'm 37. I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes 29 or 30 months ago . I was receiving a new drug at that time, Zild.  It was approved by the FDA 3 months before I started treatment. It's like chemotherapy for people with type 1 diabetes without the insulin injection. I still don't use insulin and I'm basically on a strict keto diet and I can't get any advice from anyone. Endocrinologists, my regular doctor, basically say, "Keep doing what you're doing." But what I do is total crap because my diet is so strict.  I give them chicken, chicken, spinach, and everything else I try to eat little by little to preserve what's left of my pancreas.   Yes. What is your usual blood sugar level ? On average, from 99 to 110 mg per decile. Not bad.  This is very good.  My A1c is usually 5.3, 5.4.   Wow! Apparently your pancreas is functioning to some extent. It must work partly. Yes, it works.  But if I break the diet on the continuous glucose monitor, I see a big jump in sugar. And then I walk quickly, lift weights, or do something else to lower my sugar.  Some days I call my pancreas a bad worker because at midday it says, "I'm not going to work today," and other days it works well. I can have a cookie, I can have a muffin after lunch. Yes, I try to take care of it, because they constantly tell me: “One day you will have to start injecting insulin.”   Yeah, right .  Yes, it's like someone who has kidney disease and their condition is getting worse. First stage.  Second stage. And the doctors say, "One day you're going to need kidney dialysis. You're going to be in stage four."  But they don't tell him about the diet, they don't tell him to give up cakes.  So, number one.  I think you just need to be super strict with your diet all the time because you have a weak spot. But here's the good news.  It looks like your pancreatic beta cells haven't completely shut down.  The uniqueness of pancreatic beta cells, which produce insulin, is that they are specialized cells with an extremely high concentration of mitochondria.  There are a lot of them there.  After all, they need to constantly compensate for blood sugar by releasing insulin.  And obviously I don't know what percentage of beta cells you have left, but it looks like you're doing pretty well. I'll tell you a secret.  Promise you won't tell anyone.  I'm joking, of course.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. There is another part inside the cell. Here is the cage. This is a mitochondria. We need as many mitochondria as possible for everything to work.  But there's something else in the cells .  This may be a new word for you. This is even more important than the mitochondria, because it is the first thing to die.  After all, this is what helps create insulin. And when it dies, it takes the mitochondria with it.  And now you have no fuel for your cells.  And this is what it's called. Ready?  Endoplasmic reticulum. You can read about it.  I think you have endoplasmic reticulum stress. If this stress is removed, the load on the mitochondria will be greatly reduced, and the beta cells will function perfectly.  You can find some great data on this topic.  One of the best means for this purpose is a duck. Take two capsules on an empty stomach twice daily.  This will help produce more insulin. Tutka improves the condition of cells, and you need proper nutrition.  Foods rich in a wide variety of nutrients. Exercise regularly, don’t overload your pancreas, strengthen it. I really think you're missing the point. After all, it helps to rejuvenate beta cells. There are also remedies such as zinc and vitamin D, especially if it is an autoimmune disease.  But I think this will change everything radically.  If you keep your sugar levels at a level by fasting, you will be fine.  I think you can continue like this for as long as possible.  Marcus, your persistence is admirable.  Thanks for the interesting question and good luck with all of this. We continue to answer questions on social networks.  Someone with the nickname Hidden G asks: Is it possible to cure Barrett's esophagus? I don't know.  Don't know.  I don't know how bad it is, but here's what I would do.  I would approach it the same way I would approach acid reflux.  I would do the same .  I would take a medication called bitainohydrochloride. This remedy was used for a very long time even by doctors.  Bitane hydrochloride is even mentioned in medical textbooks from 1943.  I just received this textbook.  And wow, in those days 70% of the remedies were natural.  Herbs and all that. Amazingly, bitaine hydrochloride was prescribed before Tums and PPIs came along. You can take betaine hydrochloride before meals to increase the acidity in your stomach. After all, we need the valve of the upper part of the stomach to be tightly closed. Additionally, your diet should be very healthy and intermittent fasting should be done to allow food to pass through your digestive system without overloading it.  And B1 is needed to improve the functioning of the autonomic nervous system.  After all, it regulates the digestive system.   There is much more that could be said about this, but I'm trying to keep it simple.  Great.  Now let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  Why do high iron levels increase the risk of stroke?  72% said: "Excess iron makes blood cells stickier."  20% said: "Excess iron deprives the brain and other organs of oxygen." And 8% said: "Excess iron impairs mitochondrial function." So, everyone is right to some extent, although I expected a slightly different answer.  Iron is very, very dangerous in large quantities. Firstly, it increases blood clotting factors.  Secondly, 85 to 90% of heart attacks and strokes are related to blood clots.  So there's something else you need to know. When the wall of harmful bacteria is damaged, endotoxin is released .  If it gets into the bloodstream through a leaky gut or through the gums, say, if you have bleeding gums or a tooth abscess, then a tiny particle of endotoxin can cause the formation of large blood clots due to an immune reaction. So, these pathogens feed on iron, and microbes in the body fight each other for iron.  After all, it's their food.  And if you feed pathogens, things can get much worse.  So, to prevent stroke and heart attack, it is very important, among other things, to ensure that the iron level in the body does not rise too high. I'm going to make a video about this soon because I think it's an important topic, especially if you're eating iron-fortified foods like iron-fortified cereals, which are bad, or taking iron supplements, which are equally bad, or even cooking with an iron pan, which is also bad.