Let's talk about the mistakes in intermittent fasting that can affect the results. First, you suddenly start starving and the body does not have time to adapt. Some want everything at once. Sometimes the process can go too fast. For example, you just started, but for years you followed the usual American diet and now you started fasting, but you have a problem with blood sugar. You did not give the body the usual three days to adapt. It's like accelerating from zero to one and a half hundred. That is, you immediately switched to one meal a day. Because of this, you will probably become irritable, you will be terribly hungry and most likely break down. You will decide that this is not for you and give up. But in fact, if you do everything right and do not jump above your head, then everything will work out. The next mistake is you eat too many carbohydrates without even realizing it. Sometimes they call it a package. When I talk to people, they sometimes say that they are following a gene diet. It does not work. When I ask what they eat, it turns out they did not know that fruits are carbohydrates, or, for example, rice or sweet potatoes are also carbohydrates. They do not realize the effect of even a small amount of carbohydrates on  Being in ketosis can knock you out, but two or even three days, I mean knock you out of ketosis. It takes time to get into ketosis and only a few carbs to knock you out of ketosis if you consume them a couple of times a week. This may be the reason for the lack of results. The 5x2 diet. On this diet, you eat whatever you want for 5 days and then for two days, usually on the weekend, you reduce calories to 500 per day. It turns out to be a two- sided situation. On the one hand, all week long, in general, you can do whatever you want on the weekends, eat less. This time is not enough to fully adapt to ketosis. It will be very difficult for you. It will be very painful and uncomfortable. You will not want to do it and most likely you will break down and decide that this is not for you and give up. So, if you want to fast, I advise you to fast. Don't try to pull the 500-calorie trick and think that you will adapt. It will not work. The fourth mistake is that you fast, but when you eat calories, you do not have enough nutrients when reducing.  calories, you need to increase the amount of nutrients in food or supplement food with supplements to get all the nutrients in food. There are two functions. The first is fuel and 2 is a new trend. During fasting, you use your own fat as fuel. You need nutrients too. If you don't consume enough calories, you will most likely lack nutrients. At first, nothing will be noticeable, but let's say after a few weeks or even months, hair will start to fall out, problems with teeth will begin, bleeding gums, and so on. You don't need to worry about calories, but food should be rich in nutrients. Error 5 is eating low-quality foods. Let's say you're fasting. Then you eat soy protein powder. It's very low quality and is found in many foods. Because of such low-quality foods, you won't look healthy. I'm not saying that you 'll look like a drug addict, but it may look a little like that. The next error is error 6. You don't consume enough potassium, B vitamins, and trace elements so that the body doesn't need anything. Think about it. We fast to improve health. All kinds of genes are turned on. Anti-aging genes that help reduce inflammation, which helps you. Renew brain tissue and if there is no nutrient reserve and you are starving and when you eat you consume regular foods, you will eventually develop a deficiency and problems with the appearance of a drug addict will begin, along with a rapid heartbeat and hair loss, but otherwise everything is super. The seventh mistake is if you are a vegan and observing etiquette, you definitely need to take B12, maiden satiation and possibly iron, you are not getting them if you do not consume animal products. 8. You are on intermittent fasting and when you eat, you follow ketogenic diet, but with a low fat content. Some people still have fat phobia and they try to consume less fat. If the option is low in carbohydrates and fats, this must be condensed with protein. Too much protein can create problems when you cut fats, you also cut fat-soluble vitamins, omega-3 fatty acids, all these essential things are associated with fat. Thanks for watching. Watch the next video about other ketogenic mistakes that many make without even realizing it.