You know, I never cease to be amazed at how much you can improve your brain health with fasting, but there is a nuance. You need to fast for at least 18 hours. The window between meals should be 6 hours, and the duration of fasting is 18 hours to start seeing real improvements. It's not difficult. Skip breakfast. The first meal is at noon, the second at 6 pm, or the first meal at 11 am, the second at 5 pm, or the first meal at 1 pm, the second at 7 pm. And no snacks during fasting. You can eat during the window between meals. But I advise eating twice at lunch and dinner if this is a problem. And you are still hungry. Add fat at the end of the meal. This could be a large handful of macadamia nuts or some other fats. One of the reasons I am filming this video is a huge amount of misinformation about what you need to eat after fasting. If you have any brain problems, dementia, attention deficit disorder, epileptic seizures, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, let's consider this. We have ketones. Ketones benefit the brain. I will also tell you about  other beneficial properties of ketones, but they are very, very healing for the brain. Sometimes someone claims that the brain can live only on sugar and glucose. Akitos is dangerous. This is absolutely not true. The brain prefers ketones. If the brain has a choice between ketones and glucose as fuel, it chooses ketones. They choose glucose. There are three ways to create ketones. You can start a keto diet by cutting carbohydrates and increasing fats. Some of the fat you eat will turn into ketones. If you have few carbohydrates, another way to create ketones is fasting. You don't eat anything, so the body uses fat reserves and converts its own fat into ketones. The advantage of fasting over a keto diet is that many more ketones are produced. You enter deeper ketosis. Fasting also brings many other benefits besides ketones. Certain genes are expressed. Only because you don't eat and expose the body to this mild stress does the body compensate, causing all these wonderful effects on the brain. The human body and brain evolved due to deprivation.  food hunger that's why we have a lot of genes that help us survive when we don't have food think about how we lived before buffets sometimes we didn't eat for days if there was no food we would die that's why our brain becomes smarter and more cunning more focused it improves when we don't eat so we can find food and eat many people never know about it unless they try fasting and then they find out wow my mood is so much better brain function has improved and then they get a taste for it so our brain gets huge benefits from ketones from gene expression thanks to fasting and when we exercise we also produce ketones another big benefit of fasting is that you reduce glucose intake and this alone greatly reduces the destruction of neurons in the brain due to oxidation of glucose nerve cells I don't even know about other tissues and the reality is that many people have brain damage because they are on a high carbohydrate diet due to chronic exposure to glucose because what does glucose do to neurons  Glucose destroys neurons. And after this, neurons can no longer absorb glucose and cannot receive fuel. If a person does not start a keto diet or does not cut carbohydrates, neurons starve even more because they need glucose but cannot absorb it, so the cells cannot get ATP, that is, energy. So, in fact, the brain is destroyed due to a lack of fuel needed by neurons. And when you switch to another fuel source, neurons finally receive fuel, and ketones ignore this damage and feed neurons directly. In addition, auxiliary so-called glial cells, one of the astrocytes, help feed neurons. If you never fast or follow a keto diet, unfortunately, it is very difficult for these cells to receive fuel. This is the reason for all the complications in diabetes associated with the nervous system and the brain: dementia caused by diabetes, diabetic neuropathy is damage to nerve cells, because all this glucose destroys capillaries, thereby disrupting the blood supply to the nerves. The nerves in the soles of the feet are the first to suffer, this causes peripheral  Neuropathy, numbness, burning in the feet and hands, then Glucose destroys the capillaries in the eyes that feed the retina. And this is a nerve. It is an extension of the brain, hence the term diabetic retinopathy. I want to say something else about part of the nervous system, the autonomic nervous system. And when a person has diabetes, a disease associated with high blood sugar, so-called diabetic autonomic neuropathy can develop. This is quite interesting because little is said about this. I will tell you about the various conditions that can be a manifestation of this complication. Number one is a high pulse, because the autonomic nervous system controls the heart. There is also exercise intolerance, you cannot adapt to it. After all, the autonomic nervous system adapts the body to stress, and exercise is stress. There is also so-called orthostatic hypotension, this is when a person gets up and feels dizzy. He may even lose consciousness. A severe form of this condition is called spotting. One of the remedies for this is at least temporary. Vitamin B1 is because B1 greatly reduces complications associated with diabetes.  insulin resistance and insulin problems in general. But in general, with orthostatic hypotension, you need to give up carbohydrates. There is also no other option, such as gastrophoresis, which is when the autonomic nervous system is damaged so much that everything moves very, very slowly through the digestive tract. This is caused by the destruction of the autonomic nervous system. Another condition is constipation, because the nerves that go to the smooth muscles of the colon do not work, food is not digested, everything is very sluggish. Another condition is called esophageal dyskinesia, this tricky term means the reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus, heartburn, acid reflux, and the like. There may also be chest pain or a feeling of something stuck in the throat, possibly difficulty swallowing. All of this can be caused by the autonomic nervous system due to the effect of blood sugar on this part of the nervous system. These conditions are not only associated with diabetes, because with a diabetic condition or severe insulin resistance, some of these symptoms can be accompanied. I say this because if you have these symptoms, you need to change your diet, but let's look at some striking aspects of the effects of fasting on the brain.  Number one, it slows down the deterioration of brain function associated with age and brain-related diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and so on. Fasting slows brain aging and reverses damage caused by chronic diseases. Fasting also allows brain cells to finally get the fuel they need if they are damaged due to a high-carbohydrate diet. Fasting reduces inflammation in the brain. Fasting stabilizes neurons, as in the case of using the keto diet for epilepsy when neurons get out of control, because ketones help stabilize overexcited neurons. Fasting is beneficial for certain genes, it expresses them, and these genes improve nerve communication. Fasting activates genes that speed up neuronal recovery. Fasting significantly increases antioxidant levels in certain parts of the brain. They reduce the complications of chronic inflammation and chronic brain problems, whether it be Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, or autoimmune brain diseases like multiple sclerosis. The body creates more endogenous antioxidants that reduce free radical damage due to inflammation. Fasting also triggers autophagy. For example, if you have plaques in the brain. Alzheimer's disease causes scar tissue in the brain or damaged proteins. Fasting triggers the process of autophagy, which essentially recycles damaged proteins in the brain. That is, this process renews the brain. Fasting can also significantly improve structures in the brain, for example, the structure that controls circadian cycles that promote sleep. Fasting also significantly improves mood; it helps a person overcome both depression and anxiety. In general, fasting improves mood and cognitive function. I'm talking about the ability to learn and the ability to concentrate and work productively. Fasting improves memory, including spatial memory. Let 's say you can't remember where you parked your car. Well, fasting helps you navigate better in space. Let's say your GPS system is turned off and you can't determine your location and navigate, especially while driving. So, fasting improves orientation, as well as motor skills, coordination, and a sense of balance. I'm filming this video to put you on the right path and give you the right information so that your brain works better. If you start searching for information about Alzheimer's disease now, the first page of Google will show you the Hopkins University diet, the diet recommended by WebMD.  This Alzheimer's Association diet and all these are the same, in fact, all diets are the same for diabetes and heart disease, it's all the same. And I'm not kidding. I'll give some of their recommendations for dementia, heart disease, and diabetes. I'm not kidding. At least three servings of whole grains every day. Here you have inflammation and high blood sugar. You can't eat grains with these diseases. Number two, legumes more than three times a week. Okay, as you say, legumes have a lot of carbohydrates. But this is kind of unimportant. Further, this is advice from Hopkins: less than five flour products or sweets a week, you don't need sweets at all. This is bad advice to allow people to eat flour products or sweets at all with dementia, heart disease, and so on. One glass of wine or another alcoholic beverage. Again, why even advise alcohol to people with such a disease? Are flour products, alcohol, or whole grains beneficial in any way for dementia? The answer is no. In general, if you are new to my channel and want to start the right diet for brain health, you need to watch  Here is this video