Hi, today we'll talk about intermittent fasting and how to improve mental clarity and acuity. There's a wonderful study about the benefits of intermittent fasting for certain parts of the brain. Links will be in the description. One of the most important parts is called the hippocampus. We have two of them, on the left and right sides. The hippocampus in Greek means a seahorse because it resembles it. It is closely associated with the absorption of information, memory, and spatial orientation. What does this mean? This ability to determine one's location in the surrounding environment is like a kind of GPS navigator. People with dementia and Alzheimer's can have a very difficult time understanding where they are in a given situation. They can get lost in a parking lot, as if they've lost their navigator. By pumping up the sides, you can improve your learning ability. You can even increase the number of synapses in the brain. You can grow new nerve cells. This is amazing. You can slow down the aging process. You can improve memory. Sometimes, you can also improve your emotional state. The hippocampus acts as a switch between different emotions and, of course, improves the ability to navigate in the surrounding environment. Animal experiments have shown an interesting thing. If you damage it,  The hippocampus animal becomes hyperactive and has difficulty learning. Sounds familiar in children. Also, the question is what causes damage to this part of the brain. Stress, high cortisol levels, there is a disease characterized by high cortisol, Cushing's syndrome, which also affects the hippocampus. One of the symptoms of dementia and memory problems can occur from stress. Vitamin B1 deficiency can cause problems with the hippocampus. If you google information about vitamin B1 deficiency, one of the side effects is memory loss. In addition, high sugar and insulin levels can also damage the hippocampus. Therefore, one of the symptoms of diabetes, for example, is dimension. And it so happened that high sugar and insulin deplete the reserves. High cortisol also depletes them. That is, vitamin B1 is vital for the normal functioning of the hippocampus, and the best source of vitamin B1 is nutritional yeast. That's what I recommend. It comes in tablet form and can be of great help to those who want to improve. This is another very important point. Aerobic exercise. I'm talking about long walks, large amounts of oxygen, low stress, this is very useful for fighting damage.  As for intermittent fasting, I recommend starting with three meals a day, strictly without snacks. Snacks negate the benefits of intermittent fasting. Add procyon fats to go longer without food. Then gradually eliminate breakfast. You often won't be hungry in the morning. Don't eat if you're not hungry. The body doesn't need to eat every hour and a half if your blood sugar is normal. Then you have two meals a day. Then you need to gradually narrow the distance between these meals from about 8 a.m. to 6 a.m., and eventually to 4. That is, if you eat at 1 p.m. or 5 p.m., that will be great. If you want to go even further, you can switch to one meal a day. This will bring significant benefits to your where-is- yet MPU, especially if you have any of these problems with memory, orientation, or assimilation of information. You will notice big improvements. Well, that's all. Put this into practice and leave comments.