Hello everyone Today we will start with our wonderful quiz, your floor is doc. True or false, red meat contains three times more iron than white meat. Dear viewers, you can answer, and in the meantime, we will deal with questions from social networks. Gash from Yuba writes. I hope I read the name correctly. Could you make a video about the treatment of recurrent folliculitis of the scalp? Thank you in advance, I pronounced it correctly. I already made it but have not posted it yet. So wait for this video and I do not know when it will be released, but follow the channel soon. Great, let's do it. I think people always have a question: how is it that I just started reading about this and he already made a video. How did he find out that he installed a camera in my house. How is he? I plan to make some kind of video. There will definitely be those for whom this is relevant because a lot of people are watching me. I am not in your house. I do not have a camera. I do not know all your problems. Excellent. You can breathe a sigh of relief. Lauren from Facebook asks why I have not lost weight. After 7 days of fasting, something is wrong with me. I hope not. I think that if you have not lost weight at all.  I assume you did not dry fast and you drank water, you probably have less fat and you are simply retaining fluid. But I do not have enough data. If you do not eat anything for one week and fast on water, your weight should decrease by 2-3 kg. So, more data is needed to give an assessment, because something is wrong here, something is missing and something else must be happening that you need to pay attention to. You can call one of the trained coaches and provide all the data so that they can help you. They are trained in how to help people with such problems. Excellent. Good luck to you. Do you think castor oil is useful? It is very useful. It is taken as a laxative. Rub it into your eyelashes so that they do not fall out. Apply it to the skin on the scalp. It brings a lot of benefits. I made several videos about it. So, yes, I highly recommend it. Well, Rumble is in good shape today. The next question is from Rashid Sram. What is the window between meals suitable for beginners. Intermittent fasting. I am a woman, I am 63. The last time a day I would eat at 5:30 and would not eat anything. Later, take a nap. You can drink water. And in the morning, try not to eat. How?  maybe longer maybe if you reduce carbohydrates in the evening at dinner then the next day in the morning you will not be so hungry and just do not eat until lunch then eat that is you will fast for 18 hours I think it is safe that is great it will immediately bring a lot of benefits continue for some time you will get used to skipping breakfast it is not difficult at 8 am there is a small surge of cortisol this causes a small jump in sugar and a slight feeling of hunger do not pay attention it will pass in half an hour hunger will suddenly disappear keep yourself busy until noon eat for the first time this will be the first meal of the day then dinner there is another way I am telling you about this only because I am doing it now and it works great because we need more energy during the day fasting in the morning It may not always be the best option After all you have not eaten all night and all morning and let's say you work physically on a farm like I do then you need so in the morning I just have breakfast and the second meal I may have a late lunch And then I do not eat it works better because I get all the energy during the day  and I don't need a lot of food in the afternoon and evening Because I go to bed and relax And in the first half of the day I need energy, so I'm eating now Maybe I'll go back to the old scheme, but I like it, but don't set strict limits for yourself, change them sometimes, listen to what your body wants If you're not hungry in the morning, don't eat, and when you sleep, it's better to be less hungry But if you have a craving for a donut Steve, do n't give in And what about me, I don't care Sani from Yuba Is it possible to do intermittent fasting for patients with hypothyroidism and Hashimoto's disease Yes, I think they need it and here's why Yes, there is data that when a person begins to fast, the thyroid gland compensates for it and this is true, but if you eat enough Protein and nutrients when you eat, there will be no problems I have a video with detailed explanations of this Some women lose their periods during fasting because the body is trying to adapt to hunger, but menstruation returns when the woman eats I think an excellent way is not to fast during menstruation, that is, do not starve during menstruation, you will need to make a video about this, this is one of the very important points to strengthen the thyroid gland. I would Hashimoto's disease is not so much a problem of the thyroid gland as of the immune system, so large doses of vitamin D3 with magnesium, zinc and selenium are definitely needed. I think this will help a lot. But I think none of this will work unless you take at least 30,000 vitamin D3 and watch my recent video about autoimmune diseases and follow the advice in it, because vitamin D3 with magnesium can be very helpful. Just listen to Dr. 100. True or false. Red meat has three times more iron than white meat. Everyone answered that this is true. Well, you are absolutely right. After all, meat is red because it contains protein that carries more oxygen. There is clearly more iron in it. That's why it is red and if you have, say, anemia, then you need red meat. In addition, red meat is designed to provide endurance in cows, that is, the structure of their muscles provides endurance; they do not contract quickly with high intensity.  This is why they get tired quickly, unlike white chicken meat. Red meat has a couple more factors that are not found in white meat. Also, regardless of whether it is red or white meat, you need to understand that chickens and turkeys are fed grain, but we need grass-fed meat. Chickens and turkeys cannot eat only grass. Unfortunately, so, well, okay, I think this is not the most important point. Can you eat more red meat than white meat? But the fact that we are urged not to eat red meat means that we definitely need to eat more of it.