Hi, I want to thank you for the amazing results from intermittent fasting and ketogenic diet. I read all your comments. Super well done, keep up the good work. You recently asked if you need to switch to one meal a day. Let's talk about this. Society interferes with intermittent fasting. You can't just go somewhere with friends and not eat anything, so society is not adapted to this. According to the nutrition model in which we are stuck, the body should work, but sugar is everything aimed at maintaining high blood sugar. Have a snack, eat this, eat this, or something else. So, yes, someone will say that by eating once a day you will lose weight simply by reducing calories, but it's not that simple, and I will tell you about this. The difference between intermittent fasting and a low-calorie diet is the frequency of meals and the mandatory intake of nutrients to avoid hunger. I strongly recommend taking B vitamins, minerals, and microelements. Grass juice concentrate is very good, you don't need to cut back on the inside, and so that hair does not start to fall out and fatigue does not appear. Many people start with three meals a day, switch to two meals a day, and then they simply do not  hungry and eat once a day and feel much better cognitive functions energy so just try and see how you feel you will be surprised your energy levels cognitive functions memory mental clarity will be amazing and this is simply because fat is a much more efficient fuel and so your body runs on fat and this is a cleaner fuel and food stimulates the production of insulin which slightly clouds the mind so decide for yourself whether you need this but the fact is that it has other benefits and one of the main ones is autophagy what is autophagy this is the ability of the body to recycle old parts of cells while the cells are also cleansed of mold viruses bacteria fungi all this eliminates so if you remove all this old garbage from your body you will feel great and appearance brain cells cognitive functions immunity will improve inflammation will greatly decrease this number of people who have inflammation is just incredible how stiff they are but fasting eliminates stiffness inflammation swelling of the legs improves well-being that's why people feel better it's about sugar levels in fat burning and autophagy intermittent fasting is also very  It's good for metabolism, it eliminates insulin resistance, which is what's behind the setpoint. You reach a certain level when your weight no longer decreases and remains unchanged. This is insulin resistance, and this allows you to eliminate it. Especially with one meal a day, but again, I recommend starting with three meals a day, then two meals a day. Continue until you feel comfortable until your hunger goes away. Then try one meal a day. Maybe you'll like it, and maybe it's right for you. And finally, three points. First, the quality of food. You don't need to eat once a day, eating junk food. The quality should be high. Second, the quantity of food should be much larger. The problem is that cramming three meals into one is very difficult. You'll have to enrich your diet with supplements. Try to eat as much food as possible, and be sure to include high-quality vegetables, proteins, and fats. And lastly, when you need to eat, it doesn't matter. Choose any time. It's possible to change it. You don't have to eat at the same time. Some people eat in the evening, some eat in the morning, some eat in the middle of the day. Write in the comments what you think about this. If you don't know what to cook for those days, the book "Chet Menu for Two Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes.  From the available products, the basics of keto and fasting are available, follow the link below.