Today we will talk about how to practice intermittent fasting to seriously lose weight. Intermittent fasting has some really magical advantages. Firstly, it is very cheap, in fact, even free, and will save you money. It is very easy. You don’t need to do anything, you just need to avoid doing certain things. Namely, fasting frees up a lot of time. You don’t need to cook all day. Fasting prolongs life and also makes you smarter because it improves cognitive function. It improves mood and reduces the risk of many diseases. So, there are many benefits, but there are also a couple of disadvantages. First, you will lose a lot of weight. And you will have to buy new clothes. In this regard, you will have to spend more. Since you don’t cook food all day, you have a lot of free time and you will need to occupy yourself with something. And since you spend so much money on food, you will have money left over, and the problem arises that you need to put it somewhere. Intermittent fasting is not a diet. This eating plan tells you when you need to eat and when you don’t need to eat. It puts you in charge. You tell your body when it needs to eat. And when it needs to eat, if you think about it, the worst question you can ask your body is: What do you want today? Will you get it?  some Crazy answer If I ask my body such a question, the answer will be something like a donut m&m's or chips very often When you ask your body such a question, the answer will be some unhealthy food This especially often happens to those who have low or high blood sugar, the answer will be completely crazy, as if you are sitting in the back seat of a car driven by a crazy driver. This is a bad situation because you do not control it, but unfortunately, food controls you throughout your life, your whole life actually revolves around food. By doing intermittent fasting, you begin to take control of all this madness. This is very beneficial for you personally, for your willpower, self-discipline, and especially for your health. Here's what you need to know about intermittent fasting Every time you eat, insulin is released. insulin levels rise not only from sugar and carbohydrates, but also from food in general. Therefore, the less often you eat, the less insulin is released and the more benefits you get. Our bodies have adapted to the lack of food over a long period of evolution. In ancient times, getting food was not so easy. The body adapted to this and developed many amazing genes that make it possible to survive without food. I mean genes that help survive and repair the body. Genes of diseases are turned off, for example, fasting turns off genes that cause cancer. Fasting activates various amazing chewing processes associated with DNA. Now I'll show you how to do it correctly. Let's take an ordinary person who eats three times a day and snacks three times. So, it turns out 3 plus 3 = 6 meals. This gives frequent surges in insulin during the day. The body suffers from this. And very much where to start. The first step is to stop snacking. Leave only three meals a day. Continue this until it stops causing discomfort. Then remove breakfast because you don't snack. You will practically not feel hungry in the morning, especially if you are on Keto, but in this video we do not discuss Keto. Our topic is How to fast correctly and how to smoothly switch to this regimen. Let the lack of appetite in the morning indicate to you whether you need breakfast or not. The basic principle is this: don't eat if you are not hungry. You  Woke up and not hungry, don't eat, don't eat for as long as you can. Let's say you work until noon, that's your lunch time, and let's say you have lunch at 12 and find it at 6, this gives you 18 hours of fasting. It turns out to be a 6-hour window for eating and 18 hours of fasting. To make the transition to this regime easier, you can eat something fatty at the end of lunch and dinner, for example, an avocado or a handful of nuts such as macadamia or pican, any fats. This will help you fast longer and move on to the next stages easier. By the way, there are other effective means to improve the situation. Especially with blood sugar, for example, if you start a meal with a large portion of greens that you dress with extra virgin olive oil, as well as balsamic vinegar or even apple cider vinegar, this will help regulate blood sugar in a wonderful way. Firstly, a large amount of fiber softens the effect of insulin. This is the only carbohydrate that does not raise insulin. Extra Virgin olive oil is another ingredient that does not affect insulin at all or almost at all. It helps to extract fat-soluble nutrients from leafy greens. I'm talking about various beneficial fat-soluble phytonutrients. Apple cider vinegar or balsamic vinegar is a very powerful remedy for diabetes. It helps lower blood sugar and insulin. That's why it's very beneficial to drink a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar with water several times a day. You should also consume cinnamon in the same drink or somehow else. It also has a positive effect on blood sugar. And of course, another excellent remedy is vitamin D in the form of a supplement or directly from the sun. So, now you eat twice a day and you have a six-hour window for this. Ideally, you don't need to snack during this window. But if you need to snack, you need to snack during this interval and not during the fasting period. We need 18 hours of pure fasting. You eat like this for some time until you feel comfortable, then go further. Especially if you want to lose weight, the next step is to reduce the interval between meals, for example, to intervals of 4 hours. Let's say you get up in the morning and don't feel hungry, it's noon. And you're still not hungry. So, you fast until two, have lunch at two o'clock, and have dinner at six, so there is a four-hour window for eating, and 20 hours of fasting will bring even more benefits, including in terms of weight loss. Do this for a couple of weeks until you get used to it. And the next stage is the cherry on the cake. Sorry, I didn't mean to tease you with delight. This is the so-called amat. One meal a day. At this stage, we combine these two meals into one big one. The menu should be healthy and nutritious once a day. Of course, you won't be able to eat as much as with two meals a day, but the benefit is not that you have reduced the number of calories. And in fasting for 23 hours, the benefits will be even greater for the immune system and for the brain, for prolonging life and for recovery. Recently, I came across another factor that is related to comat. And it may interest you. One small clarification, which, however, can greatly affect your sleep and bring even more benefits in terms of blood sugar, insulin, insulin resistance, is that this single meal should be no later than three o'clock in the afternoon because  The later you eat, the more it can affect your sleep cycles. Eating can stimulate certain genes associated with digestion and this can disrupt sleep. Believe it yourself. Eat a little earlier. Let it be a large lunch in the middle of the day at two or three o'clock and see if your sleep improves. I am testing this on myself and my sleep has become much better and this will help you lose weight faster. The better you sleep, the less cortisol and the more growth hormone, the more fat is burned, the more energy you have and other improvements. The results will be even better if you add, for example, physical exercise and also a healthy ketogenic diet, which I constantly promote. It includes high- quality products and many nutrients, so you can add a lot of things here. Finally, the last stage is to periodically arrange a long fast, for example, once a week or once every two weeks, you can fast for 48 hours, even fast 72 hours (three days) or maybe 120 hours (5 days), this will bring incredible benefits to your immunity. Especially for the prevention of cancer, because long-term fasting literally destroys  cancer cells in the body I just wanted to give you a general picture of how to properly start intermittent fasting and how to then get to that stage. When you see big changes in terms of weight loss and improved health, I advise you not to think for a long time, but just start. You shouldn't wait until medicine finally admits that this is the best thing you can do for your health. This will not happen. You must experience it yourself and feel for yourself all the benefits of intermittent fasting for your health. This is the very solution you have been looking for. Try it and convince yourself. Just start and the next thing you need to know is what to eat. I have a couple of videos about this. Start with video number one, here it is.