Hello, today I have a short video about ginger-lemon drinks for intermittent fasting and also about why it is very useful. Firstly, ginger has an extremely many wonderful properties. The first of them is about 115 known antioxidants, phytonutrients with various properties, including anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer. Ginger helps with nausea, especially in pregnant women in the morning, and helps if you have gas, as well as if you get motion sickness in transport. Ginger should help, but the biggest benefit is related to blood sugar. Ginger can lower insulin. People have been using ginger for probably thousands of years, so you can say it has stood the test of time. Over all these years, ginger has proven its benefits. Next, why do you need to add lemon? Because when you fast or are on a Chinese diet, there is a risk of kidney stones. Lemon contains citrates, and citrates combine with salads, which reduces the risk of cold kidney stones. And of course, lemon has a lot of vitamin C. So here is the recipe: a quarter cup of ginger or 30 milliliters if it is already in liquid form.  One lemon and 350 milliliters of water. I recommend chopping a quarter cup of ginger and leaving it to soak in water for half an hour or an hour. It doesn't have to be warm, the water can be cold. Then you take regular cheesecloth and strain it. The pulp itself will remain in the cheesecloth. When you have this mixture of water and ginger infusion, you take a lemon. I use a lemon juicer. This way, you can simply squeeze out the lemon and get the maximum juice out of it. Then, you already noted the water in the previous steps. Now you have a mixture of lemon and ginger infusion. You need to drink it when you are fasting on an empty stomach. It won't break your fast and will help prolong it thanks to the effect it has on blood sugar. It lowers insulin, and this drink is not only beneficial in this regard. It can potentially lower cholesterol and blood pressure, but most importantly, it will reduce hunger. You will feel that you are not hungry. That's all there is to it. A simple recipe for a ginger lemon drink. If you liked this video, share it with anyone who might find it useful.