Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about the detox effect of cruciferous vegetables. Look, you see this book. It's called Toxicology. What is toxicology? The science of poisons. Look how thick it is. I'll show you something. It's called Basic Knowledge of Poisons. It describes all the possible chemicals to which a person is exposed. Pesticides and herbicides are also described. It shows how they affect the body. What diseases they cause. Where they accumulate: in the kidneys, in the liver, or in the respiratory tract, or in the skin. This is interesting. It says here that most substances that cause systemic intoxication do not lead to the same intoxication in different organs. On the contrary, they exhibit the greatest toxicity in only one or two organs. The affected organ is often not the site of the highest concentration of the chemical. For example, lead concentrates in bones. DDT concentrates in adipose tissue. It's interesting. Now look at the biotransformation of xenobiotics. What does this mean? This tricky term means removing chemicals from the body. Your body is capable of doing this with the help of the liver and enzymes.  Getting rid of poisons is a unique point that you need to know is that these poisons are fat-soluble, they are water-soluble, they settle in adipose tissue, and this makes it difficult to get rid of them because lipophilic substances, that is, they bind to fats and avoid water, can be easily absorbed, therefore, to remove xenobiotics, that is, chemicals, it is often necessary to convert them into water-soluble chemicals during a process known as biotransformation, that is, we have enzymes in our body to convert fat-soluble chemicals into water-soluble ones, this happens in the liver, listen further, we have a liver, it’s on the right side, the liver is capable of destroying chemicals, and we are exposed every day to pesticides and herbicides, chemicals, GMO products, don’t even think about arguing, and the enzymes in the liver essentially pass from the first phase to the second, they jointly act on these extremely dangerous poisons and convert them into harmless water-soluble particles, that’s what the liver does, the problem is that chronic exposure to these chemicals leads to the acceleration of the first phase if these phases are not balance and overdo it with the first phase, the second phase cannot withstand the load and spreads so much throughout the body and you can no longer remove them, you get sick and these toxins can get into the thyroid gland, the uterus, the mammary glands and cause cancer. If these phases worked together, you could get rid of the effects of many poisons. And what about cruciferous vegetables? They enhance this process. They act by restraining the first phase. They restrain the out-of-control first phase and speed up the second phase so that the process is not suppressed, but on the contrary, the elimination of these chemicals is accelerated. As I already said, many of these chemicals that affect people have a delayed effect of 20, 30, 40 years. What got into you long ago, back in childhood, now makes itself felt, which is why it is so difficult to understand what is caused. That is why it is so important to consume kale, arugula, pak choi, Brussels sprouts, tea, cauliflower, cabbage, and radishes on a regular basis. I advise you to start consuming this. If you need a more convenient way to consume, I have two products. 1 cruciferous mix, some of you are already using it, it's an organic blend of all cruciferous vegetables, another new product, I called it estrogen balance, if I were a woman, I would give preference to it because it has an additional component called dima, what is dim, what is 2 capsules, dim, two of these capsules are equivalent to 9 hundred grams of cruciferous vegetables, dim is a highly concentrated phytochemical from cruciferous vegetables that allows you to speed up the elimination of toxins, start with taking one capsule a day, as you adapt, you can move on to two, you don't need to take more than two if you have estrogen dominance, and all these chemicals mimic estrogen in the environment, so if you have, for example, heavy menstruation, fibrocystic mastopathy, fibrocystic breast disease, painful, long periods, menopause symptoms, hot flashes and night sweats, this thing will help balance estrogen, it gets rid of bad estrogen and enhances good estrogen, it does not  It removes estrogen from the body, but simply brings it back to normal and also helps the detoxification process. This product contains vitamin E, cabbage, a variety of cruciferous vegetables, and also contains heme, turmeric, and a couple of other things to help the adrenal glands. This is an improved version of my formula for the ovaries, but with many improvements. If you are interested in any of this, follow the link below and read more. I want to thank you for watching. I hope you learned something new. See you in the next video.