I wanted to record a video about the 23 benefits of eating only once a day. This isn't exactly a diet. This is intermittent fasting. You fast for 23 hours and then go for 1 hour. Yes, people love to eat, but that's not a problem. Let's say you're going to an event or to dinner with friends. Then go with your friends. It's not like sitting in a restaurant over an empty plate. There's no need to suffer. But let's talk about the benefits. First, it's a big savings. If you eat only once a day, you save at least $600 a month. This alone will also save you time. You can spend it on useful things. Most people spend a lot of time on food and cooking, which takes a lot of effort. Number three, improving digestion will give your gallbladder a rest. Your stomach, pancreas, and colon will also rest. If you have irritable bowel syndrome, this will help you heal. It strengthens your immune system. It also puts the body into a state of so-called autophagy, which is the processing of waste and damaged protein and its transformation into new tissue. During out- of-body ti, viruses, fungi, and  Candida mold, if it also helps strengthen the immune system, you can say that you strengthen the immune system, you will live longer and this is great, hunger will be much weaker, it seems that without food you will be constantly hungry, but when you fully adapt to burning fat, the feeling of hunger will go away, cravings for different foods disappear, fasting will become very easy, but of course, it will take time to enter ketosis, but in ketosis, you will not be drawn to that worn, improved skin, autophagy counteracts aging, your skin will become smoother and younger, more energy, you will be much more energetic 11. Improving mood if you are depressed or anxious, understand that the reason is blood sugar levels, when it is brought under control, your mood will improve and become much better 12. Improving cognitive function, fasting will help against dementia, improve memory, focus, all this will improve 13. Reducing inflammation if you have bursitis, tendonitis, arthritis or even rheumatoid arthritis, fasting will greatly help you lower blood pressure, high insulin increases blood pressure, and since this program lowers insulin, the pressure will also decrease 15. Heart disease If you want to improve the condition of your arteries, then intermittent fasting will help more than anything else. If you do everything the other way around, if you have high insulin resistance (diabetes), then you will have a lot of problems with your arteries. Number 16, the fight against dementia, this is associated with cognitive function. 17, intermittent fasting helps with diabetes. It can even prevent diabetes. It helps with diabetes, that is, insulin resistance. It will even help with hypoglycemia and even cure it, and many people have it, although they don’t know it. 18, this regimen is useful for fatty liver. You can remove fat from the liver. Number nineteen, this will turn your body into a powerful fat-burning machine. Belly fat will go away and your stomach will become flat. Great, really. 20, you will become more disciplined because this diet is like self-discipline training. Self- discipline exercises. You will become more disciplined thanks to the ability to abstain from food. 23:00, your willpower increases, you will become more disciplined. 21, muscle physiology will improve, their density will increase. You may think that refusing to eat  It will weaken the muscles, but this is not true. By following this regimen, you stimulate growth hormone, which fights aging, and in addition, growth hormone prevents muscle loss, which is very important, especially if you want to increase muscle density and build muscle. 22. Your metabolism will speed up. If you have a slow metabolism, you need to follow this regimen to finally speed up your metabolism and get rid of fat. 23. It will give you mental clarity. It often happens that people experience almost IV aria; they feel good, and then they eat and suddenly feel worse. Take a closer look at this regimen. It's food for thought. Sorry for the pun. See you in the next video.