Most people starting intermittent fasting make seven mistakes: first, they eat too much of a certain product when they finish the fasting period, for example, they may start eating too much peanut butter. They have never eaten much peanut butter, but they eat a lot of it. One of the problems with peanut butter is the high level of aflatoxins. Aflatoxins are a poison secreted by mold. Peanut butter contains a lot of aflatoxins, but cassava also contains a lot of them. Sometimes people eat Keto cassava chips as an alternative to potato chips. And these chips also contain a lot of aflatoxins. They say that adults tolerate aflatoxins better than children, but that's another topic. But if an adult eats a lot of such products for a long time, aflatoxins can accumulate and can irritate the liver and gallbladder. These two organs are the ones that are most irritating. Aflatoxins are similar. Very, very high levels of aflatoxin can even cause liver superoxide and even necrosis, inflammation, and cancer of the liver and gallbladder. So, keep this in mind if you are on Keto.  While on a diet, your liver suddenly enlarged, your right shoulder started hurting, arthritis worsened, or something is wrong with your gallbladder. It could be the peanut butter. There are a couple of ways to minimize this harm besides giving up peanut butter. First, eat organic peanut butter from the Valencia brand; it has less mold. Second, along with peanut butter, eat celery. Celery contains a substance that counteracts aflatoxins. Peanut butter doesn't have many nutrients. Next, almond flour is an important point because almost all Keto recipes contain almond flour. Bread, muffins, and cookies all contain almond flour. Almonds contain a lot of oxalates. Oxalates can irritate some joints and the digestive system. Be careful with this because it can affect the results at the beginning of the fasting program. I'm not saying that you need to exclude all nuts. You can eat walnuts, pecans, pistachios, a few Brazil nuts, and the last thing people eat a lot of on the Keto diet, especially  In the beginning, these are all kinds of Keto bars and Teto desserts. They contain ingredients that I think are a problem. These are functional fibers, soluble corn fiber, tapioca fiber. You think about fiber, it’s not sugar, but there may be a problem with them. After all, they have been little studied. And there are a lot of sugar alcohols, and they can disrupt digestion, cause severe flatulence, and affect mood. So, I repeat, I would focus on real food such as high-quality meat, eggs, fish, vegetables, and all that. Number two, do not supplement intermittent fasting with this diet. A person on intermittent fasting, but you shouldn’t eat too many carbohydrates. Yes, something is better than nothing, and I think it’s quite reasonable to start with one, but ultimately, you need to use both of these powerful tools to get all the possible benefits. In fact, the low-carb Theta diet really helps you enter a state of ketosis, and it will be easier for you to fast, because your appetite and cravings will completely disappear. I think the benefits will be more than twice as great if you do both. The next point is the intermittent fasting scheme. Perhaps the most commonly used scheme is 18 on  6 while fasting for 18 hours and eating during the stitching window, let's say the first meal at 12:00 in the afternoon and the second at 6:00 in the evening, this is an 18 to 6 scheme. Yes, as for the window between meals, in principle, you can eat during this window, but I advise not to snack between meals. Two meals, the first at noon, then fasting until 6:00 in the evening, and then the second meal. That is, I would not eat at all and not snack at all, do not eat anything. There are many different fasting schemes, you can try them and choose the one that suits you, but over the years, having observed tens of thousands of people on intermittent fasting, I would say that if you are over 50, you should really think about one meal a day. This is also called omat if you can, but you must have all the nutrients. I have a lot of videos about this, but for everyone else, I think you need two meals a day, and here's what gives excellent results, at least for me and many others, abstain from the first meal. As long as possible until lunch, and if not  hungry, then even longer if you can go without eating for up to an hour, up to 2 o'clock or even until 3 o'clock in the afternoon, that's great. Just listen to your hunger and appetite. If you're not hungry, wait a little longer and try to have your second meal. Dinner is early. So, fast lunch and early dinner. My point is that you need to reduce the window between meals to two or three or more hours. This will be great, because then you will be fasting for more than 20 hours. This will be very cool. This will cause big changes in the brain. New brain cells will grow, a new immune system will be able to reboot the intestines. After all, when we don't eat, the digestive system has the opportunity to reboot, this stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system. You will definitely sleep better, there will be more energy, mitochondria will work better, more antioxidants will appear in the body, insulin resistance will decrease. So, blood sugar levels will be much better. And inflammatory processes will be greatly reduced if you fast for 20 hours. I often prefer to eat at 1 o'clock in the afternoon, sometimes at 2 o'clock, and I have dinner perhaps at 4 or  5 pm am I hungry at 4-5 pm Usually no, but if I eat once a day and I would like to eat once a day, I just lose too much weight, so I eat these calories in two meals. After all, if you need to maintain weight or even gain weight, it is very difficult if you eat once a day, you need to eat a lot, you fill your stomach. So, I can’t breathe, but the point is to follow this principle. Don’t eat as long as possible in the morning, have a late lunch and have an early dinner as early as possible. If you do this, you will sleep better, because the later you go in the evening, the closer to bedtime, the more it affects digestion. And this can affect sleep. This was number three, and number four is related to the already mentioned stuffing the stomach. Sometimes people think that they are starving themselves when they are starving. No, you don’t starve yourself. Your body eats when it doesn’t eat. It eats its own fat, even though you don’t eat. So, you are actually getting fuel. And fat stores contain fat-soluble vitamins. They are also released.  So you also get nutrients, so don't think that you're not eating, you're going. You're just eating your own fat. I just discovered through a lot of trial and error that if, especially in the beginning, because a person is fasting, he limits himself in food, this is perceived as a lack, and when he eats, he tries to eat as much as possible. Oh my God, we made it until next time. There's no need to do this. Try it. You'll feel much better if you don't fill your stomach, and the question arises. How many calories do you need? I wouldn't think about this, but about this. After what meal do you feel comfortable without overeating, and by overeating I mean that you have severe bloating, your stomach is full, you shouldn't do that. Number five, on intermittent fasting, be sure to take B vitamins and electrolytes. Why does the need for these two categories of nutrients increase on the Tet diet? When the body burns fat and produces ketones, it needs certain minerals and certain B vitamins. I would only take natural B vitamins, they are found in nutritional yeast, electrolytes should also be of high quality and with  A sufficient amount of potassium and, of course, electrolytes before hidden maltodextrin should have enough potassium and other electrolytes. Mistake number one is not following a healthy version of the ketogenic diet. There is so-called dirty ketogenic diet, which is when you go to almost any fast food restaurant and eat a hamburger but without the BUN. You don't care about the quality of the food. This is normal if there is no other way, especially if you are a student and don't have the money for better quality food, but there is a remedy, it is worth it. After all, when you are on intermittent fasting, you eat less often, you spend less money on food. You will probably save several hundred dollars a month. Invest it in higher quality food with more nutrients. I am talking about products such as organic pastured eggs, commercial fish, seafood, grass-fed meat, and so on. I am talking about vegetables that are grown in the soil, about vegetables from the farmer's market, and so on. Unlike store-bought vegetables like lettuce, which is grown hydroponically, that is, not in real soil. And in a solution to which nutrients are simply added, this is worse than what the plant gets from the soil.  And the last mistake is that people give up when they reach a plateau, thinking that there is no progress, although there is. I can't count how many people are yalma that there are no results because they lose only half a kilo a week or do not lose weight at all. Let's say you lose half a kilo a week, this is quite good for an average middle- aged person. Understand that in a week you can lose a maximum of a kilogram. At first, you lose 2 kilos. But this is water weight, then you lose less and less, and now you are burning fat. This process can always be accelerated. You can fast longer, you can periodically fast for a long time, cut carbohydrates more strongly, you can add training, you can sleep longer, you can reduce stress, you can take products such as berberine, cinnamon, and all that to reduce insulin resistance. After all, when you lose weight, your body becomes healthier. And when it becomes healthier, you usually grow muscles, and here's how to understand that there is actually progress: has your appetite disappeared, are there no more cravings for food? This means that the process is going like energy, like your mood. That's what you need to look at, because the principle is this: first you need to become healthy and then lose weight, not the other way around. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Tes and you.