Hello, let's discuss five types of people who are contraindicated for intermittent fasting. All of the listed groups should maintain a healthy response. When talking about fasting, I mean a maximum of two meals a day without snacks. If you eat three times a day, even without snacks, this is not intermittent fasting, because these are three meals. Well, okay, without snacks, you can consider this intermittent fasting, but I do not classify this as intermittent fasting. During pregnancy, I advise eating three times a day. Of course, I do not advise snacking and you can’t cut back on the calorie content of a hedgehog. It should be nutritious. In no case should you deprive the expectant mother of any nutrients. The period also applies to nursing mothers. I do not advise them to do intermittent fasting. I advise eating three times without snacks because the baby takes nutrients from the mother. You cannot deprive the mother of nutrients. Number three: thin people with neurodegeneration. I mean that if you have Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease, a very fragile physique and thinness, intermittent fasting can cause problems. I recommend eating three times a day.  day and consume 10 or even less grams per day from carbohydrates, they are from 20 to 50, you need to reduce carbohydrates and make the body work on titans, brain cells love ketones, 4 infants, the roots of a child, breastfeeding, you are not limited to two different ones, where and in general you cannot limit it, that is, when the child is hungry, you feed him with small children, I do not recommend intermittent fasting for them, but you should not give them sweets either, here you need healthy ketones and alternative sweets, because when children grow up, they need a little more nutrition than adults, number five for eating disorders such as anorexia or bulimia, I have a separate video, I am not a stone and special intermittent fasting, I will explain one point, most people with eating disorders rely on carbohydrates as soon as they see it put on, they will quickly feel better, especially great version of ketones replenishing the lack of any nutrients will immediately lift the mood and give such people more control over their own body and increase their self-esteem, this will help and when the symptoms subside, I think it will be very useful penics with  3 meals a day for 2 is an important reason why I recommend this, especially for those suffering from bulimia, because it will significantly improve the overall state of mind and mood, nourishing the neurons in the brain. Of course, anorexics cannot be advised to limit their diet, but they should start with a healthy version of ketogenic diet and up to three times a day without snacks and then begin the transition when they already have fewer destructive impulses. Another question I get asked is that if I have hypoglycemia, can I do intermittent fasting? What are your options? 6 times a day, but this is what caused this problem. When you eat often, you provoke an insulin surge. You only suppress hypoglycemic hunger for a while, but after an hour, the problem returns. The best solution to the problem is Vadim's intermittent fasting. Smoothly and gradually, with plenty of healthy, nutritious food and healthy fats, you will notice that cravings for different ideas and hunger will recede and sugar levels will stabilize. This is how you can correct hypoglycemia. After all, the cause is insulin resistance. What about anxiety and carries and  Intermittent fasting is stressful. Again, start gradually. Street meals add more fat to keep you full longer. Add B vitamins and potassium for anxiety. This alone can remove anxiety. Then gradually introduce intermittent fasting and your stress will decrease. It helps the adrenal glands and doesn't harm them. This isn't an extreme condition. What's extreme for the body? Sugar surges up and down are the same. You're not switching the body to another fuel. There's nothing extreme here. Now about sleep disorders. What's interesting about intermittent fasting is that it's good for the brain. The need for sleep decreases. Many people find that they no longer need to sleep for 8 hours. Even I can get by with about six hours of sleep and feel great. Intermittent fasting with healthy ketones is very helpful for one thing, and you'll lose weight. It also makes breathing easier in the back of the throat, so these aren't contraindications. What about this topic about women and hormones? Sometimes you can hear that fasting is contraindicated for you because it harms female hormones. Just the opposite is true for polycystic ovary syndrome, when androgens are present.  With intermittent fasting, you lower insulin and androgen levels, which is very beneficial for women with polycystic ovary syndrome. There are many other successes in women suffering from infertility. They started using intermittent fasting, overcame infertility, and were able to give birth. In women with cycle problems, heavy and abundant menstruation, everything returns to normal after fasting. I noticed that when I hear complaints like I have hormonal problems, I'm on intermittent fasting. They do what's called "again for two," which essentially means that 5 days a week they eat more or less whatever they want, and then fast or at least limit calories to 500-600. But two days, for me, is not a healthy practice. When you reduce calories for two days and then return to normal food for 5 days, this negates all the results you've achieved. I advise you to follow intermittent fasting, eat daily, three times a day, then twice a day, and then even once a day, but you shouldn't enter this 5-on-2 regime. I don't  I'd be surprised if this is disrupting your hormonal balance simply because you're eating whatever you want during these five days, and even on these two days, you're fasting incorrectly. Reduce calories. It's a truly unhealthy fast. Thanks for watching. See you in the next video. While you're here, we've prepared a new document for you about what to eat on a healthy ketogenic diet. You can download it from our website. There's a download link in the description. It's free. Download and read.