Hello, today we will talk about the reasons for failures in intermittent fasting. The first reason is that a person never started intermittent fasting. It causes a problem of a mental nature in a person. They deprive people of food and yes, this is survival. You deprive them of the opportunity to survive. But you should understand that this is not what is happening at all. You are switching from one fuel to another and Dana is ravenous. And finally, start using your own fat as fuel. You live off the food you ate many months or even years ago. It has turned into fat and you use it as fuel. When you understand this, you will probably feel better because in fact, you are not deprived of anything and are simply burning your own reserves and, as a rule, these are large reserves. So, you can drink coffee, it does not affect fasting. Tea also will not interrupt fasting. The main thing is when you eat and yes, you must be healthy. I should eat a lot and you should reduce calories to. They can be reduced by eating less often. Ideally, you need to eat foods rich in nutrients. We call this healthy ketosis. If you are new to my channel, there is more specific information in the description. The second reason for intermittent fasting is that you  It gets worse, how is it that at first there is a transition phase, I do it for two, three, four or five days because your body is rebuilding, producing a new enzyme and in the process there is a deficiency of various vitamins and microelements, this is what causes side effects, all you need to do is take a little more potassium, these are electrolytes, more sodium, it is found in sea salt, and also vitamin B1 in the form of nutritional yeast, then there will be almost no side effects, this should eliminate most of them, so in the document that can be downloaded from the link in the description it is written how to make a very smooth transition so that you do not get worse, of course, if you get worse, you decide to stop, but this means that you are doing something wrong. The third reason is that you are not losing weight. Most of those who start intermittent fasting lose weight, and significantly, some girls lose weight for some time, then stop, others may not lose weight in the beginning for one of these reasons. I described this principle in my book. He will become healthy to lose weight. They lose weight to become healthy. It sounds very simple, but it is a very powerful principle. What I mean by becoming healthy is to restore damaged organs in your body, especially during menopause or in case of atrophy, first we will deal with the restoration itself and only then with burning.  fat, so you should pay attention to the positive aspects of health, have you become a canner, the game has not gone away, the flying squirrel has certain ideas, has hunger decreased, has mental activity improved, this is what means that the process is underway if you want to lose weight faster, reduce carbohydrates in food, increase the fasting period and add physical exercise and also increase sleep, and then number 4 and this is important, other people, so-called friends and relatives dissuade you, they say oh my god, you can get tired of starvation, you need to have breakfast every three hours, nothing could be further from the truth, we don’t need to eat how often, so you will never reach fat reserves and how are you even going to burn fat, too frequent meals cause huge problems with insulin, which is why diabetes and prediabetes are so common, you can’t starve your body, you switch it from one fuel to another, ours want to burn fat, fasting is the best way to eat, there is another important point, you need to decide what is more important when you eat or what you eat, incredible, but the fact is that when you eat is a little more important than what you eat, this does not give you a reason to eat whatever you want, we are talking about the fact that  Intermittent fasting is more important than what you eat because if you are on that diet and at the same time children often it will cause an insulin reaction due to the meals themselves. The insulin reaction is caused by carbohydrates and frequent meals. Therefore, intermittent fasting and a healthy diet work together because we are trying to normalize insulin, which is associated with most chronic health problems. Now let's look at the 502 diet and the every other day diet. What is this? I don't consider this intermittent fasting 5 for 2. This is essentially eating whatever you want 5 days a week. On the remaining two days, reducing calories to 500 per day is not fasting. After all, you eat this is a low-calorie diet. They are intermittent fasting plus you eat whatever you want five days a week. This is a very unhealthy method of eating. Then, the every other day diet means you eat almost whatever you want every other day. When you fast, in quotes, you eat 500 calories. This is not fasting. You eat 500 calories. This is a low-calorie diet.  A low-calorie diet has some advantages, but it also has disadvantages. It doesn't eliminate hunger. The body doesn't adjust, and it's difficult to follow because you haven't adapted. It takes time to adapt so that hunger and cravings for a certain idea go away. Yes, you can be on a low-calorie diet and experience cravings for that food, but most likely you'll quit everything because of this craving. Here are the criteria for intermittent fasting being done correctly: you lose your hunger. If you do n't feel hungry, you can go longer without food. You won't want to quit everything. This is trained in willpower. This is your ability to say no. The idea and reason why intermittent fasting is so effective is that you can go longer without eating, and you train your willpower. Failure to follow the program when you backtrack nullifies your willpower. But if you control your diet, it controls you. You can develop willpower, and this is very, very important. The ability to control your environment and resist gastronomic temptations. Few people are capable of this. Intermittent fasting is what can help achieve all this. then there is no deprivation of nutrients, but healthy ones. On a diet, on the contrary, when you eat, we always recommend eating a large portion of food rich in nutrients. I also recommend including certain supplements. I have many videos on this topic, so you don’t decide on nutrients. We don’t need your hair to fall out and nails to break, but I need side effects. I show what you need to eat to avoid this. Someone says that intermittent fasting is not for women because it is harmful to the endocrine system. Then it turns out that they practice 5 to 2 or a diet every other day. They say intermittent fasting is a mistake. In fact, intermittent fasting plus, saying hello, this diet is incredibly beneficial for the endocrine system. Having worked with thousands of people around the world, I have almost never encountered what you call problems in women, but on the contrary, I have seen significant hormonal improvements in women, especially after menopause. We know about improved reproductive capacity, especially if you start consuming more healthy fats, which are a kind of raw material for the endocrine system, so your willpower increases, as well as intermittent fasting.  Fasting fights cancer. It helps you create more brain cells. There are many benefits, but if you don't start, if you do it incorrectly, you'll quit because of it, or if you don't continue long enough, it won't bring success. Read the document at the link in the description. You'll learn about proper intermittent fasting and you'll get results. Thank you for watching. If you liked this video, share it with anyone who might find it useful.