Hi, I'll tell you about five techniques that make intermittent fasting work faster. Number one is potassium. Potassium is a vital micronutrient that eliminates insulin problems that lead to weight gain, poor memory, deterioration of the cardiovascular system, and so on. This is why people do intermittent fasting. If you deal with insulin, things will go faster, but nothing will work if you don't have enough potassium. You need 4,700 milligrams a day, that's a lot. If you don't eat a lot of greens or don't take potassium supplements, you may not be able to reach even the minimum level. The secret to making things go faster is in the kale. Number two is overeating. Many people doing intermittent fasting eat twice a day, and it turns out that they eat too much, overeat. The thought process is something like this: oh my god, next time wo n't be soon. Another bite, as if they are in danger of starving to death, but in fact, you need a window of 8 hours, or even a four-hour window. This is the window between two meals, but more importantly, let's say you have a four-hour window, for example, you eat at noon and then at four, and you just ca n't.  If you can't get enough calories, this idea doesn't give you enough. Here's what you can do. Sometimes I do this myself between noon and four o'clock. Let's say at 2 o'clock I eat the bulk of the vegetables and greens, so I have time to digest them before the next meal. Compared to other foods, greens don't spike insulin as much, and I eat a huge portion of greens in the middle between meals, so I don't eat everything at once, but it's still within four hours. The main thing is not to overeat, especially fats, otherwise you may feel heavy in the stomach. But at first, when you're just switching to this diet, you will need to eat a little more fat until you adapt so much that the body begins to process its own fat, and between meals, you children will stick to it, they are on fats from diet number three. Take your time, don't start intermittent fasting abruptly if you have problems with blood sugar, hypoglycemia, it will be tough for you, your body will have a hard time. Start with three meals a day without snacks, continue in this spirit until you get used to it, then eat twice a day until you get used to it.  to this and then reduce the window between two meals to 4 hours, let's say you got up and ate at 10 am and your next meal is six, having gotten used to this regime, move dinner to five o'clock in the evening and move the first meal further, start eating at 11 am and then finally at 12 and dinner at 4:00 so you will begin to reduce the window interval between meals and increase the fasting time, but do all this at your own pace, let the body get used to it, let it itself say okay, now you can fast longer, no need to force things, because if you don't succeed, you will just give up everything and you will start having problems with blood sugar, which means more stress, increased cortisol, increased insulin, number four, more sleep. Have you noticed that when you are nervous or tired, the feeling of hunger is usually stronger with lack of sleep, cortisol increases by 50 percent and because of this, insulin will increase and you will stop burning fat, so you need to sleep more if you want to take a nap for your health, but be sure to  5 at least 7-8 hours a day, try to reduce stress as much as possible, take long walks, this is very important for sleep and lastly, high-intensity interval training here trains the whole body. The training is very intense with a high heart rate, but short, and then plenty of rest in the description. A link with details is in the description. Such training, if combined with intermittent fasting, increases growth hormone, which contributes to the fight against aging and fat burning. The main training should be very intense, but short and plenty of rest. Work out two or three times a week, or even just once. Be sure to rest well between workouts. This can speed things up, but work out immediately after your last meal, right before it, or in the window between meals, so you don't lower your blood sugar too much, unlike working out early in the morning on an empty stomach. Here are 5 ways to increase the effectiveness of intermittent fasting and thanks for watching.