Okay guys, give it away and they cracked me, I'll reveal to you the secret of the universe, at least the hands of this universe, what is the greatest secret somewhere in the universe, what is it, recently in my free time I read this book, insulin resistance, it's a textbook, a study of insulin resistance, it's impossible to tear myself away from it for the most part, I agree, but with a couple of points, I don't, I'll explain soon, in general, I was reading it and suddenly it struck me like a thunderbolt, wow, most health problems, most of the most common problems, diseases, symptoms are caused directly by insulin resistance, however, we treat each ailment with a separate drug as if these are some kind of separate problems and diseases, see for yourself, insulin resistance directly causes metabolic syndrome, hypertension, high cholesterol and triglycerides, belly fat, fatty liver, diabetes, and diabetes ultimately leads to kidney damage and failure, peripheral neuropathy and neurological problems, including problems in the brain, dementia, heart problems, and vision problems, cataracts and glaucoma, retinopathy, and a variety of eye diseases  Problems, and also heart insulin resistance leads to blood clots, they consultant plaques appear, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, high cholesterol and triglycerides, sticky type of cholesterol that forms plaques, hypertension, hence inflammatory joint diseases, arthritis, bursitis, stands no rheumatoid and a Stewart Reed autoimmune diseases inflammation damaging joints inflammation inside the artery leading to Parkinson's disease inflammation of the digestive tract Crohn's disease diverticulitis syndrome growth zonov intestinal inflammation causing fibrosis scarring, in other words, cirrhosis of the liver in addition, various brain problems Alzheimer's dementia Parkinson's seizures cognitive impairment fogginess forgetfulness lack of attention and concentration as while I, that is, polycystic ovary syndrome caused by excess androgens in the female body. Normally, in women, androgens should not be elevated and what does this lead to hair growth on the face and body baldness deep voice belly fat and so on, and in  In the male body, insulin resistance lowers testosterone and increases estrogen, that is, the opposite effect. In the female body, insulin resistance increases androgens. In the male body, it lowers androgens, and this alone causes a whole series of additional problems. insulin resistance usually means prediabetes, high blood sugar, and Iraq eats sugar, not to mention obesity. insulin resistance is the main reason for obesity. Why is it because insulin is the main fat-storing hormone? What is insulin resistance? It is when your cells reject insulin. They no longer accept insulin. What causes this condition? Chronic exposure to insulin. If we rewind a little further, high insulin levels are caused by a high-carbohydrate diet. Constantly eating often, eating six times a day with snacks, and so on leads to this. Cortisol also increases insulin production because cortisol, being a stress hormone, destroys proteins and stimulates insulin. Most of the harm from elevated cortisol is actually caused by elevated insulin. Elevated cortisol ultimately causes insulin resistance. If  Look at insulin as a key function, the function of which is to pass fuel into the cell and regulate blood sugar, it is the main controller of glucose levels in the body, it also controls the flow of amino acids and other nutrients into the cells, and when you have insulin resistance, let's say some organ does not produce insulin and this organ sends a signal to the pancreas, forcing it to produce a lot of insulin, that is, with insulin resistance, you simultaneously have a lack of insulin and a powerful surge of insulin to some organs, and this powerful surge of insulin leads to problems such as fatty liver and obesity, and a lack of insulin also creates problems, especially in the brain, because insulin, whether you eat it or not, is an anti-inflammatory hormone, that is, with insulin resistance, certain parts of the body do not receive enough insulin and inflammation begins there, that is, the legs and inflammation with insulin resistance occurs due to a lack of insulin in some parts of the body, let's take the brain as an example, in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases there is something unique in them, a serious lack of glucose is observed in the nerve cells, why because of  insulin resistance is a condition where they don't have enough insulin to supply fuel to nerve cells, causing them to die. One of the treatments for Alzheimer's is a nasal spray with insulin. insulin is injected through the sinuses directly into the brain, and this gives good results for dementia. The problem is that this ultimately worsens insulin resistance, because it is caused by the constant exposure to insulin. There is also a method for treating arrhythmias in which the patient is given insulin to the heart, because it increases electrical activity and the mobilization of electrolytes. Why is this because insulin is involved in the absorption of electrolytes? As you can see, these methods work around the real problems of insulin resistance. Okay, now let's go back to this book and look at one point. If you read the chapter that talks about the causes of insulin resistance, there is a place with which I fundamentally disagree, and that's why it says that consuming saturated fats leads to insulin resistance. This statement often appears in the media. Avoid saturated fats, otherwise you will get diabetes, and so on. I searched and found the studies on which they base this.  This argument, of course, was based on experiments on rodents. When I tried to find this study, it was a paid one, it cost $47, but you can rent it for $7. And here it is: a high-fat diet provokes insulin resistance, lessons and conclusions from animal studies, and oh, miracle! If you read what they fed the mice, it really is a high- fat diet. If you read what this high-fat diet consisted of, it turns out that it was far from all that. It was a high-fat plus high-carbohydrate diet, and as we know, if you combine an abundance of carbohydrates with an abundance of fat, there will be a powerful surge in insulin. This essentially debunks this entire study and negates the value of this statement in the book. The truth is that saturated fats have a very weak effect on insulin. What has a strong effect on it is carbohydrates. This brings us back to the greatest secret of the ketogenic universe, and this secret is that all these side effects of insulin resistance are treated with various drugs as if they are independent diseases caused by nothing else, and as the icing on the cake, highly recommended diets are recommended to combat these diseases.  The carbohydrate diet is precisely what initially caused these diseases. What is the value of this information? What does it tell us? The importance of some intermittent fasting diets is much higher than we thought because these methods directly combat insulin resistance, which indirectly will help you overcome its consequences. Thank you for watching.