Ok, today we'll break down intermittent fasting so it's easy for you to practice. In fact, it's all very simple. Intermittent fasting is essentially not eating and it's not about starving yourself. We just don't need to eat that often. It's very simple. Some people try to complicate it by asking if it's possible to take dietary supplements. You can download dietary supplements, and you can drink tea, and you can drink water. Yes, you can drink water and a little coffee. Of course, real fasting is just water and nothing else. But if you add dietary supplements, tea or a cup of coffee, I still consider it fasting. This fast won't stop. Now I'll tell you about a very important point regarding intermittent fasting and I'll simplify it as much as possible. Let your body dictate when it's time to feed it, when you need to eat, and also how long you should abstain from eating. This time can change because you should eat only when you're hungry and you shouldn't eat when you're not hungry. It sounds very simple, but sometimes you have to explain it because at the first sign of slight hunger, a person immediately goes to eat. No, that's not what we're talking about, because even in the morning it's 8 o'clock.  You are releasing a hormone called cortisol, this is a stress hormone produced by the adrenal glands, and this will cause a slight hunger. You may notice in the morning that you are hungry, and then the hunger goes away and you are no longer hungry. So, if you are a little hungry, just don’t pay attention. I’m talking specifically about severe hunger. Your stomach hurts, you are dizzy, you are weak, you are in a bad mood. That’s when it’s time to eat. Especially at first, you feel normal. At the same time, you have these symptoms. It’s just that your blood sugar has dropped. You just need to get used to it. The more you endure, the faster you will switch from burning sugar to burning fat, but this takes time. Here’s another important aspect. You need to assess your strengths. You would like to immerse yourself in this for real in order to fully enter ketosis and comfortably so that mental activity and attention improve, concentration increases, memory and the ability to absorb information improves. All this will happen over time, but for some it may take three to four months. I’m also talking about losing weight, especially in the waist and about blood sugar levels. This can take time, because all your life, and you did this and now you are trying to turn everything back. This takes time, therefore. Get ready for a long work and take your time, okay, now let's talk about how to get started with all this, firstly, let's say you eat several times a day and with frequent snacks, 1. Eliminate carbohydrates, this is the first thing, this in itself will help you feel less hungry so you can last longer, switch to three meals a day without snacks, this is the first goal, and it is very important to add enough fats to last until the next meal, this is very important, it is also important to add enough vegetables, they will also help you last, it is a big mistake to try to do without enough vegetables, vegetables provide magnesium and other macronutrients and vitamins that help with resistance and lower insulin, and they also contain fiber, which is food for bacteria in the intestines and as a result, butyric acid is formed, it helps with resistance, reduces hunger, improves blood sugar, nourishes intestinal cells and helps the immune system, a combination of healthy fats and vegetables will help you last between meals and let your body dictate when you need to eat, you will find that you last longer and can  Eliminate breakfast by switching to two meals a day and gradually reduce the interval between meals. The body will tell you when to eat and at some point you are no longer hungry and then you eat once a day. Many people do this, but you need to come to this gradually and keep it simple. Don't rush. These are the basic principles. Drink herbal chia throughout the day. There is a plant called Hoodie and Gordon tea is used to suppress hunger. It is a very strong antioxidant. You can try it if you need help with this. There are other herbs and you must definitely keep yourself busy. There is nothing worse than sitting at home at the computer and looking at the clock when it's time to eat. Go outside, go somewhere. This will help you a lot. Find something to do. You don't need to just sit at home. It is very important to consume sea salt because without sodium, if you drink 3% of water, it dissolves in the body and your reserves may not be enough, and then while you are fasting, the body will have nowhere to take it. An indicator that you have enough salt will be the absence of headaches and muscle weakness. You have strength. Side effects occur due to the fact that you do not consume enough sea salt.  It is advisable to add salt, one level teaspoon per day, you can even dilute it in water and drink, but not a whole spoon to get the calcium you need. It is very important to take electrolytes, take those with a lot of potassium, this will also help increase energy levels while you are fasting. During the transition from sugar to fat, you need these substances. It is also worth adding that you need B vitamins. Nutritional yeast in tablets will help you; this will make the transition smoother. And lastly, be sure to prepare in advance what you will eat. Let's say you don't know when you will eat, because you need to hold out as long as possible. If you go somewhere, take food with you because we definitely don't want real hunger to catch you without food. The problem with intermittent fasting is calculating the time, because you don't know in advance when it will be time to eat and so you don't have to coordinate this with someone, so have eyebrows on hand. If you don't know what it is, there is a link in the description. I think I have laid everything out on the shelves and now intermittent fasting has become simple. I hope you write about it in the comments.