Let's talk about what you shouldn't do when you practice intermittent fasting. First, don't consume branched-chain amino acids, such as bisulfite and collagen, during the fasting period. Why? Because this will cause you to leave ketosis, because both are proteins, and it's worth noting that these are not complete proteins; they don't contain all the essential amino acids. Second, don't do what's called a 2-day diet. This is when you eat whatever you want five days a week, and on the remaining two days, you stick to a low-calorie diet, say, 500 calories on Saturday and Sunday, and then eat your normal diet the entire new week. This won't bring any benefits because the body doesn't have time to adapt. It's not consistent enough to bring about changes. Besides, if you consume 500 calories, these calories break the fast, so the fasting period itself on this diet is very short, and it's quite painful. Because this adaptation never happens, you never enter comfortable ketosis, and you'll experience various hunger symptoms. In general, I don't like this thing. Next, you can't forget about salt. Electrolytes in salt, electrolytes, there are no calories, in fact, they are micro and macronutrients and they are very important. Many people already have a hidden asymptomatic deficiency of various nutrients and, as a result, all this gets worse. The last thing we need is for you to feel sick, dizzy, or faint, so your body, especially the heart, needs electrolytes, potassium and sodium, and so on. It also prevents weakness and fatigue, fatigue, and especially in the muscles. Let's say you fasted for a long time, say for three days, and then prepared a huge portion of food. If you sit there, you may have problems. The fact is that the body, having become accustomed to fasting, might not have prepared enough enzymes and you will simply overload it with all these calories and all this food. This is bad. So, start with a small portion of something healthy, wait a bit, and eat again. You don't need to eat a giant portion at once. Maybe this is normal if you eat once a day, but not when you fast for 2-4 days. Let's move on to point five: examine chum.  I know people who practice intermittent fasting, but when they eat, they eat whatever they want, often very unhealthy food. What's the point of getting incredible benefits from intermittent fasting and lowering insulin if you then load your body with all this poison again? Healthy chum salmon. Intermittent fasting should be combined; there's no need to separate them. That's all. Thanks for watching. If you want to receive notifications about new videos, click the bell next to the subscribe button.