Hi guys, in this video I'll talk about the connection between insulin and lean muscle mass. Some people try to build muscle mass but are unsuccessful, and that's why I'll show and explain what happens at the cellular level. Here's a muscle cell. Let's discuss several key points to this diagram. First, insulin acts as a key that opens the cell's door so that amino acids can enter the cell and be converted into skeletal muscle protein. We need insulin to produce muscle protein. This is the problem. Most people don't understand what insulin resistance is. insulin resistance is typical for diabetes or type 2 diabetes. There is a large amount of insulin, but because of resistance, it doesn't work. That is, with insulin resistance, you actually suffer from a lack of insulin. You no longer have the key to open this door, and as a result, the cell doesn't receive amino acids. It's wrong to think: I need more insulin, so I'll eat more carbohydrates to get more amino acids. This will only create resistance and prevent amino acids from entering the cell and becoming muscle tissue. Here's another interesting point.  The body only needs a very small amount of sugar, a little sugar and a moderate amount of insulin, approximately 100 milligrams of insulin per deciliter of blood. What does this mean? It's only one teaspoon per five and a half liters of blood. This is very little. The average person eats twenty-one teaspoons of sugar every day. We need very few carbohydrates. When you carbohydrate load and eat a lot of sugar, you essentially block the ability of insulin to perform its function. Gorg. That's right, we need a little insulin, but we shouldn't stimulate it with carbohydrates. We shouldn't increase it at all by eating a lot of sugar. This shouldn't be done. What needs to be done is look at other factors. insulin can be normal even without consuming carbohydrates. The body can produce sugar and have normal insulin if you don't eat a lot of sugar. Physical exercise is needed to stimulate the production of growth hormone. It also helps amino acids turn into muscle proteins. We need growth hormone. It starts this process. Scroll. We need normal insulin. Growth hormone needs something that will start the whole process. If you want muscles, 1 click. You need to give your body a workout. Good, high-intensity, complex workouts stimulate the production of growth hormone. Strength training with a load on the whole body and plenty of rest, if you do feathers, the body will not be able to recover, because the load essentially destroys muscles, they grow precisely during recovery with the help of muscle growth hormone and you need to load and then let them recover through sleep, so deep sleep is very important. If you do not get enough sleep, muscles will not grow. More sleep is needed for more muscle mass. If you consume too much protein, you will overload the furnace and stimulate insulin production, which will create insulin resistance. So, you need very little protein, but it must be high quality. Fish has very high- quality amino acids. Someone has whey protein, I am not against it, but the problem is that it is lean and does not contain normal fats, which are needed to soften the insulin response. Low-fat whey protein stimulates insulin more than other proteins. It has little fat and it causes an insulin surge. If you go for whey protein, add fat and coconut oil or something like that. In addition, we need sodium and potassium. The pump, then the window or door that opens this key is called the sodium potassium pump. The exchange of these elements makes it possible to receive  proteins into the cell through this door, as well as vitamins, microelements, and glucose, we need this pump. This means that with insufficient sodium intake, this does not work, but a lack of potassium is more likely. You need much more than 3 times the sodium. You need about half a teaspoon of sodium per day, and the daily requirement for potassium is 4,700 milligrams. This is from 7 to 10 cups of vegetables. You can take it in the form of BADA, but the usual dosage is ninety-nine milligrams. You need 4,700. You can take it in powder or in electrolyte mixtures. But the important thing is that these two elements are necessary for the activation and proper functioning of this pump so that amino acids enter the cell. Sometimes, by simply adjusting the ratio of these elements, you can gain lean muscle mass since the permeability of β -cells increases. Potassium and sodium also correct insulin resistance. So, I just wanted to divide this problem into separate points to see which one you might need to tighten up before the rest. Write comments and thanks for watching. Click okay, forget it, I'm all done. Click subscribe and  I will keep you updated on the news