Hello everyone. Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz. I ask you, doc. Which two hormones can restore a round face to its normal shape? Dear viewers, you can answer, and now questions from social networks. Antonio from Facebook asks what is the best way to eat arugula: lightly stewed in olive oil or raw. Good question. I wouldn't say that cooking is better. Raw arugula is extremely healthy. After all, it has much more phytonutrients, but certain vegetables are healthy when cooked. Fried tomatoes have more lycopene. Brussels sprouts and other vegetables are healthier if steamed. So I think I would eat both stewed and raw arugula. It's great. Tuba asks. Can you share some advice for someone trying to switch to [music]? There are two types of people. Some can easily fast for longer periods and feel good. Others feel bad when they fast. You won't understand which type you belong to until everyone is on the same page. Intermittent fasting will help you understand. Three meals a day, then two.  After a while, insulin resistance will go away, the body will stabilize and will be able to do without food. After all, it will burn fat fuel. You cut carbohydrates, forcing the body to burn fat. It gives a feeling of satiety, because now you burn all your fat for some time, and then switch to amat. Let the body tell you when to start amat. Is it easy for you to eat once a day? There are no big problems, then go ahead, but sometimes you need preparation. When you have been eating once a day for some time, be sure to get a lot of nutrients. See if you feel better. Some feel better, and others somehow not so much. They need more food. Perhaps they cannot eat all the protein in one sitting. They need two meals. When fasting, the most important thing is to get protein. You cannot allow a protein deficiency. Protein is the most valuable macronutrient. It has the most valuable calories. Therefore, I do not recommend getting it from soy. The best source of protein is red meat, then seafood, shellfish, eggs, and so on. So, to easily switch to amat, prepare yourself. Eat food rich in nutrients. A lot in one  I recommend eating beef and also goat or lamb grass-fed meat is the best source of protein Eat it in adequate quantities until you are really full and watch my videos about this there is much more data in them Let's talk to someone live today a nice guy named John called us he will ask you one question Dr. Berg I wanted to do intermittent fasting I am 62 years old I have an autoimmune disease for 15 years and I tried intermittent fasting I just stopped eating dinner and I sleep better I feel better I am surprised at how quickly I am losing weight I think Is this the right decision weigh What autoimmune disease do you have well the problems started in 2010 the rheumatologist said it was psoriatic he thought it was seronegative rheumatoid arthritis then it was Sado in the end he consulted I drank hydroxychloroquine it seems to work the doctor did not know the right dose and overdose I got upset and said to hell  I have Pooh hands like with vasculitis. In fact, they wanted to prescribe me biologics, but I didn’t like receiving them through injections, considering all the problems with them. I understand. I want to lose weight naturally. I need to lose another 22 kilograms. I weigh under 120 kilograms. 10 years ago, I weighed 136 kilograms. Wow. I’ll clearly express my opinion. I think that by intermittent fasting, you will lower your insulin levels, and this will automatically bring a lot of benefits. Inflammation will decrease. And this is the basis of autoimmune diseases. Inflammation must be reduced by all means, and the lower it is, the better you feel, and insulin will decrease, and you will lose weight due to this alone. So, yes, intermittent fasting is a must, like a low-carb diet, it will speed up progress. In addition to all this, I think it will be very useful for you to take high doses of vitamin D3. I don’t mean toxic doses. We are talking about doses much higher than the RDA. Vitamin D is used by two systems. Look at my recent videos about this. One system supplies calcium to the bones. It only needs a small amount of vitamin, but the system needs at least  6 8 10,000 IU of vitamin D3 absolutely every day the immune system is supplied with vitamin D by another system I didn’t even know about this until I talked to one of the pioneers of vitamin D research, Dr. Bruce Hollis. It’s amazing that if you take it once a week and not once a day there will be no effect. And this is only a preventative dose, but if we talk about a therapeutic dose to reduce inflammation. As with you, I would advise taking 50,000 IU or even more. 50,000 IU of vitamin D3 every day and this is not a toxic dose. A serious problem arises in very rare cases only when hundreds of thousands of IU of vitamin D3 are taken over the course of months. And we only have 50,000. And if you also take cofactors, especially magnesium, it will automatically protect you from calcium and also take K2 and zinc and you will be fine. Even magnesium alone is already a huge plus and take magnesium glycinate. I would take, say, 400 mg in the morning and 400 in the evening.  Magnesium is needed for many processes for the immune system and vitamin D is the icing on the cake it will eliminate inflammation and there is one protocol developed by a doctor from Brazil, Dr. Coimbra If I'm not mistaken He has a whole protocol for such cases, I didn't come up with this you need to have a level of vitamin D in your blood At least 80 or even 90 nagra per mil, but I wouldn't even mind If I had more than 100 or even 150 together with cofactors, this gives an amazing therapeutic effect that works wonders I'm currently researching this one ophthalmologist in Germany literally restores parts of the eyes with high doses of vitamin D3 and low levels will not help here That's what I would do but this is just my advice I take BA for my eyes Dr. Berg can't hear you Please repeat I'm listening I'm currently taking it for my eyes once a day I take a drug for the prostate urine zinc I buy it at LMA I take Centrum Silver and aspirin these drugs interact with each other The fact is that the first ingredient is calcium carbonate, that is  Limestone is just as good as gnawing on a concrete wall. This calcium is not the calcium you need because you need the effect of vitamin D, but there will be a side effect of hypercalcemia, excess calcium, you don't need to take it. Calcium is what it is. TAE is the cheapest supplement on the planet, so it's also the most profitable. Centrum makes $2 billion a year. Amazingly great marketers, but I do n't think they have the best quality. I'm not sure I would take it, but you can decide for yourself. Thank you very much, John, for a great call. I hope this helps. We got answers to today's question. It sounded like this: which two hormones can restore a round face to its normal shape? The audience answered: insulin and cortisol. 15% said growth hormone and testosterone. In total, this is 100%. So, a moon-shaped face is caused by high cortisol, but what is cortisol? Is it caused by cortisol? Not directly. Cortisol causes this with insulin. That is, a round face, as it was with me, means that a person eats a lot of carbohydrates and sugar. Or is he taking steroids?  or he has chronic stress, because in this case fat is deposited in two places: on the face and on the waist. As they say, on the stomach. In general, two hormones, insulin and cortisol, sometimes literally work together. And that is, the worst thing is that insulin is stimulated by sugar and sweets. Some people even eat their stress with sweets, and then the worst thing is to eat stress with sweets, but I'm sure no one does this. Someone could potentially do this. And this is doubly harmful. So, if you have a round face, you just need to cut back on carbohydrates, find the cause of stress and reduce it. With all my might, and the face will become normal. I will make a video about this. You will see that years ago, in a photo from my son's wedding, my face was literally in the photo, my face was literally round, but it is no longer round. At that time, I weighed, I think, 95 kilos. And now I weigh 84 and