Is your phone on? Hello, we're on the air. Yes, we're Lahiri. Okay, let's tell the story of how we met. It's interesting. I can't even believe that we're returning to this topic. Someone said that you wanted to know, but for some reason, it's not with us. You keep writing to me about how you met, and we decided to tell you. In general, it was like this. The truth is, you'll find out from me, I mean, from me, so listen to me. So, I was in San Diego. I was a novice chiropractor. I had no idea what I was doing. I went to a local flea market. A flea market is a place where they sell all sorts of things, various unnecessary junk, not only that, but all sorts of cool stuff. So, I set up a booth at this flea market, looking at people, and there I was, sitting in my Nissan Center, eating a banana, but at the same time I saw a girl walking by. It was Karen and her boyfriend. Ours was my ex. Well, okay, with the ex. Actually, I went there to find a chiropractor. I had a back problem, and a neighbor said that sometimes at the flea market  Chiropractors conduct examinations, yes, I was the local king of examinations, so I examined her, it seems she was the only visitor, I was just starting out and I didn't have any patients, she was one of my first patients, she comes in and yes, it is illegal to flirt and meet with patients, this was in the 90s, this was in the 90s, that's why, to be honest, I have health insurance and we weren't there anymore, I don't know how best to say it, but I do n't know what you're getting at, but in general, everything is fine, in general, I didn't have any patients that day, so I consulted with her all day, it lasted several hours, let's check it here, here again, in general, you dressed me in hospital pajamas, I didn't know that chiropractors do that, it was necessary for an x-ray, so in general, she started coming to me, she started getting better, and she interested me, and I decided to ask her out on a date, and the first opportunity arose when she came, you said that she broke up with her boyfriend, I thought to myself, maybe she's hinting that she's now free, I can ask her out, so I  I thought anyone would think so and so it means that Sveta is inviting her on a date and she says I get a refusal I was rejected okay I asked let's go to lunch she says no that you will probably take money for this okay now I'll tell you how it really was when I said we just broke up I meant literally there we were in the parking lot it was an emotional moment and I came to see my doctor and my eyes were still wet he noticed during the procedure on my spine that I would pay and asked what was the matter I said that I just broke up with a guy and obviously all my thoughts were still about him and he says if you need to talk about it then I'm going to have lunch now and I will gladly listen to you something like that and I think but I'm already paying for all these sessions and I don't want to burden the doctor with all this nonsense and in his understanding he is inviting me on a date and so the first question for you guys was it really an invitation to a date or an offer to listen to my problems write what you think  Write to us is it true that I invited and 1 or how in her interpretation it wasn't an invitation it's not interpid I have a question you raised an interesting topic I thought that by that time you had already broken up and now you say well we are convergent then once he went clearly you know it happens yes we didn't meet and then we met and then he showed up again but nothing came of it I think it depends on guys or girls looking at us because if she comes and says I broke up come on guys if you look at what they write okay I don't know how not a date someone writes and his fantasies my inflamed fantasies Ray thinks that we don't communicate well in fact definitely it's just that those were very funny times Dr. Berg was rude the hint was so subtle he took advantage of you I think this is to you don't agree with me Joe I'm with you Doc James writes this is not this is not a date okay well what not a date definitely opinions seem to be divided divided that's what happened next this was refusal number one but I was persistent now number two refusal number two this  It's really funny, I work as a massager, General, and there's a massager over her back, and at some point I ask her out on a date with the phrase, "Do you want to do yoga?" I was doing yoga at the time and decided that yoga classes are a great excuse for a date, and refusal number two, she refused. Now listen to how it really was. It's true. I came to my next appointment, I'm lying on my stomach, and he's pounding my back with this huge massager, my hair is getting pulled into the motor, I fixed everything, I untangled the knot, and then he says to me, " He's my therapist," and he says, "Have you ever thought about doing yoga?" And I, as a person who's never thought about yoga, said no, it was a refusal. The approach was too direct. The results of the survey, what do you say? Was this an invitation to a date or not? No, they are like that. Men are from Mars, women are from Venus. This is not an invitation to a date. This was about the first time. This is the first time. Hello, Manuel, he's talking about the Matrix. God, who's going to go to medical school? I'm not applying for a medical degree. Bad attempt. Dog tag doesn't invite you on a date. I can't, right? to hit on her directly, like, conclusion, am I an Aquarius, and I was in their dati until they changed this whole topic with the planets, don't get distracted, don't get distracted, sorry, Dr. Berg, I'll have to agree with Karl, no, okay, I get it, let's move on to the third try, there were already two strikes, so I decided to give her another chance to go on a date with me. I was lucky, I was going to, I decided to ask her out because after three strikes, she'll fly out, the relationship will be over, and so, look, since it's over, listen, they haven't started yet, but the third time I called her on the phone and invited her on a date to go to a blues band. It was in San Diego, I think, at Pacific Beach, there's a great blues band performing not far away. Do you want to go to this blues band? Tell her that this isn't an invitation, then I don't know, but I was refused, she said she did n't want to, and it's all true. This is the first time he told me how everything really happened because he really called me and really invited me to a blues band, but there was still one small detail that he didn't say. I missed something.  I missed it, namely, he called me at home around eleven in the evening, it was ten thirty, it was almost one, what time do they want to listen to a blues band at 9 or something, because later this is the first time he called me, it was almost 11, 11 pm in the middle of the week, I was already in my pajamas and I was busy with paperwork then, I had to go to work at 6 in the morning, you know how long I was gathering my courage to call, I waited all day, I know, I know, and I, I, I understand, resist, he understands, but it was eleven in the evening, I was in my pajamas, I would need about 20 minutes to get ready, he lived 20 minutes from me, Pacific Beach was 20 minutes away, that is, it would have taken almost an hour before I got there, then this band, then home to sleep, so this was the main reason why I had to refuse, but what put a bold end to this matter was that his neighbors, he, at that time, was renting an apartment near the beach with other guys, while he was inviting me in the background, I heard about hands, come on, I couldn’t do anything about it, they were completely without brakes, that’s just their communication style in general, and I’ll say that this  It strengthened my confidence. The decisive role was played by the fact that you finally invited me, so here you can get the votes that they write too late. Doc, you see, it's true that at 11 pm on weekdays it's late. You can't invite someone on a first date for the night. That's definitely true, right? Well, okay, they understand me. The problem is that over time they understand me. Do you want to invite someone on a date during the day? I call him. It's a tricky moment, after all, inviting a patient is somehow necessary to find workarounds. If you had been indignant, I would have said what other date? I just asked about yoga. Let's stop. And so there were three attempts, but that's it. Now it's like in high school. The more you like someone, the more she doesn't like you. I hid, and as soon as you decide that you don't like her, she changes her mind. I always liked him, but our relationship is our relationship, and after three refusals, I finally decided with my wife that that's all. All this time, I tried to establish contact with her. I held mini-seminars in my office, and I asked her a couple of times to help, although she  It didn't really help we treated them to champagne and cookies I was afraid of speaking in public I thought that this would make them relax and laugh at my jokes I can't believe we're talking about this anyway in a word I've already tried three times she refused and I broke up with her Christmas was approaching and she was getting ready to go home but she gave me a gift she made incredible chocolates she made herself I thought oh my god she did this for me actually for everyone I didn't know that I thought oh my god I like you I liked her she gave me these chocolates and on the way out she throws this look at me over her shoulder goes to the exit and on the way out she turns around boom at that moment I realized there was something between us I think she likes me they didn't like it but that's how our operator of the capital anyway I'm going back to Wisconsin and that's when you should have asked me out on a date well you've already wasted your three attempts so that's what I thought if she's interested in me she'll call herself and if she's not interested you wouldn't do that I thought who knows, in general, and I called him and invited him to my corporate party, he came and in fact, some time passed before no at all I said oh doctor Berg you know, this is the king, if there was a new one here, I'm new, we're throwing a party, I would have thought about chiropractic, we also have doctors in our company, and I was then doing anal therapy, maybe we will all have common interests or topics, and he's the first to attack them, okay, I say, I'll tell you what will happen there, he doesn't need it, I'll come, and one more small detail, that evening when I had to go, I was conducting another examination, we're not going to tell everyone, no, only the very end, I'm conducting this examination, and they realize, oh my God, it's already late, I have to run, jump in the car, I arrive at the apartment and guess what, I locked the keys in the apartment, I forgot the keys, and the door slammed, and in general, there was a scary first date, and there was a pine tree growing next to the house, and on the second floor, one was open, I climbed up to the window, I climbed this pine tree, by the way, for your sake, I was going to She climbed up and climbed inside and took the keys and of course, well, you know why, on time, he arrived on time and looked amazing, but that explains why your sleeves were rolled up and there were big drops of resin on the hair on your arms that couldn't be washed off, you shouldn't have seen them, okay, that's the beginning, everything else from the tour can be called fate, but we had to work hard and everything worked out, yes, everything is correct, that's the answer to the question, is it interesting or not, that's how it was, but now you all know, I'm sure you'll all agree that he didn't invite me three times, yes, I read the comments, I think probably most guys would have done the same, no, and... but thanks for watching, see you all again, bye bye