Why don't people talk about this? I don't know if you know about the true cause of autoimmune diseases, but they have surpassed heart disease and cancer in prevalence. They are quickly becoming the number one health problem on earth. Here's a graph. Look at the prevalence of multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease, and thyroid disease. Hashimoto's and Grohn's diseases are also becoming more common, but autoimmune diseases are just on the rise. However, few people talk about something so obvious. I hope this video will inspire doctors to find a solution to this problem. The immune system does a very important job in the body: it distinguishes its own cells from foreign ones. Its own cells are cells from various tissues of the body, and foreign ones are pathogens, viruses, bacteria, and so on. But first, I want to talk about the very basics. It is divided into two parts: the part you were born with, which your mother gave you, innate immunity, and acquired immunity. The part that appears as a result of several infections. That is, you get sick, you get a bacterial or viral infection, the immune system reacts to them and learns. The next time this infection gets into you, you will already be protected. Immunity has no memory, it waits until it can protect the body and immediately reacts to pathogens. Acquired immunity begins to act only after a few hours or days. It adapts slowly, but over time, acquired immunity learns and becomes stronger, while innate immunity does not. With age, it only weakens. I also want to say that with autoimmune diseases, the source of the problem is not immunity, it is acquired immunity. What do all autoimmune diseases have in common in relation to immunity? One of the common factors is regulatory T cells, also called track cells. Track cells have a very important task - to prevent autoimmune diseases. These cells have another name - T suppressors, these are the Peacekeepers of the immune system. Track cells have another function - to stop the immune response after the immune system has done its job. That is, they have a restraining function. Different medications are used in autoimmune diseases, but most often prednisone. Prednisone is a synthetic version of the stress hormone cortisol. I want to consider prednisone as a remedy for autoimmune diseases. What does it do in general and compare it with another compound that can regulate immunity best, and this is vitamin D. Vitamin D Strengthens and improves the immune system depending on what is happening. Prednisone. Vitamin D has anti-inflammatory properties. Both reduce inflammation. But in a slightly different way, but prednisone suppresses both parts of the immune system. Both congenital and acquired. If you have a skin reaction to something like a rash or inflammation, it will pass. When I was 20, I took Gnezno every year for 10 years because of the damned poison ivy. Vitamin D also tells the immune system to produce more T-cells. How important is this information? It is very important because autoimmune diseases reduce the number of T-cells produced by Terek cells, and as a result, inflammation gets out of control. This is very, very important. There are two other immune factors that increase in autoimmune diseases: TH1 and TH17. In autoimmune diseases, these factors increase. And the number of T-cells decreases. Vitamin D suppresses both factors that cause inflammation. Prednisone and vitamin D are similar in some ways, but they have differences. Take blood sugar, for example. Prednisone mobilizes and breaks down protein and converts it into glucose, thereby increasing its level.  in the blood, it increases the risk of diabetes, but vitamin D does not. Vitamin D improves the cells that produce insulin and helps regulate blood sugar. Prednisone can cause bone destruction, it can cause osteoporosis, and vitamin D helps absorb calcium and maintains bone mineralization. With age, immunity weakens because the thymus gland, the gland directly above the heart, decreases in size and, with old age, it practically disappears. Vitamin D helps slow down this process, but only if you take it in larger quantities than doctors recommend. You need to use high doses of vitamin D. I want to mention one interesting book. I don’t know if the title is visible, but this book by Harald Foster talks about what actually causes multiple sclerosis. There is a chapter about sunlight in it. Harald Foster talks about an interesting strong connection between the occurrence of multiple sclerosis and place of residence. The closer a person is to the equator. Where there is more sun, the lower the risk of multiple sclerosis. This is also true for other autoimmune diseases. We’ll talk about them another time. But I’ll leave a link below. I also want to mention a book by Jeff Bols.  treatment and prevention of diseases where he talks about using high doses of vitamin D3 in this book I like that he specifically highlights cofactors because vitamin D does not work without a cofactor and vitamin K2 I interviewed one of the first researchers of vitamin D Dr. Bruce Holisal told me that if there are positive studies about vitamin D they are unlikely to be published I asked why he answered because the Sun cannot make money with a free remedy The Sun can give you the dose of vitamin D that big pharma does not want people to know about this there are two systems of vitamin D vitamin D affects bones and calcium but there is another system that is not related to calcium it is not related to bones it is related to supporting the immune system The skeletal system can get by with a small amount of vitamin D once 2 weeks But other systems need higher doses daily for cancer for example you need to greatly increase the dose you need to take 50,000 every day along with magnesium vitamin K2 and zinc I want to warn you right away I am not telling you that this will cure cancer I am just giving you useful information especially since even WHO recognized that vitamin D has anti-cancer properties  I would also like to touch on the research of Dr. Coimbra from Brazil, it is called the Coimbra Protocol. The point is that to overcome reduced absorption of vitamin D, you need to increase the dose. During the analysis, the dose of vitamin D is increased until the level of parathyroid hormone drops to the bottom of the normal range. This means that vitamin D gets where it needs to go and works. This is one of the things they do. It is obvious to me what the problem is and its solution. Another interesting tactic that, in my opinion, Biphar came up with is to claim that high doses of vitamin D are toxic. However, therapeutic doses are not necessarily toxic. I also have a course on immunity. The link will be below. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress and immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will find a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.