IS is a problem with the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is the longest and largest nerve in the body. The thickness of a person's thumb is usually equal to the thickness of this nerve at its exit point, and its exit point is the lower back and sacrum. The sciatic nerve is formed from five nerves. A problem with this nerve is called IS. There are excellent stretching exercises on the Internet. I made a video of them. It helps with sciatica very well. Only later that day or the next day, the pain returns, and today we will discuss how to eliminate this problem without resorting to medication, but stretching is also necessary. So what do we know about ISI? We know that in 90% of cases, sciatica is associated with a disc. The disc has an outer part and an inner part that looks like a ring of gelatin, and when the outer part of the disc becomes weak, part of this gelatin is squeezed out and compresses the nerve roots that extend from the sciatic nerve, and pain occurs in the buttock or lower along the back of the leg to the foot itself, or on the outer side of the leg. The pain may not be strong.  There may be numbness or aching, or a nagging pain, or some kind of irritation somewhere deep. I'm filming this video because I discovered a condition that interested me because I didn't know about it. This condition is called milo neuropathy. Milo neuropathy. What does milo mean? Mila, this word means the bone marrow of the spine. There are many nerves in it. They go up and down the spine and come out of it. And the word neuropathy means some kind of nerve damage. So, this condition, milo neuropathy, is some kind of problem that is in the spine and in the nerves that come out of it in the peripheral nerves. This is fraught with a lot of problems with the nerves, including the aforementioned problems with the sensory nerves, such as a nagging pain, or no less severe pain and even muscle weakness, because these nerves go to the muscles. But in this condition, which I didn't know about, what's most interesting to me is that most often it is caused by a deficiency of copper or vitamin E or phalates. But in most cases, it is caused by a deficiency of copper. I began to study the connection between copper and the sciatic nerve and found the most interesting information number one.  There are many different types of therapy where copper is used to fight inflammation and pain, these include copper bracelets, copper plates, copper-based cream, and even a bandage that is wrapped around the upper thigh to cover the sciatic nerve, or at least its beginning, and this bandage contains copper, and many people get amazing results from this. We don’t know why exactly copper helps with pain and inflammation. I’m talking about the fact that it is simply applied to the body, that is, it may be something that is absorbed into the skin, or maybe not, but I know that copper is a very good conductor. So, maybe copper somehow affects the electric field, which is unbalanced, but this does not mean that it does not work. People report that it brought them great relief, and there are quite a lot of skeptical people. I will not wait until someone invests money in research and proves that it works, because it is a very safe, non- toxic, relatively inexpensive remedy that is available to everyone. Even in the days of Ancient Egypt, copper was used, copper bracelets, copper jewelry for pain, inflammation, and arthritis. And since we’re on the subject The Arthritis Foundation stated that there is no reason to use copper bracelets or even magnetic bracelets. This means that we should try it, because everything we are told not to do usually works great. Simply because these organizations are paid by pharmaceutical companies, as far as I know, they probably created part of these funds for the external use of copper. What about copper deficiency? Does it affect anything? What does it affect? ​​It affects a lot, because copper is part of many enzymes, and the enzyme that strongly affects sciatica is an enzyme in which copper plays the role of an essential cofactor in tissue. Do you know that our discs are not made of collagen? Yes, the outer part of the disc is 3/4 collagen. If you lack collagen, is it possible that you will have weak discs? Copper is also part of enzymes that are involved in the functioning of the nerves of the nervous system in the transmission of nerve impulses. Copper is in melinum, which protects the nerves. Much becomes clear when we compare copper deficiency and a possible problem with the sciatic nerves. I know that other people may have carpal tunnel syndrome due to copper deficiency. So  Copper is essential for collagen. I already made a video about collagen and talked about the importance of vitamin C for creating collagen. Imagine that in nature, copper is part of the vitamin C complex. So, copper is needed for collagen, connective tissue, and also the nervous system. In some parts of the brain, copper is very high in levels. It is part of dopamine, so copper deficiency is usually found in Parkinson's disease because it is associated with dopamine, and we know that Dopamine affects the connection of nerves with muscles and problems with it. Copper is also needed for energy production. It improves sleep. It is needed for the production of melanin, which prevents graying of hair. Copper is also found in red blood cells, and we will return to this. Copper is involved in bone formation and is an antioxidant. So, how can copper deficiency occur? Many people have a copper deficiency, it is caused by various reasons, one of them is a lack of copper in food. I will also tell you in which foods there is a lot of it, but in general, there is a lot of copper. In shellfish, crustaceans, and in offal, people eat little. Athletes also usually have little copper because they train a lot and use a lot of energy, so their copper needs are higher. Especially if they train  At high altitudes, since the load on red blood cells is higher, the more training, the more copper is needed. If an athlete trains a lot but eats poorly, a copper deficiency may occur and there will be weak connective tissue, weak collagen, which will lead to problems with tendons, ligaments, muscles, and discs. Also, if you take a lot of zinc without copper, which counteracts it, a copper deficiency can also occur. If you take a lot of iron, you can lose copper. There are many different reasons why fortified flour products such as bread and pasta can deprive a person of copper. Fluoride in tap water undoubtedly deprives us of copper. Excess vitamin C, but mainly in the form of ascorbic acid. Sometimes people take D3 or 4 g of ascorbic acid to combat something, this also deprives them of copper. If you sweat a lot, you can lose copper, because it can be excreted with sweat. If you sunbathe too much, you can lose copper, because melanin is produced under the influence of the sun, and melanin requires copper. Another factor is stress and even excess DHA. And this is a precursor for hormones, the raw material for the creation of cortisol. Excess  DHA, as well as cortisol, can deprive you of copper. A large amount of potassium without trace elements such as copper can also increase this deficiency. Distilled water, of course, also creates a deficiency of all minerals. So they need to be replenished. Also, a high level of niacin can partially deprive you of copper. In connection with all this, it is important to remember that every time we get a lot of one nutrient without a complex of the rest, especially if you get it Not from food, you can upset the balance after gastric bypass. There is a deficiency not only of copper but also of other trace elements. If you eat too much sugar, there can be a copper deficiency even from excess coffee and alcohol, there can be a copper deficiency. Even aspartame, an artificial sweetener, can deprive you of copper, but I think that there is another very, very important factor. I also studied it. Probably, people with sciatica also have a genetic factor associated with copper and its absorption. They have a copper deficiency even if they get the norm. This echoes the DNA topic that I studied in depth. This is called polymorphism. This is a mutation of the Gene, some region of the Gene, due to which a deficiency of something can occur. I learned that there is Two Genes are a problem that will most likely cause copper deficiency, as well as other problems, the same ones with a higher risk of carpal tunnel syndrome, this is wrist pain and a higher risk of compression fractures, since copper is also in bone tissue, because collagen is part of bone tissue. Well, all this is very interesting, but what can you do about it? There are options. One possible good remedy is a copper bandage. You can look for it on the Internet. It seems that this copper bandage tightens the thigh, buttocks, the place where the sciatic nerve comes out, and the upper thigh, and this bandage contains copper. Perhaps this is a very good solution for temporary relief. Other products include copper plates and even copper-based cream, but it is also important number two to get enough copper from food. Here are the foods that have the most copper: beef liver. Although not only beef, just liver. Number two, oysters, magpie clams. Number four, dark chocolate. Of course, without sugar. Number two, cashew nuts. Sixth, any meat, for example, grass-fed beef. Number three, if you take dietary supplements with  copper And this is not a bad idea After all, this way you can eliminate the deficiency and if suddenly you have this defect in the genes, you need to take a little more than just the necessary minimum. This is how I would do it. I would start with 2 mg of copper per day and slowly increase the dose over one month to 20 mg. Calculate the required doses. Add a little every few days to reach 20 mg. Perhaps you need these large doses to achieve results so that the discs and nervous system begin to heal, and after a month you can begin to select the dose. Reduce the dose and see how you feel. If good, leave this dose. If worse, add a little and then in three or four months, reduce the dose to 2 mg per day. Perhaps this will be enough for you. The point is that I wanted to emphasize the connection between copper and sciatica. This is an interesting connection, but this does not eliminate the need to do stretching. What else is worth adding to the diet for health in my new course? You know what superfoods are. These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short Recipes and videos about more than just superfood juices that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also available. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.