I have a question for you, which is healthier, yogurt or ice cream. You'll say yogurt, don't rush, let's compare. Let's take a 128- gram serving of ice cream. This serving will have an average of 28 grams of sugar, but let's look at how much sugar is in four different yogurts. Iplate has 41 grams of sugar per serving. Compare that to ice cream. It's off the charts. Howard has 38 grams of sugar. Danone has 36 grams of sugar, and this asset has 43 grams of sugar. Of course, sugar is added to these yogurts on purpose, but after making this comparison, I was amazed at how much sugar is in just one cup of yogurt. Many of these yogurts are sold in different packages, there can be 200 grams or half a kilo. You look at the label and think, "Yes, there's less sugar here than in ice cream, but if you recalculate the sugar by volume, you can see that there's too much of it, which will cause your blood sugar to jump sharply, not to mention the type of sugar. High fructose corn syrup is often used for flavor, modified corn syrup is added there. Corn syrup adds starch, but it's low in fat, and they add vitamins A and D. Besides, it's milk from group A. What kind of group is this? There are two types of milk. Group A is mainly used for retail stores, and group B is used indirectly and is used to make cheese and processed foods. That's all the group means. I compared how many certain foods people consumed in 1970 and in 2015. Look, beef consumption has decreased by 33 percent during this time, chicken consumption has increased by 116 percent, corn products by 180 percent, corn sweeteners by 300 percent, grains by 127 percent, their own by 190 percent, vegetable oils by 270 percent, and yogurt consumption has increased by 1600 percent, which is 17 times. When I first saw this, I reduced the value and thought, well, yogurt can't be that harmful, but this number is significantly higher because we used to eat much less yogurt. This, in principle, can explain why people began to consume so much sugar and the widespread increase. insulin resistance: If you're going to eat yogurt, read the label. Make sure it's whole milk and unadulterated. I highly recommend Bulgarian yogurt. If you've already decided on kefir, it's even slightly better. It has more bacteria and less sugar. Don't buy yogurt with sugar. They even called us, saying it's too sugary. If you want, add Stevie Wonder as a sweetener. But if you thought any yogurt was healthy, with that much sugar, it's not.