I would like to tell you what lesson I learned from the Spanish flu pandemic of 1918. It's a very interesting story. I'm not sure if you know, but in those years, the Spanish flu claimed the lives of 50 to 100 million people worldwide. It would be very strange if so many people died for no reason. There are several interesting facts in this story. The first people died. There was no virus itself. The virus was involved, but it was not the cause of death. An autopsy was recently performed on exhumed corpses from that time and something interesting was found. It turned out that most deaths were caused by these two things. ORDS is acute respiratory distress syndrome. In this syndrome, the lungs fill with fluid. The pulmonary alveoli, through which oxygen is exchanged for carbon dioxide, simply fill with fluid. The fluid gets outside the lungs and the person essentially chokes on his own fluid, and there is also a little mucus that clogs the lungs. In addition, a bacterial superinfection occurs and a combination of fluid because the vast majority of those who died were between 20 and 30 years old. The fungus usually affects young children and the elderly, but  not in this case I'll come back to this But first I want to tell you what happened four years before that Four years before that in 1914 the First World War happened it was a world war What changes occurred during it there was a significant shift in the diet food had to be transported over long distances it had to be preserved somehow food had to be canned when canned zinc is lost in products and is zinc important for immunity slightly In general food had to be transported the diet changed and it changed not only for soldiers but also for ordinary civilians Because they were given rations a wide choice of food there was no longer a wide variety of fresh vegetables there was little variety And then it was canned food What does this mean that people developed a deficiency of many nutrients if you create a deficiency for four whole years then the body's vulnerability to various kinds of infections will increase The next question I asked What month did the Spanish flu appear Try to guess If you thought in January then you are right And what is so special about January In January vitamin D deficiency reaches its peak And when you have little vitamin D your immunity does not work as it should Vitamin D activates all white blood cells Without vitamin D, the risk of developing serious problems like RDS or pneumonia is significantly higher, and asthma is also higher. Vitamin D helps the lungs by acting like cortisol, as an anti-inflammatory, it helps the immune system. And when it is low, you risk getting sick. I will show you an interesting diagram, the link to it will be below. This diagram shows the seasons and associated seasonal diseases. Look at the winter months, during this time, the risk of getting ARVI increases significantly, and relapses of multiple sclerosis increase. This is an autoimmune disease and other autoimmune diseases because vitamin D is associated with it. The risk of reactivation of the Epstein-Barr virus and rhinovirus also increases. It is associated with sinuses. The risk of type 1 diabetes also increases, and the risk of bacterial infections increases. But that's not all. Children born in the winter months are more prone to developing multiple sclerosis and ulcerative colitis, and the risk of gestational diabetes in mothers also increases. Amazingly, vitamin D is very important for immunity. And in the case of the Spanish flu, it was a perfect storm: there was a virus, there was a nutrient deficiency that made people vulnerable to infections.  and vitamin D deficiency But why did so many twenty-year-olds die? And why, at that time, the Bayer Pharmaceutical Company, which produced aspirin, ran out of patents, which allowed other companies to start producing and selling their own aspirin? Back then, the deadly toxic effects of an aspirin overdose were not yet known. Aspirin was prescribed to people at a dosage of 1300 mg every hour for 12 hours. One of the side effects of this treatment is pulmonary edema, which fills the lungs with fluid, and another. A side effect is an increase in the level of bacteria. The combination of aspirin, vitamin D deficiency, and other nutrients led to so many deaths. What lesson did I learn? I understood the importance of nutrients in preventing health problems. You see, when someone gets sick, they very rarely pay attention to the nutrient deficiency, which became the prerequisite for the disease. But in fact, this is an important factor in strengthening the immune system. The problem is that now many people eat fast food, breathe polluted air, it is visible. But when something is missing, it is not visible, it is a problem of absence. The absence does not attract attention because it is unnoticeable.  You may not have a serious deficiency; it may be hidden. You can only find out about this if someone tells you about the importance of this connection, the connection between immunity and nutrient deficiencies, as well as the main foods you need to eat to avoid deficiencies in the first place. I'll leave the links below. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course on vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes a number of diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentations on longevity and health at the 2019 Keto Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you on the course.