Does a lie become true because more and more people are repeating it? And if it's a lie on sites we trust, will the chances of it being true increase? Today we'll talk about lies about carbohydrates. If you look for symptoms and signs of carbohydrate deficiency, you'll see information that's not just untrue, but the complete opposite of what's actually happening. You'll be told that the brain and muscles need carbohydrates to work. You'll be told that glucose is the main fuel the body prefers, and that if you cut out one of the main food groups, carbohydrates, all sorts of very bad things will happen. For example, you'll have terrible cravings for junk food and carbohydrates. Because you've cut them out, you'll be constantly hungry. And that's bad. If you're trying to lose weight, you'll experience brain fog and fatigue. After all, you're depriving your brain of much-needed fuel. Mood swings, irritability, symptoms of hypoglycemia. Your athletic performance will be terrible because you'll deplete all the glycogen stored in your muscles. If you don't consume something like Gota Raid or sugar, you'll be tired and what?  The less carbohydrates you eat, the more often you will be constipated. After all, you are cutting fiber and of course headaches are possible, bad breath is the so-called Keto breath. Yes, your weight may temporarily decrease. But in fact, you are simply losing water weight, and along with water weight, you lose electrolytes and you can begin to feel a heartbeat. You may have arrhythmia and fibrillation, which is fraught with a stroke. A carbohydrate deficiency is very dangerous. And in fact, it can lead to illness, and by illness, of course, I mean, firstly, varnish. Question: It only happens with type 1 diabetes if you do not take insulin, lactation, the doses that you call is acidosis, not even close to what is called ketosis. These are two big differences. They have nothing in common. One state is unhealthy and the other is extremely healthy. And it also happens that ketosis is equated with hunger. After all, if you starve the body, a state of ketosis occurs. And since the voice is bad, then ketosis is bad, but intermittent fasting is not praying with hunger. Hunger begins after losing all the fat. And this can take months, and then the muscles are broken down, but fasting is not  same thing When you fast you can finally use your own fat but you won't start using your fat until you have a carbohydrate deficit So let's talk about the true benefits of a carbohydrate deficit and this is what we are told only the opposite Number one you will no longer have food cravings number two you will lose your appetite you will no longer be hungry number three you will have amazing improvements in cognitive function the brain will work better then your mood will improve If you had depression anxiety as for sports results you will be able to use fat as fuel so you will have more energy it will be stable and your training will be much much better you will actually lose glycogen on a low-carb diet and along with glycogen the body loses fluid and along with fluid the body loses electrolytes especially salt And if you have a salt deficiency your sports results will be much worse But you just need to take more sea salt take electrolytes and any problems with fatigue low performance will completely disappear the brain will work better the head will hurt less and as for bad breath I never had bad breath on a ketogenic diet  I've spoken to tens of thousands of people on the keto diet and I can say that bad breath is a very rare occurrence. If you're following the keto diet correctly, really. If you're on dirty Keto, that is, you essentially don't care about the quality of food. Go to eateries and all that, then yes, you may have bad breath, and when you're just adapting to the keto diet, you may also have bad breath, but it quickly goes away. As soon as the body begins to burn more ketones, use them more effectively. Devices for measuring ketones in breath and urine stop working because the body has completely adapted. You're new to keto. Here's what you need to know. You need to radically reduce carbohydrates to about 35 grams per day. Now, let's compare this with what all these sites recommend. The amount of carbohydrates that most experts usually recommend is, you now see 225-325 grams of carbohydrates absolutely every day. This is more than 10 times more than you actually need. To enter ketos, this is a slight reduction in carbohydrates, but not enough to start burning fat. So you will  You will feel lousy. You will have hypoglycemia and many other problems. So, you need to radically reduce carbohydrates to somewhere around 35 grams for all this to work and you need to understand that this takes a little time, 2-3 days at most. But as soon as the body switches, the results will be such that you will forget everything in the world. Any carbohydrates that your brain needs, the body can synthesize from non-carbohydrate sources, this process is called glucagon, neogenesis, gluco means sugar. Neo means new Genesis means creating something or making something. You create new sugar from fat, ketones, or protein. You don't need carbohydrates. There is no such thing as essential carbohydrates, but there are essential fatty acids. In fact, there is no research proving that a deficiency of carbohydrates leads to anything bad at all. It's just the opposite: when we cut carbohydrates, many wonderful things happen. Explore a healthy version of the ketogenic diet. If you are not new to keto and want to learn how to help others become healthier and look great, this course is for you. A new course from Dr. Berg's practical coach on  Intermittent fasting, the keto diet, more than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's 30 years of experience, which can be applied in three months of training. Get a certificate. Become a keto coach. Help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule. Do what you love. Sign up for the course using the link below.