Hi, I was recently asked how to make it easier to follow certain diets and intermittent fasting. Do you have any advice? I asked a question in response. What problems are you facing? What's stopping you? Now I'll look at each barrier one by one. But if you're having difficulties, ask yourself the main question. What's causing the difficulties? Identify the problem. There's a solution for every problem. I'll tell you about the most common ones. I think the main thing is the result. You've already tried many programs that didn't work, and here's another one. You think that this probably won't work either. But I want to introduce you to a new principle. This principle is as follows: health for the sake of losing weight. Focus on becoming healthy. Forget about weight. You'll see that with the restoration of health, the weight will go away. It's a very effective principle. Focus on everything and you'll knowingly set yourself up for failure. Because losing weight is a side effect. Health is especially healthy. Losing weight is what's stopping you. Bread is a lot of alternative bread recipes that you can eat. It's not a problem. Hunger will disappear on its own. insulin will decrease and you'll burn your own fat. Hunger will disappear. It will take about 3-7 days.  days, but after that, no more hunger, no cravings for food, and this will greatly facilitate the diet. The meal schedule may be that you eat at a certain time with your family, and now it's inconvenient and all that. What about intermittent fasting? You eat less often, but you can choose any time that's convenient for you. There are no time frames, in fact, it's very easy. The schedule will be very simple, because you don't eat 6 times a day, you eat less often, so with a schedule, it will be easier to deprive yourself of some carbohydrates. There are many alternatives to replace carbohydrates such as mashed potatoes, bread, cookies, various cakes, and so on. There are so many substitutes that you won't feel deprived. I'll leave a link below. I know how you feel when you can't have something. You want it even more. Besides, everything will happen slowly, gradually. It won't be a shock to the body. You won't starve yourself, that's for sure. Let's say you're tired of eating the same thing over and over again, and that's why you came up with a recipe book. There are a whole bunch of them. In the description, there is a link to electronic recipe books that offer a variety of dishes. It's expensive, but not really.  Not very good, when you reduce the frequency of food intake, the amounts in the Chita supermarket will decrease several times. You can save 400 even 600 dollars a month, it's not expensive at all, and with the money saved you can focus on the quality of the products. You don't like greens, what do you inject subcutaneously? No, of course not. Let someone else live it for you, although that's also not an option. Perhaps this is the only thing you will have to do through I don't want to, just accept it. But at first, you can make a kale shake or start with small portions. I think you will get into it and want to eat more greens yourself. Many people don't like greens, but starting to eat them feels much better. In principle, it's edible. This is a small barrier that needs to be overcome, but you will have to eat more vegetables and greens. Side effects: get a grip, fatigue, get as it is. If you understand how to act correctly, you have studied the issue and know what to do, there will be no side effects. Therefore, I advise you to first read up on getting the necessary knowledge and not just do it haphazardly. Find out how to properly prepare. It is much wiser and easier to prepare yourself for success rather than doom yourself to failure. I will give an example when  You start chum and lose a lot of fluid, a lot of water weight, about 5 kilograms of water weight, and then you pay, and with the fluid comes a lot of electrolytes, potassium, sodium, but much more potassium is lost than sodium, and you can feel dehydrated and they advise you to drink more water. So you start drinking water, imagine what will happen to the remaining electrolytes, there will be even less of them, and now we have not just a potassium deficiency but a serious potassium deficiency, and now you have leg cramps, restless leg syndrome, your pulse quickens, you can't sleep, your heart is pounding, and all because you haven't studied what will happen and how to act correctly, as I already said, all this can be avoided if you spend time on literature and study the issue. There are many prohibitions, in fact, one prohibition is empty carbohydrates and sugar, but there are alternatives, you will not feel deprived. There are diets that will exploit your weakness and convince you. You can go on a chocolate diet, eat what you want, the main thing is in moderation, and people believe, but it does not work. The point is that if you want an effective program, you will have to change something. It's too confusing again.  You're confused by conflicting information. You browse forums and they say one thing here and another there. Take one program from one person, study it and stick to it. You don't need all this unnecessary information. You'll never find a program that everyone agrees with. There are so many opinions, so I recommend this solution. I'm not sure it will work. I understand you've already tried many ineffective programs, but the point is that you won't know if something will work until you try it. You have to change your actions. I can tell you from personal experience working with a large number of people over the past twenty-nine years. The program I present works surprisingly well. It's one of the most effective programs I've ever worked with. I see results, so grit your teeth and try it. I think you'll be able to easily stick to it for a long time.