I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give a list of the best remedies for its treatment. I am waiting for you on the course. Do you realize that eliminating magnesium deficiency in the body is extremely difficult, but I will tell you how to do this. The question is, how quickly can you solve the problem if you solve it the wrong way? The answer is, if you solve it the wrong way, you will never solve the problem. In fact, Magne deficiency is a very common phenomenon. According to some data, 8 people experience a magnesium deficiency, but what is even worse is that magnesium deficiency is very difficult to detect. There is no gold standard in diagnostics. There are questionnaires. There is also a method where a piece of tissue is taken from the mouth and sent to a lab, but there is a problem with this test. I do not recommend it. The fact is that I can’t contact the lab itself. They don’t call back, so I don’t provide a link. In this picture, you can see that  60% of magnesium is found in bones, 39% in soft tissues such as muscles, and only 1% of magnesium is found in the blood. For this reason, a blood test for magnesium is not very informative. Unless you have an extremely severe deficiency. After all, if there is little magnesium in the blood, the body simply takes it from the bones or soft tissues. As for magnesium in bones and tissues, its reserves are not outside the cells, but inside, this is intracellular magnesium. One of the principles that I follow in the field of health is taken from this book, Sun Tzu's Technology of War. The book is devoted to waging war, but the principles can be applied anywhere. Sun Tzu, in particular, talks about comparing data to find out if there is a problem. For example, you can compare symptoms associated with magnesium deficiency with your diet. Do you get magnesium from food at all? If you have inflammation in the intestines, if you have diabetes, if you have insulin resistance, if you eat a lot of sugar or take a lot of vitamin D, your need for magnesium increases. If you do not drink magnesium with vitamin D, you may have a magnesium deficiency because the body uses it up during absorption.  Vitamin D, the same effect can occur due to medications, such as antacids, when taking antibiotics or diuretics, all of these factors together may indicate a possible magnesium deficiency, but you also need to look at the indicators or symptoms of a possible magnesium deficiency: is your eyelid twitching, are your muscles tense or relaxed, do you have insomnia, do you feel anxious or weak, do you need magnesium to produce ATP, the body's energy source, magnesium deficiency can also lead to things like nystagmus, when the eyes wander back and forth, as well as migraines and even kidney stones, and especially to things like pathogenic calcium calcification, which occurs where they should not be. Now let's list foods rich in magnesium. The amount of magnesium that I will name is contained in 100 grams of the product. The first on the list is kelp seaweed, in 100 grams there are 760 mg of magnesium, but can you eat 100 grams of seaweed? It is unlikely that you will get it from almonds. 490 g of yeast 231 mg of pican nuts 142 mg in 100 g of leafy greens about 100 mg of magnesium In dark chocolate 165 in pumpkin seeds 265 mg of magnesium magnesium is also found in meat and fish, but not in much As you might think, 100 g of meat or fish contains from 25 to 35 mg even in the recommended daily intake of magnesium, figures are given from 300 to 420 mg of magnesium per day on average, while people on average get about 215 mg of magnesium per day it is not enough in the diet Not to mention the fact that agricultural products grow in soil where there are few minerals, especially magnesium, here we have two, or rather questions, how to get enough magnesium from food Do you need to take a supplement and How long does it take to completely eliminate the deficiency By the way, all the information that I give is taken from this book a wonderful remedy for all diseases for their prevention, something that doctors are not taught, a link to it will be below an amazing book it is based on data about  magnesium and vitamin D and everything I'm telling you now is taken from here. So, if you have a magnesium deficiency, you not only need to eat more foods rich in magnesium, but in addition to this, also take a supplement. The type of magnesium that I recommend is magnesium glycinate. It helps with stress, improves sleep, and so on. The dosage that I recommend taking is 800 mg daily. Usually, tablets come in 300-400 mg doses. Take two a day. But it's important to understand that how long it takes to replenish a real deficiency? It may take you a year or more to eliminate chronic magnesium deficiency. The fact is that when you get magnesium from food or supplements, not all of it remains in the body, for the most part, it is excreted through the kidneys. After a few weeks or months, the symptoms may go away, but I would not stop there, but would continue to increase magnesium reserves further, and maybe. After a year of taking supplements, you can leave magnesium only in your diet, but do not forget to calculate how much magnesium your body gets so that at least 400 mg comes out per day. I have more information about To find out what type of magnesium might be right for you, watch this video.