Yes, since heart attacks, strokes, and hypertension are very common, it might be worth learning more about the problem of vascular stiffness. Vessels become calcified, usually this increases with age. This can happen due to inflammation because a person has diabetes or eats a lot of sugar and other carbohydrates that lead to fibrosis, or eats something that greatly promotes inflammation, such as omega-6 fatty acids. But there is another very important factor that you need to know. In fact, this is one of the reasons for the hardening of blood vessels when they become very, very stiff, and this is a deficiency of vitamin K2. With a deficiency of vitamin K2, calcium that is in the blood does not necessarily go anywhere, but the main thing is that it does not go to the bones. Vitamin K2 brings many benefits to the body, but we will discuss two very important actions. Number one, it directs calcium to the bones and makes the bones very strong. There are two proteins that are affected by vitamin K2. One of these proteins is responsible for making bones very, very strong. It prevents osteoporosis and osteopenia, and the second protein does not allow calcium to accumulate in vessels and deposited on the walls of the vessels. To confirm my words, I will leave below several links to very interesting authoritative studies. Vitamin K2 directs calcium from the vessels to the bones where it should be. It even reduces the risk of heart attack by 50 percent if there is enough of it in the body. But the problem is that many people have a deficiency of vitamin K2 because they do not know where it comes from, and it is in the very foods that they are advised to avoid. It is in what there is a lot of saturated fat and cholesterol. It is found in other fermented foods such as NATO. But usually in the West they do not even know what NATO is. It is fermented soybeans. This dish is not served in any restaurants. But if you live in Asia, you may know. So, vitamin 2 is found in fatty foods such as meat, offal, egg yolks, grass-fed butter, dairy products, yogurt. Vitamin K2 is not found at all in vegetables, fruits, beans, varnishes and nuts. There are a couple of interesting points that I want to tell you about. Here is one of them: if you combine vitamin K2 with vitamin D3, the vascular picture improves greatly. We are talking about  about reducing the thickness of the walls of the carotid arteries, these are the arteries in the neck, here you just need to add K2 to D3, which is very interesting, calcium deposits in the carotid arteries also decrease if you add K2 to D3. If you add K2, I recommend always doing this for every 10,000 international units of vitamin D3, you need to take approximately 100 micrograms of vitamin K2, which is called Here is another very interesting point. People who take a lot of calcium in the form of a dietary supplement, at least a thousand milligrams a day or even more, whether with or without vitamin D, increase their risk of dying from a heart attack by 20-85 percent or more because they do not take vitamin K2. Here is another interesting point. Warfarin. Warfarin is a drug that blocks vitamin K1. By taking Warfarin, people are trying to prevent blood clotting, because vitamin K1 is directly linked to the formation of blood clots. When you regularly take vitamin K1 or get it from leafy greens and vegetables, your blood does not clot more than normal, this does not lead to the formation of blood clots that go to the brain and cause strokes.  or heart attacks, this does n't work that way, but if you already have heart problems, for example, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, or some other existing problem, then you will be prescribed something that reduces the formation of blood clots, and Warfarin is a popular drug. That's the problem with warfarin. I say this because it is related to our topic. Warfarin blocks not only vitamin K1, but also the protein I talked about, the special protein that prevents calcification of blood vessels and vessel walls. That's why one of the side effects of warfarin is vascular calcification. As a result, we prevent the formation of blood clots; we can increase the level of calcium in the vessels. If I were forced to take a drug that prevents blood clots, I would look. Is there another drug I can take that does not affect proteins dependent on K1 and K2 in general? Eat more foods rich in vitamin K2. If you take K2 in the form of a dietary supplement, I advise taking vitamin D3 with it. The effect will be better. I also advise following a low-carbohydrate diet, because it reduces inflammation and prevents blood vessels from becoming stiff. And avoid the latter.  Omega-6 fatty acids Because they can increase inflammation in the blood vessels and Since we are talking about CO2, there is a lot of information on this topic. If you haven't watched this video, I think you will be very interested in watching it here it is.