Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about the ideal workout. What is the ideal workout? The answer depends on your body. There are people who are far from being in the best physical shape and there are top athletes. I'll tell you about the elements of the workout that you will choose for yourself. Physical training has three simple variables: duration of exercise, intensity, and recovery. There is also frequency, how many times you exercise. But that's all that's simple. Another question is whether you just want to tone your body or burn fat. Your approach will depend on your goals. For example, if you want to tone up, you will work with your body differently. Today we'll talk about general fitness and fat burning. How to maximize them. The first thing you need to know is that the duration of exercise is not what stimulates growth hormone, which is the main fat-burning hormone. In fact, the more you train, the more cortisol increases, and with it, stress in the body. People who do high-intensity, long-term workouts for an hour and a half at the limit of their strength every day only increase their cortisol levels. Fitness will not add weight, and you won't lose it. Ideally, to stimulate growth hormone, you need a short duration, high-intensity load on the whole body and  Long recovery is the best option. Let's talk about intensity. What intensity are we talking about? These are exercises that work all the muscles of the body at the same time. For example, some people do kickboxing or aerobics, when both the lower and upper body are worked out. I like deadlifts. It helps my back very well. By doing deadlifts with the correct technique, you will get the desired intensity because every muscle in the body is involved. Roofs and jump rope are also suitable. Some types of yoga have very high-intensity types of yoga that work the whole body. We need to sharply increase the heart rate and work the whole body, but no long workouts. The duration is short. Here's a rule of thumb. The maximum time for interval training, in which short high-intensity sets are alternated with rest, is from 20 to 40 minutes. Each time you exceed 40 minutes, you decrease your results. It is much better to increase the intensity. I like to do short intense sets with rest. If you are just starting out, do 20 minutes every other day. I am talking about the fact that during training you need to exercise intensively for 2, maybe three minutes. In total, from one to three minutes, and then  rest four or five minutes and there is also crossfit which will be an overload unless you have 18 minutes and the load is a minute of rest is the wrong approach, recovery is low, the pulse should return to where it was. I also ride a bike, I squeeze out the maximum for one or two minutes and then calmly ride and rest for 3-4 minutes and repeat. I do 20-40 minutes every other day and on other days I walk. These are the basic rules. It increases growth hormone. Another variable is recovery. All the benefit of exercise is in recovery and it happens mainly when you sleep. It is after two or three days that all the best things happen. At this stage we get the load and here comes recovery and muscle growth, fat burning and this takes time. To do a high-intensity workout every day, you need to be in very good shape. Perhaps it is better to do it every other day. Some people with whom I work require a longer recovery. I recommend high-intensity training and 45 days for recovery. For some, I changed the training regimen from every other day to once a week and they began to lose weight like crazy. Be sure to check this on yourself. If you are not losing weight, increase recovery and look at the result instead of sacrificing sleep and getting up at 4 am for training at this time it is better to sleep, they train precisely in sleep, all good things happen if you overdo it, sacrificing sleep and training too often, there will be no results. I have a patient who trained for 6 hours a day with zero results, she overdid it and thought that this way she would burn more calories, but it does not work, you need to look at the situation during recovery there should be no stress, you need to get enough sleep, you cannot allow yourself to eat unsuitable foods, a lot also depends on nutrition, for example, if you ate a little sugar, drank a little wine or juice, then there will be no result, you can say goodbye to it for a couple of days, there will be a video about this, the point is that some things can negate everything hidden carbohydrates a little sugar and so we need to reduce the duration and increase the intensity, but you need to do this gradually because it is very easy to overdo it and harm yourself, I am also guilty of this, sometimes I forget and train so much that I can easily, for example, sprain my ankle, the key is to let the body recover I I usually train every other day and observe the results. These are the main variables; you need to juggle them and find the best balance for yourself. Thanks for watching.