Hello.  Today we are answering questions again.  Whatever I say is not a substitute for consultation or treatment from a doctor.  And even if my words sound like advice or consultation, consult a doctor.  And we begin. We were asked a lot of questions.  Let's answer them.  Steve, Dr. Berg's original supplements are not available on Ozo or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Hi all.  Today we'll start with a question from our wonderful quiz, and then we'll answer questions from the audience.  The floor is yours, dog.  So why is the body so resistant to weight loss? Well, that's the million dollar question.  We are waiting for your answers, friends.  Berl Pstrambla asks.  My hands on both sides periodically turn red.  This is fine. My twenty year old son has the same symptom.  Maybe it's hereditary?   It might be hereditary.  Or maybe you both eat roughly the same things.  Families usually eat roughly the same things and lead a similar lifestyle.  This is what I would do if I were you.  I would look into microflora.  There is evidence that if you put your intestines in order, the redness may go away , not only from your hands, but also from your cheeks.  So try it and see if it helps.  Well asks Virgo on the unicorn from YouTube.  What is the best way to get rid of seborrheic dermatitis, if I pronounced it correctly.  Seborrheic dermatitis.  So, there is a great channel on YouTube.  It is administered by a physician who uses high doses of vitamin D3.  There are tons of photos of people with this problem before and after. Surprisingly, you need to get a lot of vitamin D, 20,000 IU every day, and in the summer it's even better to get it from the sun.  Just don't get burned, it will be great for you. And get your diet in order.  Cut down on carbohydrates. After all, insulin, due to excess carbohydrates, can increase androgen levels and increase inflammation of the sebaceous glands of the skin.  And the last thing.  You need to get more zinc, and beef is rich in it.  Zinc is a very good regulator of the sebaceous glands, which indirectly create skin problems.   “ Excellent,” writes Dima from YouTube.  I have been struggling with depression and anxiety for 16 years.  I am 32 now. What can I do to stop this suffering?  Oh, it's sad to hear that, Dima.  So, it has to do with physical factors.  There are three such important factors.  The first is insulin resistance. This is why intermittent fasting has such a powerful effect on mood.   If I were you, I would switch to one meal a day.  This one meal should be large.  Food should be healthy and low in carbohydrates. And I bet your mood will improve greatly.  Number two. More vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency can cause severe depression, especially if you don't get enough sun.  If you can get some sun, that's even better, but it's winter now.  Take more vitamin D, at least 20,000 E per day. If you have anxiety, I think the best thing to take is B1, its natural form.  Really improve your B1 level.  This can help you a lot .  I would do all of this and also go on very long walks to keep stress levels low and improve sleep. Great. Let's see what the audience answered to the quiz question, which sounded like this .  Why does the body resist weight loss so much?  65% answered that the body does this for survival.  25% said it was 5% said it was due to gut health issues.  And the remaining 5% believe that the dreaded cortisol is to blame.  So why does the body hold on to excess fat?  And all because fat is an organ, and fat is survival.  Why would the body get rid of something that helps it survive? Fat helps you survive in times of famine when there is no food.  So, to get rid of fat, you need a different strategy.  And you need to think about what the real purpose of this is.  When people cut calories and eat a lot of carbs, oh my god, it's torture.  It destroys metabolism.  even stronger.  The secret is to cut carbohydrates and send a signal to your body: burn your own fat.  Because when you cut carbs, your insulin goes down, and low insulin is a signal: "Hey, use fat."  So, by cutting out carbs, you will solve this problem and become healthy.  Focus on getting healthy.  And the unnatural remedies that people unfortunately use, like Azempic, my God, your eye condition starts to get worse, you lose muscle mass. I know some people are disappointed, but there is a safe way to lose weight. Low-carb diet.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Okay, asks Trishastra Strumble, is it possible to make Sel Roiteri yogurt without dairy products, but with organic coconut or almond milk?  Is it possible to adapt these recipes in this way?  It is also made with coconut milk.  Yes, it is possible.  You can even make Salsal Roiteri sauce. I don't know how to do this.  Find a recipe online.  I'm sure such recipes and instructions exist.  I would search on the Internet. Fine.  Today we have another quiz question.  Please, Dog. So what can trigger a stress response that can sometimes be worse than the stress itself?   Do you mean physical stress or mental stress? You know what? I will formulate the question differently. What else can cause stress besides stress itself?  Better this way.  This makes it clearer. We are waiting for your answers, friends.  I'm sure you will give an excellent answer.  We continue to answer questions on social networks. Asks Kristen from YouTube.  Can you advise how to get rid of melasma, brown or grey-brown spots usually on the face. Mylasma is a dark age-related pigment spot on the skin.  I think a lot can be done about this.  I have a video about this.  You can apply vitamin C serum. It works great on the skin. Castor oil can help smooth out dark spots.  I have a lot of videos about this. I recommend looking at the most recent one. In it I talk about a simple remedy, although it is a bit expensive.  30 cents a week. I'm joking, of course.  This remedy is very easy to make at home and will help you get rid of those age spots. Fine.  Here's another question about facial skin. Writes about headlights from YouTube.  What can I do about a rash on my face and neck that is very itchy?  I have a lot of red spots all over this area.  Many people have skin problems, but they don't associate them with their intestines. This is usually caused by a war of microflora on the surface of the skin or an immune reaction on the skin.  If you put your intestines in order, your skin will be beautiful.  So I would check your diet. Take a look at the diet I recommend and adjust your diet accordingly.  This is the easiest way to improve the condition of your skin. And the creams, lotions, and so on that everyone uses can make its condition worse. Eriks Rambla writes very well.  What is the best remedy for back pain and muscle spasms?  This is his friend's problem. There are a couple of remedies.  If you sit all day, your lower back loses its curve.  Take a foam roller or bolster, lie on your back to bring the curve back into your lower back, and stretch the front of your pelvis and hips. I made a series of videos about this.  You also need to take more vitamin D. If you do n't have enough vitamin D, your lower back and pelvis will start to ache and ache.  Sometimes this pain radiates to the legs. Very good.  Next question. Malva from YouTube writes: "What do you think about hydrogen-enriched water?" I have a hydrogen water generator.  I've heard a lot of great reviews about her.  I do n't actually buy everything and test it, if I don't see any changes I stop using it.  Perhaps this works and has helped many.  I myself did not see any benefit.  I don't really know that much about it.  There's a lot of research on this, but it's one of those things. There is water saturated with oxygen.  There is water that contains more carbon dioxide. There are therapies that increase oxygen and carbon dioxide levels.  Now here's some more hydrogen.  Basically, it's one of those things.  I think it's great.  Many people swear that it helps, but I haven't seen any changes in myself.  So I guess time will tell as more research is done and more people use it. Okay, let's see what the audience answered to the quiz question.  What can trigger a stress response that is sometimes worse than the stress itself?  55% responded that it was emotional stress.  25% said it was illness, 10% said exercise and 10% said lack of sleep.  So here is the answer. Expectation. Expecting stress when there is no stress.  Have you ever received a call before bed saying, "I have bad news, call me back."  Couldn't you get through? Or, let's say, you're watching the news.  darkness and hopelessness. You are being presented with a huge problem.   There is no solution. You expect stress, although it may not exist.  But the anticipation of stress, worse than any stress, is anxiety. You are expecting something, something is bothering you, and you are going over it in your head. If you have this problem, see if there is really a reason to be stressed. Or you just watch too many videos and news that cause stress, then just stop watching them. I'm very selective about what I watch, especially online, because there are a lot of videos out there that are just gloom and doom and no good solutions.  You look at them and think, "Oh my god, this is definitely the end of the world. This isn't good for your body if there are no solutions." Why watch it then?  To sit and worry. One thing that can really help people if they don't have any reason to be stressed is higher doses of vitamin B1.  B1 is great for the nervous system and brain.  He will get you out of this.  I recommend taking the natural form of B1.  It's called alithiamine.  It is obtained from garlic.  Take it until the stress goes away, and then take a preventative dose. Many people have a B1 deficiency due to stress and other reasons. You burn up your B1 if you exercise a lot , if you drink alcohol, if you drink too much coffee or tea, or if you eat a lot of sugar. Many people have a B1 deficiency and don't know it.  I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy diet.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.