Today we will talk about how to grow very thick hair. I will not hide the fact that I sell dietary supplements for stimulating hair growth, as well as shampoo and conditioner that promote hair growth, but I am absolutely not biased when it comes to my products, and this was absolute sarcasm. Okay, we figured that out, let's move on to the topic of the video. First of all, I want to mention iron. What is iron? Iron is a metal, a mineral involved in the creation of hemoglobin. This is the thing that carries oxygen in the blood. If you do not have hemoglobin in your scalp, oxygen does not reach the hair roots, follicles, and without iron, you literally deprive your hair of the oxygen it needs to grow. But iron is very easy to get, especially if you are not a vegan. Eat a piece of red meat several times a week and you will get a lot of iron. Iron is also found in eggs and many other places. Then there is zinc. If you have a zinc deficiency, like many people, it will be very difficult for you to grow thick hair; it will be very thin and sparse. Zinc is part of hundreds of enzymes, especially those that help create proteins, and hair is protein.  So without zinc, hair will not grow well and will not be as thick as you would like, and hair will dry out, so zinc is very important for hair, skin, nails and not only that, again, a little red meat and you will get zinc. There is a condition called telogen effluvium, alopecia. What is it? This is a condition in which, due to shock or stress, hair falls out and becomes very, very thin, very, very brittle, and the reason for this is still the same page. So if, for example, you are pregnant and do not know why your hair has become thin, then this is the reason. And if you have emotional stress, or you have lost a loved one, or you had surgery or an accident, or you have been exercising, all this can increase cortisol, and because of cortisol, the need for zinc increases. If you already have low zinc, then you will have a problem with hair and telogen effluvium. This is essentially temporary hair loss due to stress. If you drink a lot of alcohol or consume a lot of sugar, or for some reason get a lot of copper, all this will lead to zinc deficiency. Just know that a lack of zinc creates a lot of problems.  with hair and zinc deficiency can occur for many reasons, I named many of them, shellfish such as oysters are the richest in zinc, but zinc is also found in red meat. The next point is omega-3 fatty acids. If you don’t like fish or for some reason don’t like cod liver oil, I don’t know how you can be disgusted by cod liver oil, because it’s very tasty, then you may have an omega-3 fatty acid deficiency. If you eat like most Americans, then you have a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, and this can cause an omega-3 fatty acid deficiency, and this is a possible cause of severe thinning hair. Eat enough salmon or cod liver oil to get omega-3 fatty acids. In addition, omega-3 fatty acids are good at reducing inflammation, so if you have, say, baldness, then you have too high a level of inflammation. The next factor that is very important for thick hair is vitamin D. Vitamin D is simply extremely important for hair growth. It directly stimulates hair growth, and many people are deficient in it. They take vitamin D, but they either don't absorb it due to a lack of factors. Let's say someone has a bile deficiency for some reason and doesn't absorb vitamin D, or perhaps the intestines simply don't absorb it due to some problem. But vitamin D is extremely important. Try to get vitamin D from the sun, although it won't work in winter. Vitamin D is very important in terms of immune support for hair. This is associated with both inflammation and autoimmune diseases. After all, there are autoimmune diseases that lead to hair loss on the head. People with such diseases need much more vitamin D than everyone else. They need 40 or maybe 50 thousand e of vitamin D per day. Okay, strong, yes, strong. It is very important for thyroid health for converting T4 to T3. Perhaps you know that slowly, and the thyroid gland itself can stop hair growth. It is an important antioxidant for hair. It reduces inflammation. It definitely prevents baldness and also the occurrence of dandruff. Have you heard about the product Sales on Blue? It is selenium sulfate. If I'm not mistaken, this product suppresses  mushrooms which causes dandruff are strong and very important for hair and scalp in many ways just one brazil nut will give you your daily requirement of selenium okay the next point is biotin biotin is very important for improving keratin protein which hair is made of to increase its strength biotin is very important for this and biotin is produced by our intestinal flora that's why taking antibiotics can lead to thinning hair and why antibiotics kill the beneficial bacteria that produce this vitamin from group B biotin is great for helping many people grow thick hair so this is another factor I wanted to mention the next point low folate levels I advise never taking folic acid that is the synthetic version chamber always take chambers natural form there are different forms you need natural and chambers this is the x factor for many proteins in the body including proteins of hair skin and nails therefore it will be very difficult for you to completely synthesize the proteins needed for different parts of the body new holland and it is very easy to get just regularly eat greens and get enough chamber They are found in dark leafy greens. Okay, vitamin C is needed for collagen, and hair is partially made up of collagen, so vitamin C is extremely necessary. Don't take synthetic vitamin C, only natural vitamin C, or just eat foods with it. You can get a lot of vitamin C from sauerkraut, not pickled cabbage, from berries, from bell peppers, and from almost any other vegetable. If you have enough vitamin C, collagen is very strong. I want to say one more thing, especially for those who want to make thin hair thick. If you started a titogenic diet but don't eat enough protein, say, instead of real food protein, you eat protein powders, which I don't recommend. I recommend eating more eggs, eating high-quality grass-fed meat, and this can help you grow thicker hair right away. So, remember about protein. Don't forget to eat enough protein. Another symptom that you don't have enough protein is fatigue and lethargy. I want to give you a few more tips. 1. Help. The benefit of Kell Po, that is, kelp, for hair is that it contains Microelements j zinc and manganese are strong, but they also contain amino acids and B vitamins, so this is a very good product for hair growth. I also want to say about excessive shampooing. Some people wash their hair too often, this dries out the hair and deprives it of fat. If you use shampoo with sulfates, they dissolve the protein in the hair, depriving the hair of fat, and this damages the hair very badly. So, don't wash your hair too often. Someone will say that Dr. Burke again advises not to wash your hair. No, I didn't say that. Be afraid for your health. Just don't wash your hair every day, and you will see that your hair will become much better and healthier. We use shampoo, and it is of great importance. I advise using sulfate-free shampoo, which has a lot of pure ingredients without side effects, but most importantly, it should not contain sulfates. I advise using a good conditioner with harmless ingredients, sugar oils, and essential fats that can be absorbed into the hair and revitalize it. The water used for taking a shower, if it is tap water, which contains fluoride and chlorine, is bad. Just put a filter at the bottom. There are a couple of recommendations. If you can't find it yourself, but it's difficult for me too.  Find a shower head. Whole house filters are easy to find, but a shower head that especially removes fluoride is difficult, but I'll leave a link to the one I found below. But if there's no fluoride or chlorine in the water, how does hair start to shine? Just remove these chemicals and use good water. Amazing. Hair dye. If you dye your hair, just find someone who can help you switch to a non-toxic hair dye. There are plenty of chemical-free hair dyes. Find a more natural dye, even if it's more expensive, it will pay off in the long run. The next point is something called stress. I've seen people go through emotional upheaval and literally lose their hair completely. So, stress can greatly affect the quality of hair produced on the scalp. The cause is excess cortisol with its powerful catabolic effect, that is, it destroys hair follicles, so do everything you can to reduce your stress levels. I have a lot of videos about this, links below. The last point I want to talk about is smoking. Smoking not only depletes nutrients, it dries out hair, it causes oxidation of hair, and Smoking exposes hair to a lot of chemicals. Smokers' hair and skin are completely dry and look old. So if you smoke, do everything possible to quit. Now you have good information on how to make your hair thicker. Perhaps you should check out my full course on hair health. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course on hair health diagnostics. Dry, brittle hair or oily hair and dandruff, hair loss, baldness, premature graying are signals that indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.