Let's talk about how to get rid of hiccups almost instantly What is hiccups? Well, in the diaphragm, and it separates the chest cavity from the abdominal cavity. These are two muscles. This is where a spasm occurs. Because of this, the vocal cords make a hiccup sound. That's what hiccups are. Hiccups happen because we laugh and talk too much. I remember how in the past, when I was preparing for presentations, I practiced right before the presentation, practicing what I would say. Sometimes I started talking very quickly and I started hiccupping and I had to wait for a while until it stopped. After all, it's impossible to give a presentation when you hiccup. It's a pity that back then I didn't know what to do about it, but I'll show you what to do. If you eat too quickly, hiccups may start. If you're stressed, hiccups may start. They'll tell you that you just need to hold your breath, drink water, bend over, breathe into a paper bag, or breathe very slowly. The hiccups will go away, but does any of this work? But what's even more important is what's going on here. What causes this problem? You know how to solve it.  to really understand the problem. And in medicine they only treat the problem. There is a huge gap in understanding the problem. Which would eliminate its cause, but medicine does not care about the cause. It seeks to suppress the symptoms and continue to suppress them. But this solution only lasts for a day and you have to make this decision again and again before telling how to deal with it. I want to explain how I approach understanding various problems. Let's take, for example, a symptom called GERD, a condition in which the valve at the top of the stomach does not close and acid is thrown into the esophagus. This is what I usually do to understand something. I compare the symptom or problem with the normal state of affairs in this area of ​​the body. Normally, when we eat, the valve at the top should close, but in the case of GERD, it remains open and acid is thrown up and this is treated with antacids and PP or other drugs. When I try to figure something out, I want to understand the mechanism, understand the pathophysiology. Patho means disease, and physiology is how something actually works. So, I study the normal physiology of the stomach and the pathophysiology of GERD to really understand what is happening here and then find a solution to the problem.  I found some interesting data that is not so well known, this valve has receptors for pH in the norm, the page of the stomach between one and three is an extremely acidic environment, I found data that the higher the pH, the more alkaline the environment is not so acidic and apparently this valve exists because the pH is not in the range from one to 3, so it does not close during meals, although it should. Based on this, I understand that the acidity of the stomach needs to be increased, which I did in practice and it works great, I gave people betaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar and bam, the problem disappeared. Think about it yourself, ontocytes and IPPs, which are prescribed to people who have acid reflux, heartburn or heartburn, there are side effects, and among the side effects of antacids and IPPs, heartburn and acid reflux are among the side effects. I just showed how I deal with such things, because it is related. And there is one very interesting study on ecota and I had to work hard to find it, this study is about cats and here's what was discovered, it's interesting and the cat stops breathing instantly as soon as the pressure of CO2 carbon dioxide  gas in the veins becomes equal to the CO2 pressure in the arteries, simply put, hiccups stop when the CO2 level rises, this seems completely illogical, this is illogical. Unless you know something, if there is too much oxygen in the blood and not enough CO2, then the oxygen does not bind and is not released properly, and essentially oxygen starvation begins. How is this related to hiccups? What happens when we laugh, we get a lot of oxygen, we say too much, we get a lot of oxygen. One is too much oxygen too quickly, under stress, hyperventilation often occurs and a person gets too much oxygen and Now it is clear why, when holding our breath, the CO2 level rises, hiccups go away when we drink, leaning forward. We control our breathing. CO2 is more, oxygen is less, and when we essentially inhale our carbon dioxide into a bag, it is carbon dioxide that balances the excess oxygen, and thanks to this, oxygen finally binds and is released into the bloodstream, as well as muscles, including the diaphragm. When a person has too little CO2, their pH changes, it becomes more alkaline, and with alkalosis, severe tension occurs, spasms occur, this affects  breathing and one of the symptoms of alkalosis is hiccups, and hiccups caused by excess oxygen can then increase alkalosis, this is a kind of vicious circle. So, hiccups occur due to excess oxygen and a lack of CO2, and the best way to get rid of hiccups very, very quickly is to increase the CO2 level using any of these methods. If you have a bag and you breathe into it, it works, but you can just breathe through your nose and not your mouth and slow your breathing for 5 seconds, inhale, 5 seconds, exhale, or even hold your breath. Any of these methods will help. The main thing is to understand that you don’t need more oxygen, you need less oxygen and more CO2. If you understand the main difference between pathology and the norm, you can approach the matter creatively. You can actually put on a mask. And thereby increase the CO2 level. So, when you or someone else starts hiccuping again, you will know what to do. I talked a little about this in my video about panic attacks, there I gave a much deeper understanding of the balance of CO2 and oxygen. I highly recommend watching that video for those who haven’t watched it. Here it is.