Hi, I was recently asked what multivitamins and elements are needed on a ketogenic diet. The first thing to do is many people take vitamins and only because they don't want to eat the required amount of vegetables. You really need to eat them, because you need to get as many vitamins and elements as possible from vegetables, from 7 to 10 glasses, not only for the vitamins but also to remove fat, so we need greens and all these healthy vegetables. However, when you switch from burning sugar to burning fat, when you adapt, you need more of certain nutrients. You definitely need vitamins of group B, B6, P5, B1, and B12. I recommend getting them from nutritional yeast. They come in powder form. I have them in tablet form, so they are easier to take. They are not fortified. You don't need nutritional yeast fortified with synthetic vitamins, and there is already natural batman. You also need macronutrients, especially potassium, magnesium, and sodium. On a low-carb diet, you need more salt, so take a teaspoon of salt a day. If you are on a high-carb diet, then take a quarter teaspoon of salt, but for us  You need a lot of potassium and a decent amount of magnesium. I use electrolyte powder. It's 1000 milligrams of potassium citrate. It has a lot of magnesium but not enough sodium, so you'll have to find another source of sodium. There's not much of it here, but this powder is good because it doesn't have maltodextrin, no sugar, and it contains trace elements. You also need vitamin D3. You can get it from the sun or from fish oil, and that way you can kill two birds with one stone. Get omega-3. If you take high-quality cod liver oil, you'll get both vitamin D3 and omega-3. You also need trace elements that are needed in much smaller quantities. They're difficult to get from food. They'll really help you. These are elements like chrome and oligosaccharide. Again, our goal is to get as many vitamins and elements from food as possible, but I also recommend taking vitamin B, macronutrients, vitamin D3, omega-3, and trace elements. Thanks for watching. Tell us what you think of this video. Leave your comment below.