In this video, we'll talk about how to get rid of a hangover. You have a headache, you feel nauseous, your brain does n't work at all. When you drink alcohol, it's mostly absorbed in the stomach and goes to the liver. There's an enzyme there that converts it into another substance, or rather, breaks it down into two substances. One is called acetaldehyde and the other is acetate. It's similar to vinegar. This byproduct is very toxic, it's 30 times more toxic than alcohol. It's what causes damage to the liver and the body as a whole, and it's what causes the symptoms of alcohol exposure. It's not alcohol itself or acetaldehyde that causes them. The more the liver lacks glutathione, a powerful antioxidant that helps neutralize acetaldehyde, the more it accumulates and the more side effects. This is one side of what's happening. Secondly, alcohol reduces the level of an amino acid called glutamine, and then the body begins to produce more glutamine. This is a glutamine reaction, and this surge. Because glutamine is a stimulant, it will interfere with deep delta sleep, and you'll wake up unrested. You'll have a headache, you'll feel  You will feel tired, anxious, and nauseous because your body is trying to get rid of this toxic chemical. The question is, how can you minimize the damage and quickly get rid of the side effects? There is a vitamin that can help with this, and that is vitamin B1, thiamine. Thiamine helps neutralize this toxic chemical and also balance glutamine. Take one before bed and immediately after waking up to minimize the effects of alcohol. B1 protects cells, especially mitochondria, from oxidation. You will also feel dehydrated, so drink more water. I also recommend taking natural vitamin C or foods high in vitamin C. I also recommend eating plenty of green leafy vegetables and cruciferous vegetables. Acetaldehyde causes such damage in terms of free radicals that antioxidants from food are essential to repair the damage. Thank you for watching. See you in the next video. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.