Hi all.  Let's start with our wonderful quiz, and then we'll answer questions that have accumulated on social media. Please, Dog.  Gallstone is a disease and can only be treated by removing the gallbladder. We're waiting for your answers, friends, and in the meantime, we'll answer your questions on social media. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com.   A Marian from YouTube asks: "How can I lower my cholesterol naturally? I'm sick of these statins. Poor thing." So, guess what statins are made from? Some statins are derived from red yeast rice.  That is, there are natural remedies.  which have similar effects but with fewer side effects. One of them is overtonase, the other is red yeast grise. This is something you may want to consider as a more suitable solution. After all, statins are a powerful drug that blocks the production of cholesterol.  But it's needed to create hormones, to create cell membranes, and also to produce bile and vitamin D. And if you remove cholesterol, it's a double-edged sword. So, there is absolutely minimal reliable data on how effectively statins reduce the risk of heart attack. So why take them, considering they have so many side effects?  This is unreasonable.  Why don't you find something?  Fortunately, there are many herbal remedies that have been shown in randomized controlled trials to be more effective than drugs, comparable to drugs, or slightly less effective than drugs, and have fewer side effects.  But people don’t use them because they don’t know about them or these products are not widely advertised. Why not give it a try?  It's worth it.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Great.  Our viewers quickly answered the quiz question.  And it sounded like this. True or false?  Gallstone is a disease and can only be treated by removing the gallbladder.  And 100% of them answered that it was a complete lie.  I looked at one website that was supposedly created to support those who had their gallbladder removed but were not doing well afterward.  Interestingly, there are several false claims made by doctors about gallbladder removal .  And here is one of them. The gallbladder is a superfluous organ.  It's not really needed.  You will be fine. Complications are few and rare. If a stone forms in the gallbladder, it is a disease.  And it is treated by removing the gallbladder.  In general, to give informed consent, people need to know the real benefits and risks, as well as the alternatives.  And there is a natural remedy. I call it natural, others call it a medicine that is very effective in helping with gallstones. This is bile, bile salts.  So, gallbladder removal is still one of the most common surgical operations in the world.  It was done to many people, and they developed many complications, irreversible complications. I think it all comes down to really understanding what the gallbladder is.  It is not just a sac for storing bile.  It regulates the amount of bile secreted into the small intestine to prevent excess or deficiency, which is very important. And it increases the concentration of bile by 10 times. It allows us to extract fat-soluble vitamins from food.  And if bile were not concentrated, we would not be able to extract omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins A, D, E, K1 and K2. Therefore, take care of your gallbladder with all your might.  Do not remove it unless absolutely necessary. I would try alternative remedies, and there are many of them.  Perhaps we should make a video about this.  Great.  Now let's talk to a person we know nothing about.  He contacted us unexpectedly.  His name is Demion and I'm sure he's a great guy.  Demion, get ready.  I see you on the screen.   I 'm turning on the sound.  Ask Dr. Berg one short question. Fine.  I have these questions. What doses of vitamin D are too much? I recently started watching your channel and taking a lot of supplements. And I feel much better.  Sometimes I forget about it and think, "Oh, I'm all over it. I'm starting to eat junk food and stuff." But it gets worse, and I think: “It was a mistake, I have to go back.”  What doses of vitamin D are excessive? And can there be complications for the liver and kidneys due to the hernia mesh? And can leaky gut syndrome lead to things like a heart attack or fatty liver, which I think I was diagnosed with a couple of months ago?   Well , I'll try to answer some of your questions.  What doses are excessive? I think there are two types of people when it comes to vitamin D. Some want to maintain healthy levels.  For this purpose I would take 10,000 a day unless you spend a lot of time in the sun.  And some people say: "Wait a minute, the norm is 600 mE. Why are you recommending 10,000?"  That's because all the 600IU studies only looked at bone needs and calcium metabolism.  But research into the immune and other systems has shown that we need much more.  This is a completely different system.  I made a video about it.  Yes, 10,000m is a prophylactic dose.  And there are those who want to achieve a therapeutic effect because they have autoimmune diseases, chronic inflammation, glaucoma, depression, hypertension.  They need higher doses of 20, 30, 40 to 50,000 per day.  So I have a deficit. What?  I'm deficient in vitamin D. Well, that means you need more to overcome a lot of barriers.  And be sure to take it with magnesium, K2 and zinc.  The point is, you can get your vitamin D levels checked. You know, some people, I think I try to keep mine between 90 and 110, but that's me.  I want my level to be higher.  Usually, a level of 60-70-80 nagrams per milliliter is enough for people. But if you need to deal with something, say, suppress a tumor, you need doses in the hundreds. So there is something to think about here.  And watch my videos to learn more.  After all, there is a lot to take into account here.   We need to check the blood, calcium levels and everything. And some people with serious autoimmune diseases need 100, 200, 300,000 a day.  However, this should be under the supervision of a physician.  Doses can be very high.  Next is a question about leaky gut syndrome.  Yes, it can trigger autoimmune diseases and heart problems.  After all, food particles penetrate through the intestines. There is a layer there that is only one cell thick, a thin layer like paper, one cell thick.  Through it, something can penetrate the immune system.  And the immune system, what the hell is that ?  And it creates antibodies, attacks, and this causes an immune reaction and all that.  After all, something didn't pass immigration control. And I completely forgot your third question. What was the third question?  Tell. Can there be complications with hernia mesh?  Ah, exactly, complications for organs over time, infections or something like that. It is a foreign material in the body.   There may be potential problems, but I'm not the one to ask about it. Find someone who is an expert in this. But if anything foreign remains in the body for a long time, biofilms begin to accumulate on it .  This creates problems, but I don't know for sure.  You need to study this topic.  Sorry. Fine. When I started eating junk food again, my urine became almost the color of Coca-Cola. So I went back on a diet. She was the same color, and I Oh, I have a problem. I think sometimes it's helpful to break the program to remind yourself, "No, I don't need this."  I was tossing and turning, but in the end I decided, "I'm going to stay on this diet for the rest of my life because it makes me feel better. It's worth it."