This important video will help you make sure you are not eating too much protein. I will name the main signs that you are consuming too much protein. Symptom number one is gastrointestinal discomfort. What is gastrointestinal discomfort? It is a general feeling of discomfort and an unpleasant sensation in the digestive system. You feel that something is wrong. Number two is dysphoria. Dysphoria is some kind of change in your well-being. Dysphoria is a general feeling of depression, anxiety, dissatisfaction, or just disappointment. You just don't feel well. Then number three is lethargy. It is a lack of energy, passivity, and simply a lack of enthusiasm. Number four is weakness. All four of these symptoms can indicate that you are eating too much protein. On that diet, the proportion of protein should not exceed 30 percent of the calories you receive. I even recommend getting 20 percent of your calories from protein. Otherwise, your blood urea nitrogen levels may increase and there will be a lot of protein waste. Your urine may foam and have a strange odor. The point here is skeletal muscle protein synthesis, that is, the conversion of eaten protein into muscle protein and its restoration occurs if  Eat no more than 25 grams of protein per meal. However, as you exceed this amount, less and less protein is synthesized, oxidation increases. This protein is burned as fuel, because it turns into sugar. If you double this amount and eat 50 grams of protein at a time, half of this protein will not participate in synthesis for building or repairing muscles; it will be used for oxidation as fuel. How will this affect your ketones? It will worsen your ketone adaptation. It will increase blood sugar levels. insulin levels will increase slightly, not as much as from sugar, but in some cases it will increase, and this will reduce ketone production. In general, you need to eat not a large amount of protein, but a moderate amount. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.