Eric, don't be so stubborn about that show without ruining everything now. Come on, Doctor Berg. Come on, Doctor, back. Put it down. What are you doing? Drop it. Who even said that this would lead to a long, slow, and painful death? I'm not afraid. Take a risk. Doctor Burke. You know that this is bad for your sleep, and getting enough sleep is very important. Come on, everyone. What if we die? This will prevent you from burning fat in the next three days, but in the morning you'll want to eat it again. It's a tiny piece, just once. Don't fall for it. Put it back. Oh well, come on, I understand. It's hard to believe, but some people are addicted to carbohydrates. Yes, it sounds very strange. I want to discuss what happens in the brain when a person is addicted to carbohydrates. There's a small center, a small nucleolus, a small group of nerve cells called the nucleus accumbens. It's deep in the brain. If you look inside in this direction, at this height, it will be there, deep inside, right in the center. This nucleus is part of the reward system. It uses dopamine as the main neurotransmitter, as well as GMA and serotonin. These  Neurotransmitters are closely associated with the creation of a feeling of pleasure and when this core is stimulated by some recreational drugs, alcohol, tobacco, sex, exercise and sugar, we are back to it again, all this makes up this group of cells that release these neurotransmitters that create a feeling of pleasure. They do not cause this feeling directly, they do it indirectly through this system, and the pleasure from something from this list is caused by the body's own substances. Sugar is a very powerful switch for this core. On an MRI, when people take sugar, this center begins to glow like a laser and this is associated with the release of dopamine and pleasure. People get pleasure from consuming empty carbohydrates because these carbohydrates turn into sugar quickly. The problem is that from an excess of these stimuli, dopamine receptors degrade and now you no longer have enough of them and you need more and more until eventually an addiction develops. The difference between addiction and cravings is that with addiction, you are no longer particularly worried about the consequences, you just go and do it without thinking about the consequences. Some people have a strong will, and some have a weak one. I will tell you how to increase your willpower, partly through pumping  That same structure in the brain, and so, first, you should definitely avoid being in an environment where sweets are available to you. I mean mainly cafes and restaurants, or when visiting Disney World and similar places. There are so many sweets there. You need to limit the amount of sugar in the environment. This is the first and second thing. Don't keep sugar in the house at all. If your significant other or children love sugar, you need to come to a mutual agreement. If there is sugar in the house, they should hide it well so that you don't have temptation. You don't need sugar waiting in the buffet, talking to you and calling you at night. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. Third, enjoy being healthy and looking healthy while maintaining a healthy diet and intermittent fasting. The link below is for those who are new to us, but many of you are already in the know and you get great pleasure from your health on Healthy Keto.  Intermittent fasting lifts your mood, improves cognitive function, so you generally become happier, not just with blood sugar spikes when it constantly fluctuates back and forth, but when it drops, I already said the importance of ketone intermittent fasting. They reboot the nucleus accumbens, because you remove what causes problems with receptors, and the receptors return to normal. And when the body begins to burn ketones, the brain loves it, and ketones will help heal damage in the brain because this nucleus is located in a part of the brain called the limbic system, and the body can regenerate these tissues. Such is the luck, and finally, vitamin B1 is able to increase dopamine levels. By taking B1, you will feel great relief from stress and calm in a matter of minutes. This is partly due to the increase in dopamine. Okay, guys, thanks for watching. Deleted scenes. Dr. Berg. You know how your stomach rumbled from this. 1. But this will do. Meat for lunch. A piece of lunch, no one will eat, so let's put it aside.