Today I went to the drugstore to find some antacids. I wanted to see if they had one product in this section, this product zinc carnosine, and I couldn't find it anywhere. I didn't even find it in the vitamin section. I was just shocked because zinc carnosine is a real cure for ulcers, apparently. The thing is that it's very cheap, it seems less than $10 a jar. Today I'll talk about the mechanism of action of zinc and explain why it heals ulcers. I have a lot of experience in this, because in college I had terrible heartburn, I had ulcers, I didn't know what to do, and I suffered. So I swallowed Tums in huge quantities. And this is nothing more than chalk. After 3 hours, the pain returned, and this cycle repeated itself again and again. If you take handfuls of antibiotics or antacids, this will not solve the problem. Ulcers are treated mainly with antibiotics. Why? Because relatively recently it was discovered that the cause of ulcers is a bacterium called Helicobacter pylori. An inhibitor is also used.  G2 here G means histamine I will explain this further It seems to me that most doctors initially thought that the cause of ulcers is simply an excess of acid, but now we know that the cause of ulcers is the destruction of the mucous membrane in some part of the stomach or in the small intestine, which creates an open wound and an infection can get into it Let's discuss zinc carnosine When we take zinc carnosine, it does not break down so easily because it is quite stable, so it remains in the stomach and envelops it, but eventually it breaks down to zinc and the basket, and carnosine then breaks down to e histidine is an amino acid that turns into histamine for many This is completely confusing After all, when we hear about histamine, antihistamine comes to mind, that is, an allergy drug for mucus Histamine is secreted by stomach cells that produce hydrochloric acid and histamine helps regulate the production of hydrochloric acid, it helps increase the production of hydrochloric acid, therefore Taking G2 You essentially block the production of histamine  and reduces stomach acid. Now let's move on to Helicobacter pylori. Helicobacter pylori is present in probably 80% of people. It is quite harmless and does nothing until the environment in the human stomach changes, and then it begins to penetrate the stomach wall and create a hole in it. This bacterium secretes an enzyme that promotes increased ammonia production. Thus, this microorganism changes the pH of the stomach, making the stomach environment less acidic. This is its survival mechanism. Remember this because when we deprive ourselves of stomach acid, we become more vulnerable to Helicobacter pylori infection. I wonder if this is why Helicobacter pylori comes out of remission and causes harm. The fact is that zinc blocks the enzyme that Helicobacter pylori secretes. Zinc stops the production of ammonia, and stomach acidity increases. So, due to the fact that zinc stops the production of ammonia and histamine levels increase, acidity increases, as a result of which this microorganism automatically goes into remission and stops creating Zinc also has an antibacterial effect and zinc helps increase the production of mucus in the stomach, that is, the protective lining. I mentioned that carnosine breaks down into two other compounds, one of which is histidine, a precursor to histamine, and the second compound is called beta-alanine. What does beta-alanine do? It increases the level of so-called sodium, which is an antioxidant. That is, it helps reduce inflammation and also strengthens the intestinal barrier. As you can see, El carnosine is an ideal remedy that brings many benefits. It helps heal ulcers and improve the condition of gastritis. El carnosine is interesting for something else that has to do with genetics. There is a genetic defect called polymorphism, and this defect can lead to the risk of developing ulcers. So, for those who have ulcers, autism syndrome, or any tics, I also recommend taking zinc carnosine. How much zinc should you take? I recommend taking about 150 mg per day, dividing this dose into two doses, that is, take 75 mg in the morning and 75 mg in the evening. This should be enough.  Take zinc carnosine for 13 months. However, it does not act as quickly as medications, so you can take baking soda to reduce pain. You can also take liquid chlorophyll on an empty stomach. Chlorophyll is an excellent healing agent and it definitely helps not only with ulcers but also with esophageal irritation. Chlorophyll heals any existing damage. Once you get rid of the ulcer, the question will arise of how to prevent its recurrence. To answer this, you need some knowledge about the stomach and stomach acid, and you will learn about this from this video.