Today we will talk about how to get rid of a cough in 5 minutes or faster. There is a cough with phlegm and there is a cough without it, it is called a dry cough. This remedy will help with both options. There is nothing worse than a cough when you go to bed. What I do n’t like about most cough remedies is that they suppress the cough. This is the question. Why does a person cough at all? A cough is a vital defense mechanism. You can cough because of a virus or other irritant that the body wants to get rid of. The ideal cough remedy is one that is aimed at the real cause of the cough. A cough can be due to postnasal drip, this is when an infection in the sinuses irritates the throat. A cough can be due to allergies, a cold, a virus, or a fungal infection. A dry cough can be a side effect of medications. In this case, to get rid of a cough, you need to find an alternative remedy. Another cough can be due to a fungal infection. There are several ways to fix this. Another cause of cough can be asthma. Many people have developed it.  Asthma in childhood because the mother did not have enough vitamin D. Early vitamin D deficiency contributes to the development of asthma because vitamin D helps the lungs form properly. Therefore, to send asthma into remission, an asthmatic needs to take a lot of vitamin D. It is most often activated in winter. I wonder why. Yes, it’s just that in winter we get less vitamin D. There is also the so- called croup that occurs in children. It’s like a barking cough. It differs from asthma, but the remedy for it is also vitamin D. Another reason may be dry air when the air humidity drops below 30%. That is, it becomes very dry. A person begins to lose moisture, that is, the sinuses and throat. This can irritate the throat and cause a cough. Dirty ventilation can also aggravate this effect. Perhaps there is mold there and dry, hot air comes from there, which irritates the throat. The solution to this problem will be to turn on a humidifier in the room, especially at night. Another common cause of a dry cough is spasms in the larynx. They are called laryngospasm. If you look at information about them on the Internet, you can see that one  One of the reasons is hypocalcemia, low calcium levels in the blood. Calcium is necessary for transmitting signals along the nerves in the pharynx. If there is not enough calcium, the nerves work worse, which is why a cough reflex occurs because the nerve endings are in this area. Why can a calcium deficiency occur? Most people have a deficiency of one vitamin, namely vitamin D3. One of the main functions of vitamin D3 is to increase the amount of calcium in the blood. If there is little vitamin D, there will also be little calcium. This will affect the vocal cords and cause a cough. When I practiced, I advised people to take calcium. I think it would be more effective to recommend vitamin D3, at least 20,000 every day. This will increase calcium levels and help the throat. When taking vitamin D3, always take it with magnesium, it is better to also take vitamin K2. Chronic cough can also be caused by other things, such as perfume or smoke. Coughing can be caused by new furniture that emits chemicals in the air. Even some tic disorders, such as Tourette syndrome, can cause a cough. Now let's talk about the best and most effective remedy for a dry cough.  I already made a video on this topic and talked about tea with ginger, thyme and oregano, they are all good and even gargling with salt water is good, but there is something much better. This will need to be added to a nebulizer. A nebulizer is a device that sprays liquid into a mist like steam. You need to breathe so that it gets into the lungs, the steam will pass through the throat and very quickly soothe everything. This is a powerful, effective remedy and can be used for both wet and dry coughs. The first remedy is called na cetyl cysteine. It is a very powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. It perfectly liquefies phlegm in the lungs and naturally removes toxins from the liver. It is also used to treat COPD and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Buy it in powder form. Take 1/4 teaspoon and dissolve in 120 ml of water. Stir in warm water. It is better to take warm water because it will dissolve better in warm water as soon as everything dissolves. Add another remedy there, magnesium in the form of Epsom salts. So, we have NC. Magnesium Why magnesium is a good remedy Magnesium is necessary for the work of vitamin D Vitamin D will not work without magnesium In addition, magnesium controls calcium It controls where the calcium goes after you dissolve NC in water Add magnesium To the resulting NC solution, dissolve magnesium and add this liquid to the nebulizer and then breathe in the vapors of this liquid for 5 minutes once or twice a day This remedy will work much better than other remedies that I talked about in other videos There are many other remedies that will also help But this is the most effective By the way, black cumin oil will also help, as will common horehound And at the same time you need to take 20,000 vitamin D3 with vitamin K2 magnesium Sometimes with zinc is also useful This will help you get rid of a cough This remedy acts quickly It will help quickly solve the problem so that you can sleep and stop coughing Thank you for watching and see you again Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways from chronic fatigue to muscle pain from vision problems  Before a weakened immune system, how can it be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when? Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes, and lists are included. Everything you need to fully understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.