It's interesting that there's a lot of corruption associated with olive oil production and it's been going on for a very, very long time. When buying olive oil, you should make sure that you're buying it. Perhaps I've been using counterfeit olive oil for many years. The fact is that I recently went to Italy and tried real olive oil and realized the difference between fake and real olive oil. It's just heaven and earth. Real olive oil is simply incredibly tasty. It's green, it has a bright, fresh, peppery, grassy flavor. All these years, I had no idea what olive oil should taste like. I used tasteless, rancid olive oil. It was almost completely flavorless, and I thought that was how it should be. And all because many companies mix olive oil with cheaper, low- quality oil. Only recently has the government taken action on some of these companies. Here are a couple of principles for choosing oil. I wouldn't choose products from big brands that you can buy in stores simply because you don't know if they're real. Ideally, find a specialty store where you can try the oil. This is the best option. You should pay attention to a couple of things. You only see extra virgin, not just virgin, not some light or refined, but that's not a guarantee that  This oil will be real, it will just help narrow down the choice. Secondly, it wo n't hurt to know the date the olives were harvested, and I'm not just talking about the expiration date or the bottling date. The fact is that companies send olive oil to the other end of the world and bottle it in another place, mixing it with other oils. We are not interested in these dates. We need the harvest date or the date the raw materials were processed. It's good if there is a stamp from a third party. 4. As I already said, it's better to buy olive oil in specialty stores. This is the best option. You can also order it directly from Italy or from some other country where they make real oil. We did just that. This is the brand we have. It's truly fresh oil. The taste is simply incredible. Unfortunately, I quickly run out of it. Almost everything I talked about is written here, but the bottle is already empty. You need to order more. Ideally, the bottle should have the name of the manufacturer or the farm where these olives were grown. Under the video, I gave links to some brands that have real oil. Go ahead and thank you for watching. I invite you to my healthy chum salmon course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you.  Burn fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.