I want to talk about why you can't resist this. Food producers, especially junk food producers, have a big problem.  You're riding on a natural one. It is not profitable to sell meat, eggs, or even milk or cheese, especially grass- fed and high-quality ones.  The profit margin on such products is tiny.  For farmers it is 1-2% at best.  And how do they solve this problem?  by producing food that gives a much stronger feeling of pleasure than natural food.  It's called super-deliciousness.  The food is so tempting that it is impossible to resist.  So, the first thing is to create an irresistible desire.  Secondly, you need to make sure that you never become completely full. Otherwise, you will just eat one chip, or maybe two, three, four, but with this or similar food you will not be able to stop.  And that's the whole point of addiction.  How do manufacturers achieve this?  They combine a couple of things. First, they need to create what's called a bliss point, a special combination of ingredients.  At one time, experts spent a long time developing the ideal combination of sugar, starch, oils and seeds, salt and flavorings that would bring maximum pleasure.  When you eat all this sugar and starch and it raises your blood sugar, your body becomes dependent on it.  Artificial flavors are substances that are very different from the natural compounds that create aroma.  Artificial flavors are much more intense, up to 300 times stronger than natural substances. These flavors are so intensely overwhelming and stimulating to the brain that repeated consumption creates a memory of that food.  You're driving down the street and notice a Thai restaurant.  You turn there because your brain remembers a past pleasure.  If you are stressed or tired, it gives some relief.  But in reality, this only creates more stress for the brain and the entire body.  If you do this over and over again , you develop resistance to dopamine.  Junk food contains almost no nutrients.  There is nothing left there.  No phytonutrients, no vitamins, no minerals.  They can spray synthetic vitamins and then say that they are there.  And then they'll write that it's orange juice with vitamin C, even though they just added ascorbic acid.  There are no nutrients.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  And there is something else missing from all these products, and that is protein.  They don't contain protein. You continue to eat carbohydrates and other foods until your need is met.  in protein.  But this food is not even food.  Food, by definition, provides energy and sustains life.  Does this food really provide all this? I doubt.  Here are some striking examples of fake food.  Let's go through the list.  Number one.  Chips with shashlik flavor.  Deep-frying starches produces the toxin acrylamite.  Plus, it contains chemicals such as monosodium glutamate.  Hidden sodium causes fluid retention.  Why do they add it?  It enhances taste sensations.  It makes food taste better than it actually is.  The next example is cheese popcorn.  You might think they're just taking some cheese and pouring it on their popcorn, but no, that's not the case.  Real cheese is used very rarely.  Instead, cheese flavoring is added.  There's a lot going on in cheese popcorn, including flavoring, which also has its own ingredients.  You've probably heard of maldextrin.  Its peculiarity is that it is classified as a starch. Maltodextrin is not classified as a sugar.  And if the amount of an ingredient is less than g - that is, half a gram, 500 mg, then you can write zero in the composition.  That's right. So, despite the sugar-free label, all this junk food is hiding a lot of maltodextrin, trans fats, and, of course, sugar.  In addition, maltodextrin is classified as a complex carbohydrate.  Do you think that complex carbohydrates are healthy?  Not all.  The next item on our list is plant-based meat.  It is also called clean meat, but it is anything but clean.  It contains various meat-like substances.  Hidden junk food and sugars, just like any other ultra-processed food in the store. One of the main ingredients is cheap protein, namely soy protein isolate. It is a protein that has undergone severe industrial processing and is almost tasteless.  But now they are strongly promoting a purely plant-based diet.  At the same time, natural products are not advertised because you can’t make much money selling greens and vegetables .   Did you remember to press the bell?  I would also like to touch on the topic of test-tube meat.   It has n't been launched for sale yet, but they are planning to.  But it won't be a vegan product because it's made using cells from an unborn calf.  They extract these cells, put them in a huge container and force them to multiply there. These cells appear to be immortal.  They live forever, like cancer cells.  But for now it is very expensive.  But we haven't figured out how to reduce costs yet .  Meanwhile, they are creating demand by trying to remove real beef from the market and discrediting it in every possible way.  They attack red meat, cows and farmers.  Point four. Fast food eateries.  I used to absolutely adore them.  I would drive up to them and there would always be a huge line.  And there are tons of monosodium glutamate and various other chemicals in food.  They even have additives in their pickles that preserve the desired color and flavor, but it’s all artificial.  Next we have maple syrup.  Extracting real maple syrup from trees is very expensive.   It's much cheaper to make artificial maple syrup from high-fructose corn syrup, dextrose, or glucose syrup with flavorings. Extra virgin olive oil  Much of the olive oil in the US, especially extra virgin olive oil, is actually diluted with other cheap oils, and there's very little olive oil there .  The next item is crab sticks.  Before, I couldn't tell the difference between real crab and crab sticks.  I bought crab sticks because they were cheaper.  What they actually do is take cod and mix the meat with starch and flavoring. It turns out to be something that smells like crab, but there is no crab anywhere near it.   The next item is cheese products.  There is no cheese in them.  This is not food, but just some kind of product.  The next item is not a product, but an ingredient.  Artificial sweeteners, I included those too.  They affect the microbiome, influence mood, and contain sweeteners that have no calories.  But does the lack of calories make them any less harmful in terms of blood sugar?  Answer: no.  They indirectly affect blood sugar and can cause insulin resistance. Given a choice between artificial sweeteners and sugar, I would choose sugar.  I will also mention honey.  Real honey is a wonderful, amazing product with a lot of phytonutrients and other substances. But there is artificial honey made from high-fructose or glucose syrup with flavoring.  And the last point. plant milk, primarily soy and oat milk.  Keep in mind that they don't have a lot of soy in them. There may be a couple of percent almonds or soy, and the rest is water, carodinan, which is harmful to the intestines, and flavorings.  If you have an addiction, excuse me, a craving for a certain food, I strongly recommend paying attention to this.