ok we have a couple of people here who want to chat live let's start with our friend Dev from St. Louis So Dev, can we ask Dr. Berg a quick question live Please Hello Dr. Berg it's great to see you A little backstory 4 or 5 years ago I was overweight I decided to give it a try I watched your videos and read a little about ketogenic diet I successfully lost weight but at the same time I started having pretty severe constipation in the end I felt so bad that I gave up ketogenic diet for a while and my body constipation went away but at the same time I gained 16 kilos which I lost on ketogenic diet and so 4-5 months ago I returned to ketogenic diet and started intermittent fasting and in this short time I lost 16 kilos but I still suffer from constipation now it's not nearly as severe this time I did something else I bought your gallbladder formula and digestion supplement and it seems to help But the problem with constipation is still there Maybe you can tell me  something else I should do sometimes I take 250 mg of magnesium citrate I take it irregularly but I also take electrolytes Do I need to take any other vitamins or supplements in addition to yours that's what I want to know I need to know some information that is missing here if you compare what you eat now with what you ate before regularly what big changes have you made in terms of foods bread did you eat more pasta sugar how has your diet changed Of course I cut out cereal I ate it every morning and I cut out all grains I went on a strict keto diet with a lot of fat I started to wonder if I added too much fat too quickly I'm just now reading your book healthy ketogenic diet and It looks like I have a liver body type and some of the symptoms that you mention in the book I have So I'm trying to reduce the amount of fat a little but I'm the kind of person that goes all out So I started eating bacon steaks and everything I started eating as many healthy fats as I could and I'm not sure  that my body was ready for this And what about greens, do you eat them at all or not Yes, I eat greens with vinegar and oil, I just recently that It's funny, I saw your recipe for making a smoothie, a smoothie with kale and spinach I hope it helps me because it's very tasteless So I will talk, I listen I will continue to try to improve its taste a little you know I do everything in my power to eat healthy and eat the right food but at the same time I would like to try to solve the problem with constipation So Try three remedies one at a time do the first Evaluate the result then do the second then the third first Try this provide nutrition to your intestinal flora good sauerkraut at least a glass of sauerkraut a day unpasteurized from a health food store and not from a can that was on the shelf look for such cabbage in the refrigerated section of the store So a glass of sauerkraut a day This will strengthen the microflora See if this helps Try eating it maybe for four days You will notice changes if this does not help do this  What Take kefir kefir without additives as a dessert add berries to it and drink kefir with berries after dinner blueberries strawberries something like that a glass of this and that in a blender and drink and your microflora will get fiber and also polyphenols and it loves them So Try drinking this for 4 days if it helps continue drinking this if it does not help Try a third remedy Take at least No, not at least But about 800 mg of magnesium magnesium glycinate Although you can also citrate and drink it every day The fact is that Magnesium deficiency is found in many people and this alone can cause constipation I think that this will help you not only from constipation but also from many other problems Magnesium deficiency is found in many people and it is very difficult to identify and it takes a long time to eliminate this deficiency I know that for many people when they started taking a little more than 200 mg per day their stool became perfect So Try these three remedies And then Tell us great Thank you very much please Thank you for your great question Dave and We hope that you will contact us in the future and  Tell me about it, thank you for waiting. Well, let's move on to quiz question number two. You too, listen, don't turn it off. Here's the question itself. So, question number two. What is the main problem if you get the required amount of protein in the form of plant-based protein powder? Dear viewers, you can answer this question and we'll return to questions from social networks. Teresa asks. Many of us talk about you when we come to a restaurant. You are undoubtedly very popular in our part of the world. We all love you. Thank you for your advice and knowledge. This is not a question. A wonderful compliment. Thank you. Teresa. Thank you, friends. Someone with the nickname Myla is the best. I think so too. Asks how to deal with diarrhea. A reverse question. Dave has. I would add kefir and blackberries to your diet. Drink them and chop them in a blender. This seems to help many people. Of course, find the cause of diarrhea. Is it food poisoning? Was there something that caused it? Eliminate this cause. Chronic diarrhea is very dangerous due to the loss of electrolytes. Perhaps it is due to some medications. Again, diarrhea is usually  caused by the fact that the body rejects some food that it does not want and it just gets rid of it in this case, you need to eliminate diarrhea and avoid what causes it great I hope this helps Kayla Lahr asks I have gum disease what should I do antidote vitamin C you may have a mild form of scurvy they say No scurvy has been completely defeated but you may have a latent form of scurvy That is, you just need to reconsider your diet get more vitamin C and know that excess carbohydrates can block the absorption of vitamin C After all, they have a similar chemical structure So I recommend switching to a healthy Keto This should help you a lot well let's continue Gini asks how much benfotiamine de for peripheral neuropathy and Dr. Berg clarify for the audience benfotiamine is a B vitamin benfotiamine is a synthetic B1 I recommend it for peripheral neuropathy and the dosage of benfotiamine should be higher than usual If I'm not mistaken the usual dose is 300 mg And you take this  dose four times during the day So you are definitely saturating your body with this nutrient to remove the kidneys And you need to exclude the cause of this problem and this is apparently carbohydrates And since we are talking about sugar and carbohydrates I want to show you something this is a product that I once consumed in large quantities Let's look at the label Guess how many sugars are here zero product without sugar and here is another one what is on the label zero sugars Wow, it looks healthy Here is another product zero sugars So if something does not say sugar then the question arises Why shouldn't we eat it if we subtract fiber from the total carbohydrate content and there is no fiber here 16 g of carbohydrates are these carbohydrates starch And what is starch is sugar bound sugar molecules it will become sugar I think even faster than sugar itself today sugar is too expensive So it is replaced with cheap starch hiding it in the form of very cheap maltodextrin modified food or corn starch if we look at this and this and read the carbohydrates read the carbohydrates multiply them by the serving size we  we'll get more sugar than here Yeah, you see, and this is per box per box, this is called hidden sugar, you go and think there's no sugar, which means everything is fine, and suddenly you fall into a sugar coma, diabetics also need to know about this. Look at how many carbohydrates there are if it says sugar-free, look at the carbohydrates, because that's sugar, unfortunately. Wow, Amanda is asking, I had anaphylactic shock from taking B12 and I have pernicious anemia. I'm very sick. I haven't found a doctor familiar with this condition. Help, maybe it's the form of B12 you were taking, it's unlikely you're allergic to it, I think it's the form. So you can get B12 from food, the best source of B12 is liver. If you don't like it, it comes in capsules, you only need grass-fed food. This is how you get B12, and it will help you a lot. Let's see what the audience answered to the second question of the quiz. What is the main problem with getting the required amount of protein in the form of plant protein powder? 78% answered that plant protein does not contain the amino acids found in meat. The vast majority (12%) indicated that it has fewer nutrients than meat. The rest indicated that the body uses it differently than meat protein. They are right in some ways. Firstly, the bioavailability of plant protein is much lower and it has fewer amino acids than meat, which we need as a building material. In addition, plant protein powder is a purified product. And during the purification process, nutrients are extracted from soybeans and peas to obtain an isolate of these proteins, while they are highly purified, chemicals are used, and so on. So it's like night and day. If you are thinking of replacing meat with pure plant powder, don't be surprised if your body's reaction to it is not very favorable. So it's best to include real good animal protein in your diet on a regular basis and not rely on plant protein. So I would eat eggs, fish, meat, including offal, good devs from Phoenix. Is there a natural remedy to improve the functioning of a gallbladder that is not functioning well? My doctor wanted to remove it, but I refused. And now he is very angry with me; I don't want to go under the knife.  Help, you can't upset the doctors. So you need to cut it, it's not good to anger the doctors. But in general, yes, you can do a lot of things if the gallbladder is sluggish and doesn't contract, you definitely need to change your diet. I argue that the doctor didn't tell you this, so start a healthy diet and see how the gallbladder reacts, because due to the overload of the liver and the entire digestive system, the valves become sluggish. After all, you may have a deficiency of vitamin B1. I will not advise taking any vitamin. You need to change your diet. And secondly, it is possible. You have and this is common bile sediment in the ducts. These are the tubes between the liver, gallbladder, and small intestine. An excellent remedy for this is tutka tutka. It increases the outflow of bile. Take it on an empty stomach, a couple of capsules in the morning, a couple of capsules in the afternoon. This greatly improves the function of the gallbladder. So, you know, I would do everything possible before removing the gallbladder. You understand, ask the doctor. Tell you about the possible complications after gallbladder removal. You can even ask him to sign a guarantee that you will not have complications and will not have problems with incontinence of stool. What do you  You won't have to take medications for chronic diarrhea caused by excess bile, that you won't have a severe infection or even problems due to the inability to digest fats, chronic belching, all of these are side effects after gallbladder removal, the consequences of which can even be the inability to absorb vitamins A, D, E, and K2. If you are guaranteed that none of this will happen, remove the written guarantee that these problems will not happen. Yes, sign here. Sirin asks if it is dangerous to take vitamin K for those who have blood clots. Yes, you need to talk to a doctor, and of course, vitamin K1 causes blood clots, so doctors don't recommend it, but you can safely eat vegetables that don't have much vitamin K1. These are all yellow vegetables, orange vegetables, golden-colored vegetables, and other colors besides dark green, but there are also natural remedies that thin the blood, such as garlic, vitamin E. You can eat a lot of things to counteract this and not be afraid that problems will arise. Excellent. We have one more question. True or false for the viewers. Please, doctor, lie. If we eat steak, chicken, and fish, we get all the vitamins.  Essential collagen protein True or false I know our viewers have an opinion on this matter Jose asks Can you give advice regarding the treatment of vitiligo on which syllable is the stress for vitiligo thank you Can I give advice yes I can there are excellent clinical case studies found a double blind study this does not mean that something does not work I have seen a number of clinical case studies this is enough for me to tell you this remedy 35,000 vitamin D3 for 8 weeks as it turned out to get rid of vitiligo I would definitely do it But you need to take cofactors K2 magnesium zinc B6 ok so let's see here Jim Good question Are all starches bad for us So it's as if I said all women are evil there is always an exception starches starches are not the same there are synthetic starches they are obtained by logical processing and on the other hand there are starches in vegetables there are starches for example yes in the same potatoes But of course there are different types of potatoes purple red white maybe even GMO potatoes And there are also starches in corn there is dent corn it is inedible sweet corn So  that undoubtedly starches are better than others, but when it comes to starch, it all depends on your insulin resistance. And this is essentially a prediabetic condition. In this case, you need to avoid large amounts of starches, especially if it has little fiber, and then you will improve your blood sugar levels. If your metabolism is flexible, you can eat more starch without consequences. But of course, the starch in such products is very different from the starch in whole foods, because it does not contain fiber and is obtained from very cheap raw materials. So, you do n’t need to eat this. Okay, quiz question number three. The audience answered. True or false. If we eat steak, chicken, and fish, we get all the necessary collagen protein. 80% of respondents said that this is true. And 20% said that this is not true. The thing is this. If you eat a tender steak, you get 1-2 about collagen. It is collagen that adds toughness to the steak. Steve. You don’t like tough steak. You like soft steak. Absolutely right. Steak with cuts. Steak is tough because it contains a lot of collagen. 30% of all the protein in our body is tendons.  The ligaments and fascia that hold everything together are collagen, and when you eat tender meat or even eggs, you get little collagen. So, that's why you should eat chicken and fish with the skin. Eat them whole. Eat bone broth to get collagen. This will greatly help people who suffer from any type of arthritis, those who have stiffness, problems with tendons, ligaments, fascia, and joint inflammation. They need more energy and can take high-quality BAT or eat everything without leaving anything, not just the meat itself. Unfortunately, lean meat alone is not enough. Your adrenal, thyroid, ovarian, or liver health depends on what type of body you have. The cause of excess weight and your poor health depends on this. Take a free test to find out your body type and get recommendations on it. L