In this video, I want to tell you how to burn more calories without training and cutting back on your diet. Is it possible, of course, if you know the right information? Most people think you need to train more and eat fewer calories. After all, 450 grams of fat is 3,500 calories. If you take the amount of calories needed for the body to work, let's say on average, it's 1,900 calories. Eating less than this amount and burning extra calories is the solution. The problem is solved. I'm losing weight. And of course, the main thing that people are advised is based on data from a site called NGS. ok it gets over 43 million views a month and here's what they advise for losing weight: first, don't skip breakfast; second, eat regularly; third, eat lots of vegetables and fruits; I agree about vegetables; and walk as much as possible and drink more water; eat more fiber; use a smaller plate; and finally, don't deny yourself any specific food; don't exclude any specific food; I don't know why this recommendation is given, but their main advice is to eat a little of everything in moderation. But here's the big problem: there are two types of energy reserves in the body: sugar reserves in the form of glycogen and not fat reserves; the volume of sugar reserves in an average person is 1700 calories, which is not much; the body of a healthy person without excess weight contains about a hundred thousand calories and fat; the real question arises: how to burn more fat calories because it's unlikely that your goal is to burn sugar reserves and then really, really want carbohydrates; don't burn fat reserves; if you eat everything in moderation, you'll only burn sugar in the body; you won't even start burning fat reserves, so if you want to burn  Not only sugar but also fat reserves, then you can’t consider different types of calories the same, some calories can be eaten more, some less, and some should be shown in moderation, for example, protein, moderation in proteins is a good idea, but carbohydrates should be reduced, because if you want to burn fat as much as possible and use it, you just need to reduce carbohydrate consumption as close to zero as possible, let’s say we have 0.5 grams of carbohydrates, 10 grams per day, 15-20 grams per day. This area will bring you good results. The more carbohydrates, the less your body will be able to use its own fat, and the fewer carbohydrates you consume, the faster your metabolism will be because you correct what is called insulin resistance, which causes a slow metabolism. Keep in mind that exercise is responsible for only 15 percent of weight loss, and diet is responsible for the remaining 85, so exercise is not as significant as you might think. Let's talk about how to lose weight without reducing calories. Let's say you consume 1950 calories a day. You eat three times a day with the possibility of snacks, so each meal is about 650 calories if you start to reduce the frequency of meals by first skipping breakfast but distributing the same calories between lunch and dinner, then with 2 meals a day you will begin to lose weight more effectively simply because you fast longer. The fact is that each meal stimulates the production of insulin and it is this that turns into, therefore, the less often you eat, the less insulin, the greater the weight loss. Move from three meals a day to IC2, but the number of calories should remain unchanged 1950 and then move on to the next stage. If you eat twice a day without snacks and you are fasting, the desire to eat will noticeably decrease. The most important thing is not to eat if you are not hungry. This means that you can eat once a day and you will not have to eat breakfast or lunch. As a result, you will have 23 hours of fasting and this is without reducing the number of calories. If you eat the same number of calories as in 3 meals, you will lose weight much more noticeably, but you will face the following problem: when fasting, you will burn your own stored energy while you are not starving yourself.  Eat, but burn your own fat. Eating as many as 1950 calories in one sitting will be difficult, although it is possible. Most people eat fewer calories, not because they are trying to lose weight, but because they have a hard time digesting it. The coolest thing is that when you eat less, you need fewer nutrients because the body switches to processing mode, processing more nutrients. This is how you can burn more fat calories without reducing your diet and without training. You need to reduce the number of meals, but keep the calorie count the same. Try to remove only certain calories and leave the others. Try it yourself and see for yourself. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.