Good question, is it possible to build muscle on intermittent fasting and ketogenic diet? I already made a video about this, but I want to take a deeper look at the training because if you do intermittent fasting and ketogenic diet but don't train, you won't build muscle. And why? Because the most important stimulator of muscle hypertrophy, that is, growth, is the intensity of training. Intensity is the key. Before I move on to training, I want to talk about what it's based on. When you do intermittent fasting constantly and have adapted to titration, you have high levels of growth hormone. Growth hormone actually causes muscle growth and also prevents muscle loss. And vice versa. If you eat frequently throughout the day and you have insulin resistance, you have problems with blood sugar, or you have prediabetes or diabetes, then your muscles will receive fewer amino acids, there will be more atrophy. So, this is a very important principle. Eat twice a day or even once a day, but I think twice a day is ideal. Keep carbohydrate intake at the upper limit of 50 grams per day. This is true. Carbohydrates stimulate insulin. insulin is an anabolic hormone, but not  Exceed the maximum to avoid causing insulin resistance, so a smart solution would be to set a limit on carbohydrate intake. Of course, you need to make sure that you have enough whole proteins for muscles, but you don't need to overdo it. So, 200-220 grams of protein per meal would be a good option. But keep in mind that when you consume protein, be it meat, fish, eggs, or something else, at least half goes to waste in the form of glucose because protein is converted into glucose or in the form of nitrogen compounds. You don't absorb all the protein unless you take certain amino acid mixtures. If you simply eat more protein for muscle growth, this will not help. It will only put additional stress on the kidneys and liver and lead to excess glucose. Getting enough sleep is, of course, very important. If you don't sleep, your stress increases and cortisol breaks down proteins in the muscles. The information I'm telling you now is very effective. I took this from an interview. The story of us eggs. He is a six-time champion of the Mr. Olympia competition. I wanted to know what he says about muscle growth and I liked what he said. Yes, most bodybuilders, including himself, took steroids and growth hormone.  but I really liked his thoughts on muscle growth and I think it's very logical personally I don't do it simply because it's not my goal yet but I think it's worth considering here's what he said first he did a warm-up two sets or approaches like most people in general he warmed up the muscles with light weights but then he did one approach with an extremely heavy weight of 68 reps he did these reps to failure and a little longer he gave it his all 100 and then when he couldn't anymore he called someone to help him do a couple more presses he trained to failure and this is based on his principle of intensity he brought the intensity of the training to the maximum because in fact the idea is in muscle damage trying to destroy muscles with the severity of training but a couple of important points you need to keep perfect form and you don't need to involve other muscles and during training dynamics you don't need to choose any one muscle and work it to failure and even more but he said something else very, very interesting and when you pump a muscle let's say you do a bench press the pectoral muscle contracts when you tense up and then you  When you return the weight, there is a concentric movement, that is, a contraction, and there is an eccentric movement, a stretch. When I lower the barbell during the bench press, my pectoral muscles stretch and the eccentric part is negative, which is stronger than the concentric part, which is often neglected. What he did was, with the help of a person, he focuses on the negative part and performs it to exhaustion. If someone is spotting you while you are doing the bench press and you have just done 8 reps to failure, ask him to help you with the concentric part, lift the barbell up to the end and then lower it slowly, continue until you can no longer do this to failure. In this way, you completely exhaust it to such an extent that it will be damaged. This muscle should be trained once a week, there is no need to touch it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. He trained one muscle per week and, most importantly, allowed it to fully recover. Many people make a huge mistake: they train when their muscles have not yet fully healed, which is why scar tissue and injuries appear. The fifth point is complete recovery. This is what makes muscles grow. Training with intensity only damages.  The muscles then need to be given time to heal and at the next workout you will be a little stronger and at some point it is worth starting to increase the weight of the barbell until the muscle grows, that is, you do not need to chase dynamics, you need clear controlled movements with a pause between them when bench pressing, lift the barbell to the end, pause and return it to the end, perform eccentric movements longer than concentric ones in general, we have a warm-up of one intense approach per 1 Dorian could pump a certain muscle with several different exercises, he also did one workout to failure and then only once a week if you need details, buy one of his books and read he trained one hour a day 4 times a week outside of training, he did cardio, which helps recovery if you are going to do this, you do not need to do everything at once, otherwise you will harm yourself and you need to enter into this very gradually, try hiring a personal trainer, you need to reach the intensity of training to failure and then further in a few weeks, but I think that if you combine these workouts with ketogenic and interval Keep stress to a minimum by fasting, get enough sleep, and you'll begin muscle hypertrophy. Full recovery is very important. It will help with muscle hypertrophy. You need to train intensely to cause damage and aching pain, but then you need to fully recover to trigger hypertrophy. This can take more than a week, two weeks, and sometimes even three if you're new to this. Thanks for watching.