Today I'll tell you about the curious methods that manufacturers use to mislead people who read the information on the composition of products. I will not talk about the front of the package where they write something like "straight from a free-range farm" or "natural product". I will talk mainly about the composition data. A lot is written there, but we will look in detail at the important things that you need to know. First, the serving size. When you look at the indicated amount, especially the total carbohydrate content, digestible carbohydrates, sugars. You know that this is the amount in one serving, they are in the entire package. So, look at how much is in one serving and how much is in all the cans. How many servings are you eating at this meal? Then multiply the digestible carbohydrates in a serving by the number of servings. Otherwise, it can very easily confuse you. Because some products contain, say, thirty-three servings, and you can eat a whole can thinking that everything is okay, although in fact everything is not okay. The next point is trans fats. They are listed in the total fat content section at the top. In accordance with the standard, if a product contains less than half a gram of trans fats, that is, less than 500 milligrams, then the manufacturer can Indicate that the amount of trans fats is zero and remember the serving size. If there are, say, 30 servings in a can, and one serving contains 499 milligrams of trans fats, and you eat the whole can, you will get a lot of trans fats without realizing it. How do you know if a product contains trans fats? In the ingredients section, look for the two terms hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated. If either of these two terms is listed, then the product contains trans fats. The next thing I'll talk about is the most important part of this video. It will allow you to really understand what carbohydrates are and what they mean. There is the total carbohydrate content, they also indicate dietary fiber, and even lower, the total amount of sugars, then added sugars are indicated, and even lower, sugar alcohol and sugar alcohol may be indicated, and this is a sweetener, which apparently does not increase insulin very much, so they are not classified as sugars. Instead, they are classified as sugar alcohol. Now, digestible carbohydrates, what are they? Digestible carbohydrates are the total carbohydrate content minus fiber. Fiber is essentially digestible carbohydrates.  This is what you will track to be in ketosis, that is, to be in ketosis, digestible carbohydrates should be less than 50 grams per day. It may seem that this is quite easy to understand and adhere to, but manufacturers use a couple of tricks to make these numbers look more acceptable. Let's talk about the first trick: malt dextrin. Maltodextrin is mainly a polysaccharide. What is a polysaccharide? It is starch, and starch is a series of sugars that are linked to each other. Therefore, starch is not classified as sugar. It is classified as a general carbohydrate. And here's how it is classified: if a product contains a polysaccharide, starch does not necessarily classify it as a sugar. If it is a disaccharide, that is, two sugars linked to each other, or even a monosaccharide, that is, a single sugar like glucose, then it must be classified as a sugar. But since maltodextrin is a polysaccharide, it does not necessarily have to be listed among sugars, despite the fact that it acts like a sugar. After all, maltodextrin has a much higher glycemic index than sugar and higher than glucose. Maltodextrin, this index is above one hundred to one hundred thirty-six, very high, the reason is that it is absorbed in the stomach much faster than sugar, because it is a completely unnatural product. Maltodextrin is obtained by chemically breaking down corn starch. Maltodextrin is also obtained from tapioca, wheat, potatoes, and kris, but usually the raw material is heated under high pressure with chemicals from corn starch, and maltodextrin is obtained. Maltodextrin is found in a huge variety of products. If maltodextrin does not contain a disaccharide or monosaccharide, they should be listed as sugars. However, you can buy maltodextrin on Amazon right now and these babies will say that there is no sugar in it. All these are carbohydrates, that is, all this is starch. The problem is that in advertising this product they often write less than one gram of sugar or does not contain sugar, but it contains a lot of carbohydrates that act like sugar, even worse than sugar. It is interesting that maltodextrin is often used not as a sweetener, but as an additive to increase fluidity, to dry out some  extracts, for example, stevia extract, and then if there is less than half a gram of maltodextrin in one serving, it is allowed to write that it is not there, that is, you can consume maltodextrin without even knowing it if there is less than 500 milligrams in one serving. Everything I said about maltodextrin does not apply to dextrin because dextrin is also a polysaccharide starch that acts like sugar, and it is not listed as sugar, nor as starch in the total carbohydrate content section. Avoid any products with malt dextrins or dextrin for us. And to complicate things even more, there is so-called resistant maltodextrin, it is classified as fiber, that is, manufacturers have found a way to chemically transform this polysaccharide, this starch maltodextrin fiber, these are isolated chemically obtained so-called functional fibers, and now functional fibers are positioned as a useful ingredient. There are soluble corn fibers, in fact, resistant maltodextrin, there are tapioca fibers, resistant maltodextrin, all of these are fibers.  They don't indicate sugars and they are subtracted from the total carbohydrate content, so you can consume a lot of these new fibers that are not even taken into account here because they are included in the section with fibers. The question is, do they affect blood sugar? There is data that it is possible, yes, but here's the problem. These new functional fibers are a new element in our diet and for many people they cause a lot of problems with digestion, inflammation, bloating, gas, diarrhea, so there is no answer yet. But personally, I prefer to get fiber from real food like vegetables. There is a big difference between isolated synthetic fibers and natural fibers with all the other factors that act in combination. Just think about the source of these fibers: wheat, corn, potatoes, rice, tapioca. I'm not even talking about whether it has gamma or not, etc., and so this is what concerns fibers. Let's talk a little about sugar alcohols. I already said that sugar alcohols can also be subtracted from the total carbohydrates when calculating, just like fibers. There is sugar alcohol, which definitely causes a spike in blood sugar and creates a problem. One of the worst things is that there is also sorbitol and mannitol. Silitol can also affect blood sugar in  To some extent, but less than other alcohols, and I know of only one sugar alcohol that doesn't affect blood sugar, which is Retreat. Although sugar alcohols are subtracted from the total carbohydrate count when calculating digestible carbohydrates, they can still affect blood sugar. In addition, some of these fibers or functional fibers, resistant starch, which you consume, create a lot of digestive problems, and stress in the digestive system can raise blood sugar levels due to the inflammation it creates. By the way, when you make ghetto-friendly baked goods using Retreat, you usually add stevia or monk fruit, maltodextrin is added to them, so if you buy a sweetener, make sure it doesn't contain maltodextrin or dextrin. Maltodextrin is often not even that sweet, but it is added as a filler. It gives flavor and creates a certain consistency almost like fat, but it definitely acts as a carbohydrate. So, we look at the label and find out the amount of digestible carbohydrates. It is very important to understand what type of carbohydrates are contained in a given product, because if we want to follow a healthy version  In a keto diet, we need healthy ingredients, so those 50 grams of digestible carbohydrates should be quality carbohydrates that are rich in nutrients, and resistant starch and do not have the nutritional value of normal real food. Another deception of manufacturers is associated with so- called whole grains. Just look at all those shelves with cereal in the store. I'm talking about the worst grain products, they are full of sugar, but they say whole grain and people think that means something healthy. But what about everything else that is added to these cereals for taste? Of course, it is sugar, all sorts of chemicals, preservatives, not to mention the fact that whole grains are ground into flour and who knows how long and did not oxidize on the shelf before they were made into a product. Fragile fat-soluble vitamins in grains are extremely vulnerable to oxygen and heat, they can spoil very quickly, then a product is made from this, it sits on the shelf for some time, as a result, you eat a product that has very, very little inside, so completely whole grain does not mean completely healthy. I want to say something about What else do they actually add wheat gluten to some aesthetically compatible products? Yes, it's a protein, but many people are intolerant to gluten and have a lot of digestive problems from this protein. And then there are isolates of their own protein. Perhaps one of the lowest-quality sources of protein is isolates of their own protein. It's not something natural that we should eat. Regarding sweeteners, even summer-compatible products contain sugar, but there's little of it in them, and often it's not even cane sugar, but beet sugar, and 95 percent of all beet sugar is gamma. It contains traces of glyphosate, a herbicide that is sprayed on gamma-containing wheat plants. This also applies to non-gamma-containing wheat, but sometimes they also spray glyphosate. I'll say a few words about the nigma label, this doesn't mean free of genetically modified organisms. It means verified by the GMO-free project. In fact, such a product is checked for compliance with a number of standards. It is not necessarily checked for GMO content or any other products. There is a certain list that it passes through. Reduce the risk of GMOs in a product, so verified by the GMO-free project does not mean that the product is definitely GMO-free. The last thing I want to say is antibiotics. The label "no antibiotics" on a product does not mean that antibiotics were not used, only that antibiotics cannot be used after the second day of life. But as for eggs, if the chick has not yet hatched, or let's say it has already hatched, lived one day, it was given antibiotics, and from the second day, antibiotics are not given to it, the product can be classified as antibiotic-free, although the chick was given antibiotics on the first day. The phrase "no growth-promoting antibiotics" does not mean that antibiotics were not used, just that antibiotics were used for other purposes, not necessarily to accelerate the growth of the chicken, but, say, for its treatment. The phrase "no medically important antibiotics" means that antibiotics for humans were not used, but other antibiotics could have been used, not intended for humans, but for animals. I just wanted to tell you how manufacturers are cunning to encourage you to buy their products. I highly advise you to start reading labels and apply this information. I think that now it is best for you to watch a video about fake products. Look here.