We will all grow old someday, but it is not necessary to age prematurely. Many people do not like wrinkles, so they fight wrinkles, they use creams, serums, Botox and much more, but do not change anything inside. It is important to understand that the aging we see on the outside actually happens inside, and wrinkles are associated with collagen and connective tissue. The fascia that frames all our muscles and our entire body becomes rigid, this leads to a certain posture, the body bends forward, often by the age of 4 we lose a quarter of the collagen in connective tissues. Today we will talk about how to avoid this or reverse it, and I am talking about premature aging, not about completely stopping the aging process. What cannot be done is that there is a certain enzyme in the body that actually destroys collagen. Among the readers of the growth of this enzyme, there is also ultraviolet radiation, excess sunlight and sunburn. This can also be a trigger. However, I recommend being in the sun more often, we will return to this a little later, but here is what is important to understand. The more sugar in your body, the more protein it locks up.  and the more blockages it forms. If you eat a lot of refined sugars, you will look old. I want to explain something about sugar. Many people are afraid of sugar, avoid it and buy food that has little sugar, but may have a lot of carbohydrates. And what kind of carbohydrates are there? Starches. Starch is a chain of sugar molecules linked together. So, starch is sugar, and when I talk about starch, I don’t mean the starch in foods like vegetables or even potatoes. We’re talking about ultra-tank, maltodextrin, or modified food. Are they much worse than sugar? And even if there is no sugar in the composition, you need to look. What else is there? Starches are hidden sugar. But there is one substance, vitamin D. It helps protect us from collagen loss. I recommend everyone take at least 10,000 vitamin D3 for many reasons, including protection against premature aging. The body has cells that produce collagen. And the most powerful stimulator of gene production is exercise. You need to move your body and not sit still. Start using your body and it will produce more collagen. With age, we become more susceptible to joint injuries.  and here are a couple of recommendations for older people, the plank exercise. When you hold your body in a push-up position, it's not just the body that's tense, but the joints are motionless. This alone will enhance production. There are also so-called eccentric exercises. When you lengthen them, for example, you start from a push-up position, you lower yourself and then slowly rise, this creates a lot of tension and stimulates collagen. Or, on a bar, you pull yourself up and then slowly lower yourself. This is how you lengthen collagen production. It's like sprinting, but it's very important to be gradual. You little by little force your body to adapt to this movement, including blood vessels, heart valves, and tissues. It's not just about looking younger, but also about health throughout the body. Nutrients needed for collagen production are also important, and vitamin C is first on this list. Vitamin C helps create collagen, but two things block vitamin C: first, sugar, and second, smoking. By the way, the product richest in vitamin C is unpasteurized sauerkraut. One glass a day will give you ten times the amount of vitamin C. The next most important  The collagen cofactor is vitamin K2. Vitamin K2 maintains the health of cartilage, ligaments, tendons, fascia, and skin, making it more beautiful and youthful. Where can I get vitamin K2? It can be obtained from the liver, yolks, and butter. The next important cofactor is magnesium. It allows the body to create collagen. Magnesium is associated with three hundred enzymes in the body. In addition, it enables vitamin D to work, which in turn protects collagen from destruction. Mango is rich in dark chocolate, almonds, spinach, and so on. The next very important cofactor is zinc. Zinc maintains youthful skin and also accelerates wound healing. Where can I get zinc? It is found in oysters in the greatest quantity. It can also be obtained from red meat and liver. The last cofactor on our list is copper. Its sources are oysters, red meat, mollusks, and crustaceans, liver, and dark chocolate. I want to say that the so-called ideal protein can greatly age you. Usually, it is of terrible quality. Apparently, the combination of such a protein with very low fat content and artificial ingredients leads to a person looking older, as well as problems with the liver and gallbladder. The quality of the protein matters instead. Plant protein like isolates and in general instead of plant protein, I would recommend grass-fed beef. It is important to understand that if you get a lot of protein from lean chicken, turkey, and even pork, you get much more omega-6 fatty acids than omega-3 fatty acids. And in completely grass-fed meat, this ratio is much better. Another very important thing is autophagy, which translates as self-damage proteins, a kind of rejuvenation. This process can be started through intermittent fasting without snacks. If you eat two or one meal a day, the body heals. This is another important factor. And finally, sleep. If you or someone else has been sleeping poorly for some time, they are aging quickly due to stress and high cortisol. We need to get enough sleep, and exercise helps reduce stress. But there is another thing you may have never heard of. It is worth studying one of the most powerful hormones against stress - Oxytocin. There is a way to independently prepare one dairy product with certain microorganisms. It can be grown in a milk-based starter culture.  and there is the resulting product, 120 g per day, what is the benefit of this thing? This microorganism produces something that then rises along the vagus nerve to the brain and gets to the hypothalamus. And there are receptors that react to this, and these microorganisms, if they increase the amount of oxytocin enough, which noticeably improves sleep and also significantly reduces stress and even ultimately rejuvenates the skin and muscles. I gave you a lot of information that will help reverse aging and will definitely protect you from premature aging and power on the skin. And if you want to learn even more about youthful skin. Come to my course. I invite you to my mini-course. Health diagnostics by skin. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems inside the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.