Hello, in this video we will discuss how to get rid of cellulite, the disgusting, hateful stuff that spoils the appearance of both the buttocks and thighs. First, let's figure out what cellulite is. Normally, under the layer of skin there is connective tissue, a kind of shell of connective tissue called fascia, it seems to ensure the integrity of this entire structure. It is like a wrapper, then there is a layer of fat, these fat cells are under the fascia, and below are the muscles. This is a layered cake. What happens with cellulite? The fat layer increases, its cells become larger and fill with fat. As a result, the fascia stretches too much. It is like a web, it should hold everything, but it begins to move apart, and fat protrudes through it, forming something like ripples on the skin. Their muscles atrophy, the entire structure becomes flabby and sags, and so the root of the problem is muscle atrophy, an increase in fat cells and ruptures of the fascia. This is the whole problem. Now let's look at how to reverse the process and what can be done. For example, during pregnancy, a woman gains a lot of weight and then loses it, or gains weight, goes on a diet and  Losing weight will lead to cellulite because the fat cells stretch too much and as a result, this effect occurs. Usually, during menopause, a hormonal shift occurs, a woman becomes less active and this situation worsens. First, you need to reduce fat cells and remove fat from there. By losing weight, getting rid of fat, we do not get rid of fat cells, they simply become smaller, but you cannot get rid of them completely. They can only be reduced. To do this, you need to understand the main hormone that controls how much fat gets there, and this is insulin. It needs to be reduced. You cannot get rid of cellulite without first lowering insulin levels. How to lower it. Under the video, I gave a link to change your diet, eliminate carbohydrates, start intermittent fasting. I listed the video what you need to watch. As a result, fat will definitely decrease due to the enlarged fat cells in the body, more inflammatory processes also occur, so it is very likely that with cellulite, the hips will hurt. As soon as the fat decreases, the pain will go away, and so we reduce insulin. Second, you need to make the fascia more elastic. Fascia is controlled by hormones, primarily growth hormone. Growth hormone fights aging and affects all proteins in the human body.  Not only on hair, skin, and nails, but also on the fascia under the skin of the thighs and buttocks covering this fat. If the weight loss method is unhealthy, the problem with growth hormone will not be solved and cellulite will not be eliminated. The main thing in this process is liver health, you need to stimulate growth hormone, but we are not talking about taking hormones. You will have to do exercises without them. You need to engage the muscles to activate growth hormone. The best option is a combination of short but intense exercise on the whole body, especially on the legs and thighs, and plenty of rest. The main thing is recovery, sleep, so you need to sleep more, train intensively, but not too much rest. This will restore the desired tone to both fascia and muscles. A moderate amount of protein is needed: we need high-quality amino acids from egg yolks. Only non-fat protein powder. You need to eat more fat. If you still go for protein powder, add fat. Intermittent fasting is very important because it stimulates growth hormone. If you eat 5-6 times a day and even snack, growth hormone will never increase. Third, cortisol is very destructive to muscles, so a large amount of cortisol is due to stress.  it will only be a hindrance, there will be a lot of insulin and little growth hormone, with cortisol, you need to figure out if necessary, directly support the adrenal glands because they control the level of cortisol, first of all, you need to get rid of stress, get more sleep, this is very important, and also vitamin D, be in the sun if you can, more sun and more walks, walks will remove cortisol, so on those days when you do not exercise, walk, this is very important and the last thing about estrogen, perhaps you noticed that women have cellulite more often than men and estrogen is to blame for this, estrogen produces fat, unfortunately, because of estrogen, fat is deposited on the hips, how to reduce estrogen, you need to eat cruciferous vegetables, you need to properly improve the health of the liver, it is very important to achieve this and the last thing I want to mention is that cellulite is not a trifle, it is a serious problem, a consequence of chronic problems, it does not form instantly, it takes years and you will not be able to get rid of it instantly, it may take two or three years and only then the tissues will begin to look as they should, do not quit if there is no result in a week, keep in mind that recovery takes a lot of time, especially during Over time, you'll notice changes in menopause. Your skin will improve. Take before and after photos so you can see everything clearly. Don't constantly look in the mirror for changes. Apply this and share your results in the comments. Okay, forget it, I'm all done. Click subscribe and I'll keep you updated.