Today we'll talk about how to deal with ishes. I have quite a few videos about ISA. This is an update. Because there is one stretch that I think will help you the most. I'm constantly looking for faster and less complicated ways to solve problems. This method is very simple. The first question is: What is ISA? This is pain that can originate from the lower back and spread down the legs. Usually, along the back of the leg, the sciatic nerve is the longest and thickest nerve in the body. This nerve usually starts in the area between L4 and S3. I'll show you now. Here are the five lumbar vertebrae. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth sciatic nerve starts at B4 in the nerve. Here it covers some nerves of this lower part of the sacrum. All these nerves form the sciatic nerve, which runs along the back of the leg. You need to know that 90% of the time, sciatic nerve pain is associated with a disc. It can also be associated with disc degeneration when the vertebrae begin to deteriorate and the discs become thinner. This is why, with age, sciatica-type pain can occur more often. Here's what's interesting about disc problems when  we look at an x-ray or an MRI and see a problem with the disc, this is almost always accompanied by a loss of lumbar curve, this is called loss of lordosis, that is, the natural curve in the lower back. If you have sciatic nerve pain, you have probably lost the normal curve of the lower back. Normally, the lower back should look like this. And in yours, it is like this. When you lose the curve in the lower back, the distances between the vertebrae decrease. Now the question is this: How can we restore this curve? Will you do stretching using a foam support? Lumbar support, you can call it a foam roller or a lumbar support. The roller should be firm enough so that when you lie on your back on the NM, it exerts noticeable pressure on the side. To restore this curve, you can use different things. I found this, I think it was at Target. It’s a lumbar roller. You can use something similar. You can use something like this. I used to sell them, but I don’t sell them anymore because you can easily buy a round foam roller and cut it into two pieces. This can be used as support. You can even do nothing.  Cut and lie down with this roller under your lower back. You can find other foam shapes that correct the lower back even better. There is this shape: if you lie on such a support, your legs should be pointed in this direction, and your head should be in this one so that the peak of the support rests directly on the center of the lower back, approximately at L3 or L2. So, when you lie on this support, you are constantly stretching these ligaments, muscles, and tendons, and here is one secret. When you lie on this support, I would say the first 10 or even 15 minutes you will feel very good, you will feel relief, but this will not correct the curvature. You seem to bend your lower back within the limits of its flexibility. It bends like rubber and returns. But there is an amazing study about increasing the time you lie on this support. If you lie on this support, say, 20 minutes every day, or even a little longer, then this curvature begins to correct itself. Because this affects deeper ligaments and, as it were, changes the shape of the lower back. So, you need to lie on this support for 20 minutes every evening. The problem  The thing is that when you lie on this support, your buttocks will apparently be raised and at first it will be very uncomfortable. Start with 10 minutes and gradually increase the time to 15 minutes, then 16. Work gradually. After all, when you get up, there will be severe stiffness and pain. But understand that you are restoring the curve slowly and gradually. You can gradually put a pillow under your buttocks, but continue to work on this every day until you bring the time to 20 minutes and until you feel comfortable on this support. Although your sciatic nerve pain has already disappeared, continue to do this. Ideally, you need to correct this curve so that the pain does not return. Moreover, the main harmful factor that disrupts the lumbar curve is a sitting posture. And many sit at a table all day, then watch TV hunched over and they lose this curve. And this is how you can return it. If you haven’t watched my video about lower back pain, you should probably watch it. Here it is. Watch it.