Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll talk about how to solve the problem of low testosterone. Are you ready to learn the secret? Are you ready to sit down and the point is not to stimulate testosterone production at all? No, one of the most important principles here is that avoiding certain things will improve testosterone levels. First, let's talk about the symptoms, and then I'll tell you what you can do to increase production. I'll tell you about three things that you should avoid at all costs to restore your desired testosterone level. So, first, let's discuss the symptoms: decreased libido, worsening erection, decreased vitality, excess weight appears in the waist area and you can't gain muscle mass. A man exercises physically, but the muscles do not return or do not grow. These are signs of testosterone deficiency. It's interesting that with age, at 40, 50, 60, testosterone levels continue to decline. In women, everything happens differently; their levels increase, on the contrary, let's consider what leads to this. Yes, you can take zinc, eat seafood, beef, lamb, sesame seeds, pumpkin seeds. You can also take vitamin D. You can get it by being in the sun or  Consuming cod liver oil is the only vegetarian source of vitamin D, mushrooms, and vitamin A from cod liver oil. Doing resistance exercise can all stimulate testosterone, but it's not as effective as avoiding these three things. I'll tell you about them now. There are three hormones in the presence of which testosterone is greatly reduced. The first is insulin, which regulates blood sugar. 2. Estrogen: When estrogen increases, testosterone decreases. 3. Cortisol: When cortisol increases, testosterone decreases. Of these three, insulin and cortisol will lower testosterone. But the most important thing to pay attention to is estrogen levels. It often happens that estrogen levels are too high. The older a man gets, the higher his estrogen levels are, and the lower his testosterone levels are. You can notice how a man's voice gets higher, his skin becomes thinner and softer. It's all estrogen. I'll leave links under the video, where I tell you what to do if you have insulin resistance and what you should avoid in this case. Intermittent fasting, eliminating sugar. I don't want to dwell on this. You need to focus on estrogen, but insulin and cortisol  You need to fix cortisol, it will settle down if you get rid of stress and improve sleep and somehow improve the function of the adrenal glands. Now let's go back to estrogen. A person gets the most hidden estrogen from eating animal products, not because the animals are injected with estrogen, but because of what they are fed. If the cattle are not grass-fed, this means that they are given soy and grain. I am touched by these labels on the packaging, saying that these eggs are from chickens on vegetarian feed. This means that the chickens are given soy and corn, and both are gamma. This alone will increase the estrogen level in such food. There are a lot of pesticides and herbicides like Roundup Ready, but the worst is soy-based food that is given to chickens and cattle. This is what harms people the most. There is even an organization trying to monitor this, but they have not made much progress due to the political side of the issue. In general, if you want to eat animal food, it should be from grass- fed animals and necessarily organic due to the effect on estrogen. And also  If there is excess fat in the human body, the aromatase enzyme comes into play. It is actually located in adipose tissue and it converts the last remnants of testosterone into estrogen. That is, the body itself produces estrogen, not only animal food and everything else. I will give some tips on how to put estrogen in order. The root of the problem with estrogen is in the liver, so the liver needs to be brought into excellent condition. The main foods that you should eat that will best help in reducing estrogen and that block aromatase are cruciferous vegetables. You may have heard of them. Kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts. Make yourself a smoothie and scallop beet greens and parsley. Parsley is an excellent anti- estrogenic vegetable. This is a must. Olive oil also copes with this. Celery mushrooms are an excellent anti-estrogen. The most common mushrooms with small caps. Just start eating them. One study showed that in women with breast cancer who ate 200 grams of mushrooms a day, the tumor decreased by half.  and this is a very significant percentage, start changing your diet to improve your liver health. In addition to animal feed, something else increases estrogen. This is soy, in any form of soy protein isolate. Soy is found in many products. It greatly increases estrogen, and 95 percent of soy is hidden. The source of estrogen that I wanted to mention is alcohol. Alcohol greatly stimulates estrogen, which is why men develop breasts like their wives and prostate problems. It's all from estrogen. That's what I wanted to tell you. This is the most important thing to pay attention to. If testosterone is low and estrogen is to blame, get your liver in order and eat more vegetables to get rid of estrogen. Switch to grass-fed foods. Thank you for your request. I invite you to my course in the morning. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.