Hello everyone Today we will start with a quiz question I ask you doc ​​So if leg cramps are caused by a magnesium deficiency but taking magnesium does not change anything What could be the reason Dear viewers, you can answer and we will continue to answer questions on social networks Melissa with tuba on the 5th I am scheduled for gallbladder removal surgery I can understand the situation before this date I have a gallstone and possibly a polyp and also a thickening of the gallbladder wall What do you say doc I repeat I cannot give medical advice this is just my opinion you need to look for more data How big is your stone and can you take it Is it possible Can your doctor prescribe you such a thing Medin medications like bile salts can you take a lot of bile salts for some time to reduce the gallstone because it is a stone made of extremely saturated cholesterol that appeared due to the fact that there was not enough bile If this is not possible Can they remove your stone but leave the gallbladder such questions I would ask Well, okay, let's say the bladder is removed And what will prevent the stone from appearing again without gallbladder bile flows directly into the duct. What about stones in the liver? I would ask all these questions. I would study the data on bile salts and another type of bile salt called tutka and see if they can help. It all depends on how bad you are. The size of the stone. If it is very large, there is hardly a chance to reduce it, but if it is small. You can think about it. Well, okay, let's see what we have here. A question from Jim with tuba. What do you think about intestinal health? Specifically, about food that remains in the intestines and rots. It is unpleasant to think about this. There must be very severe constipation for it to begin to rot. I think that fermentation of some foods, incomplete digestion, changes in intestinal microflora, bloating, gas formation, and all that can increase. To solve this problem, I would switch to a very healthy eating plan with intermittent fasting. For those who eat too often, this long tube is always the first part of our intestine is more than 6 m and the last one and a half meters, and this long tube in people is clogged with food around the clock, they eat too often and it has no opportunity to be released.  from food Eat once a day to cleanse the intestines Eat for its health and you may have sibir then you need probiotics I have a lot of videos about this but I don’t think that food directly rots unless you have something like a plug And now let’s find out the answers to the quiz question about it sounded like this if leg cramps are caused by a magnesium deficiency but taking magnesium does not change anything What could be the reason 75% answered that the reason is dehydration 20% said that the reason is a lack of potassium and 5% said that the reason is a lack of vitamin B1 good So I will make a video about this but I think it is very important to understand that there is a problem with the wrong form of vitamin or magnesium magnesium oxide will not increase magnesium levels sufficiently and magnesium glycinate is an excellent form But maybe you need to take it longer And also the effect of magnesium depends on vitamin D and if you have little vitamin D magnesium simply does not work So there are many factors And sometimes you want to get rid of cramps in 3 days but in 3 days  You won't replenish the deficiency, but only slightly patch this hole. With atrial fibrillation, it can take a month or a month and a half, with osteoporosis, more than a year to replenish the magnesium deficiency. So, you need to know all this and understand that the means of solving the problem may be correct, but its form is incorrect; this is the problem of healthcare. I think most people become doctors to help. But they are not given the right tools, or not all the tools. They are not taught about dietetics and nutrients. They are taught only to manage symptoms. It is important to master these basic tools. Lastly, perhaps you haven't heard of my New Channel: Garden and Vegetable Garden. Winter is a great time to watch it. Check it out, there will be various videos about soil and how to grow something. I will leave a link to it below and subscribe to this channel so you don't miss new videos.