I will answer the question of whether it is possible to gain muscle mass with intermittent fasting. Let's say you want to fast with benefit and at the same time build muscle. How can you do this? There are several factors here. Sometimes people think that for muscle growth you need to activate insulin and they practice carbohydrate loading, because if there are a lot of carbohydrates, insulin will jump. insulin is an anabolic hormone. It sounds logical, yes, but in reality, if you stimulate insulin so much, insulin resistance will occur. In this case, you will no longer be able to properly absorb amino acids. Therefore, people with diabetes and insulin resistance do not absorb proteins and amino acids so well. So you are trying to build muscle, and all this glucose and insulin create resistance, preventing proteins from entering the body. There is a product called the SMAS series. Here it is on the screen. In theory, if you eat this thing, your muscles will grow. Two-dimensional spoons contain 200 52 grams of carbohydrates. In just two spoons, the main ingredient is malta dextrin and it is much worse than sugar and than High fructose corn syrup has a glycemic index of about 110, so choosing it will increase your intake, but due to the large amount of fat, this will lead to a spike in blood sugar and cause many complications. Let's talk about other factors. I would advise eating twice a day if you are trying to build muscle mass, not once but twice a day, and fast for at least 16 hours. That is, you fast for 16 hours and have an 8-hour window for eating. Let's say you eat the first time at ten in the morning and the second at six in the evening. You can eat in any mode, but at first, 16 hours is the minimum to see the result because this is done to activate the growth hormone. But over time, you should increase the fasting interval more and more until the fasting interval reaches 21 hours, and it will get you there in three hours. This is ideal. You also need to make sure that there are enough calories, because if you don't eat enough, it will be difficult to build muscle, so you need to determine how many calories you need. The average person needs about one and a half thousand calories per meal or a little more. The next thing that is very important is the number of workouts. There should be enough of them. Use weight training. Train until you feel your muscles ache and something is changing. Children, carbohydrates should probably be kept at the upper limit, but not exceed 10 grams. It depends on age. Let's say you're young, you can eat 60 grams or even 70, but no more. This way, you'll benefit from ketones. There will be enough carbohydrates to keep insulin normal. With a low-carb diet and intermittent fasting, we don't lower insulin to zero, we just bring it into a normal range. That is, you create an anabolic effect from insulin, but without insulin resistance, following these points, you can also absorb amino acids. This leads us to the next point: whole protein. Branched-chain amino acids are not whole. You ca n't produce muscle protein from only a partial set of amino acids. You need the most complete protein, and the best available protein is egg white. Fish is good to eat other types of essential amino acid mixtures. They are especially useful during fasting, just to be 100% sure that you don't lose muscle. Considering what has been said, if the intermittent fasting lasts 16  hours or 21 you will not lose muscle and be sure to consume enough amino acids from 170 to 2.30 grams at a time depending on age if you are young and active you can take 250 grams of nutrients muscles are built not only from protein other nutrients are needed calcium B vitamins magnesium vitamin D potassium they are absolutely necessary so you need to follow a healthy version of ketone here is what else slows down progress high cortisol is a stress hormone it can be high from lack of sleep sleep increases growth hormone and cortisol suppresses growth hormone this is the path to serious loss of muscle mass this problem occurs in women in menopause the adrenal glands protect the ovaries and at the same time cortisol jumps and muscle mass is often lost it looks like fat but it is atrophy so cortisol is very destructive to muscles stress levels should be as low as possible if you are starting a long fast I do not recommend exceeding three days if you want to preserve muscle it is not that big a problem but if you are a beginner in this fasting for a long time without having  If you have sufficient stored reserves, this may slightly reduce muscle mass. These are the factors that help maintain and build muscle mass during intermittent fasting. If you've recently visited the channel, watch this video. In it, I talk about a healthy way to do intermittent fasting.