I will show you the best way to eliminate the cause of dark circles under the eyes, this is called periorbital shadows. If you search, you will find a lot of different remedies for this problem. They all work, but the trouble is that they only work temporarily, you will have to use them again and again. This list includes koi acid, vitamin C, aloe vera, nicotinamide, a type of vitamin B3, and even cucumber extract. Or cucumbers themselves. All this will work temporarily. Take this remedy and rub it under your eyes and do this for several days or even weeks. What do all of this have in common? It suppresses melanin, which causes skin pigmentation. Yes, you can probably use it with almost no side effects, but I want to talk about two real sources of the problem. What will allow you to get rid of it completely? To deal with the first, you need to understand a little how hormones work. There is a small gland in the brain called the pituitary gland, and it sends signals to different organs or glands, among other things, it controls the work of the adrenal glands. You have two of them deep in the rectal cavity, but the renal glands produce a lot of hormones, one of them is called cortisol, this hormone When a stressful situation occurs, the pituitary gland sends a signal to the adrenal gland. When a stressful situation occurs, this pituitary hormone is called ACTH. Having received it, the adrenal glands produce cortisol. As soon as cortisol is produced, this produced cortisol enters the pituitary gland, which tells the pituitary gland to stop this process and that it no longer needs to produce ACTH. But when you go through prolonged stress, chronic stress, this includes loneliness, loss, and anything else that can increase cortisol, for example, prednisone, synthetic cortisol, and other medications. This ultimately leads to the fact that cortisol resistance develops in the body. This is very similar to insulin resistance. This is a real diagnosis in medicine; it is called glucocorticoid receptor resistance. This is what happens in this case: because the pituitary gland sends too many signals, the body can suffer, and the receptors turn off, blocking the penetration of cortisol into cells. This is a protective mechanism, as a result, a lack of cortisol occurs. It is sent with someone. And what do you do? You start screaming. You have to speak louder. This is exactly what the pituitary gland starts doing. It starts Why? Because they don't hear it. The pituitary gland thinks you don't have enough cortisol. But this is simply receptor resistance. It is indeed a deficiency, but due to excess cortisol, and every time you have too much ACTH, you experience a surge of another hormone, the melanocyte-stimulating hormone. Because of it, melanin increases, which makes the skin darker, and very often. This problem is specifically under the eyes because dark skin is not the only consequence. You will also have other symptoms of resistance. Cortisol helps to endure. It puts the body in a state that helps cope with stress. But now a situation arises when there is stress and there is no help in the form of cortisol. Because of this, there will be more inflammation, including on the skin. Another problem is that you become more vulnerable to infections. The immune system does not work as it should, and so on. So, what to do with this lack of cortisol, which creates problems? Firstly, you must do something about your stress, reduce it in any way possible. I am talking about the source of stress, no matter what it is. In addition, regular aerobic exercise helps get rid of stress; it does not increase stress, but on the contrary, physical activity.  They flush adrenaline and cortisol from the body, and physical labor in the fresh air gives an even better effect than training because it also removes the mental component of stress, switches attention to something else. It often happens that a person is working out on a treadmill or on equipment, but unfortunately continues to think about his stress. Sometimes it is difficult to turn your attention away from this stressful situation. The next remedy is sleep. Sleep more. Arrange a nap. Go to bed earlier. Get up later. The next point, and this is very important, take vitamin D3. I recommend from 20 to 30 thousand IME. Vitamin D3 acts in the body similar to artisol, but without side effects. You can get all the benefits of cortisol, and immediately magnesium, one of the most important minerals for you. Also, limit the time you sit in front of a computer screen. This is very straining for the eyes and, unfortunately, is very harmful, although we all do this. The next measure is insulin reduction. This happens in diabetics. A similar symptom is dark, velvety skin in the folds and creases of the body near the neck and in the armpits. That's what happens with them: high insulin plus insulin resistance And this increases the level of melanocyte stimulating hormone, but this is easy to fix if you understand what is happening. All you need to do is reduce carbohydrate intake to 20 g per day or less and not eat so often, eliminate snacks, eliminate breakfast and eat two or even one meal a day. This, combined with stress reduction, will lead to the dark spots under the eyes lightening and no longer appearing. If stress is your constant companion and you do not know how to cope with it, I have a course about this. Please note, I invite you to my Anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it, and I will also give a list of the best products for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.