I'll show you how to get rid of bloating very, very quickly. I suffered from bloating for years, but I didn't know the cause back then. So, I know bloating firsthand, moreover, over 35 years I've worked with tens of thousands of people, and many of them were most bothered by bloating. I'll show you exactly how to get rid of bloating and explain everything very simply. There are very, very important things, and there are very trivial things that are not very important. We usually see them on Wikipedia and on the first pages of Google when we search for information about bloating. In fact, it's the same information repeated over and over again. If you go to the doctor, they'll examine you, diagnose you, and usually treat you with some over-the-counter drug. Or maybe a prescription drug, and that's crazy. After all, if there's something wrong with your digestive system, first you need to look at what you eat. It's a food issue. So, you need to start with a very simple question: when did the bloating start and what did I eat right before it? This is the key to the solution. One of the problems is that people often eat not just one thing, but a combination of different foods.  this complicates everything a lot So when you want to figure out the real cause of bloating I think it is very important to eat less of different foods Eat, say, three foods So you can at least begin to identify what is causing your stomach to bloat more than they deal with a lot of ingredients In addition, the more often you eat, the more problems you will have with bloating Our digestive system is very long and for many people this huge tube is constantly filled to capacity due to snacking, three meals a day, and so on This overloads the system and food is never completely digested If you start intermittent fasting, then this alone will help you greatly When we talk about bloating, we are usually talking about gases And gas is produced by microorganisms when they ferment certain things, for example, bread rises as a result of yeast activity And these are microorganisms in beer In champagne there are bubbles, this is a gas that is produced by microorganisms So, microorganisms in the intestines ferment certain things that release gas and usually bloating is caused by some problem that occurs when microorganisms interact with them  Food and gas are the main things. Food. Carbohydrates. What is a carbohydrate? It is one of three things. Sugars, starches, and fiber. I want to emphasize that to get rid of bloating, it is much more important to avoid something than to add something, be it some kind of product or other products. Let's look at the most common products that should not be avoided. Firstly, these are fruits that are available to everyone. Fruits are probably the main product that causes bloating because fruits contain sugar, starch, and fiber. I'm sorry to say this, but fruits are probably the main reason. And of course, legumes are number two. Next come grains. This includes bread, pasta, cereals, cakes, cookies, waffles, pancakes, muffins, and so on. And of course, all pure sugar, table sugar, honey, high-fructose corn syrup, and sugar alcohols that are found in many Keto snacks. You can really benefit from them. This is sarbitol, mannitol, maltitol, and even xylitol and erythritol. Look at the ingredients, although they are compatible with sketas. They are incompatible with the absence of bloating. Another type of carbohydrate is starch. These are products such as potatoes, wheat, corn, French fries, and there are also artificial ones.  Carbohydrates are, for example, maltodextrin or dextrin. Beware of them, they can cause severe bloating. That's why it's so important to read the ingredients. You'll also see other common ingredients. Functional fiber is the so-called beneficial fiber created artificially, for example, inulin. Some people are not sensitive to it, while others have guar gum and santhan gum. Even oatmeal contains something that is considered good for the heart. Beta glucan is fiber. All of these are hidden factors that can cause bloating, and they are found in many foods. And now we come to the topic of prebiotics. Prebiotic fibers are added to a huge number of superfood cocktails, green superfoods, plant-based protein powders, various seeds, and agave nectar. For some, prebiotics are beneficial, but for others, they are not very beneficial. They can cause bloating. I'm trying to list the most common causes of bloating so you can start knocking them down and understand what your problem is. So, that was number one. Number two is allergies.  Sensitivity to various things and the so-called intolerance is very common gluten intolerance gluten is a protein that we are not able to digest so it creates a lot of problems in the intestines and those who do not have this problem actually have it because often this protein also stimulates the apioid receptor it is as if a person took a small dose of moth it can suppress the symptoms in the digestive system and you think I'm fine I'm fine I digest it but you have all the problems associated with this I have a video about this but if you excluded all grains Don't worry about gluten because it is only found in grains then lactose is milk sugar in dairy products they can also cause bloating and dairy products contain a protein called casein there is an allergy to it which can cause bloating bloating can also be caused by nuts and of course if you process nuts into nut butter and eat a lot of it Maybe mom don't cry number three is vegetables in vegetables there is little sugar in them there is little starch as a rule although not in all  Speech leafy greens, but vegetables have a lot of fiber. If you have irritable bowel syndrome or small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome (SIBS), then microorganisms that do not belong in the large intestine live there. And in the small intestine, you should start eating something that contains fiber or a prebiotic or even a probiotic. If it gets into the small intestine, you will bloat a lot. This is a common problem. Below is a link on how to eliminate this problem. You can understand that you have this problem. If you have bloating from any vegetables, the remedy for this is hydrochloric acid, and its source is the food additive beton hydrochloride. You need to give up vegetables for a while and go on a root diet, but most people do not have problems with vegetables. Vegetables such as lettuce are more suitable for them, unlike other vegetables such as broccoli. I can’t eat broccoli, I bloat from it like a blimp. Someone can eat broccoli but cannot eat cabbage. I eat cabbage without any problems. Let there be substances. which usually have a good effect on those who have irritable bowel syndrome, cabbage is perhaps one of the few vegetables that they can eat and which can help them, especially with gastritis. So, experiment with vegetables and see. After what kind of bloating occurs after you have eaten a lot of vegetables or eaten something else. Find the cause of bloating number four is stress, especially chronic stress. Stress depresses the parasympathetic nervous system, which is called the rest and digestion system. This system promotes sleep and promotes the digestion of food. Therefore, the higher the stress level, the worse food is digested, which is probably why long walks, which are recommended to be taken, are excellent help with bloating. Although they do not solve the problem, because you need to eliminate the cause of stress, everything that reduces stress improves and therefore vitamin B1 is excellent for those who have bloating caused by stress. I think this is the best description of this situation. Let's say in the morning after sleep, the stomach is flat. But by the evening it swells, most likely it is due to stress, but the cause can also be food. In this case, take more B1 and reduce stress levels in every possible way. Number five, bloating can be caused by constipation, because clogged tubes are a problem.  In the pipeline, intermittent fasting, proper food will help a lot and take probiotics, but I think it is much more important to eliminate the cause of constipation than to take a laxative. I am talking about herbal laxatives. You can drink tea from the bark of slippery elm, this is a very mild remedy. There are herbal remedies and stronger ones. It is very, very important to avoid constipation, because they can cause problems. Purified bile salts are a good remedy that helps lubricate the colon. Bile salts are interesting because they can be created by our microflora and bile salts prevent the development of bile ducts. They help us break down fats, and a lack of bile salts can indicate not only bloating and constipation, but also the fact that your stool does not sink and even that it is lighter. This means that there is more fat in it because there is not enough bile, so you can take bile salts after meals, because it is an alkali. Taking them before meals will reduce the acidity of the stomach and you will understand that you have taken too many bile salts if diarrhea begins. So you can understand how much you need. Menstrual cramps are another cause of bloating. And what is  Menstrual cramps are cramps. And to get rid of cramps, you need to take calcium and magnesium. So take them. This should help with these cramps. And this video about digestion has gotten over seven million views. If you haven't watched it, take a look.