People with bad breath usually don't know that their breath smells bad. How do we know this? Usually, when talking, they get close to your face without knowing that their breath smells bad. I have some interesting information that you may not have heard yet and it is very important, especially regarding breathing. As I said in my other video, if you want to know the truth about health, find out what everyone recommends and do the opposite, or find out what you are advised not to do and do it. This concerns bad breath. Before moving on to this topic, I want to talk about foods that cause bad breath. Garlic, onions, both vegetables contain a sulfur compound. Anything that contains sulfur can cause bad breath. If your partner or spouse ate something with garlic or onions, you will feel unpleasant if you don't eat it yourself. Next, cheese, there are different types of smelly cheese, for example, lime burger or blue cheese with mold. They also contribute to bad breath. When I asked my father why you eat lime burger cheese, it stinks, he replied that it only  It smells bad but it tastes pretty good. First, I want to tell you what you can do to get rid of bad breath if you've eaten onions, garlic, cheese, and similar foods. One good remedy for bad breath is green tea, and you can rinse your mouth with it. You can drink it. Apparently, it blocks the sulfur compound in certain foods. Another good remedy is organic parsley, mint, or peppermint. After eating garlic, take the mint out of the refrigerator and chew it. It completely neutralizes the taste and smell you get after garlic. As for toothpaste, I usually recommend toothpaste with cloves, especially for those who have bad breath. There are many options with wild cardamom. They work quite well as a natural antibiotic that doesn't kill beneficial bacteria. This brings us to a very important topic that many people don't know about, but it is often the cause of bad breath. This is the use of fluoride toothpaste and the use of mouthwashes with alcohol. In the area of ​​oral health, it seems there is something that people either miss or don't understand, namely, there are hundreds of types of bacteria in the mouth that  There are hundreds of millions of them growing in the mouth. We need beneficial bacteria, but there are two groups of them: harmful bacteria and beneficial bacteria. As for fluoride in toothpaste, it kills germs and can lead to the formation of plaque and tartar that cause bad breath. Or mouthwash kills bad bacteria that stink. But what about the beneficial bacteria that fight this in the mouth? It's not just the bad bacteria that ruin your breath. You just sterilize your mouth as if that were going to fix something. It's the same with antibiotics, which are taken in the hopes of getting rid of an infection, but at the same time they destroy all bacteria, including those that should protect the body from infection. This leads to antibiotic resistance and a huge overgrowth of harmful bacteria, as well as yeast, as well as an overgrowth of candida, as well as a white coating on the tongue. These harmful yeasts lead to bad breath. Fluoride and chlorine, which are in the water you rinse your mouth with when you brush your teeth, destroy both good and bad bacteria. That is, at first, your mouth may smell good, but then it starts to stink. I recommend it.  Use toothpaste without fluoride and also install a water filter and also do not use mouthwashes with alcohol because alcohol kills bacteria. Remember antiseptics with alcohol in the composition, they also kill viruses and bacteria. What do you think alcohol will do to beneficial bacteria? There are other methods you can try. You can chew gum with xylitol, it is a sugar alcohol that kills bacteria very selectively. It does not kill beneficial bacteria, it only kills some harmful bacteria that cause plaque and stones. Harmful bacteria that cause plaque and stones emit a gas that smells bad. You can try this. You can also try eating products with chlorophyll, which acts as a natural deodorant. What kind of product is this? Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in plants, for example, in vegetables. One of the best sources of chlorophyll is grass-fed juice in powder form. It contains a lot of chlorophyll and is a good deodorant not only for the mouth but also for the body for all organs, including the intestines. I also want to talk about coffee and coffee.  Bad breath can be pretty bad. This is due to sulfur compounds in coffee, certain acids that are also in coffee, and tannins that cause dry mouth and can affect the local microflora. If this is your case, you need to brush your teeth with clove toothpaste and fluoride-free toothpaste. Chewing parsley or mint is also a good way. I already talked about alcohol- based mouthwashes, but alcohol is harmful not only in them, but also in alcoholic beverages. If you drink regularly, try not to drink more than 6 bottles and wax per evening and take natural probiotics. I mainly mean fermented vegetables like sauerkraut, kimchi, and the like. They will restore the microflora. The next product that probably most often leads to bad breath is sugar. Sugar is food for harmful bacteria, for yeast, and also for candida, this is their main fuel. If you want to get rid of harmful bacteria, everything is very simple. Give up sugar. This is called a ketogenic diet. These microbes emit a foul-smelling odor.  Gas that causes bad breath also produces acids that can make holes in bones. I'm talking about teeth and cavities. The average teenager eats 18 teaspoons of sugar a day, and only added sugar. This sugar is not part of regular carbohydrates in food. So imagine how many bacteria appear as a result. Now let's talk about the fact that this part of a large system called the digestive tract. If you focus on one small part of the whole system and ignore the rest, you won't get rid of bad breath. Many people have bad breath due to problems with the lower digestive system, be it the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine. If you have weak acid in the stomach or not enough, digestion will not work normally and this will create gas that will come out with the breath. This happens due to incomplete digestion. Therefore, we take apple cider vinegar regularly. We also take betaine hydrochloride after meals, which increases acidity in the stomach and gets rid of bad breath. This also prevents siberian bacterial overgrowth syndrome in the small intestine. Normally, bacteria  They should be mainly in the large intestine, they are in the small intestine, they should also be in the small intestine, but not much. When there are a lot of bacteria, even beneficial ones, they gather in the wrong place. Siber bacteria begin to fight for your nutrients and create a large amount of gas, as well as an excessive growth of harmful bacteria, and this leads not only to bloating but also to bad breath. You need to understand that if you took probiotics, ate fiber and greens, and you feel worse, you are bloated, this means that you may have Siber. In this case, you need to stop eating these foods and time to switch to a carnivorous diet. Because to destroy these bacteria, you need to stop feeding them. You need to increase the acidity in the stomach, for example, with betaine hydrochloride. Switch to fasting to restart the digestive system and it is worth using a natural antibiotic like oregano. I decided to tell you about this because the recommendation to take probiotics, eat fiber, may not work if a person has Siber. One of the signs of Siber is bloating after you eat fiber or take probiotics. Most people only use probiotics and vegetables.  It's beneficial, but if that's not the case for you, then you might have another important topic worth studying: digestion. I have a video about it. If you haven't seen it, watch it, you'll like it.