Let's talk about cataracts, a common disease. 68 percent of people over 80 suffer from cataracts. So, the problem is not small. Cataracts are a disease of the lens of the eye. The lens becomes cloudy and loses transparency. Before discussing prevention and what to do if cataracts are already present, it is important to understand what is so unique about the lens. This amazing thing. This tissue has exceptional strength and endurance. It has no blood or lymphatic vessels. It quickly recovers and even has its own immune system. This is called immune privilege. In fact, this weakens its immune response, especially compared to the rest of the body. If you have had a partial or complete lens transplant, its rejection is unlikely, unlike transplants of other organs, which immediately attack the immune system. That is, the body considers the lens very important for survival. Because if the lens does not work and you cannot see, you are unlikely to survive. Therefore, there are no vessels in it, because they cannot be there, they would interfere with vision. The lens is a unique type of protein that is not found in the rest of the body, this protein is simply transparent. Also, the lens is attached to a muscle that allows it to change its shape. What affects our ability to see is that the lens has an adaptation mechanism that allows us to see far away and close to the lens. The eye crystal has an incredible ability to suppress inflammation. And why does it occur? Its main reason is the so-called glycation. Glycation is a term meaning the combination of sugar with protein or the combination of sugar with fat. When this happens, this protein loses its guest. The more glycation occurs, the more problems the lens has. That is why diabetics have a much higher risk of cataracts than everyone else because a large amount of sugar constantly passes through their bloodstream. This immediately tells us what diet to stick to, one with little sugar and carbohydrates. There are other factors that increase the risk of cataracts. Of course, age. And nothing much can be done about it. Chronic use of steroids, prednisone, and so on. In general, what do steroids do as such? They lead the body to a state where it uses much more sugar. Steroids can easily make a person diabetic because they increase sugar. The mechanism can be like this. Steroids also paralyze the immune system, they disable it.  and get rid of all inflammation, which can negatively affect health if you chronically use steroids. And also stress. Because stress increases cortisol, other factors include alcohol, smoking, and even exposure to microwaves. If you cook in a microwave, look into it or stand next to it. Microwaves affect your eyes. This can also destroy the proteins in your lens. Smoking, alcohol, unhealthy food, chemicals, all of this creates strong oxidation over time. The lens has significant protection from oxidation because it has a lot of antioxidants. It has a huge amount of glutathione. All of this brings us to the topic of oxidative stress. What is it? What is this imbalance? Too much oxidation from free radicals that destroy molecules in tissues and a lack of antioxidants. With such an imbalance, cataracts develop. Of course, diabetes or sugar consumption greatly increase oxidation in the body. That is, all the sugar flowing through the vessels and getting into the eyes creates strong corrosion or oxidation. What can be done about this? First, immediately start intermittent fasting. This will reduce the effect of glycation in the lens. Second, start replenishing the supply. glutathione, start replenishing the antioxidant networks in the body. Of course, at the same time, limit oxidation and factors that form free radicals (smoking, unhealthy food, exposure to sugar, as I already said), but as for antioxidants, it would be very reasonable to accumulate glutathione. How to increase the content of glutathione in the body is the consumption of foods rich in sulfur. A big step in this direction is cabbage and Brussels sprouts, radishes, broccoli, all cruciferous vegetables, and most of these vegetables should be eaten raw because valuable enzymes and antioxidants are destroyed when heated. Those vegetables that you eat raw will give more benefits than those that you steam or boil. A large leafy salad with microgreens or sprouts and other leafy greens will be very useful because leafy greens contain lutein and zeaxanthin. And these are, for a second, two very powerful phytonutrients useful for the prevention of not only cataracts but also macular degeneration. Lutein and zeaxanthin are also found in egg yolks, so the yolks are also very important, but  Dark green leafy greens are excellent at replenishing these substances, as well as glutathione levels, other substances that help increase glutathione: Selenium, vitamin C, vitamin E, zinc, another substance called NSC that helps replenish glutathione. Some people immediately resort to NSC for cataracts; they start taking it if the disease has not progressed too far; it goes away. The question is, will these medications cure cataracts? The answer is many things, depending on the severity of the disease, its duration, and your recovery, but it won't get any worse even if they don't work. There won't be any side effects from them; it might be beneficial for other organs. I want to give you an idea of ​​the mechanism, what you need to start eating regularly, what supplements you should take, and give you an understanding of what initially causes this problem. There are two more very important vitamins. I talked about them in other videos: vitamins B1, thiamine, and B2 or flavin. These two vitamins not only act as antioxidants, but it has been found that with a deficiency of these two vitamins, the risk of developing cataracts is much higher. Since we're talking about antioxidants, oxidation, and glycation, if you haven't watched this video about what you need to eat to reduce glycation.  from high sugar I'll put it here take a look