I was recently asked a question, a person was confused about how much protein is needed, I decided to record a video about how much protein is contained in various protein products compared to the weight of the protein product itself. Let's say you take 6 ounces of ground beef, that's 168 grams, and a person thinks that 168 grams is too much protein, you need a moderate amount, but I will show the difference between the weight of a product and the amount of protein in this product. Protein food does not consist of 100 percent protein, unless it is some kind of protein powder, but when we talk about ground beef, turkey, eggs with wine, ground meat and fish, it is not one continuous protein. Let's take ground beef, 6 functions, 168 grams, but there is only 30 grams of pure protein. What else is included in this product, but it is a combination of fat and water. I will explain. When I say how much protein you need in one meal, I always mean 85-170 grams. I never mean pure protein. I am talking about  the mass of the product itself, for example, 6 ounces of turkey, the piece of turkey itself weighs 168 grams, but it contains only 48 grams of protein, why is there one and a half times more protein here than here if the weight is the same, simply because turkey has less fat, and ground beef has about 80 percent meat, 20 percent fat, so turkey has a higher percentage of protein because it has less fat, then take one large egg, it weighs 50 grams, but it contains only 7 grams of protein, ground pork is 4 ounces, that is, the product itself weighs 112 grams, but it contains only 23 grams of protein, and fish is 4 ounces, 112 grams, and only 20 grams of protein. I hope it’s clearer now. I usually recommend 85-170 grams per meal, but you can eat more. It depends on several factors: your metabolism, your build, and the amount of training. Also, if you eat protein less often, you can eat a little more. I weigh about eighty-one kilograms and I usually eat  58 grams of pure protein per day. Can you estimate how much protein I eat per day? Round it up to 60 grams. That 's about 340 grams of ground beef or three servings of fish, each 112 grams. I hope everything is clear now. See you in the next video. If you liked this video, subscribe to the channel and receive notifications about new videos.