Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz.  The floor is yours, dog.  If you're trying to sleep and your body is in stress mode, what's the best thing to do?  Dear viewers, I know you have an opinion on this matter.  Early from YouTube.  My fingernails are starting to become flat like a spoon.  It's a liver problem.  What's happening? It's possible, or perhaps you have an iron problem, but I don't recommend rushing to take iron.  The point is that this is one symptom.  I would evaluate other body systems to identify other deficiencies. After all, more data is needed to understand what is happening.  If we see that the problem is in the liver, we will help it.  If the problem is iron, then perhaps more copper is needed to normalize iron. But this is another option.  Sometimes it turns out that the problem is calcium.  But to solve the calcium problem, you don't need to add more calcium, but rather increase magnesium.  I repeat, I think this symptom does not provide an answer, but only shows in which direction to look. And this problem exists even in dietetics, in diet therapy, where they teach according to this principle: if the symptom is this, take this remedy, and if it is that, take this.  And this can be done, but I think there is a lack of appreciation here. It is necessary to find the underlying cause.  At the very least, this is a small step forward compared to medicine, where a diagnosis is made based on a symptom and then the symptom is managed with a drug.  And this is a scientific approach. How long should I take it?  And do doctors look, do they even look for the cause? Unfortunately, I think this system only cures diseases and does not create health.  And sooner or later she will have to change.  After all, the US spends 4.700 billion a year on this system.  And what do we get from it?  What product?  Healthy bodies?  No.  Interesting. Well, perhaps the process has already begun. Melissa from YouTube.  What do you think is the best diet for menopausal women? I have hot and cold attacks.  I also have anxiety and my hair is falling out, it's horrible.  I usually try several things.  I would take the adrenal calm formula for a while to strengthen them.  Then perhaps iodine, say from kelp, and also perhaps vitamin E in the form of tocotrienols. In general, the pituitary gland secretes follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone.  They act on the ovaries.  This is a feedback system.  It is connected to the hypothalamus, as if by a chain.  And here's what's interesting here.  After menopause, the functioning of this chain is disrupted. And in order to normalize its function to some extent , raw materials for hormones are needed, and this is cholesterol.  So no low cholesterol diets.  And you also need to strengthen the pituitary gland with vitamin E in the form of tocatrienols, because the pituitary gland needs vitamin E to create these hormones.  And so one of the symptoms of vitamin E deficiency is loss of fertility.  And it's all about sex hormones. In general, vitamin E is important for pituitary gland health.  Okay, I hope this helps.  Now let me read out our viewers' answers to the quiz question.  Now I'll just put the question on the screen, and we'll discuss the answers. 55% responded that slow breathing techniques should be used.  20% said that they should take magnesium citrate, citrate. 15% said they should drink milk.  5% said to read a book.  And 5% said to eat something that contains tryptophan. Excellent options.  I was waiting for an answer about the slow breathing technique.  You don't even have to get out of bed to do this.  I do this all the time and it really works.  So, you need to breathe through your nose.  Inhale slowly for 3 seconds.  Then exhale for 3 seconds.  Try to gradually increase the duration of both inhalation and exhalation to 5 seconds.  Inhale and exhale at the same pace.  Focus on your breathing. And suddenly you wake up in the morning.  What?  Wow, that worked.  After all, you activate the parasympathetic nervous system, and this means rest and digestion.  You relax your body.  This is how you can influence the nervous system.  I do this often .  And if you don't sleep, your breathing is disrupted.  You almost hold your breath.  This is one way.  Other methods are great too.  Cryptophan before bed will definitely help.  You can read before bed or take magnesium, but citrate is sometimes better taken in the morning.  In the evening I would take magnesium glycinate.  It is absorbed better.  It also improves sleep.