In the comments to one of my videos, I was asked to talk about anti-aging creams, is it worth using them and do they work? I have to answer no, I'm sorry, but they won't add youth to your skin. All they do is tighten the skin a little and moisturize it, but this is temporary, but the skin will not become younger. One study says that anti-aging creams reduce wrinkles by less than 10 percent in three months. The eyes are not able to notice 10 percent, so there is unlikely to be a visual change. Then what should be done? Is it possible to reverse aging or at least slow it down? And its answer? And yes, if you understand the difference between the principle from the inside out and the principle from the outside in, nothing will work if you try to rejuvenate the body by smearing it with something, that is, acting from the outside in. Only the inside-out approach will work. There are several factors here, but you also need to look at how intensely oxidative processes are occurring. Is there anything that destroys tissue and DNA? And on the other hand, how many antioxidants are in the body that eliminate damage from free radicals? If anyone doesn't know, a free radical is an unpaired electron. Let's look at an example. I schematically depicted it, and there  And in this atom, only one electron revolves around the nucleus. This electron does not have a pair of 2 electrons; it simply does not exist. Because of this, the atom becomes very unstable, which has a destructive effect on the body. Antioxidants donate electrons, stabilizing such atoms and thus reducing damage. There are two sources of antioxidants: one exogenous, that is, existing in Aries. In your diet, these are leafy greens. Cruciferous vegetables contain antioxidants. Vitamins also act as antioxidants, and these are vitamins such as E.A. in c even vitamin b1 acts as an antioxidant and they always work together when an antioxidant gives up its electron it loses stability itself this can cause problems and it takes an electron from another antioxidant such is the mutual assistance this is the situation with exogenous antioxidants which you get from food and there are also endogenous antioxidants our body can produce antioxidants itself cool and both types of antioxidants are needed exactly as much to neutralize oxidation caused by the environment and what you eat oxidation which causes destruction and premature aging which can aggravate the problem first of all glucose high carbohydrate diet from them jumps insulin which then combines with certain proteins in the body and leads to the so-called glycation the addition of sugar to protein the resulting protein is no longer functional from it tissues lose elasticity and a person looks much older otherwise this is called advanced glycation end products they appear due to the high glucose content in the food a person takes there is another interesting point due to the deficiency of nutrients with food some biological enzymes that are involved do not enter the body  in the restoration and stabilization of tissues at the cellular level, so that inside and plays a key role in slowing down natural aging. The worst-case scenario is that a person eats a lot of carbohydrates and gets few nutrients, because of this, the skin ages and the person looks older, because of this, the internal organs age. But on the other hand, if the body is not fueled by glucose, ketones work as an antioxidant and this is very, very cool. This is a much healthier source of energy. I always recommend a healthy version of the ketogenic diet, so the body receives nutrients from food that prevent free radicals from causing harm and thanks to which the skin and other tissues look healthy. Hormones are also involved in this. The hormone that we really need is growth hormone. This hormone is the best fighter against aging. It guards proteins in the body. Skin, hair, nails, and internal organs depend on this. Growth hormone is responsible for all this. With age, growth hormone levels drop. You need to strive to maintain them. Some things reduce growth hormone levels, while others increase them. By the way, glucose reduces growth hormone levels. insulin reduces growth hormone levels. So, a high- carbohydrate diet is your enemy. Cortisol, which is produced during stress, also blocks the hormone.  Cortisol has a destructive effect on proteins in the body, which makes people age much faster on the skin. Alcohol is also harmful; it dries out the body and blocks growth hormone, which makes people look older. How can you increase growth hormone levels? Exercise will help, but the main thing is not to overdo it. Exercise properly. Recover after training, and growth hormone will increase 68 times. Regular exercise is one of the most important factors. If you approach exercise correctly, it will lower cortisol, which means stress. Fasting is also one of the most important factors if you want to slow down aging and look younger. Intermittent long-term fasting stimulates stem cells. Stem cells restore tissue, the immune system, and the intestines and skin. So, fasting is perhaps one of the best ways to look younger. It increases growth hormone levels 1421 times. Sleep is another important factor for increasing growth hormone. If you do intermittent and long-term fasting, get enough sleep, avoid stress, exercise, and maintain a healthy diet, then this will be the best way to slow down aging. If you think that this can be achieved with a cream, you're in vain.  It won't work, thanks for watching. I have a couple of interesting videos about growth hormone. Check them out.