I found a very interesting study on how potassium affects how much calcium is deposited in the vessels. This is extremely interesting. One of the best tests for determining calcium in the vessels is the C test. This test is probably one of the best ways to predict mortality in general. And not only from a heart attack, but from any cause in general. The study showed for the first time that low levels of potassium in the diet contribute to vascular calcification, aortic stiffness, and thickening of the coronary arteries. But this study was conducted on mice. So if your mice begin to develop hypertension, you need to apply this information. This is extremely important data, because many people do not get enough potassium and do not even know how much they need. We need a lot. We need an average of about 4,700 mg per day. To satisfy this need, you need to get a lot of potassium from food. If you do not know how to get more potassium from food, the link below will contain more data on this. But the question is why calcium is deposited in the vessels if there is little potassium in the body. The reason is that these two electrolytes, potassium and calcium, work together when  There is little potassium, calcium accumulates inside the cells, this is very important information simply because the main cause of death is a heart attack. So if someone develops hypertension, you need to pay attention to potassium. Calcium channel blockers, which, among other drugs, are prescribed for hypertension, essentially reduce calcium levels. This is how they work. And what if you increase potassium? In my practice, I found that patients who receive more potassium have much better blood pressure; more potassium; lower blood pressure; and blood pressure also decreases if they take vitamin D. I think that a lack of potassium is part of this problem. Another problem is inflammation in the vessels, because calcium begins to be deposited in the vessel only after the vessel is inflamed, and inflammation usually occurs due to oxidation with low levels of antioxidants, for example, low levels of vitamin D and vitamin C, which is caused by an excess of refined flour products in the diet. And if you eat a lot of sugar, which causes oxidation, you get a perfect storm. Firstly, inflammation begins, which triggers the whole process; calcium begins to be deposited as a band-aid, and sugar and other empty carbohydrates in your diet deprive you of potassium and vitamin E.  Also, vitamin C is a perfect storm. So, here's a combination of factors that are associated with heart disease: potassium deficiency, antioxidant deficiency caused by poor diet, and vitamin D deficiency, which can reduce inflammation. Vitamin D3 works together with vitamin K2, which helps calcium stay in the bones and not be deposited in blood vessels. Well, I wanted to talk about how important potassium is for preventing vascular stiffness and vascular calcification. I'm curious what you know about the most important electrolyte, potassium: arrhythmia, seizures, tremors, high blood pressure, and poor sleep. The consequences of potassium deficiency. I'll tell you how to replenish it correctly and safely in my course on potassium. Sign up at the link below. See you there.