Hello, today we'll start right away with our wonderful quiz. Please, Doc. True or false. The main thing is that the immune gland, the thymus, begins to shrink immediately after reaching puberty. Dear viewers, you can answer while we chat with you. We'll call today a lovely young lady named Esther. Esther. Let me turn on the sound for you. Can you ask Dr. Berg one question? Just a minute, I can't hear you. Esther. Let me turn the sound on again. The sound is on for you, but we can't hear you. Esther. Try it. Now can you hear? Yes, great, we can hear you well. Hello. I'm 41 years old. For the last two years, I've had a whole bunch of health problems. A year ago, I developed bloating, discomfort, and I vomited once, and then pain appeared on the right side and in my shoulder blades. I thought it was my gallbladder. For 2 years, I went from one doctor to another, took many tests, underwent a lot of examinations, and a scintigraphy showed that I have normal gallbladder function with an ejection fraction of 94%. Then they told me that this is normal.  After going through all these tests and studies, I continued to think that it was the gallbladder. I have all the symptoms of this: pain in the right shoulder blade to the right of the spine in the middle of the back, discomfort, bloating, pain under the ribs on the right, which actually reaches the back. Studying this topic, I realized that there is such a thing as an overactive gallbladder. I recently found your videos. You have a lot of videos about the gallbladder and I have literally everything you talk about. I have high cortisol, estrogen dominance, and all the symptoms of its effect on the gallbladder. Much of what you say has never been explained to me in detail by any doctor. And so I'm trying to understand the cause of many of my symptoms. I have many more, but I will not talk about them here. I was diagnosed with a lot of things. Before this, I was quite healthy. I trained, ate healthy food, I am one of those healthy lifestyle enthusiasts who likes to learn a lot about this. Perhaps these were the hardest 2 years and few people are well informed about the symptoms of an overactive gallbladder. It is very similar to a sluggish gallbladder. I ordered gallbladder formula and cruciferous mix I know that they are important for estrogen dominance in general, can you share your experience in terms of an overactive gallbladder If you have heard of this and what would you recommend in terms of diet and any other help what are you eating now I eat very healthy food since this started I eat low carbs I will not say that I eat a lot of fat because I have heard different opinions about this but I eat eggs avocados and all that avoid nuts I try to eat a lot of vegetables But they give me a lot of discomfort So I cook them more often I heard that you need to eat a lot of cruciferous vegetables and I try to include them in the diet as much as I can, while I eat low carbs large meals are uncomfortable for me so my prims are small I am 41 and my hormones I think are changing I have heard conflicting things about intermittent fasting and supporting adrenal cortisol levels I fasted intermittently But I stopped because I heard that it is not very good for women in perimenopause but intermittent fasting  It was going great, my diet is quite healthy. I eat few sweets and don't eat junk food. It makes me feel bad. I'm at a stage in my life now where I really want to feel good, and I do n't eat what makes me feel bad. I'm just trying to figure out how to get better. I know the gallbladder can be removed, but I want to keep it and do everything to improve its condition. Okay, so I'll express my opinion. You said a couple of very important things, and there are different layers here. But I'll tell you the most obvious right away. And you can always call again and we'll talk more. What are the pros and cons of intermittent fasting? Are you going through menopause? Okay, so fasting? It may be a problem because of certain things, but right now, your main problem is digestion, so you need to focus all your energy on this and forget about other factors for now. And the most important thing is not to overload your digestion with frequent meals. So, you definitely need to fast intermittently. This is the main thing about what exactly to eat. As you said, for now, you probably shouldn't eat a lot of fiber for various reasons. I'm not saying that you need carnivores.  You can eat protein and cooked or fermented vegetables. I think sauerkraut and all that won't hurt you. But a little bit of all protein sources: lamb, goat, or grass-fed beef. I think it would be best for your digestive system right now, because they contain a lot of it. Perhaps it would be useful for you to take a little betaine hydrochloride, say three capsules before meals, to increase the acidity in the stomach. This will help normalize the flow of bile. I think, although this probably hasn't been detected, I think you may have a little sediment in the bile ducts in the liver itself. Perhaps not even lower, that is, not in the gallbladder or in the ducts below, but a little higher, because the ducts begin in the liver, I think there is something there in such cases. Tutka. This is an excellent remedy. You can take tutkun about an hour before and two capsules during the day on an empty stomach. It will clear the ducts and begin to eliminate the pain that is reflected upward, because your pain is caused either by the fact that bile flows back into the liver due to sediment, or by the fact that there is severe stagnation, which is why soft tissues  there is pressure on the liver and the pain is reflected in the back I think you need to take tutka ie bile salts after meals one capsule will be great I think this will help and I think magnesium will also help in this process because magnesium is needed for the production of bile and many other things to create any sex hormone estrogen testosterone progesterone even the stress hormone cortisol It is necessary to turn cholesterol into a steroid And for this you need magnesium and so you also need zinc I think these two minerals will help balance va but most importantly I think tutka correct your diet do intermittent fasting do not complicate things and we will see what remains of your problems Thank you very much for the great call eer I hope all this helps Let's move on to the answers to the quiz question a second now I will put the question on the screen so we will see the question was So true or false the main immune gland begins after reaching puberty excellent Steve So I will read out the answers 98% answered that this is true and the rest said that it is a lie yes it is true and isn't it terrible because the thymus is the main immune gland and it begins to decrease immediately after reaching  puberty from 25 to 40 or even 50 years, this gland becomes much smaller. This is the immune system, a training camp for cells that kill viruses and cancer. In general, this is a problem. Professor Gregory Fech studied longevity and discovered that it is possible to turn back the biological clock if you restore the thymus, and this is logical, because many people die in old age from cancer, prematurely from infections, and so on. So he found a way to do this with the help of growth hormone, metformin, DHA. I would not take it. I just don’t like the idea of ​​​​taking these drugs, and this is still a new study. What’s interesting is that studies were conducted on mice to rejuvenate the thymus with high doses of zinc. So I will choose this path. I will regularly take enough zinc in proportion with copper and trace elements, because this will improve the condition of the thymus. The thymus produces three hormones. And one of them requires zinc. And with age, our ability to absorb zinc decreases significantly. If you get enough zinc, this will greatly help rejuvenate the thymus. How can you hope for and prolong life?  Let's hope So I think this is great news I'll make a video about it we'll get back to our wonderful quiz You have the floor doc what nutrient deficiency can lead to night blindness question now questions from viewers and social networks so Christina Rambla I'm intermittent fasting to heal so let's see to heal the digestive system I have excessive yellow diarrhea and severe belching what's going on with Poor Christina What was the first thing yes she has so let's see she's intermittent fasting digestive system and she has excessive yellow diarrhea terrible and severe belching what's going on with her well yellow or pale stool is always a sign of bile deficiency I think she needs bile salts Okay I hope this helps James Yuba asks how glyphosate affects the intestines and what is the best way to eliminate it I didn't quite understand about eliminating it is a chemical it is a herbicide It is found in homo products So you need to eliminate homo products Eat organic thus you will eliminate it glyphosate  It's depressing, that's how they deceive you. They tell you that glyphosate doesn't interfere. We don't have enzymes that it affects, so you can eat it, because it doesn't affect people, but we have microorganisms in our intestines, this is a whole separate organ, this is 80% of immunity. Glyphosate affects these microorganisms. How can you say that it is safe for the body if it affects the microorganisms living in our body? I think it blocks enzymes without which amino acids cannot be produced. And from this, everything goes awry. So, yes, the answer is no. It is not safe, and secondly, you need to eat organic food. Thank God that there is a mute button for the microphone. Tihas Yuba asks what is the recommended daily dose of vitamin D3 for a six-year-old child and how much it needs to be increased as the child grows. It is unlikely that anyone knows this for sure, but I will be very conservative if I say to give the child perhaps 1000 IU per day. It is also sold in liquid form and for any illnesses such as asthma and inflammation. More is needed and perhaps when the child becomes  For older women, double the dose and then tell the teenager. Let's give it 5,000. And for an adult, 10,000. This is what's very interesting. If you check the level of vitamin D3 in the blood of a nursing woman, a very small part of vitamin D passes from the blood into breast milk, and in order for the mother's milk to contain vitamin D, she needs to take good doses of at least 6-8 IU, otherwise the child will have a vitamin D deficiency. So, it is extremely important for the immune system and for many other things. If you know a woman who is breastfeeding, let her take 10,000 IU per day. It is very important. So, dear viewers, we received your answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this: a deficiency of which nutrient can lead to night blindness. And 100% answered: vitamin A is good, yes, the answer is vitamin A is excellent. However, I want to add something to convert provitamin A into beta carotene. Many people think that this is vitamin A, but this is not so. It is a provitamin, the active form. Retinol is only found in animal products, not in plant products.  For this conversion, and little is converted, zinc is needed. Therefore, many vegans have a vitamin A deficiency. After all, they also have little zinc. If you have enough zinc and vitamin A, there will be no night blindness if you have poor vision while driving in the evening. I would take cod liver oil and zinc. Thank you for your wonderful questions and your attention. If you were with us until the end, stay with us and see you again. N