Hello, in this video we'll talk about how to get rid of a hump on your back. You know, a person has what's called a widow's hump on their back. I want to immediately explain this accumulation of fat, but that's not what we're talking about now. I mean a very crooked posture and I'll show you the best way to fix it. But first of all, I'll tell you about the C7 vertebra. This is the seventh vertebra in the lower part of the neck. In a normal position, it protrudes a little more than other vertebrae. If you thought that this pathology is not true, not all people have a large seventh cervical vertebra. It's very important to note this. Also, if you have a lipoma, a fatty tumor located on the back, it creates a small hump. Then surgical removal is appropriate, because getting rid of it is otherwise quite difficult. But now I'm talking about people with very bad posture. This is what happens when you slouch. There are ligaments and muscles on the inside of your spine that are very tense and pull you forward. All your pectoral muscles do the same. That's why when parents tell you to sit up straight, this is bad advice. Every time you straighten up, all you do is stretch this spring and it immediately returns back.  What parents should have advised back and in the next part of the video I will show how to fix this hunchback try this right now while watching and be sure to leave a comment what you definitely shouldn't do you don't need to straighten up and stretch back you don't need to do that because all the tension is concentrated in the front of the body or in the front on the spine itself so you need to stretch your back and this will send a signal to relax the front of the body let me show you bend your head as low as possible now on the remote control upper back like this as low as possible this is completely different from what your parents told you to do though they said sit up straight no better tell the child to slouch even more let's bend her head as far as possible again and hunched over msia I'm trying to make her back as hunched as possible at all this way we will stretch everything here and relieve the tension in the front and each time she will straighten up more and more don't believe me try it and you will see for yourself do the exercise 5-10 times at least once a day slouch as much as possible and well yes hold in this pose well come back you yourself will notice each time  It will be easier to get up. I'm not saying you can't straighten your back, but this is a key exercise that will help you get rid of the hump. Delicious, try it and leave comments.