 calcuassassanrassan,מהassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanassanass many not understand, that зависимость is not lack of power of power. It has no respect to discipline. It is not that a person is a crazy or a weak person. I will show you how the зависимость looks inside the body, and then I will tell you about the method of slowing down the body for one minute and how to return to the body. Everything is related to survival. If the body is hungry, it will go to water. If the body is hungry, it will go to eat. But the зависимость is a little different. You drink it, and your stress will increase. You will become better, you will become happier. What happens? What happens? What happens? The dopamine is a chemical, alcohol, as something that is a survival. Or you have taken a certain type of of the body and felt less stress, or, on the other hand, a relief energy. And this is the dopamine that is a help in survival. And if we take a azart of games, you will think that you can earn a lot with minimal effort. Or a person quickly can read a bunch of female photos in the internet. There they are in the way. Because pornography is a parodian on instinct . . that is considered important, whether alcohol, drugs, water, food, etc. The dopamine is not related to the disease as a result. The disease causes other substances, opioids, at least since the beginning. But if you repeat the same, the disease is gone. All that is now, it is a feeling of a And the longer you continue, Тем больше таких nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh You ignore your nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh and how quickly you can relax this or this feeling in the body, which is a bit of a sensation that you can get on something. Friends, subscribe to the channel and click on the bell, to turn on all notifications. If you don't choose all notifications, the platform will not forget to leave new videos. This simple action will help you to develop the channel. And we continue. So, for example, you have a dependence on alcohol, and you are involved in your brain nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh nh on a scale of 0 to 10, the intensity of this impulsion or this impulse. 2. You have to decide where the place is located in your body. You have to decide where the impulse is. It's from your chest, your head, your head, or from a different part of your body. You have to find the place where it is, because it's physical. 3. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 8. 9. 10. 10. 10. 10. 10. 10. 10. 11. 11. 12. 12. 12. 13. 14. 14. 14. 14. 15. 15. 14. 14. 14. 14. 14. 14. 15. 15. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. 16. from this. You put it in a different place, in a way, in a way, so you could see it, identify it, and also realize that it is not you, but something different, different from you. And in a way, the more you look at it, you see it, and you move it out of yourself, the less it will affect you, the less it will affect you, and the less it will affect you. And a lot of times, that the feeling is missing less than a minute. Just make a step, one, two, three, four, and repeat them, until the feeling is gone. Remember that this is a kind of a wave, and you just have to get it to zero. Do it, write in comments about your experience and read about other people. It is a really amazing technique, and it works. Is it a way to get it? No, it is only a time-mere. It is a quick technique, and it helps to improve the situation in the moment. Next thing. NAC, N-ацetilцистеин. This is a natural tool, which is a lot of use for a lot of use for a lot of use for a lot of use for a lot of use, for a lot of use, but for you also, it is also effective to reduce the splashes of glutamate, which I have talked about. Glutamate is a excitatory toxin for a lot of use. NAC helps reduce the splashes, возвращая it to normal level. Some people take 600 mg, if the problem is not too strong, some people take 1200 mg. If the problem is very serious, if the problem is very serious, it might need to take 2400 mg in a day. Because how glutamate creates a lot of pressure, creates a lot of pressure and increases the pressure in the brain. Glutamate is a little bit of a pedal of the brain, but there is a pedal of the motor and it is a gamp. How do we increase the gamp? We need to take glycine. I like it in combination with magnesium, and it is magnesium-glycinate. Glycinate повышает the gamp, the gamp, and magnesium-glycinate in its own way which helps to reduce cortisol and increase the mechanism of the function of the brain. Because when you are not a part of the brain, the body starts to start to get the stress, to be able to get the stress. To be able to get the stress. Magni-glycinate is a part of the brain of the brain. Magni-glycinate is a part of the brain. If you're a smoking and you have a smoking of nicotine, there is a little bit easier. It's a little bit easier. Cine is one of the things that causes a lot of to be able to smoke a lot of the brain. If you smoke a lot of the brain, you have to be able to the brain. If you want to to smoke a lot of things, you need to add a couple of things. To take a couple of things, to take a couple of things, to take a lot of vitamin B1, and also to take a lot of the brain. These substances can greatly help the biophimic process of the brain. And the other thing for the brain. The other thing is that the syndrome of the brain can be very strong for one or two weeks. So if you can take a lot of the brain and hold these two weeks, then it will be much easier. And you have to to be able to to help you. And this is another very important factor. And this is your your environment. So it to change the group of people, if these people stimulate your зависимость. Or, say, you will be able to to get a lot of ultra-alarmated food and sugar. And you come to home, and there are all the boxes with confetti, and in the refrigerator or on the table you have to change your environment. You have to change your environment, which is to be able to get a lot of bad habits. For example, if you you have to cigarette in your house. You have to have a change, holding your body to have a change. If you have to start to change to change your body. your If the sugar is not in the norm, problems with dopamine will be more. It's almost impossible to eliminate the sugar. And the last one. Oxitoxin. Oxitoxin is a hormone of social connection. When a person is dependent on the body, what he needs, the body feels a danger. Oxitoxin is a hormone of the health. If you activate it, it helps to change the feeling of the health. Oxitoxin can be obtained different ways. Obtirmary, obfirmary, domestic animals, friends, friends, family, bacteria L. Reuteri. I have a video about this. This is a bacteria, which you can take as a quack and make yogurt, which has these bacteria. When I started to eat it, через несколько дней жена спросила, что это с тобой? А что случилось? Ты стал обнимать меня. Раньше такого не было. Я сказал, похоже, это йогурт. И она продолжает его есть. И наконец, просто наличие цели в жизни может добавить окситоцина. Но с моей точки зрения, у всех людей одна и та же цель. И это помогать людям и другим живым существам. Это лежит в основе целей большинства людей. Так уж все устроено, что когда вы помогаете, уровень окситоцина тоже растет. Сахар – не просто привычка, это настоящая зависимость. Вы едите, чувствуете подъем, потом спад, потом снова конфеты, печенье, тортики, булочки. И так по кругу. Почему мы не можем просто взять и перестать употреблять сахар? Продукты с сахаром стимулируют гормон удовольствия. Но эффект быстро проходит. И мозг требует новую дозу. Это замкнутый круг. Удовольствие, спад, снова тяга. Мы срываемся, испытываем вину, даем себе новые обещания, и все повторяется. Это не слабость. Это биохимия. И чтобы выбраться, нужна система. Марафон без сахара – это пошаговый план, который помогает избавиться от зависимости. Вы получаете три задания в неделю, они занимают 15 минут в день. Все подается просто, без лишней теории. Вы внедряете одно изменение за другим и видите результат. Вы не один. В марафоне живой чат, тематические обсуждения и опытные кураторы, которые отвечают каждый день. Поддержка – одна из самых сильных сторон марафона. За восемь недель участники избавляются от сахарной зависимости, худеют, восстанавливают сон, избавляются от отеков и чувствуют себя иначе – легче, спокойнее, увереннее. Сахар держит вас сильнее, чем кажется, но вы можете выйти из круга с поддержкой, знаниями и шаг за шагом. Присоединиться к марафону без сахара можно по ссылке внизу. Начните менять себя изнутри. Присоединиться к марафону без сахара.