Hello, in this video we will discuss how to destroy Candida with the help of ketones and intermittent fasting. I very often see that people make a big mistake when trying to get rid of Candida. They either take a strong medicine or a lot of different herbs, causing a detox reaction. This makes you feel very bad. These methods are not suitable because the immune system is already weakened, and if you try to get rid of Candida too quickly, your health can get much worse. In my other videos on this topic, I recommended Tim I, a new oil. I still recommend it because it is safe for the body and is capable of killing this fungus and other microorganisms. I recommend adding grapefruit seed extracts because these two remedies will help destroy yeast, fungus, and mold. In general, all this is suitable. Another problem is when people take antibiotics. You need to understand that antibiotics kill bacteria. They do not kill yeast, Candida, fungus, and mold. Antibiotics kill bacteria, but they weaken our defenses, and then yeast, fungus, and mold grow in the body because its defenses are weakened. This is how Candida initially enters the body.  happens when the immune system is suppressed if you already have candida, the symptoms can be very different: joint pain, general weakness, itching, digestive problems, the list is very long, I also recommend 2 very strong remedies, the first is to give up sugar, you need to switch to a low-carb diet of no more than 20 grams of carbohydrates per day, this is the keto diet, this way we deprive candida of sugar and their favorite food, these microorganisms love sugar, so we deprive them of lactose, they also love it, so eat less dairy products, this is the first, the second is my recommendation, this is the most powerful remedy possible, this is intermittent fasting, why, let's say the body does not receive food for at least 18 hours, for example, you go at noon and then at five in the evening, this is a 6-hour window for fasting, and then 18 hours of fasting or longer, the body enters a state of so- called autophagy, during autophagy, the body's cells process damaged parts, this is very cool, but that's not all, besides this, the body takes apart bacteria, pathogenic bacteria, yeast, fungus, mold, viruses, and candida, autophagy cleans all this out This is the best way to get rid of microbes in cells. It is a very effective way to remove microbes from cells through lysosomes, an organelle that destroys waste. So, if you have Candida, you definitely need intermittent fasting. There is nothing worse than eating 6 times a day. Fasting will never happen. Usually, people with Candida have problems with blood sugar because they think they need to eat every hour and a half to maintain sugar levels, or they have problems with sugar due to insulin. All this is due to the fact that microorganisms create an imbalance. All this must be done gradually. Below is a link to the video where I talk about what you need to focus on. First in importance is intermittent fasting. Second, ketone oil and grapefruit seed extract will speed up the process. Keep in mind that birth control pills can accelerate the growth of Candida, as can cortisone and prednisone, a steroid, a synthetic type of cortisol. Stress can also aggravate the situation. Apply these tips and write about the results. Share your opinion about this video. Write in the comments what you think.