Hello This is a new live Q&A series nothing I say replaces your doctor's advice trust your gut consult with him and make sure he is competent and experienced in nutrients and nutritional therapy then he can give his opinion before accepting mine So Steve Let's get straight to the point we have a lot of questions on social media we need to answer them of course let's start with Don Louise and Jennifer Thank you Dr. Berg I lost 16 kilos the annual omot at the hospital showed that I am in good condition today My set birthday congratulations I am in excellent health and ideal weight He just thanks you Dr. Berg at 73 years old he is as vigorous as a young man yes I once worked in a veterans hospital not the best hospital in the world I don't know about his hospital But veterans hospitals are a disaster the treatment there is not quite what I would like to receive But that's a separate topic yes But I'm glad that he is under the care of Dr. Berg it is good for him a question from a man on  YouTube What is the best way to kill pinworms? I tried antibiotics, cloves, wormwood, and oregano extract. I don't eat processed foods or sugar. Please help. What are pinworms? First of all, are you sure you have pinworms? You might have a similar symptom. Many people develop worms due to an imbalance in the immune system and an imbalance in the intestinal flora. I would do a couple of things. Usually, people try to kill something when they really need to strengthen something. I would start taking good probiotics, eat foods that have a lot of probiotics, kimchi, sauerkraut, and so on. I would also take betaine hydrochloride capsules, five before each meal. This will increase stomach acidity, create a barrier, and microbes will not penetrate. We need strong acid in the stomach. In addition, I would take selenium. To increase T-cells, they help fight such things. Here are typical remedies for parasites. Pola extract doesn't give good results. Also, garlic, lots of garlic, lots of onions, so that you smell like a pizzeria, and of course, oregano oil.  These are my favorite remedies. I would take them and I would double-check if you have pinworms. Perhaps someone told you that you have them. That's what I would do. I hope this helps. Tracy from Rumble. Can you advise me about taking herbal colostrum from food to get rid of fibroin. There is a lot of data on this. I recently again delved into the amazing study of vitamin D3 in its history. In fact, because of the video that I will record, I can be banned from YouTube. SSKA about what was hidden for more than 100 years. Regarding vitamin D, there is a reason why some people want you to take only tiny doses of vitamin D3, and especially if we are talking about fibroin. It will help not only with fibroin, but also with oz, polyps, tumors, and so on. And besides, I think regarding the first part of the question, can you remind me? Steve, there was talk about something else, it seems about another remedy. Oh, I already deleted this question. I do this so as not to read the question again, as far as I remember.  Colostrum colostrum As for colostrum, you just need to make sure that you are not allergic to Kazin. If you are, you will feel it. You will just feel bad. But perhaps you will feel much better from Veche or Kozieva colostrum. It is sold. Colostrum is an amazing remedy for the immune system. It helps eliminate the harm from Prima Prizona. It is a pogat for many problems. This is a high-quality product, but again, I hope you are not allergic to Kazin. Then there will be no reaction. I hope this helped. I apologize, Tracy, for deleting your question. By the way, we have a question about vitamin D. So, don't turn it off. This is a very interesting question in the list of our questions for today. Next, a question about Can you please tell us about the cause and treatment of wolfsbane? I cannot treat diseases remotely. So, I will just point you in the right direction. Perhaps you should look and this is connected with the following. What is an autoimmune disease? It is an agitated immune system. That is, the immune system works too hard and attacks its own cells. There are drugs that are taken to calm the immune system. But this is a double-edged sword, because then problems arise.  Due to a sluggish immune system, such as susceptibility to cancer and infections, and one of the best antidotes for autoimmune diseases that helps modulate, that is, regulate an overactive or sluggish immune system, is vitamin D3, and I would take it in high doses. There is also, I hope I pronounce this correctly, Dr. Cambrai's protocol, I think I am Iverka. His name is high doses of vitamin D. You can find qualified doctors on his website; they will help you undergo a parathyroid hormone test to make sure that what you are taking is working correctly. There are a lot of interesting things that are associated with taking vitamin D. The reason why people think, oh my God, this is a toxic dose of as much as 10,000. Well, the video I will record soon will tell you. Which organization introduced the concept of international units and why these are arbitrary numbers; they do not even reflect weight or volume. And why not use milligrams or micrograms? Well, I will tell you more about this soon. I think high doses of vitamin D are needed, as well as cofactors K2, magnesium, zinc, and cobalt to prevent any complications, if they occur at all. More data about this is in my videos. Yes, everyone is scared of big numbers again. A question from Dunn from Rumble, I can't raise my hemoglobin to a normal level, bordering on anemia. I take heme iron, beef spleen, B12, and folates. I also take betaine hydrochloride. I don't have Helicobacter pylori. Help, this Downton says, you also need to check. Do you really have anemia and what causes it? Iron deficiency or B12. You need to understand what the problem is. And if you take iron, the problem with anemia is that anemia can be caused by excess iron or a lack of iron. And that's why, when iron is not excreted from the body due to problems with genes, blood cells do not get iron where it is needed. It is not bioavailable, and this is a complex situation. You need a good expert to evaluate all the data. I like metabolomics. I advise you to undergo this testing to understand what is happening inside the cells. You can take a blood test and check the level of vitamins and other nutrients in the blood. But here's the question: Are there enough of these nutrients for all the enzymes responsible for biochemical processes? That's a completely different matter. Metabolomics allows us to find out and look at this. If we look at people on a factory assembly line, each of them makes some kind of change. In the cells of the body, many different changes also occur. For each change, a cofactor and nutrients are needed. So, metabolomics allows us to see whether everything that is needed is coming to this assembly line. And from a blood test, it is generally impossible to understand what is really happening. Excellent, I suggest reading the first question of the quiz. True or false. True or false. 600 vitamin D is approximately equivalent to 1.8 minutes of sun exposure. Wow, less than two minutes. Okay, let's get back to social media. He asks. What should I take for scalp psoriasis? Usually, psoriasis is an autoimmune disease. So, vitamin D is needed. We're back to vitamin D. I have a video and even a course about vitamin D. Take more of it and see if it helps. There are two facts about vitamin D that people don't realize. There is one system that is associated only with bones and calcium. So, when we take vitamin D or get it from the sun, the body secretes a small percentage for bones and calcium absorption, and the other system works. Otherwise, it is aimed more at  everything else, the immune system, infections, and so on. So, when you don't take the vitamin regularly, even if you take it in large doses and perhaps think the body stores it and then uses it when needed, yes, with bones this is true, but not with other systems. So, you need to be constantly in the sun to get vitamin D or get it from dietary supplements, from food, or somehow else. Take it regularly so that other functions are performed, and they, I think, are within the scope of lack of bone mass, osteoporosis, rickets, and so on. Excellent. TDK 1964 from Ramble. Our new viewer. I have tingling and pain in my right hand and arm, and in my right shoulder, which sometimes appears and disappears. What could be the reason for the injection? This is very similar to peripheral neuropathy. Benfotiamine and alpha-lipoic acid help with this. However, if it turns out that this is not the problem, there is another cause of this neuropathy, namely, excess calcium in the body, hypercalcemia. But this is less common. I would consider these two factors, so let's move on. Magdalena asks how I can reduce high levels of phalatov. 20 high levels of folates, folates, 20 if this exists, the thing is that you may have a genetic disease called TFR If I'm not mistaken Or something like that, this is the so-called polymorphism, in which folic acid is poorly converted And this is a synthetic form of folates, we need fala This is the one you do not have the enzyme that converts folic acid If you consume too much folate or you are about folic acid, it is hidden in many products, especially fortified ones, then it can accumulate and create a lot of problems and then the solution is to exclude all folic acid from the diet and watch my video about this and start taking another form of this, which is called methylfolate, just watch a video on this topic, that's what I thought of when I heard about this problem Although it is possible we are talking about something else But this needs to be checked Excellent Let's welcome all the wonderful people who watch us around the world and then we will answer the first question of the quiz So we would like to say good morning to all our viewers who are watching us today in the UK, Canada, Mexico, Ireland, Jordan  Lithuania, South Africa, Austria, beautiful Belize, Argentina, Greece, Pakistan, India, Porto Rico, Spain, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Germany, Brunei, Gambia, Aruba, the Netherlands, the Bahamas, Ethiopia, Guyana, Poland, Albania, Brazil, Lebanon, Sweden, Finland, Italy, Egypt, Algeria, the Philippines, Myanmar, Morocco, Panama, Slovenia, China, Zambia, Japan, the Slovaks, Pakistan, Belgium, France, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Scotland, Saudi Arabia, Eritrea, the Virgin Islands, and all over the United States. Thank you to everyone who is listening. Of course, some people will probably contact us whose countries we haven't named yet. Quiz question number one. I'll put it on the screen for viewers. True or false. 600 IU of vitamin is approximately equivalent to 1.8 minutes of sun exposure. 8% said it's true. 2% doubt it's true. It's interesting that they recommend 600 IU to us, but this recommendation is essentially outdated and very strong, but they don't want to change it; they want to keep it. I know why, because otherwise people  They will solve a lot of problems, but even the organization that, so to speak, substantiated that we need such a dose, but researchers at two other universities in two other places checked these calculations and found that they have, so to speak, an error, there is, so to speak, a tiny discrepancy, since it is like this in 15 I will record a video in which I will talk about this error, so we need at least I think somewhere around 800 mi, this is based on correct estimates. And those guys got something mixed up with the decimal point, in general, we need much more than 600, perhaps enough to prevent rickets. And what about other problems that people have? You can get somewhere around 10,000 IU in 30 minutes in the sun. The point is this: if you are told that vitamin D is toxic in doses over 400 IU, ask, is it non-toxic to spend a couple of minutes a day in the sun? The correct answer is very unlikely.