Let's talk about how to look younger in six months, it's my birthday and I'll be 40, I'll be in my fifties, it's scary because old age is on the doorstep, but 39 only lasts a year, there's no escape. Of course, this is a joke. I'm not 39, I'm 59, and I'll soon be 60. It's strange because 60 is almost an old man, but I don't feel 60, but somewhere around 32. When I was still practicing, I used to conduct seminars. Once I conducted a seminar in a nursing home, I had a patient from there, and she invited me to this nursing home to conduct a seminar. I agreed. When I arrived there, I saw a room full of old people, but some of them were in their early 60s. I remember this and it's wild to me. How can you move to such a place at 60? It works for me. Apparently, some people age faster than others. How can this process be reversed? The first mistake of those who want to look younger is to avoid sunlight and apply sunscreen all year round. Think about it. People have evolved for hundreds of thousands of years under the rays of the sun, and  that now we have to live in the dark. Why are people told to avoid the sun? The reason is ultraviolet radiation, abbreviated UV, is only 3% of sunlight, 37% visible rays, and almost 60% infrared light. It is extremely beneficial for the human body. Such devices are even installed at home, but you can receive infrared light for free at dawn and sunset. There are different types of ultraviolet. Ufa easily penetrates clouds in cloudy weather. Yes, there is some connection between this type of rays and skin aging, but there is a pigment called melanin, a natural sun protection agent. It is what gives the skin a tan if you are regularly in the sun, but UVB rays are directly related to the production of vitamin D. It is interesting that sunscreens protect mainly from UVB rays, the same ones that protect from UFA rays do not produce almost any, but they are the ones that cause aging. When the skin has had enough sunbathing, you can notice that it is getting hotter, which signals. Ultraviolet radiation is dangerous. When you allow your skin to burn, and do so regularly, you can even benefit from UFA radiation. It can increase nitric oxide levels. It improves blood circulation and blood circulation in People ask what about skin cancer, that is, melanoma. There is one interesting fact. People have been reducing their time in the sun for quite some time now, but the number of melanomas has increased more than 30 times during the same time. In addition, melanoma, that is, skin cancer, usually occurs in places that are closed from the sun, so maybe it’s not the sun at all, but is it associated with a lack of vitamin D? There is also the so-called bdnf, a brain-derived neurotrophic factor, its amount increases. When you are in the sun, you produce a lot of melatonin in your cells. And this is a very powerful antioxidant. At the same time, in winter, in many places on earth, you do not receive ultraviolet radiation for the production of vitamin D. You will not be able to get vitamin D through a closed window; glass filters these rays. In general, the statement that ultraviolet radiation is extremely harmful to the skin is very far from the truth. Another piece of advice that is usually given for skin rejuvenation is to use a good moisturizer. I hope you read the composition of these creams because they contain a lot of different chemicals and they can dry out the skin. They add alcohol and mineral oil, which draws vitamins from the skin. When you Apply this cream to your skin, it gets into the bloodstream, and from there it gets into the liver. Consuming synthetic antioxidants can increase skin problems. If you eat sugar and junk food, your skin will age quickly. You also shouldn't wash your face with soap too often. Some people think that you should do this every day, but these detergents are too harsh for the skin and will erode it. Beneficial bacteria live on our skin and you shouldn't kill them. Chlorine in tap water is also very harmful to the skin. Put a filter on your shower. And the last thing I want to say is that antibiotics create serious skin problems, and not only the antibiotics that people take, but also other things that act. Like antibiotics, birth control pills, antacids for acid reflux, steroids and statins. Okay, what I'm going to tell you now is extremely interesting. There is one hormone that can increase the number of skin stem cells and it will look great. Stem cells are not differentiated, that is, they have become something specific, and the hormone that stimulates these stem cells is called Oxytocin. Wait a minute. Oxytocin is called the love hormone, but it's more correct to call it the health hormone.  This is a powerful tool for regeneration, the benefits of it are very diverse: improved relationships, better socialization, more peace of mind. How to increase oxytocin levels. I have a video about this, I will tell you about one method, it is simply amazing, in fact, you need to take microorganisms of one specific type and grow them as a culture to get something similar to yogurt. You need to understand that when you destroy the microbiome, taking antibiotics or something else, some microorganisms never return. One of these microorganisms, and it is very important, is lactobacilli. 96% of people have lost this bacterium due to antibiotics and other reasons. It needs to be returned to the body. It helps heal wounds, which is amazing. And yes, below there will be a link to another video on this topic. There I show how to grow lactobacilli. Dig in large quantities, about 300 billion, using a yogurt maker and eat it half a cup at night. I have been eating this yogurt for 3 weeks now and I must say that I began to sleep great and feel very relaxed. The next step is immersing your face in cold water, either an ice bath or a  Or just a bucket of ice water, dip your face in it for about 10 seconds. Or even less. This is super useful for rejuvenating facial skin. Blood circulation improves, pores shrink, and collagen is stimulated. Try it yourself. There's a link with instructions below. Of course, exercise is also very important for rejuvenation, especially of the skin. Finally, facial exercises can also rejuvenate. You stretch the fascia a little. After all, we rarely strain the facial muscles. I have a whole video about this. The link to it will be below. It shows how to do such exercises and other ways to improve skin condition. In this course, I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.