Let's talk about how to get rid of papillomas and warts in one day. I hope they often really disappear within 24 hours, but sometimes they decrease little by little and it takes longer. For some, this process can take from four to six weeks. Be patient, because this remedy is extremely effective. Where do papillomas and warts come from? Most of the information I could find points to the HPV virus. The human papillomavirus is a very common virus that infects 325 million women worldwide. There are more than 100 varieties and 14 of them are capable of causing cancer. But the factors that determine whether cancer occurs or not are actually epigenetic. They have a much stronger influence than genes. For example, the environment and its impact on the body, lifestyle, nutrition, stress level. But this virus can be made to remain inactive. After infection with the virus, the immune system begins to fight. A photo, but these viruses are very secretive. They hide and may not even bother you. The immune system does not see alarm signals and does not notice them, so they just wait and wait until the immune system weakens, and then with age or in the presence of  Under stress, the virus comes out of hiding and starts attacking. HPV is one of the causes of cervical cancer in women. It's the fourth most common cause of cancer in women, so this is no joke. Several studies (links below) have shown that a simple home remedy called iodine is effective in fighting papillomas and warts. One study showed a 77 percent success rate, but that's not enough for me. We need closer to 100 percent. So, let's add garlic to the iodine. Garlic is a mortal enemy not only of the virus but also of cancer. The phytonutrient allicin in garlic inhibits the penetration of viruses into various areas of the body, including the cervix and anal canal. I found very interesting information: someone tried to obtain a patent for the external use of iodine to suppress the HPV virus to inactivate this virus. It reduces the risk of cervical dysplasia and prevents uterine and anal cancer. I'll leave links below the video. This home remedy consists of two ingredients: povidone iodine, which can be purchased at almost any pharmacy, and regular fresh garlic. A few words about the properties of povidone iodine.  Firstly, it is less toxic than other types of iodine, it dissolves very well, so it is perfectly absorbed and works wonders, this type of iodine is also used to treat burns and vaginal infections, and microbes do not develop resistance to it like antibiotics and other forms of treatment. It is very effective in suppressing viruses, bacteria, fungi, mold, parasites, as well as garlic, which also has an antimicrobial effect, so the combination of these two products is deadly for papillomas and warts. Here is the recipe for this potion: take a plate and crush a little garlic until juice comes out of it, then take another plate with a couple of drops of povidone iodine and then a small amount, just a little eighth of a teaspoon of garlic juice with garlic particles, combine with iodine and mix everything well, then take this solution, apply directly to the wart or papilloma and seal with a band-aid, the remaining garlic can be covered with film and put in the refrigerator, the shelf life is a day, you need to apply the solution twice a day, you can use garlic which was crushed in the morning and just add a couple of drops of iodine to it, mix again, apply to the same papilloma or wart and seal with another patch, repeat the procedure twice a day every day until the wart or papilloma disappears completely. The speed with which the problem will go away is associated with the general state of health. It is possible to have diabetes, prediabetes, or severe insulin resistance. Diabetics and people with blood sugar problems have a higher risk of developing papillomas and warts. There is definitely a relationship between insulin resistance and viruses. In a word, if you have not yet switched to a titogenic diet and do not practice intermittent fasting, I strongly recommend starting. They are effective in the long term and will help prevent the return of the problem. For some, they can completely disappear in 7 hours, but as I already said, it can take several weeks to six weeks, but in any case, there will be a gradual decrease in size. Crushed garlic can actually be stored for several days, however, the effectiveness of the remedy must be guaranteed at the highest level. Therefore, I recommend using a fresh clove every day, as well as after crushing the garlic, phyto  Chemicals need 10-15 minutes to activate, but this does not matter because the product will be under the adhesive bandage, it will have time to be absorbed into the skin and take effect. I also recommend eating garlic in parallel with external use. Add it to food. You can take garlic powder and, in addition, start taking zinc. Zinc is also very effective against viruses, especially HPV. I recommend taking about 50 milligrams every day along with other microelements. More information is available at the link below the video. The very presence of papillomas and warts can indicate high blood sugar levels ( elevated 1c) and insulin resistance. Therefore, you need to switch to the Tit 1 diet and practice intermittent fasting. I cover the topic of skin health in my course. I recommend taking it. The link is below. I invite you to my mini-course: Skin health diagnostics. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause.  sign up using the link below before the meeting