Hi all.  Today we'll begin the program "Conversation with Philip from Canada."  Philip, ask Dr. Berg one question. First of all, thank you, Dr. Berg, for all your videos about iodine.   For the last 5 years I have been talking about iodine and working with pure molecular iodine. I use a lot of your information. I'm working on a project with a scientist, and I've noticed that a lot of what you talk about in your videos is the same as what we tell people about the importance of iodine and its role in the body.  So I want to thank you for that. And my question to you is, excuse me, what?  And I said great, thank you very much. I have a question about wheat germ.   Are these good carbohydrates, provided they are of good quality? So, there is the so-called, what is it called?  There is one starch in wheat germ.   I don't remember its name, but it is a type of starch that should not be consumed because it is the starch of modern modified wheat. This starch sharply increases blood sugar. Wheat germ has all the good stuff, vitamin E and all that, but it also contains starch.  That's why I don't recommend them. If you can find germ from ancient wheat grains , I think they are much better.  But unfortunately, this type of amylopectin appears to be amylopectin A or B, the starch in wheat germ that should be avoided. Clear.  Thank you. Please.  I think iodine is an amazing trace mineral. I think many people are deficient in it. Taking it brings great benefits. Its benefits are multifaceted.  I'm glad you're doing this.  We need to spread this information more widely. Wonderful.  Thank you very much for your kind words, Philip. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Now let's answer the questions that have accumulated on social networks. Asks Eli from Facebook.  Is Vitamin E Good for Circulation? I don't think we're talking about local use. Yes, it improves blood circulation because it naturally thins the blood and prevents blood clots.  This is the first thing.  But it brings many other benefits as well.  It reduces scar tissue, prevents its appearance, and helps get rid of it.  It also improves oxygen transport to tissues, including heart tissue. This is good for angina. It is a super powerful antioxidant.  It eliminates free radical damage. Tocopherols are one form of vitamin E. But relatively recently, another form of vitamin E was discovered. This is a different group, a different class.  These are the so-called tocotrienols. They are smaller and appear to act 50 times faster than ferols alone.  These are the ones I recommend if you have problems.  It seems that only ferols and only trinols compete, so it is better not to take them together .