This is the video you've been waiting for, how to increase the length of your telomeres and live longer. First, a little explanation. Our cells have a central part, this is the nucleus. Inside the nucleus is DNA. DNA is packed with structures called chromosomes, and chromosomes contain genetic information in the form of genes. What is a telomere? The term telomere is formed from two Greek words, telos, which means end, and meraz, which means part. The end part. If you compare it to a lace, then this is the telomere. It's a small protective thing at the end of the chromosome. The shorter this part, the faster you age and the more sick you get. When cells divide, chromosomes are reproduced because we need their full set, and every time they reproduce or divide, these telomeres become shorter and shorter. Many scientists claim that the shorter the telomeres, the faster a person ages and the more diseases he gets. But there are these genetic factors that can help you and can also harm you. Epigenetics studies what is above the genes, what genes control. After all, you are not just your genes. There is the environment, food, herbs, something that needs to be done and what to avoid, and all this can greatly affect your  Telomeres and aging well okay ready here's what harms telomeres poor nutrition I mean sugar refined foods and so on obesity who would have thought lack of exercise lack of sleep stress smoking alcohol and pollution probably you know people in whose lives all these factors are and usually they don't live long what are these genetic factors that help lengthen telomeres omega-3 fatty acids I have an interesting video about these acids in it I have data that you can increase life expectancy by 5 years by eating regular foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids these are fatty fish such as salmon liver oil cod sardines number 2 astragalus this is Audrey on a new adaptogen what helps to resist stress next gotu kola next green tea green tea is good for almost everything next curcumin next vitamin D it is also good for almost everything and foods rich in zinc oysters shellfish and crustaceans next exercise regularly and exercise and of course good recovery this includes sleep if you have chronic insomnia it can cause great harm to your  Telomeres, low stress levels, and the last thing you'll probably be very surprised by is healthy eating. If you're new to my channel, there's a link below about what exactly is called healthy eating. Well, thanks for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.