Today we will discuss how to quickly get rid of lower back pain. Lower back pain has different causes, but two of them are the most common. I will also tell you about rarer causes. The first important cause of lower back pain is a sedentary lifestyle. Did you know that, for example, the average American sits from 10 to 15 hours a day. It's incredible. He sits behind the wheel, sits at work, and if he works from home, he also sits at the computer, and when he comes home, he watches TV, again, sitting. When sitting, the body is in a bent state. The thigh muscles are pulled up and contracted, and the quadriceps are primarily flexors. They straighten the lower part of the leg and they also help pull the thigh up. Another flexor in the lower back is the psoas muscle. If you spend a lot of time sitting, the quadriceps (the psoas muscle) will become shorter and when you stand up, they will be tense. This will cause changes in the pelvis, which will then have a compensatory effect on the muscles in the lower back and put these muscles into constant tension and contraction. With a sedentary lifestyle, the quadriceps are shortened, and they weaken.  The gluteal muscles in general change shape, the buttocks become flat and flabby, they atrophy due to overly tense flexors and we do not have strong extensors, that is, opposing muscles on the other side of the buttocks, and the lower back muscles take it upon themselves, that is where most often the pain in the lower back is the best stretch in this case, stretching the quadriceps, I advise doing it while standing, here is what you need to do, take a chair, lean on it with one hand and with the other hand, grab your ankle and these threads, foot towards you from behind, to stretch the quadriceps, start with the right leg, while standing straight, you need to pull the leg as far as possible, it will be tense and hold in this position for about ten seconds, then move to the other leg. When you do this, note which is more tense, usually they are asymmetrical. 1 is more tense than the other. This stretch should be repeated 1.5 counting to 10. After stretching, you will feel that the pain in the lower back has become much easier. Stretching fights tension in the lower back muscles, they also relax well. This is the most necessary stretch for you, of course, if you have to  You need to sit for a long time, at least an hour a day, walk outside, go to school, walk on different surfaces, walk barefoot on the grass at the dacha will be great because walking barefoot stimulates the soles of the feet and is very beneficial for the lower back, unlike the opposite when someone wears high heels or thick soles. The closer to the ground the feet are, the more reliable. The best remedy for combating the effects of a sedentary life is either walking or a good stretching program. In training programs, you need not pump these muscles, but stretch them and achieve their symmetry. The next common cause of lower back pain is a lack of vitamin D. If you have back pain and you take vitamin D, it can probably relieve you of pain very quickly. I recommend a dose of 30,000 international units and you will find that in about half an hour to an hour, your back pain will significantly subside because a lack of vitamin D causes lower back pain more often than anything else. The next reason is some kind of asymmetry in the muscles. By this I mean  something the front of the body or the lower legs or the back of the legs are too tense and have an asymmetry so that when walking there is constant wear and tear of the joints this can happen from playing golf when you do asymmetrical work or even from tennis if you are right-handed all this will spoil the gait, so you need to check the mobility of the joints try to reach your toes or straighten all the joints and find out which movement you are not given, then work on symmetry in flexion and extension when bending in one direction or another transformations and even in the neck if you have tension in the middle of the back or upper back or a tense neck this can also affect the back and you need to work on the entire spine since it is connected I want to note that if you had an old injury, say, a shin or foot, let's say there was a fracture of the tibia, as I had in college, this can lead to the fact that you limp and compensate for this with the other leg then throughout life this can cause a violation in the pelvis and lower back pain so these stretches are extremely important especially if you have an old  Injuries or sprains, if the problem is in the intervertebral discs, there is an excellent technique for lower back pain. In short, the gist is this: you lie on your back and press on the front of your abdomen opposite the lower back, this is about 7 centimeters below the navel in the center. If you press there, you will find many tense muscles. You relax the muscles opposing the lower back, and this often relieves back pain, no matter what part of the back hurts. Press from the front, hold it like this for a couple of minutes, and this will relieve back pain. The pain can be due to kidney stones. I have a ton of videos about this, they have much more information on this topic. But the main thing with kidney stones is to drink at least two and a half liters of fluid a day, and then the formation of stones is very unlikely. This is for those who are prone to urolithiasis, because kidney stones are a strong pain in the back, upper lower back, with an enlarged prostate, usually due to the abundance of dairy products in the diet. The pain can also radiate to the lower back. In general, if you often run to the toilet at night, if you suspect simplicity, limit  Dairy products and see if the lower back pain goes away. I recently released a video about the prostate. Watch the link to it in the description. If you have a problem with the uterus, say you have fibroids or you are currently menstruating, then with problems with the uterus, this can also cause lower back pain. Calcium lactate is a good remedy for menstruation. For more information on which foods are useful for fibroids, you can watch the video link to which I will leave below in the description of this video. If you have pain in or about the sacral joints, they are located to the right and left of the sacrum. The ovaries are usually suspected. Laminaria is a good remedy for combating estrogen dominance. It helps remove some cysts and reduce ovarian swelling, and then the pain in this joint can stop quite quickly. In general, I decided to make this video about lower back pain to give you brief tips on what you can do. If you haven't watched my video about eating with, be sure to watch it.