 IHilia-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6-6 not so big as you think. When we talk about sorrow in the winter, the mind is that the most important difference is summer and winter. That is, the sun is more sun. The sun is not only a vitamin D. The sun is not only a vitamin D. The sun is affected by more than 2000 genes. These genes regulate the production of the serotonin, which makes us happy. And melatonin is another one. These genes regulate the work of the cells, even affect the microflora and many other things. When we talk about depression, people think that it is a psychological problem. But in reality, the sun is often not a sad, it is a way to experience joy, emotions higher levels, or happiness from a kind of reward. And so this is very interesting, because there are a lot of ways to to take emotional condition of a person on a higher level, without the medical, such as COZS. So this problem is a loss of work of our внутренних часов. In our mind there are the main two-day-way, which are the main-way, which are the main-way, which is a lot of factors. But the main one is the light. I mean, I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am glad I am So that also impacts our physiology. There is a so-called seasonal affective disorder, which is caused exclusively by a loss of the circle. Today we will not be able to get into this. But one of the most important tools for solving this problem is the light. Of course, in cold you don't go to the street because of this light. The light is a very powerful tool. It is set up the circuit of the rhythm for the day and the night. But when it is in the cold, we, of course, are at home. So that the light is not just a stress, it is a very strong relationship. So let's look at this not only through the prism of vitamin D, but as a whole system. Let's discuss this small factor, melatonin. Perhaps you heard that melatonin is a very strong influence on the sleep. When the level of melatonin is increased, it is easier to sleep in the evening. You can see that melatonin is a dark place. Obviously, in the night is dark, so you can see more melatonin in your brain. In your brain, there is another system melatonin in the cells of the body. You have a completely different role. He is in my mitochondria. It is a powerful antioxidant. And we get it in the most of the way through the infrared light. We have a balance of the sun. In the brain, melatonin can be too much, and it makes us a lot of pain. But in the rest of the body, it is too much. So it is a balance of melatonin. But his signals are coming dents, when they are not needed. Just because of the balance of melatonin. And then of course... And then of course... And then of course... And now, subscribe to the channel and click the bell. And if you want to click all the notifications. If you want to click all the notifications, YouTube can not forget about new videos. This simple действия will help you to the future. And we continue. Now we will discuss the vitamin D. He is part of this. Vitamin D is not vitamin D, it is a hormone. And it is a hormone. It is a hormone that has been working on more than 2000 gens. It is a hormone that activates serotonin, that vitamin D needs to be enough, and also to be properly used. And also vitamin D needs to be used for the very important system of dopamine, especially for the support of the receptors to dopamine, so that they work. If dopamine is not a little or his receptors are not a feeling, you will not have any emotions. You will not be able to experience more emotional emotions. And then you will get a feeling or even a feeling of apathy. So why vitamin D helps to improve dopamine with dopamine? You will have more motivation, ability to feel the pleasure. And when vitamin D is enough, it increases the depression, because the depression is very important. But vitamin D also protects the mitochondria from the pain. So, very often, печаль and depression are causing lack of energy. Now, let's discuss the light of the light. You get too much light of the light from your computer, from the computer, from the TV. This brings a serious путаницу to work of the brain and the rick of the rhythm. And we will return back to the light of the light. In the old days, there was no light of the light. When all this system starts to break, because we don't have enough sun, we don't have enough serotonin, we don't have enough vitamin D, the level of melatonin is increasing. You feel like you are like, you don't want anything to do. You don't want to do much. You are like a疲 and you are like a bad mood. And you have a strong mood. Especially to the blood of the sugar, which is because of this, the blood of the blood of the blood of the blood of the blood of the blood. Because your brain now depends on glucose, but you cannot receive it because of the insulin resistance. And if you have no energy, and you don't turn the blood into ketones, it becomes very very depressive and depressive. Next, I want to tell you about the connection of the sun and the щitocin cells. In the morning, the щitocin cells can suffer not only from the heat of the sun, but from the cold. If people are sick when people are sick, they are sick and they are sick and they are sick. It's usually related to the weather, because the щитовидная железа is not able to adapt to the cold. It's the main stress for the immune system. If щитовидная железа is not working, you have a lot of energy, and the mood is poor. Many people have problems with щитовидной железы, bad mood, depression, anxiety, cold, cold, cold, and the body of the body, and the body of the body. Another thing is interesting, that the microflora also is also affected by the outside and the sun. And there are also changes the reaction of the zimony. Many people are not the same program, especially in the holidays, and all their microflora changes. We are not able to eat or even many fruits. So it is important to have a lot of fruits, and the fruit is not the season for fruits. We are not supposed to eat sweet things in the winter months. They affect the microflora, and this will then affect the microflora. In fact, most of the most of our serotonin are our micro-organisms. even so that people often are also sick of the time. If we look at this the problem more, the so-called evolution of the non-sensual match. So I am to add to the living, to add to the light, to the food and to the kitchen every day. It's terrible. So what can you do? Number one. This is, I think, the most important factor in changing your mood. You need to get the light in the morning. You can either go out of bed, or you can see the sun, or you can see the sun. It's very important. And also, you know, the sun is in the air, even through your clothes, or just buy light. It's called a light. You can put it on the computer and you can put it on you 15-30 minutes, when you're in the morning. This light will reduce the depression and improve the sun night. Especially if you're in the night, the sun is in the evening. You can't stop the light for the night. You don't want to be a light of the light. You don't want to be a light of the light. You will always be in the same time and you will always be in the same time. You will always be in the same time. I usually sleep in the 10 minutes, and I'm in the 6, 6.30, and, maybe, 7. Another important factor is your diet. Don't eat the food. When you're eating for products, you have a list of products. Don't eat the products, when you're hungry, or you'll buy something, which you should not buy. So, you don't want to buy anything. You don't want to eat at home. And you don't want to eat microflora with a sugar with a sugar with a sugar. Because they eat with a sugar. If you eat a food, you will eat with a food. It will affect your your brain. Use the cold weather, but use it with more physical activity. In the room or on the street. It's very important. many people are not training. Because on the street it's cold, and they don't get out of the house. I have a free document. My daily daily daily I do every day. I feel on 18, although I'm 60. I'm free. I'm free. There's a link. There's a link. You can see it. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. I'm free. and they will help you. Next point is the food. It's a big part of the healthy version. You need to understand the basic principles of food, when we talk about eating. Because food is the same stone, which is your health. And it depends on the first time, how much food is in the nutrients. It's not just in the increase of calories, but in the nutrients. I give you a lot of information and knowledge about how to understand what is your body, what is it doing and how to get what you need from your food. So this program increases your chances to achieve success. It also demonstrates how to do it correctly, to get new and healthy habits for the rest of your life. I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad I