Hello everyone, let's start with questions on social networks. Elizabeth from Facebook is asking what is the cure for thyroid calcification. It sounds terrible. Yes, if it is already calcifying and undergoes pathological calcification. I think that with age, we all develop stiffness; calcium takes over. I think that the antidote to this is to get enough of the nutrient that regulates calcium throughout life, and this is primarily magnesium. You say wait a minute. I thought that vitamin K2 does not let calcium into the blood vessels and joints, keeping it in the bones. Yes, but imagine that magnesium is the main cofactor for 2. So, magnesium is the main factor that regulates calcium in cells. If you have enough magnesium in your diet, it can protect you from a lot of damage to the mitochondria. Because calcium is a double-edged sword. Its excess kills cells. If there is not enough of it, then nothing works. Because it is needed not only for bones, but also for communication in the body between hormones, and so on. Calcium is a signaling molecule. So in general we should always have enough magnesium so that calcium does not create problems in the tissues and does not get out of control. It's interesting. And now the quiz question today is true or false. True or false, is gluten-free food healthier than with gluten? Dear viewers, what do you think? Send us from social networks. I saw an interesting and important question here. Karen from Facebook is asking: How can we really maintain mental acuity and memory over the years? There are many dietary supplements for memory and for the brain, there are a lot of them, but in fact, the most important factor is diet. The diet should be to avoid refined sugars, refined grains should be avoided, and seed oils. And all this is mostly needed. Extreme things are needed, such as intermittent fasting, long-term fasting, not in the sense that this is something extreme. But if you can fast for 3 days or even longer, your brain cells will not immediately say thank you. You will grow new brain cells. Yes, this is amazing. The worse things are, the more extreme things are needed, but it is better to take care of yourself and prevent this and the brain needs it. I made a lot of videos about this. Look.  There is more than one factor here, there are many. I know that when I immerse myself in cold water. I did this yesterday and the day before, my brain works much better when I immerse myself in an ice-cold torture bath. It's almost like it's only 10°. At first, it's very painful, but then I get used to it. It's amazing that it improves the brain so much. A cold shower is also good. Everyone takes a cold shower. Asks c70 Rambla. Is it possible to overdose on your electrolytes? How does excess potassium affect the heart? It's interesting. There is a myth that excess potassium is dangerous, but all this is based on a study of people with stage 5 kidney disease. You understand. Of course, you should avoid potassium, but potassium protects the kidneys. It protects the heart. The body gets rid of excess potassium very easily. One of my electrolytes has a serving size of 1000 mg of potassium, and it seems like a lot. But we need mg a minute. If we need four times more potassium, almost five times more, then how come the body needs a lot of potassium for a very specific reason? The fact is that the body has a mechanism that allows cells to create a potential difference.  This is potassium, the sodium pump, it is necessary for the proper functioning of muscles and the nervous system. That's why we need potassium. I think a lack of potassium is more harmful than its excess. The body simply excretes it very easily in the urine, so this is a different mechanism. It is not the same as an excess of other substances. For example, excess iron is very toxic, excess calcium is very harmful. But an excess of potassium and magnesium is easily excreted in the urine. This is encouraging. Asks Carly 408 Stram. What do you think about the constant calls to get x-rays of all teeth every year? Or after a year, which I am irradiated, me too. This also worries me if you close the thyroid gland all the way to the top. I think it will be good. I was Randy Tax before I became a chiropractor. I was so stupid that I didn't even close the screen when I got x-rays in nursing homes. I never used a screen and received a considerable dose, but I think my lifestyle neutralizes all that harm. Although I think the question was: Is it necessary to get x-rays of all teeth every year? This is clearly incomparable with a CT scan of the kidneys or an x-ray of the whole body. So I think the radiation here is minimal, you can take it. It protects from radiation, but I think it's important to do this x-ray every year. I'll make a video about it. You can also take a 3D x-ray, which shows all the gums, and a biological dentist will see everything that is needed. If there is an abscess under the tooth, say, after the removal of the dental nerve, this can be a huge health problem and it is very important to periodically examine this with a good biological dentist, because it can cause a lot of problems. I've already seen this. I've seen heart problems, arthritis, all sorts of hidden infections. And their source is not visible, because it is hidden in the gums, and it's as if there is no bone, because the bacteria have eaten everything there. Oh, and the viewers answered the quiz question about it. It sounded like this. True or false, gluten-free food is healthier than with gluten. 65% said it was a lie, and 35% thought it was true. Who is right? This is an interesting question. After all, if there is no gluten in something, this does not mean that people think it means it is healthy. And have you read the composition of what it does not contain?  There is gluten in rice flour, tapioca flour, tapioca flour, rice flour is used because there is no gluten in rice, just like tapioca. But it is still flour, it is flour that serves as food. Why did you give up gluten to protect your intestines, but at the same time you are giving food to bad microbes in the intestinal microflora, bad bacteria, harmful bacteria, pathogens. I will gladly add refined sugars and starches. Good bacteria prefer fiber, that is, in fact, you are creating an imbalance in the intestines. Bad bacteria appear in the intestines and it becomes inflamed. You are creating another problem, or rather, a similar problem, but a different mechanism. So if you see the sign gluten-free, laugh, it's ridiculous, it's just complete. People will understand that in fact, it means nothing. It's just another way to disguise junk food by removing the gluten protein from it. And think about how this protein is removed. Do you think it just mixes with water and evaporates? No, they add chemicals, add acids, add  enzymes to extract this protein and what remains is even more empty carbohydrates, which is terrible.