I recently made a video about the benefits of cold showers. But of course, this is only beneficial if you actually take a cold shower. Many people who wrote comments were, so to speak, dreading it because a cold shower can be very, very unpleasant. And today I will give some tips on how to do this and get benefits without experiencing terrible painful discomfort from a cold shower. Here is the first thing you need to know about a cold shower, like any other stress: when the body is too comfortable, when there is too little stress, the body weakens. Therefore, adding a little stress to your life, if it is not excessive, is very, very useful, whether it is training, intermittent fasting, or even a cold shower. Let me remind you why a cold shower is useful. First, this is very important. It causes a powerful reaction of the immune system. You would think that if you are in the cold and, say, it is raining, you will get sick. But in fact, if the stress is not excessive. If you are in the rain for not too long, the immune system can become so strong that it will resist pathogens. So, cold therapy brings enormous benefits to the immune system. This is the first thing it has to do with inflammation. I am talking about inflammation caused not only by infection. but also autoimmune diseases and especially the inflammation that is caused by arthritis if you have arthritis stiffness or pain cold therapy can be extremely useful and by combining several factors you can really strengthen the immune system if you combine training fasting and cold therapy you can essentially become invulnerable to many pathogens and many people with Lyme disease also benefit from this not only the immune system but also the brain and this benefit is expressed both in mood and in cognitive function Those who have depression anxiety can get great benefit from this improved cognitive function If you want to improve your concentration increase productivity cold therapy can help In addition, cold therapy causes a powerful surge of some neurotransmitters in particular I am talking about two neurotransmitters epinephrine and noropinephrine epinephrine is also called adrenaline these two neurotransmitters act like hormones but they work in the nervous system in the brain and also in the adrenal glands through the nervous system and the inner part of the adrenal gland is called the medulla it is completely nervous tissue So Adrenaline or  Nordenalin is produced by the medulla in the adrenal glands and also by the brain. When it comes to the sympathetic nervous system, which includes the Bailey-Run mode, cortisol often comes to mind. But this is one hormone, and the other two are adrenaline and norepinephrine. Cold therapy can increase the level of these two neurotransmitters by 6.5 times. An increase in adrenaline levels makes us very, very alert. Adrenaline and norepinephrine quickly awaken. They cause a number of different reactions. The productivity of mitochondria increases. These are the energy plants in cells. Just regularly taking a cold shower can increase the number of mitochondria in muscle cells. It’s simply incredible, and you can produce more energy and burn more fat. So, cold therapy is very helpful in losing weight, in particular due to the activation of brown fat. Brown fat differs from white fat. Brown fat is associated with thermogenesis, that is, thermoregulation. Cold therapy stimulates the production of brown fat, and it has more mitochondria, thereby accelerating metabolism, and brown fat uses calories from white fat, helping to oxidize more fat.  tissues So, it's not just diet and exercise that contribute to weight loss. Another beauty of cold therapy is that it can lower blood sugar and increase insulin sensitivity. Many people have insulin resistance in other videos. I'm talking about apple cider vinegar, reducing carbohydrates, and exercise, but a cold shower also helps lower blood sugar, which is simply amazing. I'll briefly talk about the last big advantage about the effect on longevity. Certain genes associated with longevity are stimulated when we are in the cold. This is due to survival programs that are associated with situations when there is a threat of freezing. And one more thing about cold therapy is related to night sleep. Especially delta-wave sleep, that is, deep sleep. The overall quality of Delta sleep improves if the room where you sleep is a little cooler and worsens if you try to sleep when it's too hot. I prefer to cover myself with a very thin sheet. I like to sleep in the cool. I sleep much better when it's cool than when it's too hot. Before moving on to the tips, here's the last very important data about cold therapy. It is related to blood circulation in our body, about a hundred thousand kilometers. blood vessels including veins, arteries and capillaries we have many vessels there are muscles that control the constriction and expansion of blood vessels in this system Taking a cold shower you activate 100 thousand kilometers of vessels that have muscles this creates an interesting effect constriction expansion of blood vessels increased blood flow to areas that need it in general a lot of good things will happen if you have the courage to take a cold shower Well okay the first piece of advice you need to start with a very warm shower you stand under warm water make the water very hot and then very gradually reduce the temperature of the water slowly until the body gets used to it make the water colder and colder over time do it very gradually so it is not so painful in the beginning After all the hardest thing here is to ignore your body when it says No, don't for some reason the body is categorically against too much cooling I am from Wisconsin there used to be a walrus club here and on Lake Michigan in the winter people from this club would jump into the lake with a running start Wisconsin winters are cold then I thought they were crazy but today knowing the benefits of this  I would probably jump into Lake Michigan after them or at least try number two, this advice will help partly overcome the shock of the body, say you turned on the cold water in the shower and put some part of the body under the water, for example, your chest, start rubbing your chest, rubbing it. As the cold penetrates the skin, it will be much easier, because the cold receptors are in the skin near the surface, so by rubbing them, you dull the believing sensations of cold. number three, get under the cold water completely relaxed. Most people do the opposite, they get into the shower in an excited state with a feeling of strong fear, and so on, they are not relaxed, and this only makes it worse. Get under the shower completely relaxed. This makes it much easier to endure this change in temperature. number four is related to number three, start slowing down your breathing, breathe very slowly, inhale for perhaps 4-5 seconds and exhale for 4-5 seconds. Relaxation combined with slow, deep breathing will help overcome the pain caused by the cold. number five, turn on music that you really like. Certain music helps to cope with difficulty. It also helps to distract the mind from the feeling of very strong cold. number six, take  cold shower immediately after intense workouts from which you sweat. This will help remove the generated heat and it will be a little easier. Number seven, just don't think about it all the time, no need to persuade yourself to do it. Just do it without thinking, just jump in the shower in the morning, as if outsmart yourself and do it. Number eight, ideally, over time, I'm talking about weeks, you need to increase the time from 10 seconds to maybe 20-30-45 seconds to a minute and then up to two minutes once a day will be just great. If you can do this. Usually, when a person reaches 30 seconds, it becomes a little easier. A kind of numbness appears. You begin to tolerate it better, but the first 30 seconds are the most. Number nine, just jump in the cold shower but finish with a hot shower. This removes the discomfort from cold water. So, before a cold shower, realize that it will end with something pleasant and comfortable. Number 10, put only one part of the body under the cold shower, be it your legs or perhaps your left arm and shoulder. You increase the intensity by gradually cooling only some parts of the body and each time Add a new part of the body to make it easier. And lastly, Number 11. Just  Turn on the shower for a couple of seconds and turn it off for a couple of seconds. Turn it on for a couple of seconds. Turn it off for a couple of seconds. This way, you cool down, as if in intervals. This will definitely reduce the intensity and pain from the feeling of cold. I hope now you have enough courage to try taking the cold. If you haven’t seen my other video about the benefits of a cold shower, I think it’s worth watching. Here it is.