Hello everyone Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz So get ready I ask you, Doctor Burke Why did the incidence of almost all diseases jump after 1980 Why did the incidence of almost all diseases jump after the eighties And while the viewers answer this question, we will answer Dmitry's question Shame if not probiotics not prebiotics no eliminate intestinal inflammation after Helicobacter pylori How to eliminate intestinal problems Well, I think probiotics help with intestinal problems It says probiotics I know prebiotics Both Well, what about prebiotics if you already have leaky gut syndrome and you add a prebiotic, say, fiber It can irritate the intestines that are already damaged Now manufacturers are introducing all sorts of new synthetic fibers into our diet soluble corn fiber tapioca fiber We don't even know how these affect New fibers, among other things, I think there is an excellent I am now experimenting with this There is a great new thing You can make yogurt yourself but it's not really yogurt it  You need to take a certain probiotic strain, put it in a yogurt maker using a milk substance to reproduce it, and let's say every hour its amount doubles, it goes straight up, and after 36 hours you will get an extremely concentrated super probiotic, it improves the condition of the intestines and much more. I'm taking it now, I'll try it, see the results, and soon I'll tell everyone about this. I think probiotics are necessary to eliminate many problems. There is also glutamine, but not in monosodium glutamate, but in real food, these are different things. Chester Rambla asks excellently, what is the best way to eliminate heartburn? I'm taking your formula, but the new one is not. So, if you don't have acid reflux, but heartburn, that is, a burning sensation in the stomach, then you may have an ulcer or gastritis, and mastic resin is an excellent remedy. If you have gastritis, but it helps against Helicobacter pylori, it is also very, very useful. In the worst case, if you need to take something to neutralize acid, then instead of calcium carbonate, it is better to take baking soda temporarily until it passes, but perhaps first you need to heal the mucous membrane. stomach lining, especially if you don't have reflux but just a burning sensation. I have a lot of information about this, but in my videos I differentiate between gastritis, ulcers, heartburn, acid reflux, and bile reflux. There is a lot of information about all of this, and this problem cannot always be solved right away. So get all the information and first find out what exactly the problem is. The most important thing is to find out in the World Cup. The problem is to grab onto a solution. To do this, you need to find out the background, all the data, and analyze them. Liana from Yuba asks excellently. What can help an elderly woman get rid of the urge to urinate at night and urination? Well, I think, firstly, if you most often have insulin resistance, so eliminate snacks and carbohydrates. This will help you a lot. If the problem is fibroin, D3 with magnesium, because fibroin puts pressure on the bladder, but I don't know if you have this, but after menopause, it's unlikely. So I would address insulin resistance. Healthy chum salmon and intermittent fasting should help. Excellent. Now we'll find out the answers to the question.  The quiz sounded like this: almost all diseases jumped after 1980. 68% said it was due to the appearance of glyphosate in food. 12% said it was due to high-functioning substances. There is a discrepancy in the data sources: consumption of some things jumped sharply after 1980, and some began to grow right before that in 1970, 1960, even in 1950. So, a sharp increase began, and on other graphs there is a sharp rise. I think I will need to select graphs around 1980, because after that year there were more problems than usual. Especially with some diseases, such as autism, and so on, you need to look at many factors, it is difficult to identify. What exactly is the cause? Seed oils and starches. People began to eat less red meat. So, it is not the problem or is it the pollution in glyphosate. So, it is very difficult to find the cause of different factors, but I just want you to know about another factor that many ignore, and it is that the sun began to be considered evil. People began to fear the sun. Avoid the sun. Use sunscreen. This was actively promoted in the 1980s, and this alone  I am a factor. As a child, I was constantly outside and got a lot of sun. But today I don't see children on the streets at all, so my vitamin D levels have decreased. And this could directly worsen all illnesses, especially asthma and diabetes. So I think this is very interesting. I will continue to study this topic. So don't forget about vitamin D, because Jeff Bolz has an excellent book on this topic. Look at his selection of books, especially the book on high doses of vitamin D. He writes a lot about this, gives a lot of graphs, and so on. Perhaps he is now watching this video. Be sure to check out his books. He shows a striking connection between the sun, vitamin D, and a huge number of health problems. Knowing all this, you might not have seen this connection. Excellent. Chanel Falin with Rambla. What are your best products to take for adrenal fatigue? I think one of the best is anti-stress, calm adrenal glands, but there are also dried adrenal glands. This is just the adrenal gland. Tired adrenal glands, but dried adrenal glands are very helpful for those who have had a lot of stress in their lives. If you take a capsule every evening, it will be excellent. And another product  - it's a blend of adaptogens and stress-fighting ingredients So one of these two is asking well on Rish S Yuba why polyps appear in the gallbladder I think because of irritation caused either by seed oils or something toxic it's not exactly known there are different theories but I think seed oils are very inflammatory and this is one of the factors I would switch to a very healthy diet which I recommend I hope the polyps disappear well Dana with tuba What dietary supplements are best to take for sciatic nerve damage B12 and I recommend them but don't forget about magnesium excellent and on that note Steve Thank you for watching for so long I appreciate your attention and your wonderful comments stay tuned and see you See you again