I'll tell you about products that can potentially increase libido in both men and women, that is, products with an aphrodisiac effect. But first, I'll note that if you do n't sleep, or if you have chronic stress, or if you're on a diet high in carbohydrates and sugar, none of this will work because all of this will easily reduce libido to nothing. So, testosterone is a hormone that increases libido in both men and women. But of course, women don't need excess testosterone or other androgens, otherwise they will grow hair on their face, their voice will become deep, hair will start to fall out on the top of their head, and many other things will happen. You need the right balance. Anything that greatly increases estrogen lowers testosterone and reduces libido. Dairy products, which in large quantities can increase estrogen, and of course, soybean oil and soy protein isolate can lower testosterone levels. Tap water should be installed; be sure to install a tap filter. Water contains all sorts of chemicals and hormones, including estrogen, which can be a big problem. Okay, let's say we figured that out.  Here's a list of pistachios. Pistachios are rich in arginine, an amino acid that increases nitric oxide. Do you know how Viagra works by increasing nitric oxide? Pistachios can help to a certain extent. Selenium can increase not only fertility but also raise testosterone to a healthy level. Number two, oysters. Why? Because of all the foods in oysters, there's the most zinc. This is one of the most powerful minerals for increasing testosterone. Oysters also contain copper, which can also help increase testosterone levels. Selenium is also present. Number three, coffee. Coffee in large quantities can lower testosterone. But if you drink it little by little, caffeine and polyphenols will help maintain healthy testosterone levels. Next, a spice called saffron is very expensive, but it's even used to treat depression, improve mood, and increase fertility. Number five, maca root, it's called Peruvian Viagra, it can increase testosterone. Number six, asparagus. Asparagus contains a natural building block protein that can help increase testosterone. Of course, these are not the steroids that people inject themselves with.  Bodybuilders, then truffles are mushrooms. Research has confirmed that they can increase testosterone. Number eight, beets can increase nitric oxide levels, like pistachios. You shouldn't eat too much beets because they have too much sugar, but in small quantities it's fine. But again, none of this will have any effect if you have poor sleep, stress, or a high-carb diet. And of course, exercise will also help. Thanks for watching. Dr. Coach's new workshop course on intermittent fasting and the keto diet. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's 30 years of experience, which you can adopt in three months of training. Get a certificate. Help people and achieve great success. Work. Sign up for the course using the link below.