Hello, today we'll talk about the various causes of breakouts. Let's start with food allergies. If you have a food allergy, it can have a strong effect on your skin. It may not even be breakouts, but redness, peeling, and dry skin. This can be caused by an allergy, but there is also sensitivity to chemicals, food intolerance, which is not necessarily an allergy. If you suspect this, consult a specialist doctor. When you exclude those foods that cause reactions, the skin immediately clears up. This is one of the reasons why intermittent fasting is so effective. Try intermittent fasting and perhaps your skin will immediately return to normal and you will understand what is potentially causing the problem. Number two: increased androgens. What are these? These are male hormones. Women should not have excess androgens, otherwise, facial hair growth begins, hair loss, the voice becomes deeper, constant fatigue appears. Inflammation. High androgen levels also cause breakouts and are usually associated with high insulin levels. Therefore, a healthy diet is an ideal diet for those who suffer from polycystic ovary syndrome because it reduces carbohydrates, lowers insulin, and helps normalize levels. Androgens, stress stimulates the adrenal glands, which activate androgen production. Testosterone, also very powerful, can cause acne and hair loss. Nettle root is a good remedy in this situation. Nettle root is one of the best remedies for balancing this more active form of testosterone. It also helps against any inflammation. Remember, a lack of vitamin A causes a vitamin deficiency. That's why Okutan is so popular. It's a synthetic vitamin A, but it has many side effects. In my opinion, the best source of vitamin A is unrefined cod liver oil. You may have a vitamin deficiency. If you have had your gallbladder removed, have liver problems, or don't have enough microorganisms that help circulate bile, which is necessary for vitamin absorption. Perhaps you took an antibiotic and now have an imbalance in the intestines, irritable bowel syndrome, etc., in which case there will be problems with vitamin absorption. You may also have a gastric bypass. It can also be a cause. Unrefined cod liver oil is great if  If you don't have a gallbladder, take this oil with purified bile salts for vitamin absorption, and this will help the skin. We're dealing with inflammation of the follicle on the skin, so anything that reduces inflammation will help the skin. Fink is very important for skin health. Zinc deficiency causes dry skin, acne, and flaking. You know what depletes zinc stores in the body? High-carbohydrate diets. Surprise! Piccolino KV zinc is a good remedy. Oysters probably contain the most zinc. Zinc is also found in the liver of grass-fed animals. High estrogen levels can cause acne, so acne can appear in women during menopause. Also, during the menstrual cycle, when estrogen surges occur. We're talking about androgens, but estrogen can also affect cystic acne, a very unpleasant form of acne caused by estrogen dominance. A remedy for all these problems is called Dima. I'll leave a link below. Look, it blocks excess estrogen production, which comes from testosterone. That's what I would recommend first. Stick to a healthy ketogenic diet. Link in the description. Great ketogenic diet can help with all of this without any additional funds. Practice intermittent fasting. It includes a recovery mode. This will help the skin and cognitive functions. It will also help eliminate food allergies or sensitivities to chemicals. Vitamin A and zinc are a good remedy. Cod liver oil and knee assessment. You also need to avoid stress as much as possible. Cruciferous vegetables. You can also take Tim as a replacement. One tablet is equivalent to a kilogram of vegetables. Cruciferous vegetables on a regular basis will help balance estrogen. If you have age spots or slight redness and you just want to improve your skin tone, vitamin B3 in the form of niacinamide, which is water-soluble, mix it with coconut or olive oil and apply to the skin. This is very beneficial for skin health and it really helps in the fight against dark spots and redness. I like niacinamide because it is water-soluble and penetrates the skin better. You can also take niacin, but it is not absorbed as well. Thank you for watching. I want to thank you for watching my video. If you haven't subscribed yet, subscribe so you don't miss new videos.