I've already made a lot of videos about insulin, blood sugar, and diabetes, but there's another hormone that goes hand in hand with insulin. I haven't talked about it very often. I decided to explain it as simply as possible. Glucagon sounds like glucose, but it's not. It's a hormone that opposes insulin. It's the opposite of insulin. Let's see what glucagon does in relation to ketosis. Ketosis is a state of fat burning. Glucagon, so to speak, turns on ketosis. insulin turns it off, that is, it blocks ketosis. Glucagon releases sugar reserves called glycogen. Glycogen is stored in the liver and muscles. Glucagon releases it so that it becomes glucose as fuel. insulin stores sugar in the form of glycogen and as fat. Glucagon releases glycogen so that it becomes glucose and converts fat into ketones. Clearly, this is the opposite function. insulin lowers blood sugar, but glucagon increases it. Where does it get sugar from? From sugar and fat reserves. This is a hormone that opposes insulin. Let's say you have excess insulin, it dropped sharply.  your blood sugar level and you have hypoglycemia, you are shaking, you have cravings for food and all that. Usually, at such a moment, glucagon should join in and neutralize it. It is like a hormone regulator that keeps blood sugar levels in the right range. Glucagon is one of the fat-burning hormones. If you look at insulin, it dominates. In other words, in the presence of insulin and glucagon, there will be less insulin, which knocks you out of ketosis. Glucagon puts you into titos. insulin is activated by carbohydrates, protein, and food intake. Here it is, protein. You probably think, wow, protein will knock me out of ketosis, but look here. Glucagon is also activated by protein. Protein activates both hormones. This neutralizes the negative effects of insulin. Don't worry, protein will knock you out of ketosis if you don't eat a lot of it. Intense exercise activates glucagon. Adrenaline activates glucagon, which activates adrenaline. Intense exercise also activates stress, and this is one of the reasons why people lose weight from stress, but with  Under chronic stress, weight gain is due to cortisol. Under acute stress, you have more adrenaline. Under chronic stress, you have more cortisol. There is such a thing as gypsum, a hormone that is activated by food intake. Every time you eat, insulin is activated, and at the same time, when you eat, glucagon is activated. This again activates insulin and glucagon at the same time. When you eat protein, you stimulate both hormones. When you fast, you activate glucagon. When you eat, you activate insulin. Glucagon is slowed down by a large amount of sugar in the diet and insulin. I hope you all understood. This was a simple story, but glucagon is fire. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.