Is it possible to simultaneously build muscle mass and get rid of fat? Let's discuss the main factors and how they are related to each other. Let's start with training. The contribution of training to fat loss is about 15%, 85% comes from diet. So, there is some benefit of training for fat loss. There are key factors for building and maintaining muscle growth - the intensity of training and the number of workouts. If you are on a keto diet, your weight is decreasing, but you are not training, your muscles will not grow and may even decrease. There are a couple more important points about recovery. If you train too much without recovery, for example, every day, and in addition to this, you sleep poorly due to stress, you will not get the benefits of training. So, on the Internet, training can increase the production of growth hormone, this is a lot, and growth hormone helps build muscle. We have carbohydrates, the less of them, the faster you lose weight, but carbohydrates stimulate insulin. And this is an anabolic hormone, it starts the growth processes, this is a problem. If you eat more than 50 g of carbohydrates, your body weight will stop lowering. But what if you do this? If you slightly increase your protein intake, keep your carbohydrate intake below 50g, but have a little more than 230g of protein per meal, what will this do? It will increase insulin levels, as well as glucagon. Yes, excess protein can potentially slow down the weight loss process. So here you need to find the right balance between the optimal amount of carbohydrates and the optimal amount of protein. For example, keep carbohydrates in the range from 30 to 50g, and protein intake at 230g or slightly higher so that there is a little more insulin for muscle growth, but at the same time, more glucagon, which helps burn fat. So, the amount of carbohydrates and proteins in the diet is individual, you need to find your optimal balance. I just wanted you to understand these points. Fat gives energy to train more, but if you eat little fat and at the same time fast, this can lead to body fatigue and there will not be enough strength for training. So you need at least 75g of fat, and this will force the body to burn more of its own fat and not use only fat from food to produce ketones. But when there is enough fat in your diet, this will help you with the next point, fasting.  Fasting is the most powerful tool for weight loss because it greatly reduces insulin levels. If you fast systematically, you can handle a slightly larger volume of protein because you give the body the opportunity and time to digest all this protein. Regarding the effect of fasting on muscles, fasting can raise the level of growth hormone potentially 21 times. For comparison, training can raise it eight times. During fasting, the level of growth hormone increases very strongly. And this hormone is directly related to muscle building. Fasting also creates a protein-sparing effect. This means that your body will not use protein as fuel; it protects the muscles. Of course, at some point you will burn all your fat, only after that will the body begin to burn muscles, but this will not happen with normal or even periodic long-term fasting. Also regarding fasting, it is very important to eat enough sea salt from one to one and a half teaspoons a day, as well as potassium and magnesium to get electrolytes. If you do not do this, your energy level drops, this is called cell fatigue, and you will not be able to train because the muscles will not have electrolytes and they will get tired in Every cell has a so-called sodium-potassium pump, which generates electrical energy needed for muscles and nerves to function. Now you know how all these factors are interconnected and how to build muscle and lose fat at the same time. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.