Let's talk about the real cause of low serotonin levels, as well as possible depression and anxiety. Most people know that serotonin is associated with mood. If you read about it in any medical book on physiology, you will see that no one fully understands how it works, but it is known that it affects mood. So, the problem is that serotonin does affect behavior, mood, and much more. Some people take antidepressants from the group of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. These are essentially drugs that prevent the absorption of serotonin, which makes more serotonin available for use by the body. The body has receptors that normally take back the released serotonin, and this deactivates it. If you block this process, there will be more available serotonin. But this is a drug and they have side effects. Here is my disclaimer. Before using anything I said, consult a doctor. All this information is based on my opinion and research (link in the description). These drugs have very serious side effects, including suicidal thoughts and suicidal behavior.  2 manic episodes you may have a surge of energy, this is certainly not bad compared to the rest, you may also have an excess of happiness in this, I also do not see any particular problems, but the main side effect is this second, almost one hundred percent of people taking antidepressants experience side effects in the sexual sphere, there is a problem of sexual dysfunction after discontinuing these drugs, this is a terrible thing that can lead to no less genitals to such an extent that it feels almost like anesthesia or painkiller blocking the function of the nerves, that is, your genitals no longer feel anything, people also lose libido, they feel as if they are numb, they lose emotions, some lose the ability to show love, someone stops enjoying an erection or orgasm or anything related to sexual intercourse, I'm not even talking about erectile dysfunction, the problem is that this can last for decades. Studying this issue, I discovered another phenomenon, it is called withdrawal syndrome, what is it, in another way, it is called abstinence syndrome or simply withdrawal when canceling this poison, sorry, medications, I read an article on this  The topic is simply disgusting, I'll read the passage. They take these serious symptoms that arise due to withdrawal and turn them into something completely normal. I quote, stopping something and change. This is a part of life. We all start and stop doing things, change jobs, change partners, and so on. And many types of treatment can have side effects as we go through depression and anxiety. Go through depression and anxiety. Is this what people are trying to do? No, they are trying to get rid of depression and anxiety. These conditions associated with withdrawal syndrome are, by the way, quite terrible because stopping taking these drugs can intensify all these symptoms and they can remain with you for decades. With this, everything is clear. Now our question is why do people lack serotonin so much? Let's figure it out. More than 95 percent of all the serotonin in our body is produced not by the body itself, but by friendly bacteria in the intestines. So, we depend on our friendly bacteria for serotonin and for other things, for example, immunity. Only a tiny part of the serotonin that the body produces is synthesized in the brain. This is  0, 0 0 0 0 0 1 Only one millionth of all serotonin in the body is produced by the brain. In principle, it can be considered that this is 0 and most of the serotonin is synthesized not by the body itself, but by bacteria. So, if something is wrong with the bacteria, it can greatly affect serotonin. Now I want to tell you about glyphosate and what glyphosate is. This is a specific herbicide, one of the most common means that is now used against weeds around the world. It is made in almost all factories. Since the patent has expired, I want to explain a little. In 1960, it was discovered that this substance can be used for piloting. This means that this substance can bind to metals or minerals, for example, manganese or zinc. And in 1969, it was discovered that it can kill plants. In 1996, the so-called Roundup herbicide was invented, which kills weeds. If you look for information about glyphosate and Roundup, you will find a lot of conflicting data. There are positive assessments, there are negative ones, everything is very confusing.  A giant PR campaign declaring it safe essentially claims it's safe because it doesn't affect people at least as much as it does plants and animals because it blocks one metabolic pathway, the so-called sewing and mating pathway. This metabolic pathway involves enzymes, and enzymes are proteins. Any enzyme always contains a metal or mineral at its core. Manganese is involved in the sewing pathway. Glyphosate's action is that it binds to manganese, which causes this enzyme to stop working in both bacteria and plants. What's interesting here is that this particular enzyme synthesizes three to four essential amino acids: tyrosine, phenylalanine, and tryptophan. What is tryptophan? You may have heard that someone takes tryptophan to normalize sleep and mood, and also to increase serotonin levels. After all, serotonin is formed from tryptophan. It is impossible to synthesize serotonin without tryptophan. If you block tryptophan production, which, by the way, is an essential amino acid, meaning the body cannot create it, it has to be taken.  from somewhere else so I found one very interesting study linking this chemical with reduced levels of tryptophan and serotonin and although our body does not have such a metabolic pathway, our microflora plays a vital role in our health, our immune system and our ability to create neurotransmitters, microflora really should be considered a separate organ, an interesting fact, a bushel of corn used to weigh about 56 pounds, now the weight of one bushel of corn is 54 pounds, two pounds are missing, where did they go, since now they mainly grow GMO corn, this means that it is treated with glyphosate and it turns out that this enzyme is deactivated because glyphosate has bound with manganese, so the corn weighs two pounds less due to the fact that this metal manganese is missing, which just weighs about two pounds per bushel, so I believe that this herbicide is the main cause of serotonin problems on the planet, now let's talk about what can be done about this, I recommend the following strategy: immediately switch to organic products, does this mean that there are no traces of glyphosate in them? No, but in  They definitely have less glyphosate, I don't want to go into this topic too much, but in non-GMO or facade products, and indeed less, if you compare organic products and non-GMO products, there is less glyphosate in organic products. I also want to strongly recommend buying completely grass-fed meat. In other cases, these animals are fed grain that has been treated with glyphosate, so completely grass-fed meat will protect you from consuming large amounts of glyphosate. And of course, eggs, too, buy organic pastured eggs. Second, avoid products that are treated with large doses of glyphosate. Your corn, wheat, not E-sugar, like beet sugar, most of the sugar in the US is produced from beets, as well as cane sugar. And of course, avoid seed oils such as canola and cottonseed oil, not to mention soybeans. Third, products with probiotics. I mean specifically fermented foods, they are supplements with probiotics. This includes sauerkraut, Team Chi, fermented vegetables, and kefir. This is very important. If you have enough microorganisms in your gut, you can resist the effects to some extent. glyphosate and although almost every person has glyphosate in the body, its quantity and concentration are of great importance, so we need a very healthy gut and microflora to withstand the environment in which we live. 4. Eat more vegetables because microorganisms need fiber, this is their food. If you eat a lot of different vegetables, your microflora will be more diverse, and this is very useful. Don't get hung up on just one vegetable. 5. Be in the sun. You don't need to let it burn you, just be in the sun regularly, and not only will vitamin D help with depression and anxiety, but also infrared radiation from the sun will help increase the level of both serotonin and melatonin. In winter, people are more likely to become depressed because they don't get as much sunlight as in summer. 6. Training. Physical exercise helps increase the synthesis of serotonin from tryptophan, and this is what we need. 7. This is, without a doubt, a diet with intermittent fasting. Both of these actions imply not only the rejection of grain products like cereals, but also give the body ketones, which, together with fasting, are beneficial for the brain. They can very  Quickly improve cognitive abilities and mood. Eighth, regularly drink apple cider vinegar, a tablespoon per glass of water. Here's why: the bacteria that produce vinegar also suffer greatly from glyphosate. This leads to a decrease in the production of acetic acid. Acetic acid is one of the main short-chain fatty acids that can affect the intestines. When pH is disturbed, many problems arise. So, we need enough acetic acid in the intestines to keep the intestines normal. Apple cider vinegar is one of those things that can help you. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. The go type is naturally associated with immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.