Hello, Doctor Berg, this is me. In this video, I will reveal to you the real cause of gallstones. Often, when you have gallstones and you go to the doctor, they simply remove your gallbladder without explaining where they came from. What are gallstones? They are actually cholesterol stones, but they are not formed from excessive cholesterol consumption. They are formed because you do not have enough bile to dissolve them. What is bile? Bile is produced in the liver and accumulates in the gallbladder. It is a small sac to help you dissolve dietary fats. I will show you a small experiment. This is a small jar of fat, and this is oil, as if you ate fatty foods. Here we have detergent. This is bile. If you mix detergents with oil, do not repeat this at home. This is how the gallbladder works. Shake it a little. See, essentially, the detergent breaks the oil into small particles. This is called emulation. That is, bile dissolves fat. Then the pancreas, here on the left under the ribs, secretes a substance called lipase. This is an enzyme for fats that dissolves fat and even smaller particles so that they can be absorbed.  In the intestines or in the liver, the main function of the gallbladder is to break down fats, so we need bile. In fact, a lack of bile is a symptom of some other problem. It can be a symptom of excess estrogen. Therefore, women may develop gallstones during pregnancy or high blood pressure. Gallstones can also occur when taking birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy. Excess cortisol can also cause gallstones. This is stress. Excess insulin can also cause gallstones because it depletes bile reserves. This is why many diabetics have gallstones. This problem is associated with insulin. Excess insulin depletes bile reserves. High-fat diets can also cause a lack of bile. Why? Because bile production is activated by saturated fats. If you don't eat enough fats, especially saturated ones, the body simply won't produce enough bile and gallstones can form. Constipation can also cause stones because it retains everything. In addition, a lack of bile can itself cause an intake because bile lubricates the intestines. It can be like with the chicken and the egg.  It's unclear what the cause is and what the effect is. Here are a few simple solutions to dissolve stones. You need to increase bile production. Find out which of these causes is yours. Adjust your diet: excess sugar, excess stress, estrogen. You can cope with this in parallel. You can dissolve stones by taking bile salts in concentrate form. I use a concentrate called Gallbladder Formula. It contains not only purified bile salts, but also Colin Sony and Canadian, this herb that dissolves stones. I added a number of enzymes and substances to increase acidity to also help your gastrointestinal tract produce its own bile. If you're interested, the link is in the description. In general, you need to find out the cause of your gallstones to prevent the problem from getting worse. Even if you have your gallbladder removed, the cause will remain and can lead to liver stones. That is, you won't have gallstones, but they will appear in your liver. Thank you for watching and see you again. Guys, thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe to the channel and see you in the next video.