Let's discuss 14 things that can significantly ease fasting. Remember, with the exception of water, everything you consume during a fast breaks it to some extent, but what I'll name will have a very slight effect on your ability to return to fasting. When we talk about breaking a fast, we're talking about decreasing it, which is due to an increase in insulin levels and the like. Obviously, simple carbohydrates, that is, sugar, disrupt your fast the most. A high- carbohydrate diet can also break your fast because it can stimulate insulin, and if you eat a large portion of protein, it will be converted into fuel in your body. For example, if you start a workout while fasting by taking the anterior amino acids bc, and this will break your fast due to the stimulation of glucose production. Collagen and bone broth also increase insulin. There are two things that have almost no effect on insulin production: fats and fiber. Fiber does not affect insulin, so when you eat, for example, leafy greens, which have a lot of fiber and little sugar, your insulin will almost not rise. On the other hand, any portion of any food, if it contains a certain amount of calories, stimulates a little.  insulin, take this into account, and now let's look at what you can eat that will have almost no effect on your ability to stay in ketosis and fast. Firstly, m-city oil is a great thing, especially at first, especially in the morning. You can add it to coffee, it very quickly turns into ketones, the brain can use them, the heart can use ketones, you can use them as energy. m-city oil will allow you not to feel hungry longer. This was number one. Number two, coffee has few calories, it almost does not break the fast. You can drink coffee if you do not put sugar in it. If you add another sweetener, for example, a little stevia or monk fruit, this will not create problems. You can add heavy cream. A small amount will not have much effect during fasting. You should not worry too much about them. Coffee will help you fast longer, it dulls the feeling of hunger. Number three, exogenous ketones, they are also called titanium salami. If, for example, during fasting you are tired or your consciousness is clouded, you can simply take ketones. They will enter the bloodstream, from there your brain will take them if it has a choice between glucose and Ketones always choose ketones, but if the body has not yet adapted and you do not produce ketones, then blood sugar may drop and you will feel tired. But if you give your brain ketones, it will absorb them and take energy from them. Exogenous ketones will help you feel better during fasting, especially if you are lethargic or mentally fatigued. Number four, tea, when you drink tea, it really helps you prolong fasting, and all the phytonutrients in tea and the herbs with which it is brewed. Number five, electrolytes are certain elements and keep in mind there are almost no calories here unless you drink electrolytes that contain glucose. We do not recommend this, but the macro and microelements in electrolytes will help you with blood sugar and give energy to your muscles. This generally makes fasting easier. Number six, probiotics are beneficial bacteria that help stabilize blood sugar. Number 7, B vitamins, they help with insulin resistance, they give energy, we need them at the cellular level, especially when you  Whether you're fasting or supporting Titos, apple cider vinegar is very beneficial for blood sugar levels. It will allow you to go much longer without eating. Further, if you drink kombucha, remember that it often has too much sugar. Don't forget to read the ingredients. If there are 2 grams, then in principle it's not scary, but for some, even 2 grams will be too much. So, it's all about metabolism. But I want to say that, as a rule, kombucha has less sugar than other types of tea. It contains beneficial probiotics and acids. They will help you fast longer, especially in the evening. For example, if you're looking for a replacement for beer, wine, or champagne with a similar texture and carbonation, what can you drink instead? Number nine, fiber, it doesn't stimulate insulin, it's food for your bacteria that produce butyric acid. You can say that this acid is wanderers. In tone, it can help with blood sugar and insulin resistance. If you take concentrated green fiber or juice concentrate, like grass-fed powder, it's unlikely to create any problems. You 'll get nutrients, and the fiber in drinks won't serve as food for your bacteria. It will help your body function, because you  It's like, go ahead, dried vegetables, and you may even feel more full. Number ten, or tried it, you can add it to coffee, but the retreat does not affect the glycemic index at all, and it is absorbed in the small intestine, it enters the bloodstream, from there it changes in the kidney. It's a sweetener, you can add it to tea, coffee, and anywhere else. It's okay, too, with stevia and monk fruit. These three sweeteners have almost no effect on blood sugar levels. Number 11, lemon juice. It contains some carbohydrates, but a little lemon juice can be added to water. It will not break your fast for more than a minute, but it can reduce the risk of kidney stones and even gout or high uric acid levels. Number 12, a mixture of amino acids. As a rule, protein stimulates insulin production, but some amino acid mixtures, for example, those essential amino acids, do not supply the body with fuel but help mainly with recovery. So, an amino acid mixture can be very useful if you take it immediately after a workout, you will get amino acids, but your insulin will not jump. More information at the link below. Number 13, sea salt, and it is very important. I recommend Himalayan pink sea salt. I really like it myself. Thanks to sea salt, you can feel a surge of strength in your muscles and a surge of energy in general. If you lack salt, you may start to feel something like the flu or a whale of fatigue, and so salt will give you energy. Finally, number 14, just water. Remember, I do not recommend drinking several liters of water to supposedly suppress hunger, but if you easily form kidney stones, then during fasting, they can appear. The level of uric acid rises and because of this, stones can form, but if you drink enough water, about two, two and a half liters a day before the match, it will be diluted enough and kidney stones will not form. If you drink more water, this can help. During fasting, you will notice fluctuations in hormone levels. Because of these hormonal fluctuations, sometimes you will feel hungry, especially in the morning. At 8 o'clock, your cortisol will jump, you will want to eat. If you do not pay attention to this hunger, most often it goes away. If it does not go away, eat, but if you want to eat a little, then suddenly you do not want to eat at all, understand that this is  Just hormonal fluctuations, just ignore it and fast a little longer, that's all. Thank you for watching. I want to thank you for watching this video. I am very grateful if the information from my videos helps you. If you want to share it with the world, please write me your success story. Click the link below, enter all the information and let people know about the benefits of healthy eating and intermittent fasting.