Today we'll talk about how to live past 100 years and discuss 18 scientifically proven tips on what to do to achieve this.  I'll explain it as simply as possible .  I will also share with you the conclusions I have drawn from an analysis of a number of countries that have the highest number of people living to over 100 years of age in the world.  You may not know how old I am and how my life has turned out.  I'm 60 and much healthier now than I was when I was 30. I've done a lot of research on longevity and I'm going to share some very important information with you that you can apply in your life.  But first, I'll show you a video clip that illustrates how medicine or science explains longevity.  When people lived in caves, half of the people did not live to be 30 years old.  By 1840, this age had risen to thirty. Half of the people did not live to be thirty. Over tens of thousands of years, from cave times to the mid-20th century, with advances in medicine.  And by the way, everyone ate organic food back then. This is a fact. The water was clean, the air was clean, the game was free-ranging, but it didn't help.  It's all about science here, you know?  You could eat as much organic food as you wanted, but you wouldn't live to be thirty until a doctor came along and said, "We can extend your life with science."  I'll analyze this clip a little, because the facts are presented somewhat selectively. Absolutely right.  At the beginning of the 20th century, people lived on average only to 32 years of age.  This is quite small.  Over time, average life expectancy has increased. The question is this.  Is this only related to science and medicine?  That's the big question.  In most people's minds, science and medicine mean vaccines, antibiotics and drugs. But the problem is that the dramatic jump in life expectancy occurred before vaccines were widely used and before antibiotics were developed .  The great leap in life expectancy was due to engineers who created plumbing and sewerage systems.  They rid cities of sewage, not only in the United States, but also in France, Great Britain and other countries.  And life expectancy there has increased at approximately the same rate, simply due to one unmentioned fact.  In those days, more than half of children did not live to be 15 years old.  If we take this fact into account in these calculations, it turns out that life expectancy was much, much higher.  After all, most of these children died from certain infections, from cholera, typhus and dysentery, which were accompanied by chronic diarrhea.  And with the advent of water supply and sewerage systems, these diseases literally disappeared.  Yes.  Then antibiotics appeared in medicine and undoubtedly increased life expectancy.  But the big question is this. If we talk about longevity, do we want to deal with illness or do we want to create health?  These are two completely different things.  When you deal with a disease, you do not eliminate its causes.  After all, you still need to take medication to keep things under control.  Today, it is possible to make anyone live to 100 years old simply by connecting them to a life support system. But what about this person's quality of life ?  Personally, I want to live only as long as the quality of my health is high.  I don't want to end up in a nursing home with senile dementia and a bunch of other problems, having my diapers changed, dressed and fed.  This is not life.  So today we're going to focus on creating health.  And this is not at all the same as managing a disease.  I'm talking about increasing your fitness reserves .  to enhance your ability to be healthy.  The maximum oxygen consumption test is perhaps the best test for determining this ability and for predicting life expectancy.  So creating health is something else.  After all, we optimize function, improve quality of life, increase metabolic flexibility and sensitivity to hormones so that they work.  We want to achieve tremendous stress resistance and a much better adaptation to life through a powerful parasympathetic nervous system, so that when you go to bed, you fall into a wonderful sleep, sleep for 8 hours, and wake up feeling rested.  Maintaining health includes maintaining muscle mass as you age. After all, with age people lose muscle mass.  This is sarcopenia.  This happens often. A person loses muscle mass, and along with it, a lot of health. The quality of sleep is very important.  The intestines and its microflora are very important .  It is extremely important not to accumulate visceral fat.  This is fat around the internal organs.  Let's compare our approach with the medical approach.  If you have a problem with sleep, doctors give you medicine.  Does this improve the quality of sleep? No.  You just stay unconscious longer.  Do they eliminate hypertension? No, they simply lower blood pressure and thin the blood.  You are given beta blockers, they block the receptor and the pressure decreases.  Acid reflux, bloating, indigestion.  Here's a pill for you.  Wow, does that fix anything?  No, it suppresses the symptom, causes side effects, and you need more medication.  I don't argue that this approach does indeed prolong life, but at the cost of side effects and a decrease in quality of life. Now let's talk about Japan.   The fact is that Japan is a country where there are more people over 100 years old than in any other country. There are currently 95,119 people there who are over 100 years old.  It's crazy .  We will analyze everything they do so that we can do it too .  There is a place where people live even longer than in Japan.  This is Hong Kong. Hong Kong has fewer people than Japan, so there are fewer centenarians.  But people in Hong Kong live very long.  There is some very interesting data about the causes of longevity that goes against what one might expect.  What makes Japan so unique?  The first thing that catches your attention is their school system. They have a completely unique nutrition education program that is required by law.  The children there are taught by nutritionists who are not even close to being influenced by the junk food industry like in America.  This means that these children receive a huge amount of excellent information about nutrition from an early age. This will help them in the future.  Imagine if you ate healthy food as a child.  I would like that.  I ate nothing but crap.  In America, children are also taught something, but they are only given 8 hours of it throughout the year.  There is also a big question about the quality of the health and nutrition information they are given. After all, they are trained by nutritionists who are heavily influenced by the junk food industry.  And this is a well-known fact.  If you have any doubts, I will leave a link below for you.  So what do these kids eat?  Yes, they eat rice in America.  We are fed more wheat and other grains that are highly refined, as well as industrial starches.  But in Japan, the rice is less refined and is not genetically modified, so it does not contain glyphosate.  Yes, in America, wheat is not genetically modified either, but it is still sprayed with glyphosate to dry it out, and glyphosate is a herbicide.  In Japan, children are taught that fish and meat are healthy. They eat soy there too, but not the same soy products as in America, like soy protein isolates.  In Japan they eat fermented soy, which is a completely different product.  In Japan, children eat soups, vegetables, and seaweed, which are very rich in iodine.  But in addition to iodine, algae contain a mixture of all microelements. The average person in Japan consumes nine times more iodine than people in America.  And iodine, among other things, is a powerful anti-estrogen.  That is, it helps prevent excess estrogen.  It's also interesting that the Japanese consume more salt than Americans, but they also consume more potassium.  The problem with just eating table salt is that you're not getting the other minerals to maintain balance. In fact, salt sensitivity is a potassium deficiency.  If you consume enough potassium along with sodium, you won't have problems with blood pressure or an increased risk of stroke.  After all, we have a sodium-potassium pump that provides the cell with everything it needs to operate the battery inside it.  Japan also consumes a lot of fermented soy, which is one of the best sources of vitamin K2.  K2 not only helps strengthen bones and prevents bone loss, i.e. osteoporosis and osteopenia, but also prevents calcium from being deposited in blood vessels. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  But here's what's even more amazing.  The Japanese have a certain microorganism in their microflora, which is actually a marine microorganism, and it digests substances that Americans cannot digest .  The thing is that if you eat a very varied diet, especially fermented foods, you will develop certain microorganisms that will be very helpful in protecting you.  They have a host of specialized functions, from creating anti-stress hormones like oxytocin to producing neurotransmitters. Some microorganisms create the lining of the colon, protecting us from leaky gut syndrome.  Others supply us with vitamins and minerals, others protect us from attacks.  They are part of our immune system.  Therefore, it is very important to eat a variety of foods, especially a variety of fermented foods. Many vegetables in American stores are grown using didponics, which means they are grown in liquid without soil.  Is it possible to get the same microorganisms from water as from soil?  It is forbidden.  When vegetables grow in soil that contains microorganisms, many of the microorganisms enter the roots and the plant itself, and the plant becomes a probiotic.  So the hydroponically grown greens and vegetables in your salad are not probiotics, unlike the vegetables from your garden.  If you don't have access to such vegetables, say, a farmer's market nearby or a garden, then you need to eat fermented foods regularly. Unpasteurized sauerkraut, kimchi is a good product, pickles are a good product.  Raw milk cheese, kefir, yogurt.  You can make your own Roiteri probiotic to dramatically improve your health.  I'll give the link below.  From the example of the Japanese, we see that fermented foods are extremely important.  The Japanese also drink a lot of green tea.  The phytonutrients in green tea rank first in terms of health benefits.  They protect against cancer, inflammation, and help remove toxins from the liver.  So it is important to include green tea in your diet.  I also learned that the Japanese essentially eat until they're 80% full. For years, I ate until I was 80% full, not until I was completely full, and then I kept eating.  Here is this cell within a cell.  There are small power plants that essentially process everything we eat.  We eat food, it breaks down, and then all this fuel goes into this little engine. It's a kind of power plant. If you push too much fuel into this power plant, damage and problems will occur.  Overeating usually creates a lot of problems because if you stuff this engine with so many low-quality calories, it becomes depleted of nutrients, the mitochondria become damaged, which can lead to a lot of metabolic problems in the future. You may be very active, exercising, and burning off that fuel.  This is cool.  You burn more calories.  But if you are not so active, it is probably worth eating in moderation and not overeating.  I already talked about salt, and with it you need enough potassium from food. Potassium is found most in avocados and leafy greens. Another unique feature of Japan is the number of steps the Japanese take.  The average person in Japan walks more than 6,000 steps a day, while in America it's only 4,000.  They walk 2,000 more steps every day. I recommend walking 7,000-8,000 steps a day, because that's when changes begin. You may have heard of different places called Blue Zones.  You might have heard this propaganda: "Oh, in the Blue Zones, everyone is vegetarian, they don't eat meat."  This does not apply to Japan. To other countries, by the way, too.  In fact, the Japanese today eat more meat than fish.  They eat enough meat.  Let me switch to Hong Kong for a second.  They eat more meat there than anywhere else. The average person there eats 147 kg of meat per year.  The question is this. What kind of meat do they eat?  They eat a lot of pork and a lot of beef. These are the two foods we are told to avoid.  And the whole point of this comes down to what I have been talking about for a very long time. Find out what everyone agrees on and what everyone tells you to do, and do the opposite.  Apparently, meat does not harm people in Hong Kong.  And in Hong Kong there are very few smokers, and people there eat a lot of seafood.  And they also walk a lot, a lot of steps.  So that's there too.   Did you remember to press the bell? Let's discuss 18 practical tips that can help you extend your life.  Number one: insulin resistance. We talk about insulin resistance because it is the root cause of so many chronic diseases.  This includes fatty liver disease, type 2 diabetes, and obesity.  It would be very wise to reduce insulin resistance by any means necessary to live long.  and be healthy.  It is imperative to talk about the best way to determine After all, you can check your blood sugar, and it can be normal for 15-20 years, regardless of how much sugar you eat.  And all because insulin rushes into battle like crazy and sucks all the sugar out of the blood.  And now your sugar is normal.  Do doctors check insulin?  No, they only test for sugar and may miss the problem.  There is a test for glycated hemoglobin A1c.  What is this ?  Basically, it measures your average blood sugar levels over 3 months. This test simply looks at how much sugar is bound to red blood cells.  In the early stages of insulin resistance, A1c test results may remain normal for another 10-15 years. You need to check your insulin on an empty stomach.  This is a much better indicator of what is happening. Unfortunately, doctors don't check this. I recommend keeping fasting insulin below seven or perhaps below five.  There is a lot of confusion about what a normal insulin level is because there is no consensus on this.  I find this very interesting and recommend keeping it below seven or five.  My fasting insulin level is two.  Fasting insulin is a very important indicator.  How to reduce it?  You need to cut down on carbohydrates. Eliminate sugar and hidden starches. So, six.  Avoid sugar, including hidden sugar.  Hidden sugar is found in industrial starch.  These include refined breads, pastas, cereals, crackers, cookies, waffles, and pancakes.  Any starch is hidden sugar.  When insulin levels rise, all sorts of health problems arise.  And now insulin no longer gets into the cell, the cell doesn’t receive fuel, and everything goes to hell.  Number two, autophagy.  Autophagy is the process by which the body disposes of damaged proteins and cell parts.  People do not live long because of damaged mitochondria and other cells. If you activate the mechanism that cleans and renews such cells, you will live much longer.  How to do this?  Through regular intermittent and periodic long-term fasting.  I have a million videos about this.  Some links to them will be below.  You need to fast for at least two, and better yet, three days.  Simply gorgeous.  The other day I made a video about a five-day fast.  Arrange it periodically. Autophady is one way to significantly prolong life.  Number three.  The IPC is a test that can be done in a special clinic.  This is the ultimate test of fitness.  This is one of the indicators of how fit you are. Exercise increases your ability to use oxygen, and oxygen prevents inflammation, keeping you in top physical condition.  And this extra margin of safety protects you.  Oxygen improves sleep and reduces cortisol.  It is very important to maintain a very high VO2 max.  Number four.  Mitochondria. Many life-shortening problems are associated with problems in the mitochondria.  There are several factors here.  Several parameters.  Fuel enters the mitochondria.  Mitochondria are a power plant.  Fuel must be of high quality.  During biochemical reactions, various components are extracted from food .  And at the end of this conveyor they are converted into energy, so- called ATP.  And all biochemical reactions require vitamins, minerals and microelements. That's why we need nutrients B1, B2, B3, B4, coenzyme Q10, and trace elements manganese, zinc, iodine, copper, and magnesium. They are absolutely essential for the functioning of mitochondria.  Without these nutrients, mitochondria will function poorly.  When there is an excess of junk food, the mitochondria do not work.  So there are a couple of reasons for poor mitochondrial function, but the main reason is seed oils.  Their use can severely impair mitochondrial function.  Therefore, avoid oils such as soybean oil, corn oil, canola oil. There is actually a test that allows you to look at this biochemical factory and metabolic pathway.  This is a metabolomic test.  It allows us to deeply examine biochemical processes and incoming fuel, identify the bottleneck in this factory where something accumulates and does not pass further, and understand what is causing this, a lack of a certain nutrient or the right fuel.  What is missing in the human diet for the normal functioning of biochemical processes?  As a metabolomic test of quality amino acids shows, people need to eat more animal meat for proper biochemical processes .  This is why root works.  Diet.  This is why people do so much better when they eat more animal protein.  So, I have already talked about the importance of fasting. You will live longer thanks to fasting, because your body will adapt and become stronger.  It is difficult to achieve a high level of health without subjecting the body to stress.  Intermittently, because he needs to recover. And while we're on the subject of Garmesis, let's discuss heat, whether it's a hot shower, sauna, or jacuzzi. Some of the benefits of thermotherapy are similar to those of exercise.   It's great that you can get a lot of benefits, as if you were exercising, even though you were just lying in a hot tub.  Interesting. Next comes hardening.  Just imagine what the body has to do to cope with an ice-cold bath or cold shower.  He has to maintain a certain temperature.  It activates different genes to survive better.  And there is no need to subject the body to too much shock.  Immerse yourself in cold for a very short time.  Then you can move on to thermotherapy.  This is also helpful, but make sure you have a strong enough heart.  Even phytonutrients create a little hermetic stress, forcing you to adapt and become stronger. I have already spoken about training.  There are also other trainings.  They simulate training at high altitude.  This is training in a lack of oxygen, which forces the body to create new capillaries and larger red blood cells. You can restrict the air flow with a mask.  I'm doing it now.  I really like it.  I think this is the trend of the future.  It simply increases the benefits of your workouts.  We've already discussed intermittent fasting.  What about the sun?  Ultraviolet radiation creates a slight stress, and the body adapts to it.  Fermented food.  Its microorganisms affect us .  We adapt, and our microflora becomes more diverse. If a child grows up in a super-clean, sterile environment, his immune system does not develop.  The immune system gets stronger when we get infected and allow the body to fight off the infection.  Number nine.  Vitamin D. Our genes evolved in an abundance of sun, and today we sit at home.  We need more sun and more vitamin D. If you really want to protect yourself and live longer, your vitamin D level should be at least 60 nanograms per milliliter, or 80, 6080. Mine is over 100, but that's because I have a lot of old injuries and arthritis.  And my body feels better if I get a little more vitamin D. Of course, I check my blood calcium and other factors, but with a level between 60 and 80, you'll be in great shape.  Social connections are crucial for longevity. Join many groups.  If a person is alone, he becomes lonely. You may not be alone, even if you are alone.  The point is that feeling lonely does not contribute to longevity. When someone loses a loved one, they experience broken heart syndrome. This is extremely stressful.  And the risk of heart attack increases by 2,000%, it seems, in the first week.  Extreme stress.  Unfortunately, no one can avoid this.  You need to be in good physical shape to survive this.  And for this we need hormesis.  What does it mean?  It is a short, mild stress for the body that forces it to adapt and become stronger.  Training and stress destroy something in the body, but it adapts and becomes stronger.  I've already said that not overeating is a good idea.  Eat 80% of your food and stop eating.  Then this fuel can be used together with all the cofactors and nutrients.  Everything will work like clockwork without any harm to us. Number 13. Walks after meals.  It's like free mitformin.  Mitformin is a medication used to lower blood sugar in diabetes.  It's like free mitformin without the side effects.  We have already mentioned fermented foods.  They are extremely important for your microorganisms. A small amount of dark chocolate without sugar is very beneficial for microorganisms. I eat it for lunch, every day.  Sometimes I add a little to my coffee in the morning.  Number 15. Sleep.  If you don't sleep, you won't live long.  For many years I got up at 4:00 am and thought it was good, but I always had to sleep during the day.  I paid for lack of sleep.  Now I need to sleep at least 7-7 hours.  I try to sleep 8 hours.  I'll show you how to do it.  It's a lifestyle change that makes everything so much better. Energy, mood. Taking magnesium glycine an hour before bedtime is very helpful. After all, magnesium allows the muscles to calm down.  It allows cortisol to decrease. It also lowers body temperature, which is interesting. Just before sleep, the body's internal temperature drops slightly. It drops from 37° to half a degree. It helps us fall asleep faster. It also improves delta-wave sleep, during which many important processes of body repair and brain detoxification occur.  And the temperature during sleep is very important.  Therefore, it is necessary to set the temperature in the room from 17 to 20 degrees. I cover myself with just a sheet, set the temperature very low and sleep much better than under a blanket. If your feet are cold, wear socks, but try to cool your body slightly.  This should improve sleep.  Another factor is light.  We are not made for the environment we live in today, where there is a lot of light.  Waking up in the morning, we sit down at the computer.  It emits blue light at us.  If you, like me, spend a lot of time sitting at the computer, your circadian clock gets really out of sync and needs to be reset.  Here is one very simple way to do this. Leave the house early in the morning.  And don't look directly at the sun.  But let the sunlight hit your eyes for about 20 minutes .  And you look at the blue sky. It seems that the exact wavelength we need is 480 nm.  This blue light enters the eyes and helps you wake up. And in the evening, when it's dark, if you're on the computer or watching TV, wear glasses with a blue light filter.   This will reduce your exposure to blue light.  Another factor is stimulants, such as too much coffee during the day, too much chocolate during the day. Caffeine blocks adenosine receptors, preventing adenosine from having a calming effect.  If you drink a lot of caffeine, as I did, over time these receptors will stop working.  And now in the evening we can’t sleep. There is no sleep pressure to send us into deep sleep at the end of the day.  And in the morning it’s hard to wake up even with caffeine, because the receptors are no longer working.  Sleep is the most important factor.  If you improve your sleep, you will live much longer.  I want to say a few words about this day.  It's a longevity gene that's more highly expressed in people in Japan and some other parts of the world than in others. It's a genetic factor.  But there is good news.  Here's what you can do to express, to activate, this gene.  Intermittent fasting, endurance training, high-intensity interval training, strength training, sauna, hardening.  This phytonutrient in green tea, curcumin from turmeric, sulforaphane from broccoli sprouts, above in the form of a dietary supplement.  But I recommend taking just the whole B vitamin complex. After all, to increase your levels, you need B3.  And B3 is found in red meat, liver, other offal, and so on.  Reducing visceral fat helps activate this gene, switching to weight loss by reducing carbohydrates and getting more sleep.  If you do all this, you will activate this gene and live longer.  Number 17. Maintaining muscle mass. Sarcopenia develops with age. This is a loss of muscle mass.  Therefore, as you age, it is crucial to continue strength training and get enough protein from red meat or other animal protein to keep muscle mass high.  But here's the problem: if testosterone levels drop, it's very difficult to build muscle.  So it is necessary to maintain both muscle mass and testosterone levels.  Testosterone is a base hormone that can be converted into other hormones, so it is extremely important. If a woman is considering estrogen therapy, it is probably better for her to do testosterone therapy, and she will produce as much estrogen as she needs on her own. Maintaining muscle mass by training, getting enough protein and all cofactors is very important.  Many cofactors are found in animal muscle protein, in their red meat.  This will help you.  Magnesium will also help maintain muscle mass.  And I made a whole video about testosterone. Intense training, zinc.  And the most zinc is found in oysters and red meat. Adequate sleep and cholesterol. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  It doesn't matter if you're just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition - this is an important part of a healthy diet.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.