Let's discuss how to increase the level of serotonin, the hormone of happiness. What is serotonin and what does it do? It's a hormone, and hormones are messages transmitted in the body. Serotonin is produced in the brain in the intestines. It promotes a feeling of happiness. It helps lift your mood, helps you calm down, reduces cravings for carbohydrates, helps you focus, and reduces anxiety. With a serotonin deficiency, a person's mood may be depressed, may be anxious, irritable, self-esteem may even worsen, sleep problems and even memory loss are possible. So, how can you increase your serotonin levels? Number one, tryptophan is an amino acid, it is not toxic, it is converted into serotonin, and it can increase serotonin levels. But if you take serotonin, take it on an empty stomach. Tryptophan also improves sleep. So, I advise you to take it right before bed on an empty stomach. After all, if you take it with protein, other amino acids will interfere with the absorption of tryptophan. So, such a reception will be in vain. Number two, training, training contributes to the conversion of serotonin. Number three: the sun and vitamin D. Vitamin D is needed not only to create serotonin, but also to convert tryptophan into serotonin. This is apparently why vitamin D has an antidepressant effect. Number four: probiotics, serotonin is produced in the intestines, and there is a close connection between what happens in the intestines and what happens in the head. Probiotics help increase tryptophan, especially probiotics such as kimchi, sauerkraut - these are fermented vegetables. Perhaps even kefir is a probiotic supplement. Number five: massage also increases serotonin levels and reduces cortisol levels. By the way, everything that increases cortisol levels blocks serotonin. So, reduce stress as much as possible. Number six: a surprise: fasting. Fasting significantly increases serotonin levels. This is probably why people get rid of depression when they fast. Thanks for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.