I will show you how to increase oxygen levels with a simple breathing technique. There are many misconceptions about oxygen, and one of the main ones is that if you breathe deeply, you will get more oxygen. This is absolutely not true. If you want to be sure of this, start breathing deeply and see how quickly you begin to lose consciousness. You will start to feel dizzy. You will feel tired. Yes, when we inhale more air, we do not get more oxygen. People have a false idea that oxygen is good and CO2 is bad. It is waste. But look. What is air made of? It has a lot of oxygen and little CO2. If you compare the mass fractions of oxygen and CO2 in the air, for every 160 units of oxygen in a given volume of air, there are 0.3 units of CO2. The difference is 500 times. And here is the question: where does the CO2 we exhale come from? It comes from our cells. The mitochondria absorbs oxygen, burns fuel and releases CO2. That is, our bodies release CO2. Plants, on the contrary, absorb CO2 and release oxygen. But you need to understand something about CO2 and oxygen. It exists like this.  The so-called Bohr effect, and this Bohr effect is that oxygen is not released from red blood cells unless there is enough CO2 in the body. The amount of oxygen entering the cells from the blood depends on CO2. If you breathe intensely and do not have enough CO2, you will have excess oxygen. Excess oxygen is very destructive to the body. If a child breathes pure oxygen, it can lead to blindness. It can cause an epileptic seizure. A child can fall into a coma. With excess oxygen, a lot of oxidation occurs. This is why deep breathing will not help you get a lot of oxygen and relax. A state of panic is accompanied by hyperventilation. A person breathes too intensely, trying to get more air. But contrary to logic, he gets less. There is acute hyperventilation and chronic hyperventilation, and many people suffer from chronic hyperventilation. We know what acute hyperventilation is in a person. A panic attack occurs. He breathes frequently and does not feel very well. I want to tell you about another condition, chronic hyperventilation. This condition has another name, carbon dioxide syndrome. A very interesting book.  I read it and share some information from it, carbon dioxide syndrome is essentially a lack of carbon dioxide caused by the fact that a person inhales too much air, I think in many ways this is caused by stress, because of stress, a person constantly tries to inhale more air through the mouth, because of this, a person is deprived of CO2, as a result of which oxygen stops entering the cells, this creates problems for the heart, this is stress for the heart, hypoxia occurs, that is, a lack of oxygen, this leads to fatigue, insomnia, muscle twitching, another consequence is an increase in histamine levels, which is amazing. It is amazing that due to a lack of CO2, histamine levels increase. And this causes nasal congestion. Also, due to a lack of CO2, less carbonic acid is formed, and because of this, the blood becomes more alkaline and it becomes very difficult to remove calcium from the cells. Calcium begins to accumulate due to chronic hyperventilation. So, a lack of CO2 is actually another reason for the deposition of calcium in the tissues. And now the nerves do not work, tingling occurs, probably you  Have you noticed that when sparks appear in your eyes or tingling occurs throughout your body, this is what happens when the pH of your blood changes? If a person smokes, his cells do not have enough oxygen. And when you inhale even more air and the whole cycle repeats, there is a very simple solution to this problem. You can train your body to breathe in a certain way so that oxygen penetrates deep into the cells, which will eliminate many health problems associated with a lack of CO2. Which you may not have guessed. So, number one, relaxed breathing. You need to breathe very softly and calmly. You need to breathe with your diaphragm and stomach, not your upper chest, slowly. Inhale for 5 seconds and then exhale for 5 seconds. Breathe like this constantly in a calm manner without straining before going to bed, as well as when you are driving or watching TV. You can train your body to breathe correctly. After all, when a person is stressed, he breathes like this. So, with the help of this breathing method, you can control and change your entire physiology. You can pull yourself out of stress, out of the sympathetic Fight or Flight mode, and so that you know I do this every night before bed. There are even free apps that help.  Breathe at the right pace. This could be an image of a ball expanding and contracting, or some sound signals, or anything else that helps practice inhaling and exhaling at the right pace. Number two, you need to breathe through your nose, not your mouth. The nose conditions the air, humidifies and purifies it, and filters out all sorts of things. A person inhales about 500 liters of air per hour, and when air enters through the nose, its quality is much better than when it enters through the mouth. Firstly, the mouth cannot filter it directly into the lungs, and when breathing through the nose, there is a chance to filter it thanks to immune mechanisms. At the same time, you inhale the acidity level by 20%. Simply by breathing through the nose, you feel that you are inhaling, you get more, and points 3 and others are related to night sleep. You can use a nasal patch. It is stuck here; it opens the upper part of the sinuses, and breathing improves a little, especially if the nose is stuffy, and you can use a piece of mouth patch. Usually, they stick it here.  During sleep, you can train yourself to breathe through your sinuses, and then your nose will filter the air all night. You'll have more oxygen, you'll sleep better, you won't wake up with a dry mouth, you'll probably stop snoring, and you'll wake up feeling rested. There's also some information about drinking carbonated water; it's essentially CO2 in water. I think you'll find this extremely interesting. I'm better at saturating this video.