Today I will give you the best advice for improving the results of weight loss with intermittent fasting. In fact, I will give several tips and among them will be the most important tip. Let 's start with the less important tips. Many practice intermittent fasting with minimal or average success. Their success could be much better if they knew what I'm about to tell you. If you fast, do it correctly and get maximum results. In this video, the emphasis will be on weight loss, but fasting has many more advantages, for example, restoring immunity, restoring brain tissue, improving mood, improving cognitive functions, memory, concentration and getting rid of inflammation, whether due to autoimmune diseases, allergies, irritable bowel syndrome or arthritis. Intermittent fasting fights all of this very well, but most are interested in losing weight. Let's start with tip number six. Understanding what happens to the body during fasting. You cannot starve the body. You only reproduce the conditions for work in which our body was created, namely, less frequent meals. This activates certain genes that increase survival and speech. Not just survival somehow, but prosperity. This is also Turns off some genes, disease genes, fatal genes. In other words, the bad ones are turned off and the good ones are turned on. Thanks to this, insulin sensitivity increases. The body becomes more sensitive to insulin. This can work again because insulin resistance is the main cause of obesity and excess weight and the inability to lose weight and the occurrence of a certain point below which the weight does not drop. insulin is to blame if there is a lot of it due to insulin resistance, then losing weight will be very difficult. Fasting is the most important remedy for this problem. Fasting is the most beneficial thing for health that can only be practiced. So many diseases, including chronic ones, are caused by high insulin. Fasting corrects problems caused by poor nutrition over many years. It is very important to understand all this from the very beginning because this is not some trifle, it is very, very important. The fifth tip is to add more hit exercises of high-intensity interval training. What kind of training is this? These are short, intense workouts with plenty of rest. Do exercises for the whole body, but not for long periods of time, in short intervals. This way, you can increase the level of growth hormone eight times and also get much better results than running on a treadmill for 45 minutes. High-intensity training will help you if you don't do it too often. You need to do it once or twice a week with plenty of rest between sessions. I know people who do it every day, and their results are much worse. Why don't they have time to recover? Everything that's needed happens during rest. You need to stimulate the body and let it do what it should. Therefore, if you combine training with fasting, the results will be much better. Tip number 4: There are certain herbal teas that act specifically on insulin receptors and make the body more sensitive to it. Remember, buzzing is primarily a correction of the insulin problem. Anything that helps increase insulin sensitivity will help you lose weight. So, it's not about supplements or teas that stimulate metabolism, but about teas or perhaps even supplements that improve insulin sensitivity. I recommend two teas: one with berberine, which is probably as effective as metformin, a medication prescribed for diabetes. Metformin increases insulin sensitivity, like berberine. We can drink part of berberine throughout the day. Another useful tea is green tea. I recommend both of these teas. There's something else, too. What can help is not tea but apple cider vinegar. Dilute a teaspoon or tablespoon of vinegar in a glass of water. Since you dilute it in water and do not drink pure vinegar, it will not harm your teeth. But if you are worried, you can drink it through a straw. You can add lemon juice or even chop a whole lemon in a blender, add water and apple cider vinegar and beat it through a straw because we added lemon and it is sour. This can help. Third, be consistent and do not deviate from the path. If you weigh yourself every day, you will not see any special changes. This is discouraging. If you look in the mirror every day, you will not see a difference because the changes will be so gradual. And if you are discouraged, then there is a high probability that you will break down and quit everything. So, it would be best to take a photo of yourself, do not show this photo to anyone and take another photo after 2 weeks, or even better, after a month, and then you will be able to see the changes taking place. You need to understand that the weight problem has existed for a very long time and it will take some time to eliminate it. The process of losing weight can be discouraging. If you don't see results, you know the process is underway, and one of the best indicators that the process is underway is the disappearance of appetite and cravings for certain foods. This is what you need to focus on, as well as whether your clothes are getting too big, whether your energy level is improving, and your mood, and not on what the scale shows. First, you need to get healthy and then lose weight. It's not the other way around. The body considers fat a reserve for survival and doesn't like to be deprived of what it needs to survive. You need to focus on your health, and it's best to start with correcting the insulin situation. To do this, you need to be true to your course. If you do everything for show, if you seem to be on a ketogenic diet but not constantly, then you can't expect any special results. You'll have to grit your teeth and do everything properly. Just a drop of carbohydrates, whether it's half a glass of wine every couple of days or some carbohydrate snack like a piece of bread, can significantly slow down progress for up to 2 days. Therefore, if you eat something inappropriate every two days and don't see results, understand that you've left ketosis and are depriving your body of the opportunity to be in ketosis long enough to see results. It's just the little things you need to avoid in order to finally see big ones.  Changes tip number 2 practice healthy chum along with intermittent fasting they complement each other we need to get rid of insulin resistance how to reduce carbohydrates and not eat so often therefore intermittent fasting and reducing carbohydrates is very important if you follow intermittent fasting and eat a lot of carbohydrates then you can not expect results unless you do not have a good metabolism and do not have insulin resistance and this is very rare, most people have it and they simply do not check with tests otherwise doctors would do a test called homo and r and measure a person's fasting insulin level they look at blood sugar they look at the fasting insulin level if you want to know more link below so on a healthy I emphasize ketogenic diet attention is paid to food rich in nutrients also I strongly advise against eating in restaurants often why because in restaurant food unfortunately there is a lot of harmful things and it is not so rich in nutrients also their food is full of corn and soybean oil with omega-6 and who knows what else they have there take care of your diet yourself and focus on products like  Eggs, salmon, grass-fed steak, lots of greens. The less nutrients in food, the more you'll have to eat to improve your health, so focus on nutrient-rich foods. Unfortunately, farmers are paid by the amount of food they eat because of yield, not by the amount of nutrients in them. I have a video about this. The link is below. Combining healthy ketosis with intermittent fasting is the second most important tip, and so tip number one. You're ready. Sit down and switch from two meals a day to one meal a day. This is called omad. Why is this so important? The fasting interval reaches 23 hours. This is where all the magic happens. During the transition from 18 hours of fasting, or 16 hours, or even 12 hours, to 23 hours of fasting, that's a lot. The liver will have a chance to recover. The entire digestive system will have a chance to reboot. insulin receptors that barely worked will become very sensitive. The amount of ketones will increase by as much as three times, and the body will finally adapt to fat so much that if you break the diet, the body will be able to very easily return to it.  In other words, the body will turn into a fat-burning machine. So my main advice is to do a lot of intermittent fasting, especially if you have a slow metabolism and you're not losing weight. If you've been naked for a long time and have thought about doing intermittent fasting professionally, helping others improve their health, I recommend this new course. A practical course from Dr. Berg, a coach on intermittent fasting and the ketogenic diet. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and a list. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's 30 years of experience, which you can adopt in three months of training, receive a certificate, become a ketogenic coach, help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule, do what you love. Sign up for the course using the link below.