Hi, let's discuss how to optimize your exercises. First, I'll give you general instructions, and then the details. Here's the most important thing you should know. Here's what happens: you do exercises, you stress your body, you spend time recovering, and all the benefit is in recovery. The benefit of exercise is recovery after them. The exercises themselves simply stress and damage the body, but after them, you can recover and burn fat. When you recover, the body burns fat. Many people don't give the body enough time to recover after exercise. Because of this, they don't see results. I took the Ford Jackson Young Wrestler Course in South Carolina in 1983. I arrived there in great shape. I had already competed in state-level wrestling competitions. When I graduated three months later, I could barely pass the standard. I couldn't even do a pull-up. I couldn't even run. Why? Because I was n't recovering. They didn't let me sleep. I trained every day, no rest. This harmed the body. Plus, there's stress. You train trying to lose weight, but for weight loss, nutrition is much more important than the training itself. Some say I'll eat whatever I want, but I'll have to train twice as much. But really? How success will not be the most important part of the diet, I helped many people lose weight by convincing them to stop exercising. I am not against exercise, do it, but don't forget about sleep. If you get enough sleep, you can exercise more. I am not forbidding exercise at all. Do it, but remember that you need to recover. This is what happens: if you get enough sleep, do exercises tomorrow, nothing hurts and you feel normal, even if it is once every three days, continue in the same spirit. We will add something, but now I am giving you food for thought. They are just template instructions. If you feel unwell after training, it means you are a trainer. Too much can be very dangerous for the heart. I check people with one device. It happens that they are at risk of a heart attack, they do not know about it. Give your body a chance to recover. If you do kickboxing for an hour, a very intense workout, it is better to do it once every three days. They do it every day and not even every other day, especially with age and especially for weight loss. Some are better off training once a week or twice a week. This is optimal for them because they need rest during which they can work for a long time. Walking, doing yoga, stretching, and all that stuff, Pilates is also a good thing. Yoga is great, but with adrenal glands, your body types are better off limiting yourself to a small amount of exercise. When you start getting enough sleep and you feel better, you can pick up the pace and move on to intense workouts. But first, I'll teach you one technique that will help you get an idea of ​​​​how much risk you have to your heart. If you want to know what your chances of a heart attack are, try the following. You'll need a stopwatch and something to measure your pulse. You can use a pulse monitor that attaches to your finger and counts your pulse. You can simply press two fingers on the artery on your wrist or press them to the artery in your neck to feel and count your pulse. I count my pulse for 15 seconds and then multiply by 4 to get the number of beats per minute. A pulse of 72 beats per minute is considered normal. Lower is also great, although if you don't exercise, then a rare pulse can potentially be very bad. In general, we need a pulse of 60 or 50 beats, especially for athletes. Measure your pulse at rest before training and then  Get started, sit on the machine or go somewhere, do burpees, run in place with a jump rope, or something that will thoroughly load your entire body for 1 minute. Okay, so we record your resting heart rate, exercise intensively so that your heart rate jumps, and then measure this increased heart rate. Let's say the course became 150 after a minute of exercise, then we rest for a minute and measure the heart rate again. Let's say after a minute of rest, the heart rate dropped to 140, subtract 140 from 150 and get 10. If you get 12 or less, that is, if your heart rate jumped and then dropped by twelve beats per minute or less, then you risk getting a heart attack. You shouldn't exercise now. You can walk on a flat surface, but your heart is at risk because it doesn't rest, this is very dangerous. But if your heart rate drops quickly, say by 50 beats per minute, you are in good shape, the exercises are within your capabilities, and in fact, the speed with which your heart rate recovers in one minute is an excellent indicator of how strong and healthy you are, and this is one of the best  health indicators, especially the heart, we need a quick recovery to 18, this happens quickly, but continue to measure your pulse every minute and determine how long it takes for it to completely return to what it was at rest, let 's say it took five minutes, then with interval training, that is, when alternating intense training and rest, you need to exercise for one minute and then rest for five minutes. Here's a scheme: one minute of intense exercise, then five minutes of rest, exercise for a minute, five minutes of rest, to begin with, repeat this cycle three times, this is how the ratio of short intense exercises and long rest is selected in interval 3 AFKs. What you should not do is work for one minute, rest for one minute, in no case is there not enough time for recovery, because when the pulse jumps, you must wait until it returns to normal and then repeat, otherwise you are not strengthening your recovery mechanisms, you are simply overloading yourself and the body has a very hard time. You can watch this video again and write everything down. The point is that we raise the pulse and see how quickly it decreases in order to determine the interval and understand whether there is a risk of a decrease of 20-30 per minute.  It's good if it's 30 more, then you're in great shape and recovering well. It's clear what formula you need to use to optimize the exercise.