Why would anyone apply a laxative to their hair and skin? I'll tell you everything now. Castor oil has stood the test of time. It was used in Ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, and China. If it did n't work, it would have been forgotten long ago. Castor oil contains a special compound called retinoic acid, and in addition to other properties that this compound has, it is an ideal remedy for many skin and hair problems, especially the most common ones, for example, dry skin, brittle hair, dry hair, hair loss, this compound has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial effects. It is an antioxidant. Castor oil is an excellent moisturizer. It is perfect for dry, dehydrated hair or skin, and not only for facial skin. It is also suitable for chapped scalps, especially for dandruff. And in general, it can be used for the whole body. It can be applied to stretch marks or scars. In this case, it should be rubbed into the affected area. It contains vitamin E, which helps get rid of scar tissue. Castor oil can be considered a natural conditioner for skin and hair. It penetrates into the tissues and helps improve Blood circulation, especially if you rub it into your head, it penetrates the hair follicles and reaches the roots, it helps balance the relationship between pathogens and beneficial bacteria, it does not affect beneficial bacteria in any way, but destroys pathogens, it contains omega-3 fatty acids, which are good against inflammation, so castor oil can help with all diseases whose names end in id, especially with dermatitis, it can also be used for joint pain, someone uses castor oil for acne because it can penetrate the pores, some apply castor oil to stye, which can be an infection, castor oil fights inflammation and also has an antibacterial effect, it also has an antifungal effect and can be used for toe fungus, someone even uses castor oil for dry eyes, of course, you don’t need to apply castor oil to the eyeball, but externally, castor oil can help with sunburn, after castor oil, the skin and hair will shine and get rid of dullness  Castor oil will also help restore and moisturize sun-damaged skin. As you can see, castor oil has many uses. You can add Aloe Vera to castor oil and apply it to your face, but you can add many other things. Castor oil is easy and relatively inexpensive. It is advisable to take cold-pressed castor oil without xanthene. If castor oil contains xanthene, it will dry out the skin. xanthene is used as a solvent for the production of seed oils. People consume huge amounts of seed oils every year and do not suspect that they contain hexane. For hair problems, black Jamaican bark works a little better. For example, if you want to stimulate hair, you should use black castor oil. Castor oil can help with an overactive immune system, for example, with alopecia. In general, I wanted to make a short video about the benefits that castor oil can bring and it has practically no side effects. Since we are talking about skin, if you want to learn how to rejuvenate your skin and not only then, pay attention to this course. I invite you to the diagnostics course.  Skin health: Do you have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These aren't just skin defects; these signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I'll show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there. L