Today I will teach you how to increase the level of the most important neurotransmitter in the brain, it is called acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter. This means that it works as a hormone, but in the nervous system it is a communication particle that causes different effects. It is associated with memory, the ability to learn, sleep, attention, concentration, vigilance, and wakefulness. As you might guess, problems arise with a lack of acetylcholine. It is the main neurotransmitter of the parasympathetic system, it is associated with everything that affects rest and digestion. This neurotransmitter is associated with the vagus nerve, which innervates many visceral organs. These are organs in the chest and abdomen, and drugs such as bladder control drugs, drugs for Parkinson's disease and COPD. They all have side effects in the form of memory loss. Probably because they cause a deficiency of acetylcholine. I remember my mother-in-law, unfortunately, she had dementia and she has already died, but I remember how she took bladder medication. I always think how they affected her dementia. Unfortunately,  People now take only medications that it becomes unclear what causes it. What else do you need to know about several diseases that almost always reduce acetylcholine levels? These are autism, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease. Let's go through the list of what can increase acetylcholine levels. As for foods, you need to eat foods rich in choline, which is found in the largest amount of choline. Egg yolks contain choline. Here's another reason to eat eggs. I eat a lot of eggs, about 3-4 eggs every day. I think this is very right of me because I recently did a DNA test, which I will also make a detailed video about. I will tell you what it is. I discovered that Choline is a big problem for me. Even though I get choline, I need a lot of choline for it to work in the body. So it's good that I've been eating eggs all these years, which contain choline. Choline is also found in beef liver, blueberries, and many other foods, but it is found in the yolks in the most part. Acetyl choline also needs auxiliary compounds so that the body can produce it. One of these compounds is vitamin B5. Vitamin B  It's very easy to get, it's in literally any food. But here's what I want to say about vitamin B5. The easiest way to get a deficiency is to drink alcohol. If you drink alcohol several times a week, your body may develop a B5 deficiency, and this can indirectly affect acetylcholine. Zinc is also needed for acetylcholine. A zinc deficiency can affect the production of acetylcholine. Zinc can be obtained from seafood and grass-fed beef. Magnesium is also needed for the production of acetylcholine. Magnesium can be obtained by eating chlorophyll, which is found in leafy greens. If you eat it regularly, you will have enough magnesium. Manganese is also an important micronutrient for the production of acetylcholine. Hazelnuts are a good source of manganese, but you can also get it from seaweed, seafood, and many other foods. It is also very important to consume enough omega-3 fatty acids. They can be obtained from sardines, cod liver oil, and salmon. Omega and fatty acids are very important. Green tea contains a phytonutrient that can help increase acetylcholine levels. So it's worth drinking. As for supplements, I can recommend two supplements. You don't need to take both, just one. They are very similar. One is called citicoline. It is also known as sedpihalin. The other is called alpha gpc. If you want to take supplements, one of these will suit you. Believe it or not, coffee can also help increase acetylcholine levels. Good sleep can also help increase them. After all, this way you will have enough melatonin. And here's another interesting and surprising thing: insulin increases acetylcholine levels. I know you'll tell me that now there are carbohydrates for the sake of insulin. No, you only need the natural amount of insulin that is produced. When you don't eat carbohydrates, if you eat carbohydrates, insulin resistance develops, and it causes a lack of insulin, especially in the brain. And since due to a lack of insulin, cells cannot get fuel, they die. Therefore, if you eat a lot of carbohydrates, cells lose the ability to receive insulin and suffer from hunger. Since we're talking about brain function, if you haven't watched this video about the brain, you should watch it here.