Today we will discuss melancholy and the real cause of melancholy is sadness, depression. The name comes from the Greek word meaning black bile. It is quite interesting that black bile in the Middle Ages, melancholy was considered one of the four temperaments and was determined by the type of behavior or character. If you study the temperament of melancholic people, you can see three additional symptoms that do not clearly hint at the cause, among them bloating, flatulence, and constipation. So, for me, this and black bile is an indicator that the problem is in the gallbladder. If you look for materials about how the gallbladder is associated with depression, you can find a lot of information. And here is what is interesting: gallstones increase the risk of depression by 80 percent. Why do gallstones cause depression? I will answer further a little later. Removing the gallbladder can reduce the risk of depression by 20 percent. But the question is why low-fat diets increase the risk of depression. Why, then, is it that fat, especially saturated fat, provokes the release of bile. Gallstones are caused by a lack of bile. If the gallbladder is removed, let's say, those accumulated in it.  They prevent bile from flowing through the ducts, and when nothing interferes with the flow of bile, this can slightly reduce the risk of developing depression, as indicated by all the data, including these symptoms of a lack of bile deficiency, and a lack of bile leads to the formation of stones in the gallbladder. A lack of bile can also be caused by a low-fat diet. So, how is bile connected with a person's mood? If there is not enough bile, vitamin D will not be absorbed, and a deficiency of vitamin D will lead to deep depression. A lack of bile will also prevent the absorption of an omega-3 fatty acid called d-carotene. If there are not enough d-carotene in the body and it is not absorbed, this can lead not only to deep depression but also to an increased craving for suicide. There is a direct connection between how much fat you eat and how much of it is broken down and absorbed, and also the fact that the body receives the required amount of certain fats and fat-soluble vitamin D, and for their absorption, bile is needed. If you have melancholy or depression, perhaps you need more vitamin D or maiden, but remember that they are not  They will work without bile. Purified bile salts can help with this. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course on vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 Te To Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you at the course.