Let's talk about anxiety and how easy it is to turn off words in English and for these, that is, anxiety comes from the Latin word meaning to choke and it is logical if a person and someone is choking him and he will really be anxious, so I remember once, about twenty-eight years ago, I was sitting in the auditorium and there was a speaker on the stage in the speaker asked me to go on stage and speak for this I was not prepared I was afraid to speak in front of an audience so I had to force myself to go out and say something I felt just below the baseboard when they called my name and applause rang out they asked me to go on stage I get up and on the stage in wild horror and my breath catches in my mouth is dry my head is spinning I go out on stage look around and feel like I'm about to faint I couldn't speak because I was terrified in college I was so afraid of public speaking that I almost dropped out of school because I had to speak in front of my classmates and I was very scared and I told myself so I have to  to overcome this fear so i returned to practice started giving seminars in front of small groups i helped the lights showing slides on a small projector i don't know if you remember those transparent sheets of paper now everything is digital i showed people my slides in the dark sitting on a chair so people didn't see how nervous i was too i could turn on the lights but i brought alcohol to these seminars for example champagne and cookies this was long before tetta under such treats people laughed at my stupid jokes and over time i gave more and more seminars and then after almost five thousand seminars i was no longer afraid to speak in public that's the story of my anxiety and so the fight or flight reaction now i'll show you one book it's called the autonomic nervous system an amazing book and the autonomic nervous system which includes the sympathetic division responsible for the fight or flight reaction now i'll read something what is the fight or flight reaction the fight or flight reaction is a physiological response to a real or perceived threat to safety in Depending on the nature of the threat, a person either begins to defend himself, to hit, or to try to avoid danger, to run away, then you have to run. Both actions require sudden and intense muscular effort. The body prepares for action in the following way: the pulse quickens, blood rushes to the muscles, sweat is released, the person trembles, the throat contracts, breathing changes, double vision appears, dizziness appears, nausea, irritation, a feeling of anxiety, a person feels something bad, concentration worsens, the head becomes empty, this happened to me in front of a full hall, you focus on the bad, they focus on the good, if a person finds himself in a state of chronic fight-flight reaction, sleep is disturbed, constant fatigue appears and then memory deteriorates, concentration is lost, performance decreases, this affects a person from all sides. Over the years of my practice, I have noticed something interesting: people in a state of anxiety almost always eat incorrectly, usually they use various stimulants, depleting the body's reserves of some important substances, especially vitamin B1. By the way, if you have anxiety, you need to take a lot of vitamin B1, you will feel relief after  Three to four minutes after taking it, it's probably worth taking all the B vitamins, and be sure to take natural ones. They're synthetic. I recommend taking nutritional yeast. It's the best source. B vitamins are one of the most important ways to get rid of anxiety. Let's move on. Probiotics. The bacteria in our body produce B vitamins. They produce a lot of B1, B2, B3, and B5, B6, and B12, folic acid, and biotin. They produce many different nutrients, but they also don't produce amino acids that are converted into neurotransmitters. Gamma-aminobutyric acid, dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and melatonin. All these neurotransmitters calm us down. It helps us sleep better. If a person has a problem with the intestines, say, some kind of injury in the abdominal cavity, or a person took antibiotics that destroyed the intestinal microflora, or he eats ordinary food that is GMO. By the way, gamma kills the bacteria needed to produce these neurotransmitters. The problem with GMO products is that they contain a chemical called glyphosate. Glyphosate disrupts the amino acid production mechanisms in insects and bacteria, but for us  They say it doesn't affect people, but here's the thing: bacteria in our bodies produce a lot of nutrients and proteins, so eating GMO foods interferes with the work of intestinal microflora bacteria, which affects neurotransmitters and bacteria that produce B vitamins, and as a result, a person develops a deficiency of certain substances, which causes a constant worsening of the mood. Artificial sweeteners also have a negative effect on intestinal microflora. Fermented foods, such as sauerkraut and other similar foods, are a good source of probiotics. And then we have magnesium. Magnesium is an excellent element; it helps calm the adrenal glands and fight anxiety. Magnesium is very important. If I had anxiety, I would take it in large quantities. I also advise avoiding external stimuli. A lot happens to us: we meet people, go to work, get information from the Internet and TV. Make sure that I am constantly reminded of what causes you stress. This is why people with anxiety should not watch the news. Do the opposite: take long walks in nature, exercise, breathe fresh air, adaptogens, and plant substances.  I gave a video about adaptogens that helps increase stress resistance and cope better with adversity. There's more detail there. Okay, thanks for watching. By the way, while you're here, if you haven't watched the webinar about stress yet, watch it. It's very important. It's quite long. Here's a link to it. Watch it when you have time.