I have a question. Would you buy this product? If I added maltodextrin to it, you probably wouldn't buy it. I'll show you a simple and quick scientific method that can be applied to any food or dietary supplement to determine if they contain hidden starch, for example, maltodextrin, just by dropping a little iodine. Look, I'll conduct an experiment. This method allows you to determine if there are carbohydrates in pads and even in food products. I'll focus mainly on Maltodextrin because it's a hidden carbohydrate, but in fact, it's sugar, and it's found in many dietary supplements, especially in flavorings. Let's get started. For the experiment, we only need iodine. If you mix iodine with starch, it will turn blue. If you take regular water, I take water, add one or two drops of iodine to regular tap water. We see that the iodine doesn't turn blue, the color remains golden yellow. But if we drop iodine on this delicious bread, we'll see that it turns blue. This is a chemical reaction. I won't explain the reason for this, it just happens. Let's take, for example,  pure maltodextrin, add it to the water, stir, add a couple of drops of iodine. We see that the color has turned blue or purple. This is pure maltodextrin. Now let's take this electrolyte powder from competitors. Its composition is very similar to the composition of my powder. They copied the composition and it says here that it contains neither sugar nor maltodextrin. Great. Let's add a measuring spoon of this powder and a couple of drops of iodine. Let's see if there is maltodextrin here. It turned purple-blue. It is obvious that there is. Now let's check. Does my electrolyte powder contain maltodextrin or carbohydrates, that is, starch? So, stir, add a couple of drops of iodine. Maltodextrin is not purple. No, let's add more iodine here. Let's see if it turns purple in the end. The answer is no, it remains yellow-golden. You can try this on anything. You only need a little iodine. You can add iodine to food or liquid. If you dissolve the powder in it, you can then identify hidden maltodextrin and other starches in dietary supplements and food products. I I checked absolutely all my products with iodine. I learned something new about this iodine test. About this test for starch content, I learned that iodine also reacts to chlorophyll. If a product contains chlorophyll, like in powdered cruciferous greens, then due to the reaction of the chlorophyll pigment with iodine, the substance will turn slightly brown, not purple, but brown. We also learned that if a product contains inulin, its color also changes. I'm talking about this because color can change not only other starches. You know, how to identify hidden starches in what you buy. Let's talk. A little more about hidden starches. The main starch that is added to many products is maltodextrin. This industry is worth almost 4 billion dollars. Where does all this maltodextrin go? It is used as a filler, thickener, carrier. For various things such as flavorings, it is used to add texture to increase shelf life. It is advertised as a plant-based product, and very, very cheap. A single color of this substance costs only 520 dollars.  If some company uses it as a filler or to add texture, it costs a penny. So the profit is very large, but you know that companies benefit from this in other sneaky ways. Number one, but product labels can list maltodextrin as a carbohydrate and not as sugar. Although it acts like sugar, the glycemic index of table sugar is 65, Glucose is 100, and maltodextrin is from 105 to 1085. When it gets into the blood, it causes a sharp jump in blood sugar and greatly increases insulin levels. The crazy thing is that there is a loophole through which you can add maltodextrin to a product and write that it is sugar-free. In addition, if the maltodextrin content is half a gram per serving, companies do not have to list it on the label. Maltodextrin is usually made from corn, but it is also made from wheat, rice, potatoes. It is added to many dietary supplements that you take as a hidden ingredient for various reasons. The first kind is a carrier or converter of liquid flavoring into a powder flavoring. I was very  It's hard to find a company that produces flavors without maltodextrin. And unfortunately, in many companies, dietary supplements are developed by marketers who do n't really care about quality. So, there are flavors, there are dietary supplements, there are energy gels used by long-distance runners, which even say sugar-free on the labels, but they are full of hidden sugars in the form of carbohydrates. They even want to create baby formulas. Yes, baby formulas that will be full of maltodextrin. I haven't even mentioned products for athletes, powders for gaining muscle mass, energy drinks, and so on. Unfortunately, many don't know about this dirty little secret. If people knew about it, they wouldn't buy anything that contains this sugar with a very high glycemic index. If you train and drink a sports drink or gel during a break, you might as well eat a candy or other sweet. Will this improve your results? No, your blood sugar will jump, then it will fall and fatigue will set in. Not to mention that many keto products that should theoretically be compatible with keto are not so.  And perhaps that's why people who try the keto diet and consume these products themselves, without realizing it, cannot enter ketosis due to a hidden condition. And then they may decide that theta isn't working and go on another diet. I made this video to show you this simple method that only requires yo and Since we're talking about maltodextrin, if you haven't watched this video, be sure to watch it.