How to stop a heart attack First, consult a doctor before following what I tell you. This video does not replace medical care or medication. First of all, call an ambulance. Of course, if you have aspirin, take it 75-100 milligrams will help. If you were prescribed nitroglycerin, you can take it. It dilates blood vessels and can stop an attack of angina. What happens during a heart attack? Essentially, a spasm of the heart occurs because the main artery leading to the heart, the coronary artery, narrows. It itself spasms for some reason and then a spasm of the heart occurs due to a lack of oxygen. This feels like chest pain. Essentially, this is a muscle spasm. There are several things that can help in this situation. For example, when someone takes nitroglycerin. By the way, you may have heard that nitroglycerin is a powerful explosive. The difference between explosives and the drug nitroglycerin is that in the drug, the concentration of nitroglycerin is much lower, but the molecules are essentially the same. Nitroglycerin increases  The level of nitric oxide, which dilates blood vessels and increases oxygen flow, is the main remedy I will talk about. Vitamin E is the main one in terms of its effect on heart spasm. With a deficiency of vitamin E, muscle damage occurs. Not only skeletal muscles are damaged, but also the cardiac muscle. So, with a deficiency of vitamin E, muscle tissue is destroyed. Who would have thought that a vitamin deficiency causes so much damage? But this deficiency can cause severe muscle degeneration. Also, with a deficiency of vitamin E, recovery after training slows down. Those who train regularly are not taking the usual amount of vitamin E. They need more of it. Because the more we train and use our muscles, the higher the need for vitamin E. Vitamin E is a fat-soluble antioxidant. It has a very powerful effect on muscles, on cell membranes, protecting them from oxidative stress from free radicals. It also affects the inner surface of the coronary artery, protecting it from damage from inflammation. Training generates strong oxidation, a huge number of free Vitamin E counteracts this and speeds up muscle recovery after training. With a deficiency of vitamin E, weakness is felt in the muscles, they always hurt and  They whine and they are not so strong. It has been proven that vitamin E effectively restores blood vessels damaged by strokes and it is a very powerful fat-soluble antioxidant. If you read about the connection between vitamin E and cardiovascular complications, you will see different assessments, but after reading the scientific papers themselves, you will see that there is a big difference in which vitamin E was used. Then you see negative research results, for example, when it is said that vitamin E more often causes heart attacks, cancer, and so on. In these papers, synthetic vitamin E is used, they are a natural food vitamin. There is no natural complex of vitamin E used there. I recommend using and storing vitamin E at home, which consists of tocotrienols. What is only 30 and these are not exactly tocopherols. Only three tocopherols were recently discovered in the vitamin E complex. Perhaps you have heard of alpha-beta delta gamma tocopherols. There are also alpha-beta delta gamma tocotrienols in the vitamin E complex. There are other substances. Tocotrienols have a much stronger effect than tocopherols, 50 times stronger, so they can really help you and your  the heart especially when the heart needs more oxygen the need for oxygen decreases when there is enough vitamin E and as vitamin E I recommend taking a good mixture of tocotrienols number two to increase nitric oxide how to do it is very simple you don't need anything for this just slow down your breathing and breathe through your nose very slowly inhale and exhale again and again through your nose because during a heart attack the so-called panic attack begins you start breathing faster maybe now ventilation and how this will affect the heart in fact it will reduce the supply of oxygen to the heart excess carbon dioxide accumulates when someone has a panic attack hyperventilation of the lungs occurs a little story once I was in a restaurant with one of my old patients we were having lunch and talking she was eating soup and suddenly she started doing this you know like this I oh my God you're choking I'm thinking how should I use the Heimlich maneuver I'm going over in my head what I should do very quickly I got up and used the Heimlich maneuver grabbing her from behind it didn't help she's choking her eyes  My eyes are popping out of their sockets, my face is turning red, and what's strange is that everyone who was in drostanolone is just standing there looking at me, saying nothing, not calling an ambulance, and so I just said, " Relax," it just relaxed me, just don't panic, and suddenly it worked. She seemed to come out of stress. The thing is, when you're stressed, your blood vessels constrict, stress constricts your nervous system, cutting off the oxygen supply, which can create problems. So, in the event of a panic attack or even a heart attack, you need to slow down your breathing and take even breaths in and out through your nose. This will really help, especially with the coronary arteries. It will dilate the blood vessels, and they will relax. There's a link below to a video about why this works. Number 3. If you have garlic, cod liver oil, or something like that, these are excellent natural blood thinners. They thin the blood, help reduce blood clots. By the way, I should probably make a video about strokes, but if you have a stroke, the first thing you should do is, of course, call an ambulance. Because there's a certain drug that, if taken in time, will help prevent brain damage. A heart attack must be prevented. If you haven't watched my video about the most important thing.  Vitamins for the cardiovascular system and what you need to eat to get them, look here