Today we'll talk about my face, the tokita of intermittent fasting, and after the ket intermittent fasting, you will learn about 7 things that your face can tell about your health and your organs. I wrote a book about body types and how to find out what is happening with hormones by a person's appearance. Looking at the face, you can learn a lot about what is happening inside, I will teach you this, but promise that you will not judge everyone around you, and such a temptation will appear, the worst thing you can do is judge passers-by. But if you still decide, do not mention my name and the first thing I want to talk about is the shape of the face. Give this intermittent fasting, my face was quite round, plump, covered in fat. I had a strong delay, my face was swollen, but it was fat and water retention. So, I didn't always eat only unhealthy food. I just ate too often and ate things that were not on the menu, fruits, in particular, an apple. One apple contains 19 g of sugar. That's what I did after breakfast. And I no longer have breakfast. I took an apple. An hour and a half after breakfast.  I ate peanut butter and snacked on it. And in the evenings, I constantly chewed nuts, a healthy snack. Yes, I didn't know that any food caused me to spike insulin again and again, and so I had 3 meals and 3 snacks, that's 6s. insulin spikes prevented the body from entering ketosis. And besides, when you accumulate sugar, you accumulate water. This is the meaning of the word carbohydrate. The word carbohydrate comes from the word "carbohydrate" - there is carbon and from the word " water." For every gram of glucose that you store in the form of glycogen, you release 3 ml of water. So, carbohydrates turn you into a sponge that has absorbed water. As you can see, in the past, my face was rounder, it was plump and essentially obese. So, number one, a round face is a sign of excess insulin and excess carbohydrates in the diet. Well, number two, we'll talk about the eyes, especially the tissues around the eyes. Look at the area around my eyes, remove the swollen tissues, they look swollen, me under the eyes, as well as darkening under the eyes, even the eyelids.  They were a little thicker. What's the matter here? The thing is fluid retention. Mail, which is very strongly affected by blood sugar, begins to clog, and the tissues around the eyes, especially swelling under the eyes, is a sure sign of kidney blockage and excess fluid retention. When you know all this, the problem is that you see it everywhere, you see it in people, so you want to tell the person if you just change your diet and remove carbohydrates, the fluid will go away. But it's best to show the person this video, they will evaluate it. After all, this makes him wrong, he may be offended. And the last thing you need to quarrel with someone because of Dr. Berg's video. Well, okay. Next point number three is the eyes themselves in my photos. Yes, you can see that my eyes are red. Usually, red eyes are a sign of a liver problem. Perhaps lack of sleep. In other videos, I said that this can be caused by a deficiency of vitamin B2. Well, this is just the tip of the iceberg. In fact, the problem here is with the liver. Of course, if blood sugar is not normal and you eat a lot of carbohydrates, then the liver will be fatty. The liver will work worse. It will not be able to remove toxins well. In fact, my eyes were red for many years.  I couldn't find the reason for this. One day I flew to San Diego for a seminar by Bernard Johnson, who promoted colon hydrotherapy, and Bernard was holding a seminar. I stayed until the very end of the seminar. And after the seminar, I had to stand in line to talk to him and ask questions. I remember how I finally made a long line. I approached him. Perhaps Murukku. I asked him why my eyes were so red. He looked at me and said, I don't know. A little later, it seems, a day later, we went to his house, and he lived in a trailer next to some place where there were a lot of monks and orange groves. We drove up, he wasn't there, but we went into his trailer and bought his kit for self- administering colon hydrotherapy. I think it was called calema, from the words colon (large intestine) and enema (enema). That's how my colon cleansing phase began, which didn't seem to help me at all. Because colon cleansing doesn't normalize blood sugar, doesn't put your diet in order, you just forgive yourself over and over again, and then return to the same thing. Well, okay, I had no  only red eyes but also severe inflammation on the inside of the eyelids it felt like my eyes were full of sand my eyes were dry red and the inside of the eyelids were very red and inflamed I understand that I had a serious sugar problem I was halfway to diabetes and I didn't know it in this photo my eyes are red and this indicates liver stress I remember how I tried before I think I was then 30 or over 30 for breakfast I ate a huge muffin donut or some cereal and I had no idea what it was leading to even after that I also had a period when I was trying to fall asleep before bed I ate ice cream of course I ate a lot of carbohydrates because of this I had a big problem with my eyes there are a lot of insulin receptors in the eyes and the eyes are one of the main targets on which insulin and blood sugar act Well okay number four I had a chin Fat on the chin is just spilled fat that was accumulated after all after filling the fat it spills into other places the first place where carbohydrates are deposited as fat is the liver when  When the liver fills up, fat develops in other organs, a belly appears, and my waist could be compared to a life preserver. The developing fat begins to accumulate on the face, on the chin. The problems are not only in appearance. After all, this fat also accumulates on the back of the throat behind the sinuses. This is one of the causes of sleep apnea and snoring. And again, if a person has a thick neck, he probably has sleep apnea. And he probably eats too many carbohydrates. The fifth and sixth points are related to the texture of the skin. My skin was very oily. If the skin is oily, it means the sebaceous glands produce too much sebum. Sebum is an oily substance from the sebaceous glands. And what causes this? It is caused by an excess of genes. Androgens are male hormones. The question is why the body produces too many androgens. To understand this, we need to consider a condition called polycystic ovary syndrome. With polycystic ovary syndrome, which only occurs in women, a huge excess of androgens is produced, and the cause of this is excess insulin and  So insulin leads to increased androgen levels and those who have watched my videos know that excess insulin is caused by excess carbohydrates and so we again return to these damned carbohydrates. Now I will say that something that is a little confusing, just listen to the end, one of the minerals used in creams for oily skin is zinc and zinc is very useful for the skin, but here is what is confusing, among other things, zinc increases androgens, just a minute, because androgens cause the sebaceous glands to produce more sebum. Why take zinc thereby increasing the production of androgens? The answer is that zinc helps to normalize androgen levels with a lack of androgens, zinc increases their levels with an excess of androgens, zinc reduces their levels and also zinc suppresses or blocks the enzyme that promotes the conversion of testosterone, the so-called DDT, which is a powerful form of testosterone, in excess of which can lead to male- pattern baldness, an enlarged prostate, as well as spoonbills and hair loss, and so zinc helps to normalize androgens and zinc is very useful for SPK. And besides  In addition, zinc is extremely important for regulating insulin levels. It helps lower insulin levels. And thereby lower androgen levels, you see. By the way, zinc deficiency occurs with excessive carbohydrate consumption. So, there is also such a connection: excess carbohydrates, excess insulin, zinc deficiency, then excess dihydrotestosterone (DDT) begins to be produced, and something else. With zinc deficiency, so- called hypogonadism can develop. This is testicular atrophy, that is, not enough testosterone is produced, and zinc deficiency can lead to a decrease in sperm count. But in general, zinc helps normalize testosterone, and zinc can also prevent excess estrogen production. Because it is also involved in the suppression of another enzyme, aromatase. Aromatase converts testosterone to estrogen. Excess estrogen is not needed. Men, not women, do this. It helps regulate the amount of testosterone and estrogen. So, if a person has oily skin, then they either do not have enough zinc or they have too much androgen due to excess insulin. Point 6 is related to dry skin. flaky skin You often see this in people who have dandruff I had this between my eyebrows in my eyebrows on my forehead small pieces of dry skin the reasons for this may be a liver problem or an excess of omega-6 fatty acids in my case the cause was nuts I ate a lot of peanuts peanut butter and nuts all day and I did not consume enough omega-3 fatty acids they are found in fatty fish with orders and in cod liver oil I like cod liver oil more than some other products and that's why it has a perfectly balanced omega-3 fatty acids as well as vitamin A and vitamin D vitamin A and vitamin D helps get rid of dry flaky skin and also from oily skin that is vitamin A and vitamin D helps eliminate these dry flakes and also get rid of oily skin so most people consume too much omega-6 fatty acids in the form of soybean oil rapeseed oil cottonseed oil these oils are added to processed foods in dressings for  salads they are in a huge number of products in the store But people do not get enough meditree and this huge imbalance is reflected in the skin So if a person has this problem with skin texture You know what he eats and this leads to strong inflammation, therefore a person also has a lot of red spots of a red rash and this creates problems with the liver and also causes inflammation of the joints and one more thing if you have ever heard of goosebumps this is when on the skin of the shoulders thighs or buttocks there are such small pimples right above the wart follicles this is called keratosis pilaris or goosebumps this is a lot of people they just need to consume more omega-3 fatty acids cod liver oil is an excellent source Well okay point 7 is a window If you see a person with acne you know that he has too much androgen so as a child I had terrible acne on my forehead on my back and it was a nightmare because because of this I was shy people laughed at me and I constantly tried to hide the window under I tried everything with my hair. I tried to scrape it off because I thought it was dirt, all kinds of creams, but nothing helped, it only got worse. My God. If only I knew that the cause of acne is excess androgen due to excess insulin. And at that time I was heavily into carbohydrates and I didn’t know that there was some connection. I continued to eat carbohydrates and washed my face more and more. This is another reason why zinc is added to many acne creams because zinc helps lower androgen levels and reduce sebaceous glands. But of course, if you don’t change your diet, zinc won’t help. So, when you see someone with a round face, an oily face, puffiness around the eyes, red eyes, oily flaky skin, red spots on the face, don’t judge him, send him this video. Help me find out the cause of this problem. It’s easy to solve. Just give the person the correct knowledge about the problem. Adrenal, thyroid, ovarian, or hepatic. What body type are you? This determines the cause of excess weight and your poor health. Take the free test and find out.  your body type and get recommendations based on it