We are told that getting more oxygen is very, very useful. A lot of diseases arise due to a lack of oxygen, be it ischemia, hypoxia, or anything else. Oxygen is useful. So today I will reveal the secret of how to increase the supply of oxygen to our cells. You probably already know that sleeping with the window open helps increase oxygen levels. Plants in the room help get more oxygen. And you probably know that exercise increases oxygen levels, especially aerobic exercise. This exercise is like walking or light jogging, and we get more oxygen. It happens in nature. Soon, a video will be released on the channel about how methylene blue helps cells get more oxygen. What is interesting is that there is one very interesting secret related to the family. Now I will reveal it. Perhaps you do not know about this. For the increase in the volume of oxygen entering the cells, for the increase in the volume of oxygen that blood cells give to the tissues, one factor is responsible, which triggers this mechanism, and this is CO2. That's exactly how CO2 works. You probably thought that CO2 is a waste product, that it is not needed. After all, we exhale it, and by the way, the exhalation of an average person consists, I don’t know, maybe 25-75 percent of oxygen, so we exhale not only  CO2 we exhale a lot of oxygen because it is not absorbed CO2 is a key factor in the release of O2 this is called the Bohr effect Boron is the name CO2 tells the body to release O2 this is how C increases acidity makes the environment more acidic from this the bond of oxygen with the blood weakens and it is released look at someone who does not have enough oxygen who is having a panic attack what does he do he breathe faster this is hyperventilation when you breathe faster you are trying to get more oxygen but you are getting little CO2 what is most often recommended for hyperventilation is to breathe into a paper bag what does this give increases the level of CO2 carbon dioxide And this allows oxygen to enter the cells that is, it might be a good idea to buy an oximeter there are pulse oximeters on sale they measure the pulse and blood oxygen saturation normally it should be from 95 to 99 percent this is the degree of blood oxygen saturation This is an excellent test It allows you to understand what is happening and in this video I will show you how to increase the percentage of oxygen to 99 or even to  100 and you can test this method on yourself At first it seems very illogical to increase CO2 levels to increase oxygen levels, it sounds absurd, but it works. Here are a couple of ways to increase CO2 levels: breathe through your nose, not your mouth. Yes, that's right. When we breathe through our nose, we get more oxygen. It would seem that if you breathe through your nose during sleep, less air comes in, and this is true, and less oxygen comes in. But this is not so. We sleep much better when we breathe through our nose, and the goal is not to increase oxygen levels to 100 percent. We need a balance of oxygen and CO2. We only strive to balance them. When we are stressed, our breathing changes and the CO2 balance is disrupted. We get more oxygen and not enough CO2 under stress, and this seems illogical, but the solution is to increase CO2 levels, and this can be done simply with breathing. Slow down your breathing and maintain a balance of inhalation and exhalation. In one study, a link to it is below. More CO2 was added to oxygen, and this mixture of air was given to a group of people who had hypoxia to breathe. Hypoxia is a lack of oxygen, and they all have it.  oxygen saturation increased, which is very interesting. That is, you should see for yourself that this is true and you will see that it is true. By increasing CO2 levels, you can greatly relieve stress, anxiety disorder, panic attacks, inflammation can be reduced, and often you can get rid of depression, you can increase endurance in training, you can reduce the symptoms of respiratory problems such as COPD or weakness in the lungs due to an old injury, and even hold your breath longer. So how to do this? Well, first you need to do one test to determine something. You need to determine your carbon dioxide tolerance CO2, how well your body tolerates CO2. This is a very simple test. I advise you to do it lying on your back on the floor. You only need some kind of timing mechanism, a stopwatch, for example, you will need to record the time. To perform the test, you need to breathe through your nose only through your nose, you just need to inhale and exhale three times for three seconds each time. So, inhale for 3 seconds, exhale for 3 seconds, inhale for 3 seconds, exhale for 3 seconds. Do this three times, and on the fourth time, you need to expand your lungs and inhale as much air as you can. Thus, the fourth breath should be very deep and you need to You need to record the duration of the next stage. Record the duration of a slow, continuous exhalation of air after this deep breath. Do not hold your breath, do not stop, just slowly exhale air and record how long it takes. But you need to exhale slowly and continuously and record the time when you run out of air. So, if it took you 20 seconds or less for this exhalation, things are bad in terms of your respiratory system. Your ability to tolerate CO2 is probably very stressed and your stress tolerance is low. You are probably anxious and cannot train for a long time. You are running out of gas. If the exhalation time was from 20 to 40 seconds, then your performance is average. Not that great, but not terrible. Right in the middle. If the exhalation time was from 40 to 60 seconds, then you are above average. This is not quite good, but you are clearly somewhere in the intermediate zone. Clearly above average. If you did this for 60 to 80 seconds, this is considered an advanced level. You are quite resistant to stress. You have good endurance. You are in good shape and tolerate stress well. If your  the exhalation lasted longer than 80 seconds then you are in the elite group this is the level of the sports elite your reaction is excellent heart and blood vessels you tolerate CO2 well your goal is to exceed 80 seconds So I want you to take this test now and write your result in the comments under the video good I want to see your answers your results your condition the question is how can we increase this tolerance in order to ultimately increase the ability to supply cells with oxygen because it is not about the oxygen itself but about the availability of oxygen for cells which depends on CO2 you just need to balance CO2 and oxygen here are a couple of ways start breathing through your nose keep your mouth closed when you sleep and even during the day say while driving breathe through your nose In addition you can start breathing more with your diaphragm that is try to inhale air into your stomach and not into your chest and take a slow breath in pushing your stomach out and then slowly exhale this way we will achieve this balance I said that this method also helps to fall asleep focus on sleep and equalize the duration of inhalation with the duration of exhalation this really helps to fall asleep and  Now you know why with increasing CO2 levels the oxygen level also increases. You can still practice breathing in a square pattern. This is called four-four. Just inhale for 4 seconds, hold your breath for 4 seconds, then exhale for 4 seconds. And after exhaling, hold your breath for 4 seconds. Just practice this longer and longer and longer as much as you can. This will help you. So, breathing through the nose, breathing in a square pattern, diaphragmatic breathing, and also holding your breath are of course best done under supervision. If you lose consciousness, there will be no problem, but you can do this. Little by little, I don’t recommend doing this while driving. I can just see how someone loses knowledge, gets into an accident, and then says Dr. Berg told me to hold my breath while driving. So, I’m telling you, don’t do that while driving. It’s good. You can use several more methods to increase your CO2 tolerance, and I’ll give a link below to a site where you will find much more information about this. I only described the idea and basic methods that you can start using. If you have an oximeter, you can track the results, you can test on yourself what helps you, and you can see for yourself that it works. In addition, there is excellent information on this topic that relates If you haven't seen my video about panic attacks and asthma, here it is.