I'll show you how to whiten your teeth at home with just two ingredients. You don't need to go to the dentist for that expensive procedure. You also don't need to buy whitening strips. This product will only cost you $3 and it's very effective. If your teeth have turned yellow from coffee, tea, red wine, or just from old age, this will be a great solution. After the recipe, we'll talk about oil pulling and I'll also share information about perforated gum syndrome. This is when bacteria can get into the gums and from there into the blood. So, knowing this is very important if you want to make your teeth white. You need two things. First, baking soda. I found it in the store for $0.79. It will give your teeth a certain texture that will allow you to scrub your teeth and get rid of plaque. It's soft and not abrasive. And second, you'll need hydrogen peroxide. I recently bought a bottle for only $60. The main thing is to buy the right peroxide. Take the one that says 3% or less. If it says 15% or 40, you don't need it.  By the way, the main ingredient in whitening strips is hydrogen peroxide, but they charge you $20, $30, or even $40 for them. You don't need it. Dentists charge even more for their procedure and use concentrated peroxide, up to forty percent. Yes, this will make your teeth whiter, without a doubt, but highly concentrated hydrogen peroxide, along with ultraviolet or LED light that they use to speed up the chemical reaction, can damage your gums and dry your teeth to such an extent that your teeth will hurt because of the high concentration. Yes, this SBO is much faster, but it's not worth it. Here's what you need to do. Take a small jar and measure out one teaspoon of baking soda. Then take three percent hydrogen peroxide, baking soda, and then add eight drops of water. Mix well, and the paste is ready. It will break the chemical bonds in plaque. Plaque is a chain of certain molecules. The oxygen released destroys it and removes this pigment from the teeth, making your teeth whiter. That's why you need hydrogen peroxide. So, mix the paste. Take a toothbrush, apply the paste, and Gently rub your teeth on both sides with the paste. This will help against bacteria and reduce the formation of tartar. You essentially need to brush your teeth for 1-2 minutes with this mixture, then rinse your mouth very thoroughly. But since the concentration of peroxide here is below 40%, like at the dentist, this needs to be done several times a week. I recommend doing this two or three times a week for several weeks to see changes. But it will work and you will be surprised when you see the results. Leave a comment. The main thing is to do it carefully. And gradually, then you will not damage your gums and tooth enamel. Now about rinsing your mouth with oil. You've probably heard on the Internet about how people take coconut oil and start rinsing their mouth with it. Yes, why do they do this? In fact, they did this even in ancient times. True, they used sesame oil instead of coconut oil. You can try it, but coconut oil is not as bitter. It tastes better. It will also work. You need to put coconut oil in your mouth and hold it there for 10-20 minutes, rinse your mouth with it, move it back and forth. There is a lot of coconut oil. Lauric antimicrobial against Candida bacteria and especially oral bacteria that cause bad breath. The Indian Dental Research Journal wrote that this procedure is almost as good as mouthwash and helps with Henry Witt. Many people do this. Three times a week, now about something even more interesting about the relationship between sugar or glucose and vitamin C. I want to tell you that glucose is similar in chemical structure to vitamin C, they compete. Surely you have heard about scurvy. Scurvy is a disease that sailors and other people used to suffer from. When they had a vitamin C deficiency, they didn't even know about it. Vitamin C maintains collagen in case of vitamin C deficiency. When you brush your teeth, your gums may bleed if you eat a lot of sugar or chew gum a lot. Glucose will prevent the body from absorbing vitamin C from food. Sugar deprives the body of vitamin C, and first of all, this will affect the gums. For example, you floss your teeth and  Bleeding is an early sign. The cells in the gum tissue are no longer firmly connected; they seem to dangle between them, creating holes. This resembles leaky gut syndrome and even leaky blood vessels. This allows pathogens to enter these areas and from there, through the blood, spread throughout the body. I don't know if you know, but scientists have discovered bacteria from the oral cavity in vascular plaques and even in plaques in the brain. In Alzheimer's disease, it is impossible for bacteria from the mouth to enter the body. Thank you for watching and see you soon. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.