Today I will reveal one secret how to get rid of not only anxiety but also depression. The secret lies in your microflora, the bacteria living in your intestines. The largest cluster of nerves outside the brain is located right here in the intestine. Between the intestines and the brain, there is a two-way communication, that is, they closely communicate with each other. What is happening is reflected here. The intestinal microflora is where your bacteria produce neurotransmitters. That is, all neurotransmitters of the MC, dopamine, serotonin, are produced by bacteria. And serotonin greatly affects our mood. People with symptoms of anxiety and depression almost always have problems with the intestines. B vitamins are also synthesized there. There is a direct relationship between mood disorders and B vitamins. If there is inflammation in the intestines, it affects mood. Simply improving bowel function is one thing that stabilizes mood. The next important point is the connection between antidepressants and intestinal microflora. Antidepressants actually suppress their growth. Especially two psychiatric drugs, Abilify and Normin. Abilify has minor side effects, weight gain, gastrointestinal problems. But about  I'm not kidding at all, a strong craving for gambling, compulsive overeating, chagali infidelity and also increased libido, more common vomiting, insomnia, dizziness, impaired motor skills. Surprisingly, it is not entirely clear how Abilify works. Apparently, it somehow affects neurotransmitters. Here's something else: 90% of serotonin is present in the intestines. There are so-called SSRIs, these are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. These antidepressants directly affect serotonin. Here are their serious side effects: they reduce the diversity of intestinal microflora, change its bacterial composition and increase inflammation. Together, this increases it even more. And what's wrong with this scheme? There are a lot of things here. I recommend that if you have an anxiety disorder or depression, just take care of your intestines. Find good probiotics, start eating fermented vegetables, for example, kimchi, sauerkraut, pickles, etc., fermented milk products, kefir or Bulgarian yogurt, and interval Fasting, these measures can significantly affect your mood. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.