I'll tell you how to get rid of hypoglycemia with just one tiny simple change. What is hypoglycemia? Formally, it's when your blood sugar is below 70 mg per deciliter. But in reality, with symptoms of hypoglycemia, your blood sugar is rarely low. In the vast majority of cases, there are all the symptoms, but your blood sugar is normal. These symptoms include trembling, irritability, anxiety, hunger, sweating, headache, inability to concentrate, and blurred vision. We often hear, "Oh, my blood sugar is dropping, I need to eat something," but more often than not, if you check your blood sugar, it turns out to be normal. What's the matter? To explain this, I'll use earplugs. If I put these earplugs in my ears and you talk to me, I won't hear you. You'll have to download something for me to hear you. So, with hypoglycemia, something happens. Similar resistance occurs. This is called insulin resistance. insulin is a hormone that helps lower blood glucose levels. Regarding blood sugar, you need to know that the body is guided by this dominant principle. I do n't know. Can you  Whether to call it a law But this is the overriding principle It is very, very important to maintain normal sugar levels at any cost and it is even more important to keep sugar levels elevated and not lowered For the sake of survival, the body will do everything to prevent a drop in blood sugar Glucose is needed by the brain, or rather, some parts of it Without glucose we cannot survive insulin is the main hormone that lowers glucose levels If it is too high after a meal, insulin stimulates two factors: the carbohydrates we eat and their purity, the degree of sugar concentration, and also the frequency of meals If you eat often, snack often, insulin surges follow one after another and the problem is that due to constant chronic surges of insulin, so-called insulin resistance develops over time insulin is no longer as good at lowering sugar levels It's like those earplugs in your ears If I had earplugs in my ears and you were talking to me, you would literally have to shout at me very loudly for me to hear anything This is what happens with hypoglycemia This is a situation when blood sugar levels are usually normal, but insulin levels are high and it tries to overcome resistance  In order to somehow control the situation and reduce high blood glucose levels, the body compensates for the resistance to stabilize sugar. After all, if we eat carbohydrates, blood sugar rises, insulin comes in and lowers it, but low sugar levels are unacceptable, so the body develops resistance to the factor that seeks to lower glucose levels. What's abnormal in all this is that the body is not designed to eat as many carbohydrates as we eat. This is the underlying cause of this problem. Blood glucose levels may be normal. But since insulin controls the absorption of glucose, a person most likely has very little glucose in the cells themselves. In other words, the absorption of glucose by cells depends on insulin. The stronger the insulin resistance, the less glucose in the cells. And if the glucose level in the cells is low, I don't even know if there is a way to determine it. There will be symptoms of hypoglycemia with normal blood glucose levels. And against the background of this high insulin, in medicine this is called hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. High insulin levels with low sugar. Hypo means low glycemia, blood sugar. This is one of the most common types of hypoglycemia, especially in children.  and babies, so the worst thing you can do with hypoglycemia is to continue eating little by little, even protein foods, in an attempt to correct the situation, or even worse, eat sugar to increase blood glucose levels. This is the worst thing, because it stimulates insulin even more. It’s better to make the situation worse, it will get better for a while, but over time it will get worse. So it’s a complete myth or even a lie that you need to eat often and little by little so that blood sugar levels are not low, and this is a lie that frequent small meals somehow maintain the fire of metabolism, stimulate it. It’s a complete lie, and it’s a myth that breakfast is the most important meal. Although I used to advise having breakfast, I don’t advise it anymore. Because when we eat, it increases the feeling of hunger. After about an hour and a half, because of everything that happens with insulin, how to fix this. There are two types of fuel that the body can run on. For most people, the body runs on glucose, and they need glucose constantly, because the body does not store a lot of glucose in the body, there is very little for poses in the form of glycogen in the muscles and liver, and when it runs out, Oh my God, a person needs quick energy.  Glucose What about fat Why not use fat as fuel for the body The body has much more fat reserves than glucose reserves The average person has if they are not thin There are literally 100 thousand kilocalories of fat stored This is enough for at least 3 months or more The world record for the longest fast exceeds a year without food and this person survived and he lost a lot of weight The point is that the body's ability to use fat as fuel is practically unlimited and our bodies are designed for this and now I am going to convince you that fat is the best fuel for the body and when I say fat I mean fatty acids and ketones Ketones are one of the by-products of burning fat The body can work on a combination of fatty acids and ketones but the source of both is fat The beauty of using fat as fuel for the body is that it only takes a few days to switch to a new fuel which your body will say Wow this is much better than Glucose After all, my appetite has disappeared I feel much better The huge advantage of ketones and fatty acids is that they do not require the participation of insulin as a hormone Glucose fuel depends  from insulin, so everything that is associated with insulin resistance, all these problems like metabolic syndrome, hypertension, high cholesterol, belly fat, liver fat, inflammation, dementia, all these problems with the body. And there are a lot of them. You largely bypass all these problems associated with resistance, they usually go away when switching to fat fuel. So, somewhere deep in the cells are mitochondria, these are the body's energy plants, and somewhere deep in the mitochondria, the so-called Krebs cycle takes place. This is a very complex process, but essentially it is the conversion of glucose into energy, but when the body runs on ketones and fatty acids, all these different steps that are needed for glucose become unnecessary. Only one or perhaps two of the many biochemical steps necessary for glucose are needed. This allows you to save a lot of energy. It's as if a much more advanced engine was working in the body, giving much more energy. When the body uses ketones and fatty acids, this relieves the mitochondria from enormous stress. If you don't know, most non-communicable diseases that people are associated with mitochondria, first among them cancer, when the body uses  Too much glucose destroys mitochondria, all sorts of active oxygen molecules are produced, but I won't go into that detail. The point is that glucose as fuel for the body creates many side effects. And when the body runs on fat, the brain's need for glucose decreases, because the brain can also run on fat (or rather, most of the brain), because only a small part of it needs glucose. Then the liver can focus only on the very important functions of creating new glucose for the brain and some other tissues, such as red blood cells. This is called gluconeogenesis, and the liver doesn't have to work so hard. Realize that the liver doesn't have much work, it has about 500 different functions. Then, mitochondrial function improves, and the mitochondria receive more oxygen. The body needs less fuel and even thyroid hormones to maintain metabolism, because it works more efficiently. You give the brain a chance to rest, you give the heart the opportunity to work better, because the heart is a muscle, like skeletal muscles. So, you relieve a lot of strain and stress on the muscles and liver, and you only need to do one simple thing, namely, cut down on carbohydrates. consume less than 50 grams per day. That's all. When you do this, within a few days the body will begin to switch to a new fuel. During this switch, you will have more ketones in the blood, in the urine, in the exhaled air. There are ways to detect them; these excess ketones are not yet burned. After all, you are in the transition phase and the body adapts to the new fuel, but very soon you will begin to burn ketones more efficiently. In the meantime, you can do ketone tests to see whether you are in ketosis or the transition phase and to see when this transition phase is complete. Therefore, I recommend using urine test strips for ketones. At first, there will be a lot of ketones in the urine, then they will become less and less. This means that the body has finally begun to adapt to ketones and burns more ketones. From this point on, it is better to use a blood test for ketones. You can buy kits for this. Now you only need a simple explanation of how to make this transition, and you will learn about this from this video.