A question came in, a person wanted to know if it is possible to drink Nateto Cola Zero. Let's discuss this topic. There is a Diet Coke, there is Cola Zero, and they also came up with Cola 0 sugar. Essentially, it has the same ingredients, the taste may be different, but the composition is the same, so one column. So, Diet Coke contains carbonated water, caramel coloring, phosphoric acid, aspartame, sodium benzoate, citric acid, and caffeine. Their compositions are very similar, but with some small differences, such as potassium citrate instead of citric acid, another sweetener, but they are almost identical. So, you probably already know about aspartame: that it is harmful to the intestines, that it increases the risk of insulin resistance and diabetes. There are studies showing its carcinogenicity. I think you already know this, you probably don't know anything about this ingredient, but caramel coloring. I'll tell you about it. Because it is produced by heating carbohydrates, mainly corn, which is also a GMO with an ammonia composition. The end product of this caramelization has this name: advanced glycation end products. In general, they create sticky proteins in the body.  In the blood vessels, in the brain, pancreas, in the liver, in the kidneys. Every time you heat sugar in combination with protein or sugar with fat, or you eat sugar, or you have high blood sugar and it doesn't go down, or inside the body there is a fever, a reaction can begin with red blood cells, specifically with hemoglobin. This is one point of view, but the essence of diabetes is if you have high 1C. What is it? It is a glycoprotein in which high sugar is associated with hemoglobin in the blood. When you consume something with caramel or caramel coloring, you create advanced glycation end products, which then lead to hypertension and other known effects of insulin. My advice to you. If you want to drink diet soda, take one that does not have caramel coloring, no phosphoric acid that will corrode your teeth, and no aspartame. Take those with stevia, monk fruit, and retreat. See you soon. If you don't know what to drink, Nateto. If you are unsure whether a drink will break your fast, diversify your diet with the help of a book about healthy drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other sugar-free drinks.  and harmful additives, as well as designers for creating original recipes with benefits in every ingredient. Order the book on healthy drinks using the link below.