I've talked a lot about how sugar causes weight gain, that it destroys the kidneys, heart, eyes, and nervous system, but I've never emphasized how much harm it can cause to the brain, especially in terms of cognitive abilities. Cognitive abilities include the ability to direct attention to something, to concentrate it. When you hold your attention on something for a period of time, you ignore a lot of other information, as well as distractions around you. You need to focus on one thing, and this requires a lot of cognitive power. In fact, your ability to hold attention on something and follow through is your personal power, and when you lose this, you become absent-minded. This is called attention deficit disorder. This is a fictitious condition and a label. They say that it is caused by a dopamine deficiency, but this is just a theory. There is no evidence. They also say that it is incurable, but there is therapy and there is medicine. I would like to find at least one person whom this therapy got rid of attention deficit disorder. I would also like to find at least someone who was cured of it with medication, and by cured, I mean that  When you stop taking medications, the problem doesn't return, and no one claims to cure it. It's not curable. They just help you live with the symptoms. When we look at the effect sugar has on areas of the brain, especially the frontal lobe and the hippocampus, which is involved in memorization, learning, and similar things, we observe a very short surge of dopamine, which stimulates the pleasure center. This affects mood and behavior. You feel better and happier for a minute, but gradually, dopamine receptors begin to lose sensitivity, and now more sugar is needed to create the same effect. But the most serious problem that sugar creates for the brain is that it changes the inhibiting areas of the brain. This reduces our control over our own brain. We are worse at filtering unnecessary information, and when it falls on us 24/7, we can't concentrate on anything. We lose the ability to concentrate. And in the brain, atrophy actually occurs, more specifically in the frontal lobes and also in the hippocampus. This leads to brain aging. It gets older and also reduces blood flow to the brain. And that's what I think is just crazy. If you read about attention deficit disorder, they  They write about heredity, about environmental factors, but nowhere do they even mention the word sugar as something that is the cause or is directly related to this. I will read you the symptoms of attention deficit disorder as they are described: inability to pay attention to details, mistakes due to inattention, difficulty concentrating on something, inability to listen, inability to complete answers to a test, problems with organization, what if a person was not taught to organize something, this is not an ability that is inherent from birth, then avoids activities that require constant attention, difficulty putting things in their place, apparently this is hereditary. For example, I have a problem putting things in their place, I am easily distracted and forget what needs to be done. It seems to me that the entire population of the planet is described here, is n't it? And how did such a disease appear? But they just gathered in some room and voted for it. There are no objective tests, no blood tests, nothing, all this is subjective, and while we are on this topic, I will read you more symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. This is generally something: increased mobility of the limbs, the child plays with his hands and feet, inability to sit for a long time. Listen, who is even capable of sitting in one place for a long time? It turns out that all 3 are sick. He runs and climbs too much, even in situations where it is inappropriate. Oh well, that's normal child behavior. 4 can't play quietly. In other words, a child should play quietly. This is normal. I think this will also be a problem. The last one talks too much, and this is a problem. In my opinion, those who talk little have problems. Those who like to talk are going crazy. So he's diagnosed, and the medicine for this is Ritalin, and Tallinn, as stated, should increase dopamine levels, but it has small side effects. I'll read it now: tachycardia, high blood pressure, headache, insomnia, anxiety, weight loss, dry mouth, abdominal pain, heart problems, psychosis, and death. But withdrawal symptoms include depression, dissatisfaction with life, exhaustion, nightmares, and suicidal thoughts. Even the World Health Organization, I never thought, states that the balance of benefits and harms is unclear. In my opinion, people get huge harm starting to take Ritalin and trying to stop taking it. If we want to know more about sugar, we'll read it out. We need, of course, to turn to experts like the Sugar Manufacturers Association. They have their own website and they write that, provided you consume it in moderation and control your portions, you can safely eat your cake. But there are two things they claim that I disagree with because it is an outright lie. 1) They say that carbohydrates are the most important source of energy for the body. This is absolutely wrong. The body can run on titanium and much more efficiently. So, this is a lie. If you feed the body only sugar for some time, there will be a lot of health problems. 2) Their second statement is that sugar is essential for the brain. No, this is also not true. If you stop eating sugar, the body will begin to produce ketones. There are indeed parts of the brain that need sugar, but the body is capable of producing it itself. This is why the liver can carry out so-called gluconeogenesis. This is a normal process. If the body needs sugar, it can produce it. It does not need to receive it from outside. So, this is false information. Well, what is the solution to stop eating sugar if your child has attention deficit disorder? I am not saying to stop giving him medicine. However, if he stops eating sugar, you will find that he will begin to manage his behavior much better. The easiest way to give up sugar is to replace it. I recommend sugar alcohol and such as the Veselit Retreat sweetener based on monk fruit or stevia. Below is a link to a book with alternative recipes and by God, a person gets exactly the same feeling of sweetness, but only without sugar, so giving up sugar is easier, but to get rid of sugar cravings, you need to stop eating it. You will not get rid of sugar cravings unless you give it up for a while. I'm talking about just one, two, maximum three days. In addition, you need to reduce your carbohydrate intake to 20 grams or less per day. This will truly regulate your appetite and reduce your carbohydrate cravings. I think that until you try it yourself, you won't understand that this is possible. You will be surprised when after three days, excessive food cravings disappear and then you will feel much better. Second, take vitamin B1. Find natural B1 or nutritional yeast because vitamin B1 directly supports nervous energy in both children and adults. It helps the brain focus and also replenishes a serious deficiency that has arisen due to all this sugar, so every time  When you eat sugar, you need to take a lot of B1, otherwise you will fall into the negative zone, and the symptom of B1 deficiency in the brain is a multitude of cognitive problems: memory loss, inability to learn, nervousness, problems concentrating, anxiety, restless leg syndrome, insomnia, and even, oddly enough, nightmares. Third, to get the brain in order, fasting is required. Fast 18 hours a day with a six-hour eating window. If you do this for at least a week, you will see that your cognitive abilities have greatly improved. Many of you have already tried this for yourself, please write about it in the comments so that those who have not done this yet can see the many amazing successes you have received from fasting in terms of the ability to concentrate. You are naked, and the holidays are ahead. Prepare delicious and healthy dishes with the book of festive recipes from Kita: hot dishes and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and bread, as well as a calculation of calories, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Order the book of the festive Tetta menu using the link below.