Hi, today we'll talk about how to look at least ten years younger. I'm 54 now. You're closer at 29, my wife is 55, and I'll tell you our secret, but you have to promise not to tell anyone. Well, you'll have to promise in the comments that you'll keep quiet. This will remain only between you and me. But of course, I'm just fooling around. It's not a secret at all. It's common sense. Think for yourself if you want to have healthy skin. What does it consist of? Fat and proteins. Do you understand? Does it consist of unsaturated fats? No, it consists of saturated fats. So guess what foods you should eat correctly. Cholesterol and saturated fats are exactly what you are advised to avoid. Imagine if you were to sit on a low-fat diet. You would age very quickly. If you want your skin to age, deprive yourself of fats, especially saturated fats. So, what are the benefits of cholesterol and saturated fats? Here we have 3 points. Cell membranes are 50 percent cholesterol. We need cholesterol. The body produces it, and it must come from food. It also helps produce  Bile, which helps digest the fat you eat, especially for the release of fat- soluble vitamins. Cholesterol is also necessary for hormone production. As you know, hormones are used up with age and you look older, so it is necessary that food precursors, that is, raw materials for the endocrine system, are available. This is very important of all the fat-soluble vitamins. Vitamin A is the most important vitamin that fights skin aging. The epidermis and dermis are the layers of the skin controlled by vitamin A. If there is enough of it, the skin will be soft, strong, and not too dry, while a deficiency of vitamin A will lead to dryness and flaking, the so-called keratinization, that is, very rough skin, as well as rashes. You may not know, but the gene responsible for collagen production requires vitamin A. So, vitamin A activates collagen production. So, where can you get vitamin A? It can be obtained from leafy greens. However, beta-carotene in leafy greens, including spinach and others, is not retinol, the active form of vitamin A, but rather precursors, something like a preparation for it. Still  It needs to be converted into an active form, so it's important to consume all of this for the sake of antioxidants and phytonutrients. But if you take high doses of beta-carotene without enough of these vitamins in active form, your skin won't look so young. You really need the active vitamin. Where can I get vitamins? Egg yolks, cod liver oil, butter, salmon, fish, goat cheese in general. Cod liver oil should be pure and high-quality, and the eggs must be farm- raised organic. This is very important. Another important vitamin is vitamin A. Vitamin E protects the skin from aging, sunburn, oxidation, and wrinkles. It also has anti-cancer properties and supports pituitary hormones. Another key nutrient and building block is especially for those going through menopause. With age, the ovaries seem to hibernate, retire, and stop functioning. That is, a person no longer needs as many sex hormones, and the pituitary gland no longer produces as many hormones. Vitamin E levels drop, but you need it to produce sex hormones, so it's very important. Where can I get it? What can it be obtained from palm oil, of course, logically, pure, especially red, from leafy greens, you can also from wheat germ oil. I don't like this source from olive oil, you from seeds and nuts, and in many products where, as I said, there is vitamin A, there is also vitamin E. At the same time, on the other hand, don't forget about what to avoid. The first thing you need to avoid to protect your skin from aging is AG, and what does age mean in English? In our case, it is an abbreviation meaning advanced glycation end products. What is this, essentially, when you combine proteins with sugar and or proteins with fats, in the case of fried pies or French fries or barbecue ribs, as an example of proteins, and combine all this sugar with proteins, you create so-called sticky proteins. Proteins become sticky and as a result form plaques or clots in the eyes, in the arteries, in the glands. As a result, the skin begins to look very, very old, and very quickly. Smoking leads to the same effect. It is precisely this that creates these advanced glycation end products. Stress, we should  Avoid high levels of cortisol. Cortisol ages the skin, so this should definitely be avoided, as well as sugar. Avoid sugar and simple carbohydrates. They oxidize and age the body very intensely. Another reason why it is very important to follow a healthy ketogenic diet is that if you add intermittent fasting to it, you will get results even faster due to the restorative effect. Practice and intermittent fasting also activate out of a due, thanks to which these damaged and already useless proteins are cleaned out. That is, with the help of intermittent fasting and a healthy diet, you can cleanse your body and by adding saturated fats to your diet, you can get these other nutrients and start looking younger. Thank you for watching and see you again. While you are here, we have prepared a new document for you about what is on a healthy ketogenic diet. You can download it from our website. There is a download link in the description. It is free. Download and read.