I had a video about people quitting ketosis and returning to it without getting results, and someone asked a question about metabolic flexibility, so I'll make a video on this topic. What is metabolic flexibility? This is the ability to adapt to different types of fuel. First, there are few carbohydrates, then there are many. The body is able to adapt to this, and the metabolism is more or less in order. The first thing I want to say is that there are very few people with a flexible metabolism. Most people have an inflexible metabolism. They switch from high carbohydrates to low carbohydrates, then high and low again, and each time it becomes more and more difficult for them to enter ketosis and adapt. Besides, when they are tossed back and forth because they had a cheat day or cannot strictly adhere to something, over time their metabolism slows down. The question is where the inflexibility of metabolism comes from in the first place. If insulin has been elevated for a long time, the hormone insulin works as a gatekeeper. It is mainly he who decides what type of fuel you will burn. If insulin increases, you burn sugar but not fat. If insulin decreases, you will burn fat, but things with this hormone get worse if you stimulate it. By consuming a lot of carbohydrates for a long time and also eating frequently, you develop insulin resistance. This is the real reason for a slow metabolism and a stubborn setpoint. And when no matter what you do, your weight doesn't drop below a certain number, this happens. This is the effect of yo-yo dieting, especially if you follow a low-calorie, high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet. Many people do this. Stress also destroys this system. Pregnancy is a great stress for this system, and many women who became pregnant and gave birth found that their metabolism slowed down after that, so changes in hormones can seriously affect this system. Lack of sleep, let 's say you work the third shift for many years. This can greatly affect metabolism. Perry did it. I remember I worked with a patient who trained, I'm not kidding, 6 hours a day, 7 days a week, this is too much, and she was perplexed why she wasn't losing weight. There was no recovery. Further inflammation. If there is inflammation in the body, it can cause insulin resistance. If you are lucky enough not to experience any of these stress factors, perhaps your metabolism is flexible enough to jump from low carbs to high carbs without consequences.  If your metabolism is inflexible like most people, including me, you'll have to try a different approach. You'll likely be unable to get away with anything for a day. You need to consistently and constantly keep your insulin levels in the normal range by following a healthy ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, exercising regularly, and ensuring your diet is high in nutrients. It will take some time to correct insulin resistance, and we're talking months or even years. I don't want to give anyone false hope. In 3-4 weeks, your metabolism will be back to normal, and you'll be able to return to a normal diet because you'll already have a fast metabolism. If you need more information about the diet, watch this video.