Let's talk about the best inside the feed for improving learning ability. I mean in a physiological sense, nutrient deficiencies that cause learning problems. Because there are other reasons why people can't learn, for example, they weren't taught how to learn. This is a completely different topic. I'll talk about what can happen to the body due to a deficiency that can impair learning ability. A part of the brain called the hippocampus is involved here. The hippocampus is the part of the brain that is associated with learning and spatial memory, the ability to determine location in space and time, remember where you parked, and so on. To be completely honest, we don't yet fully know what exactly the hippocampus does, but it is associated with learning, memory, and spatial memory. Just for reference, we know that it is somehow related to the hippocampus. We also know that omega 3 fatty acid, where whose makes up 20 percent of gray matter in the brain, and it helps the retina of the maiden eye, is very important for the brain and nervous system, and the retina is an extension of the brain, it allows you to see where I am. Tea reduces oxidative stress. It reduces stress, reduces inflammation, is a powerful antioxidant, increases BDNF, a brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which helps the brain grow, increases the number of neurons, and strengthens them. Folic acid also has the ability to increase the volume of the hippocampus. As you age, the hippocampus usually shrinks, and this affects learning and memory. If you have a deficiency of Folic acid, the hippocampus shrinks. If you take omega-3, you will greatly help the hippocampus and improve learning ability. Folic acid is part of synapses, which are the connections between neurons. I also wanted to note that with a deficiency of Folic acid, ADHD ( attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) can occur. There is a lot of research and I will leave links in the description. If you know someone with ADHD or dyslexia, let them take it. The benefits of Folic acid for a child or even an infant are simply enormous. Pregnant women should definitely take this fatty acid, especially when breastfeeding. The formation of the brain and retina in a growing child depends on Folic acid. If the baby is not breastfed, he is fed formula, the matter is in  The fact that the entire structure of the retina is formed differently if the child is not breastfed is the simplest thing you can do is get it in liquid form and give it to your children. It can even affect these and the child's mental abilities. The best source is where is this all correct: fatty fish, cod liver oil, and it can also be obtained from algae. If you haven't seen my video about the brain, here it is, watch it.