I apologize until it seems we are already on air Good morning Greetings to everyone Hello everyone Nothing I say is a substitute for medical treatment Consult a doctor before following any of our advice After all, in the state of Virginia it is illegal to treat people Let's see How many questions we have time to answer Excellent Let 's not waste time My husband from Tugi writes how much protein and fat I need per day for ama My height is 1 meter 67 weight 84 Well, in fact, it depends on a couple of factors She indicated her age No, she did not indicate Clearly, you need to take into account the level of stress The ability to digest protein If I were Nama, this is a one-time meal minimum 230 maybe 260 g of protein, but the type of protein you eat on Amadi is also important I recommend eating red meat from grass-fed food and not chicken and not protein powders of any kind Eggs are also good Fish is also good but high quality and see how you are doing A person sometimes feels tired He just needs more quality protein this is the missing factor Good I hope this helps writes Buen with Tuba My under  ribs on the right, it looks like a liver problem, but judging by the results of CT scan and ultrasound, it is healthy. What else could be the matter? So, pain in the sternum under the ribs on the left and right. Yes, in general, this is very curious, because doctors are looking for a stone, looking for some kind of damage, looking for some kind of obstruction, but sometimes even on an MRI, bile sediment may not be visible. I would take large ducts, take two capsules in the morning on an empty stomach, two in the afternoon on an empty stomach, usually this helps. There is also a liver function test. Perhaps you have a lack of bile if it hurts under the ribs on the right, it is probably sediment, you do not have enough bile and too much cholesterol. You need more bile salts so that the sediment dissolves and the bile flows freely, and many people have a lack of bile, this is one way. And perhaps after eating, take a good formula for the gallbladder so that there are more bile salts, this usually helps. Carly 408 rambla writes well. She has a good question, I think it will cause you  smile in the list of ingredients of one badal dextrin from organic tapioca it is as harmful as the usual Marin I would say 158 Milne process is better that is, the difference is simply insignificant so I would classify them in the same category it is unlikely that one is much better or worse than the other Clearly, horseradish is rare not sweeter asks West 220 Rambla Are there natural drinks that flush excess sugar from the blood can you use a couple of tricks that help lower blood sugar one of them is exercise You can also eat fiber fat and even protein to smooth out its effect other good remedies berberine it helps stabilize blood sugar apple cider vinegar all this smooths out neutralizes the effect of blood sugar Excellent Now let's talk with someone live Deborah called us and she is already ready to ask you a question Dr. Burke Deborah can you ask a question Hello dog Hello question I have this I am actually short my height is less than one and a half meters I am thinking about how to maintain my weight or even gain half a kilo or  kilogram I'm on chum, I'm 65, I don't eat much, I'm rarely hungry, and I do n't fast intermittently. I fast every day. I don't eat for up to 2 hours. It's hard for me to buy quality protein. I have such a tiny income, and high-quality grass-fed beef is almost inaccessible to me, and I don't digest it well. I don't eat fish. I don't like it. I'm allergic to almost everything. I have severe osteoporosis, and things aren't getting better, but I don't take these nasty drugs. I learned this with your help, and I have stage three kidney disease. I'm trying to understand. Help. What should I do? I'm on chum without any problems. Okay. So, yes, you have a couple of obstacles. I think I understand your goal is to gain a kilogram of muscle mass. Of course, you can exercise, but now we're talking specifically about food. And you can eat eggs. I love them. I eat them every day, just like you say. They're an excellent source of protein. How many eggs do you eat per day? I try to eat at least three. I would add a fourth egg. It's good, and I  I would also add strength training and stretching, I do them and Yes, as for other products that are relatively nutrient-rich and inexpensive, I would not neglect something that is good for the intestines, say, sauerkraut. You can make it yourself, it’s very cheap, it will help. However, if you have difficulty digesting red meat, this immediately tells me that you need to increase the acidity in your stomach, then you will digest food much better and this alone will add muscle mass. Of all the things you can buy, I would choose betaine hydrochloride. Take it with food, then you can eat more protein, maybe tuna or something like that. I think that at the moment, even for your kidneys, you know, someone says too much protein is bad for the kidneys, but this is only somewhere in the fifth stage. But if you don’t get enough protein, it can create more problems for the kidneys. So don’t be afraid to add a little more protein for the kidneys. The most important thing is to minimize sugar, because sugar is the main thing that destroys the kidneys. I think I’ll release another video about kidney products. So, wait for it. Probably in a few days we  we will release it and you will learn more I just watched your videos about the five sufuhs I started eating them and I ordered two dietary supplements and received them a few days ago These are D3 and K2 as well as trace elements and I ordered electrolytes because I woke up from cramps I started taking them I swear just 3 days ago and I feel better well I sincerely think that you explain osteoporosis in your videos excellently I started discussing this with my doctor about the World Cup you talk about and she takes it perfectly and in general if you could I watched your blog I am looking for information about the relationships and you talk about them and that with osteoporosis the problem is not in calcium is correct Yes take vitamin D if the kidneys are damaged then the last stage of converting vitamin D into its active form is difficult and I think that you will get a huge effect if you take more vitamin D So you will achieve at least some conversion of vitamin D in the kidneys into its active form and then finally vitamin D will begin to benefit you So I think vitamin D is especially good for the bones  will help you absorb calcium in the intestines to increase bone density, but bones also need protein, because a significant part of them is collagen. So this is a broad topic. So keep watching my videos. Thank you for the good call, Deborah, and I hope that this information will help you. Let's get back to questions from social networks. A person from Facebook writes about a blood test. While prolactin levels are high, how can I lower them to normal? There is not enough information here. I would have to ask you a lot of questions to find the cause. So it's very difficult. It's like saying I have elevated iron levels. What should I do? I need data to tell you what to do. Otherwise, it's just fortune telling. So I can't help you with that. Okay, let's see. Can we help Salvador from Facebook? I have bloating to the right of my navel, mostly in the evenings. I have an idea. What's happening with Salvador? There is bloating in the navel area or in the lower abdomen. It occurs deep down or protrudes outward. Perhaps it's a hernia. So, it's me or is it a cyst. Is it somewhere deeper? If it's deeper, then maybe you have something.  With digestion, I would look at what you eat. I will say that many problems, allergies, autoimmune diseases begin in the intestines, and people think that the intestines need more fiber. They drink all sorts of drinks with so-called plant fiber, superfoods, but they only make things worse. One of the best remedies is glutamine, there is a lot of it in red meat, that's why the carnivore diet helps many people. But if something is sticking out in the navel area, it might be a digestive issue. If it is deeper, I don't have enough data to figure out the cause. After all, I don't even know what exactly the problem is, I can only guess. L