Hello everyone. Today we are answering your questions. Nothing I have said is intended to treat you without a doctor's permission. Do not do anything we will talk about today. We have a huge number of questions on social networks. So I think today we will focus on them. Let's get started right away. Steve, I am happy to have received a lot of questions over the week. Here is an interesting question. Sheri from Yuba, her testosterone level is 63 nagra per deciliter, which is two to three times higher than normal. She is premenopausal. She wants to know why she has such high testosterone. One of the reasons for increased androgens in women, including testosterone, is insulin. Therefore, I think it will be useful for you to watch my videos about Polina's syndrome, although you most likely do not have it. SP is a condition when androgen levels are elevated. So, watch these videos. I talked there about how to lower insulin levels. To do this, you need to cut down on carbohydrates, eat less often, and you can do a lot more to eliminate this problem. Excellent, let's move on to RAMB. Someone with Nick's channel is writing. Thank you for sharing your knowledge. Can any of your dietary supplements  help with hypertension this is one of those areas where I can't say anything for sure but you can try vitamins D3 and K2 But I don't promise or guarantee anything so we'll see what about Emily S Yuba Please tell me what diet is best to follow if there is no colon hear Emily This is a difficult question because you can't ferment fiber you probably need a greatly modified diet you definitely don't need to eat a lot of fiber perhaps If you eat vegetables at all eat very little of them and perhaps already fermented ones like pu and also a little protein I would eat animal protein Maybe you will do fine on a carnivore diet Because almost all or even all of the protein is digested in the small intestine and stomach you absorb it all you don't need the last part of the colon which you don't have to get clogged with excess fiber good luck Susan S Yutu Dr. Berg Why do my husband's hands shake when he reaches for something the rest of the time they don't shake at all he is 66 it's called intentional Tremors, there are different degrees of tremor. I have several videos about this. Yes, it is possible that there is a problem with dopamine in the brain. In this case, you can watch my videos about Parkinson's disease. But tremors can have other causes. One of these reasons is a serious magnesium deficiency, and here I would advise taking magnesium magnesium glycinate with vitamin D. So, when you buy magnesium, take magnesium glycinate and vitamin D because vitamin D brings many benefits. It can also help with ionic tremor. Sometimes this is caused by a deficiency of vitamin B1 because it affects the nervous system. But I would start with magnesium and see the result. Okay, I hope this helps. Let's see what else we have. Dona from Facebook asks what you would recommend for weight loss for a woman in intermittent fasting without a gallbladder with hyperthyroidism and low cortisol levels. The poor thing needs a gallbladder to break down fats and absorb fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D. The liver also converts 80% of thyroid hormones.  An interesting study shows that without a gallbladder, this percentage is less for improving thyroid function. I would take purified bile salts immediately after meals. This will improve thyroid function. I also think it would be very useful to take niacin. The niacin that makes your skin red brings amazing benefits. It penetrates deep into cells, enhances metabolism, and thereby helps you lose weight. Of course, ideally, you need to switch to a diet that I recommend. A healthy diet, I think, will be beneficial. Then, evaluate the result. I don't want to give a million pieces of advice. Do a couple of things right away and see what happens. Then, start solving this puzzle, removing one piece at a time. Excellent, asks MRI Mur from Rambler. Today, we have a lot of people. Will vitamin help? Will vitamin RI help? I didn't specify which vitamin I'm talking about. Will a certain vitamin help get rid of anxiety? Is this anxiety rooted in the hippocampus? The hippocampus is a kind of relay or switch for memory cells; it is not necessarily associated with anxiety. And the amygdala is responsible for anxiety in the brain.  You could say it's kind of like the adrenal glands in the brain. But if you have anxiety, stress, and worry, I would automatically do a couple of things. A high-carb diet activates the leucorrhea mechanism. You need a low-carb diet in the evening, you need to add a little salt. This, oddly enough, will help the parasympathetic system. You will relax and fall asleep if you also add magnesium glycinate with vitamin D. Vitamin B1 is very important for anxiety. It's found in nutritional yeast. Over the years of my practice, I had patients who were suffering from severe anxiety. I simply gave them a few chewable tablets of nutritional yeast, and within 3 minutes, their breathing improved. They became calm, happy, and one very important nutrient, and many people are deficient in it, especially these days, due to excess caffeine, sugar, and other carbohydrates. All of this deprives them of B1. Excellent. Gabriela Rambla asks. Are there natural remedies for varicocele? I think I said it correctly. It's something like varicose veins in the testicles. My husband now has this problem. I haven't read any studies about it. I've studied this topic. I don't know, but if  Problem with the venous network. I think I would consider a full vitamin C complex and would start strengthening the body with vitamin C. A full vitamin C complex, among other things, contains copper and various bioflavonoids that strengthen blood vessels. And of course, it is important to improve blood circulation through exercise. Charlie from Facebook asks: Can a vitamin B1 deficiency cause neuropathy in the feet? Of course, usually the cause is precisely a B1 deficiency. After all, if a person has prediabetes or diabetes, or simply eats a lot of carbohydrates, there is too much sugar in his blood, and B1 is metabolized. So, a large amount of carbohydrates deprives you of B1, and then the poor nerves begin to suffer because B1 is closely related to nerves, and first of all, the nerves that are farthest from the brain suffer. And these are the nerves in the toes and in the soles of the feet, tingling occurs, then burning pain, and then gangrene.