Unfortunately, we all experience stress, this cannot be avoided. Today I will talk about how stress deprives us of nutrients. We know that junk food does the same thing, as well as the lack of proper food in the diet, but stress also deprives us of many nutrients. I will talk about this so that you can avoid it. After all, if you have a nutrient deficiency, this deficiency itself can reduce your ability to respond to stress and recover. After it, we will first discuss what deficiencies can appear due to stress, and I think you know that stress can cause diseases such as ulcers, heart attacks, osteoporosis, high blood pressure, anxiety, depression, and various mood problems. It can also suppress the immune system so much that it will wake up from hibernation under stress. People often take medications for anxiety or depression. But, say, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors themselves can cause a deficiency, especially a deficiency of B1 and coenzyme Q10. Other drugs that affect mood can deprive us of vitamin B6. You are trying to improve your mood, but you get more deficiencies, and with your mood, this video is mainly about people who  are in constant chronic mental stress two or more precisely three main nutrients the deficiency of which occurs number one magnesium number 2 zinc and number 3 vitamin B1 thiamine magnesium zinc and I1 have anti-anxiety stress has a direct relationship there are two main stress hormones the first of them is cortisol This is one of my favorite books about cortisol medical atlas from the company Ciba number 4 the endocrine system it describes everything that happens with excess cortisol and when we talk about nutrient deficiency we talk mainly about the loss of potassium and also about the retention of sodium which leads to hypertension the more stress we have the more potassium we need and we should not eat a lot of salty and people often do the opposite after stress at work at home they eat salty chips And in all these salty snacks in fact the more stress you have and this is very important The healthier your food should be you should write this down the more stress I have the better my food should be But people often do the opposite they grab sweets drink alcohol and eat junk food when you are stressed not  Reduce the amount of protein in your diet, maybe even increase it. It should be mostly red meat or some meat that contains zinc, amino acids, B vitamins, B1, and others, along with large portions of leafy greens, which will provide you with potassium and magnesium during stress. Definitely avoid sugar. By the way, I want to note one interesting point: the nutrient deficiencies that occur when consuming sugar are very similar to the nutrient deficiencies that occur during stress. Obviously, both create oxidative stress in the body, depriving us of the same nutrients. There is another key nutrient that ensures that cortisol functions properly, and cortisol is directly related to the stress response. Let 's say you get up quickly and feel dizzy and faint. This means that cortisol is not working properly, your body cannot properly adapt to stress. Adrenaline may also be the issue. Both hormones are involved in the stress response, and the key vitamin for this situation is B55. It maintains cortisol balance, reduces inflammation, helps heal wounds, and does many other things. Another fact.  About cortisol from this book, chronic stress can deplete, reduce the amount of protein in food, it is better to increase it, not too much, just enough and of good quality. There are two more nutrients that chronic stress deprives us of: calcium and vitamin D. This is why a person can develop osteopenia, especially after menopause. So, calcium and vitamin D. Vitamin D is important for immunity, pain and inflammation, and as protection against high blood pressure. Calcium is also important and not only for bones. And for many other things. One note on this matter: calcium deficiency can cause a chronic cough. You can also feel tired, but at the same time, something prevents you from falling asleep. Something prevents you from simply switching off, relaxing, and falling asleep. This is calcium deficiency. Not to mention spasms, one of the causes of which is a deficiency of calcium or magnesium. I talked a little about cortisol, but there is another hormone, adrenaline. Excess adrenaline can deprive you of vitamin D and also vitamin C. We need vitamin C, it helps the adrenal glands to restore adrenaline. This directly affects the ability to respond correctly to stress, and not only to this, but also to the ability to recover from stress.  Vitamin C is a raw material for some hormones and neurotransmitters. If you need to study stress and recovery from it, you should study the autonomic nervous system. It is divided into two parts: the sympathetic nervous system, which is responsible for rest and digestion. There is an excellent tool based on heart rate variability. Perhaps when you watch this, I will already know where to buy such a device to study my body. But if not, I will find out very soon. You will be able to buy and use it. It will help you measure your ability to respond to stress. Perhaps it was once good, but gradually it became worse and worse until it became quite low. You will be able to visualize this and also visualize the strength of your response to stress and your reserves for recovery. This information is important to know in order to understand what kind of training you need, as well as what nutrients you need. It is important to have an idea of what is happening to the body physically and have a tool for monitoring to see if what you are doing is giving results. There are several things that I strongly recommend. The more stress, the better your nutrition should be. The more stress, the better your sleep should be. The more stress, the more training you need to get rid of As I already said, stress cannot be avoided. A little stress is beneficial, but chronic stress is terrible. There are many sources of stress around us these days, and most of them are artificial. Unfortunately, if you spend hours watching the news every day, you will probably end up hiding under your bed in fear. This is simply harmful to our health, both physical and mental. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with evil and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.