I should have caught Lyme disease a long time ago I remove 20 ticks from myself a week, it was like scratching my head and exclaiming, What the hell is this? I remove a tick from myself, they hide in different places. Sometimes I look in the mirror and see a mole on myself, but it turns out it's a tick. In general, it's funny. And the treatment for tick bites. I don't like it. I don't like antibiotics. I'm not telling you to refuse antibiotics or treatment. I'm just saying that I think antibiotics kill not only harmful bacteria, but also beneficial ones. They also weaken the immune system. Some people develop resistance to antibiotics, and after treatment for Lyme disease, they develop chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, and autoimmune diseases. Today I'll tell you why, in my opinion, I haven't gotten Lyme disease yet. A couple of facts about ticks. The first is that there are more than 9 ticks. A certain percentage of them carry bacteria that cause Lyme disease. They look like a corkscrew and can penetrate tissues where other bacteria cannot, so these bacteria hide from immunity, they penetrate tissues where there are no immune cells, but bacteria such as spirochetes can cause other diseases, such as syphilis or Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Although it is rare, not all ticks can carry this bacterium. And secondly, not all of these spirochete bacteria can cause diseases. Understand this. This is very, very important if you want to prevent these diseases. This is what happens: the tick attaches to the body. The tick's saliva contains painkillers. So it is difficult to understand that it is biting you. Therefore, it is very important to always examine your body from the front and back in your hair every day. What is good for a tick is that it takes some time from one and a half to two days. This is good because you have time to check if there are ticks on you that are biting you. If ticks immediately infected us, a slight immune reaction may appear in the form of redness, which can turn into redness in the form of a target. This redness is not a 100% indicator of Leach's disease, but it shows that you can have it throughout your life. I had this redness twice. I will tell you what I did then. I  I think it is very important to understand what these bacteria called spirochetes do. Spirochetes can penetrate the heart and cause a sensation of palpitations, arrhythmia, and the like. Spirochetes can hide from the immune system, or more precisely, from detection by the immune system's defense mechanisms. They are able to remain alive when the immune system absorbs and eats them with the help of monocytes. These are the cells that eat bacteria, viruses, and fungi. Spirochetes have an incredible ability to adapt to different environments. But these bacteria cause an immune response, and when the immune system tries to destroy them, they receive a lot of collateral damage. Therefore, with Lyme disease, a lot of inflammation occurs. When I had Lyme disease for the first time a long time ago, I had serious inflammation in the back of my head, my head hurt a lot, my whole body ached like with the flu, and I was very tired. But that time was the only time I had a reaction to a tick bite. Since then, I have not had reactions to tick bites. And I will tell you why, in my opinion, there were none. It turns out that these bacteria called spirochetes have the ability to influence vitamin D receptors, and vitamin D is the most important vitamin for the entire immune system and immunocytophyte. There are a number of antibacterial compounds, so- called peptides, and they help destroy spirochetes without vitamin D. The spirochetes will be at the helm, they will control the body, and the immune system will stand aside. The Epstein-Barr virus and Lyme disease. The halo virus, for example, also has the ability to slow down vitamin D receptors. They somehow know that vitamin D is very important; it improves the immune system's ability to fight diseases. But there is another very interesting detail that I will now tell you about. When monocytes come into contact with spirochetes, they activate a substance called Interferon. What is it? Interferon is a compound that interferes with viruses. When monocytes come into contact with these bacteria, the level of interferon increases. We probably don't know something else about NM. Another detail that I wanted to tell you about is the post about barliona syndrome, which is very common in people who have had Lyme disease and who  treated, symptoms and autoimmune diseases remain. This is because the immune system is still suppressed during this period because the body cannot absorb vitamin D, and this is where things get very interesting. I regularly take a huge amount of vitamin D. I think it is vitamin D that keeps my immune system strong and protects me from Lyme disease. I also want to share with you very important information that is not widely known even among doctors. Two main systems are associated with vitamin D. One system is responsible for calcium, the other system is responsible for things that are not related to calcium, for example, support for immune cells, for example, support for the central nervous system, nerves, heart, muscles, intestines. And it also fights inflammation. All this is located here. This is a separate system. The system that is responsible for calcium and bones receives vitamin D from the blood, but this system, for example, the immune system cannot receive enough vitamin D from the blood. This vitamin D is locked up and is not available to this immune system. Immunity depends on vitamin D, which we get from the sun, from food. But we get a tiny amount of vitamin D from food or supplements. Most studies on the effect of vitamin D on bone structure say that we need a very small amount of vitamin D.  Somewhere 600 IU to maintain the level of calcium in the bones, but this system needs much more, somewhere around 10,000 vitamin D, what’s even more interesting is that the vitamin D that comes with the blood lasts 3 weeks, and the vitamin D that we get from the Sun from food and supplements lasts only a day, in other words, if you take vitamin D once a week and not once a day, you will not be able to maintain immunity. And on top of that, spirochete bacteria can slow down vitamin D receptors by 50 times. If I suddenly suspect Lyme, I will immediately take 30-40 or even 50,000 vitamin D without any questions. That’s probably why I didn’t get Lyme disease. After all, the main thing in its treatment is to maintain immunity and not try to destroy the bacteria, because by destroying it, you destroy the immunity that protects us from diseases. I also want to mention that these spirochete bacteria were found in the tissues that are under the teeth. Yes, if you have an abscess infection under a tooth, then Quite  It is likely that you have spirochetes there, I am talking about this Because so many problems are associated with dental infections, especially in root canals, this bacteria is hidden and protected near the jaw, it can come out from there and cause all sorts of problems with the heart and immunity. And it can also cause inflammation, so I recommend going to a holistic dentist so that you do not have hidden infections under the teeth that can cause many problems. This is what I recommend doing regardless of whether you take antibiotics or not. I recommend drinking vitamin D3 at least 30,000 international units. Every time you take vitamin D3, you also need magnesium, vitamin K2 and zinc, these are cofactors that allow vitamin D3 to work. If you take vitamin D without them, you can cause a deficiency of these cofactors. This is what I recommend taking along with this: Rey Japanese nutria to support the immune system, and also a lot of garlic. If you want to learn more about my method for treating Lyme disease, watch this video.