Let's talk about how to stop eating sugar. Why is it so difficult? Because you are trying to do it without the help of your body. To give up sugar along with other cravings of the body requires tremendous willpower and self-discipline. It's a Sisyphean labor. Rollbacks and a return to sugar in such conditions are just a matter of time. But what if you could give up the addiction. Forgive the craving once and for all. Wouldn't that make your life easier? Of course. After all, when you want something sweet, you are dealing with a surge of only one neurotransmitter called Dopamine. Dopamine gives you a feeling of pleasure for one and a half to two minutes, followed by a surge of cortisol and you feel stressed. If I ate 30 grams of sugar now, I would feel bad. I would be sluggish for at least 20-3 minutes, if not an hour or even two. I would not feel very well. I would become irritable, grumpy, I would have poor vision, my mind would be clouded in concentration, and I would want more sweets. But in my opinion, people are already used to this and do not know how good they can feel without sugar. Here is a recommendation for you. How to do it right.  lick off sugar first do it gradually don't put off suffering if you do it gradually in the process you will still be craving sweets some try to give up sweets for one or two weeks and all this time they are craving sweets it is quite possible to end this in a couple of days as soon as you adapt you will no longer have this craving and there is no such thing as a sugar detox when you get off sugar there is no detoxification toxins are not released the remaining sugar is burned and what you feel is a transient process for the brain your brain simply has no fuel these are not toxins the brain just has no fuel because it has not yet switched from sugar to ketones there is a simple solution you need to take ketones in the form of MCT oil MCT oil quickly turns into ketones nourishes the brain makes the brain happy and full and prevents poor health but you need to give up sugar quickly start eating twice a day namely eat lunch and eat dinner without snacks and consume no more than 30 g of carbohydrates per day not for  meal And the day after you deprive your body of sugar, it will begin to enter ketosis and use ketones as fuel. You will feel better and the most noticeable change will be the lack of hunger, which will go away along with cravings. And it doesn’t take that long, about 2 days, and MCT oil will make the transition process much easier. I recorded this video for those who continue to eat sugar, even though they continue to watch my channel, and also for those who are new here, I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It’s for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn’t come back. During the course, I’ll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.