Today we will talk about how to predict a silent stroke poems stroke is a stroke that has no symptoms Is it possible to predict this we will use this book my favorite This is the Technology of War is a book by Sun Tzu The Art of War and the Technology of War is a translation made by a person who discovered many inconsistencies in the art of war, he decided to study Chinese and carefully re-translate the original text he was interested in Is it really written the same as in the book The Art of War or Are there any differences in the end he found out that the original text was very strongly distorted And in the translation there is a lot of false and contradictory information, so the book The Art of War is very difficult to understand even the title of this book is translated incorrectly art implies creativity and technology is something very specific So the Technology of War is a real book by Sun Tzu about how he was able to win so many wars We will apply this to the body I use this book because we want to predict and the book is exactly about this for example how to understand whether to enter a battle or not you need to evaluate your advantages and so on if you have one chance of victory out of ten it is better not to enter the battle And get out of there as quickly as possible after all  There are no advantages, you will lose. He writes a lot about various important factors, indicators that determine whether you will succeed. We will also apply this to areas related to strokes. Even when there are no obvious symptoms that a stroke awaits you, there are things that make it very easy to understand whether this can happen to you or not. There is one interesting saying in this book that sounds something like this: to emerge victorious in battle, you need to know yourself and know your enemy. If you apply this in the field of health, it is important to understand the nature of stroke, learn how our body reacts to it and how we can avoid it. What do we know about silent stroke? There are strokes that are asymptomatic, you don’t even know that it happened. Apparently, damage to the brain does not affect vital areas. You may not even feel anything, except for a slight lapse in memory, perhaps fatigue, dizziness, or just mood changes. An interesting fact about silent strokes: one source reports that they occur five times more often than strokes with all the typical symptoms: paralysis or weakness of half the body, cognitive dysfunction, or slurred speech. But usually, when a person has had a stroke,  silent or common high risk of recurrence stroke is the fifth leading cause of death in the United States and the second most common worldwide what else do we know about stroke It has many different aspects but I will talk about the most common situations associated with stroke You have two carotid arteries that go up through the neck and do not supply blood to the brain there are other arteries But these main ones they kind of connect with other middle cerebral arteries and more than half of all strokes occur in one of these main arteries and the most common type of stroke in these arteries of which 85 percent is a situation when a blood clot forms in one of these arteries if we want to know our enemy that is this blood clot we consider it What is a blood clot It is definitely an enemy in fact it is just a healing mechanism of some place where there is bleeding possible damage to the artery So it is not an enemy but doctors often consider it as such and give medicine to thin it but they do not look at the real enemies that are hidden on them there and let's talk about such a blood clot it is a kind  a buildup of platelets needed to stop bleeding, there is also fibrinogen, a kind of glue that holds everything together, herbal clots usually form in arteries in response to injury or damage. Where is the real enemy? What is the root cause of stroke, and here interesting things are discovered. First, high blood sugar. This is a lot of oxidation and damage in the arteries. There is a very strong relationship between diabetes or prediabetes, as well as insulin resistance, and the formation of clots. So, sugar, excess sugar or carbohydrates in the diet can lead to such a problem. Not to mention increased inflammation and damage to the sympathetic nervous system, which responds to stress, which brings us to point 2. Adrenaline, or its other name, epinephrine, is the same thing. Adrenaline rises during stress, and Adrenaline can directly increase the risk of stroke, especially chronically high adrenaline and epinephrine due to chronic stress. Chronic stress leads to narrowing of blood vessels, and there is also a lot of inflammation and makes your body work harder.  Glucose is exactly like this, I have a video about this. It's interesting that this intersects with point 1, excess sugar, but in this case, you don't eat a lot of sugar. Sugar is formed due to stress. And if you eat a lot of sugar during stress, this is a deadly combination, the source of a lot of problems. These things are real enemies that you need to understand and try to reduce. There are many types of stress, the most serious of which is emotional, especially loss, loss of a loved one, loss of a job, loss of money, loss of anything. Anything can be very destructive to the body. In addition, there are side effects of medications, for example, hormone replacement therapy, a lot of estrogen. Birth control pills also increase the risk of stroke. Point 4, but smoking affects the lungs. How can this cause a stroke? The question is: Where does all this smoke and all the chemicals go, first into the lungs, then into the circulatory system, and through it into the brain. This causes oxidation, brain damage by free radicals, and many other problems. Point 5. Another situation called hypertension is probably not the enemy itself, but the tip of the iceberg, under which something else is hidden. But with hypertension, a different type of hemorrhagic stroke can occur.  A blood vessel ruptures and bleeding occurs. But there is one interesting fact associated with hypertension. In 90 percent of cases, it is considered essential or primary. What does this mean? Both of these terms mean hypertension, the cause of which is unknown, but it is surprising how many people are treated for pressure. Apparently, it is very profitable to hide the real cause from people so they can sell more drugs. But if you study hypertension and its various mechanisms, then everything essentially comes down to the real cause, namely, most often it is one of three things. First, insulin resistance. A diet high in sugar or carbohydrates leads to thickening of the vessel walls. The vessels become stiff, their elasticity decreases. One of these increases blood pressure. This again intersects with the already mentioned excess sugar in the diet. Second, potassium deficiency. What does potassium have to do with blood vessels? Ali maintains elasticity. The capacity of blood vessels. Without potassium, blood vessels can become hardened. What increases blood pressure? There is a lot of information about how a sufficient amount of potassium can normalize blood pressure. Where can you get potassium? It is found in many foods that are also rich in magnesium, including leafy greens. People eat an average of one and a half glasses.  vegetables per day, but in fact they need 7-10 cups of salad per day or 4-5 cups of vegetables. A lack of potassium can also cause problems in the form of arrhythmia, for example, atrial fibrillation, which also increases the risk of stroke. And thirdly, a lack of vitamin D, which many suffer from, causes more inflammation and also increases the likelihood of diabetes, pre-diabetes, insulin resistance. I always recommend taking vitamin D, potassium, and switching to a low-calorie diet. This largely solves the problem of hypertension and indirectly reduces the risk of stroke. If we want to predict a stroke, then if a person eats a lot of carbohydrates and has diabetes, he eats little salad, he is stressed and has a sedentary lifestyle. These are the true enemies that allow you to predict a stroke. Another important point from the book. Its first part is entirely devoted to intelligence, information mining, in order to evaluate and predict, gain knowledge before the battle. Because if you are going to fight or are fighting some disease, for example, cancer, it attacks Him head-on with chemotherapy, destroying everything in its path in the hope that everything will return to normal.  The norm can affect the results. Understanding your body and its various conditions is the goal of my YouTube channel. I give you information so you can understand, evaluate, and predict something. This will help you avoid many future problems. So, first, Keto with intermittent fasting. Second, a sufficient amount of greens in your diet. This will help you get potassium and magnesium. 3. Regular exercise to eliminate adrenaline, a product of stress that creates problems and kills people. Eat nutrient-rich foods to get B vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, vitamin D, and everything else you need for a healthy body. If you haven't watched my video about the best product for cleaning blood vessels, here it is. Watch it.