Hello, in this video we will talk about how to get rid of wrinkles. There are two approaches. 1. Solve the problem from the outside in, rubbing creams and lotions into the skin to try to smooth out wrinkles. 2. Act from the inside out, eating certain foods so that internal changes affect the skin. I like this approach more than trying to solve the problem by acting on the skin from the outside. Most anti- wrinkle creams use retinol, an artificial vitamin. Vitamin A is very important for skin health. It is needed to avoid scars. It makes the skin beautiful. Sometimes, when the skin is dry, it is not dehydration that is the cause. The reason is the lack of healthy fats. If you solve the problem from the inside and ask yourself what fats you can get vitamin A from, then the first item on the list will be egg yolks. You need to eat more than just egg whites. We especially need yolks, which are very important. Butter from grass-fed cows is pure and high-quality cod liver oil. It is a good source of vitamins A and D. From it, the body will get these essential fat- soluble vitamins. I also advise getting vitamin A from vegetables, but don't forget that when you eat vegetables, you get carotenoids, which are provitamin A and provitamin A.  and these are carotenoids, the active vitamin A, this is retinol, however, there are many advantages and benefits for the skin in using a complex of vitamin A and additional phytonutrients. They contain protective factors necessary for healthy skin. Personally, I like to mix gale and parsley. I don’t eat a lot of spinach because it increases oxalate levels, which can lead to kidney stones. But those or parsley are an excellent mixture. You can make shane from them. Add blueberries and add water. The phytonutrients from this mixture will have a very good effect on the skin. I also recommend collagen peptides. Thanks to them, skin cells form healthy. I use the brand White L Protein. Their products are ridiculously cheap and grass-fed and of high quality. And don’t forget that some things need to be avoided. Eat what we consume and eat what we avoid. Some things are very harmful to the skin. Firstly, high insulin levels need to be reduced. People with diabetes and people with insulin resistance, most of whom cannot absorb collagen peptides like vitamin A, and this becomes a problem, especially with  With age, if you eliminate just this one problem, your skin will look young. To do this, you need to exclude sugar, follow some, and especially intermittent fasting. Anyone who watched my video knows why intermittent fasting stimulates out of a due. This is a secondary processing of old cells, old and damaged cells are cleaned out, cells are renewed, the skin is renewed. Thanks to this alone, the skin will become much better. So, we follow some intermittent fasting, exclude sugar and reduce cortisol. Cortisol is a stress hormone. It destroys the skin. It converts skin proteins into sugar, which is why the skin becomes flabby and saggy. To reduce cortisol levels, you need to get a good night's sleep, take long walks and try to stress and be nervous as little as possible. And last on our list is bile. Bile is stored in the gallbladder. Bile helps dissolve fats that we get from food. It helps extract vitamins A and E and other fat- soluble vitamins from eaten fats. So, if there is not enough, there will be no benefit from foods with vitamins. How do you know if you have enough bile? If there is no gallbladder, there is not enough bile if there is stagnation.  Let's say you constantly have bloating, this is also a bile problem. If you have a fatty liver, you probably don't have enough bile. I'll list some symptoms of bile deficiency: a person is bloated, belching, and has pain in the right shoulder and upper trapezius muscle. These are symptoms of problems with the gallbladder and liver. In such cases, I recommend a gallbladder formula. It contains not only purified bile salts but also enzymes for the pancreas and stomach. It helps liquefy bile, extract fat-soluble vitamins from food, and direct them to the skin. Thank you for watching.