There is a good indicator or clue by which you can predict a heart attack simply by looking at the earlobe, or more precisely, a small fold coming out of the socket in the ear at an angle of 45 degrees, as shown in this picture. Look in the mirror. See if you have it. Pause the video, then come back. I'll tell you what to do if you have it. And what's the deal with returning. So, what does the earlobe have to do with it and what about this fold? What happens with coronary heart disease, or as I am also called, cardiovascular disease. With it, blood flow is lost, usually through the arteries to the heart muscle. This affects all blood circulation in the body. That is, all blood circulation in the body begins to deteriorate. What does this mean if blood flow to the heart is somehow blocked. Additional blood circulation is formed. Additional arteries that serve as a backup route for blood supply to the heart muscle are the coronary vessels. With a chronic lack of blood flow to the heart, blood circulation is lost primarily in the peripheral parts of the body, and the earlobes.  The ear is a part of the periphery without blood flow to the capillaries in the earlobes, they lose elastin, connective tissue, cartilage and begin to wrinkle. This fold appears in 71 percent of people with coronary heart disease. This fold also appears with diabetes, hypertension, and appears in smokers. But it mainly appears in people with heart problems. Since a heart attack is the most common cause of death, you need to know about this indicator. Monitor not only yourself but also others. Because if you see this fold, tell them and let them go get checked as soon as possible. Why such a rush. The first symptom of a heart attack in more than 50 percent of cases is death. There are no warning symptoms of a heart attack; a person simply dies. Therefore, you need to monitor this and think of this fold as a warning. You should understand that this happens not only in the ear but throughout the body. Blood vessels can become thicker, oxidative stress can occur, and blood circulation can deteriorate greatly. There are four things you need to do right now. First, switch to a healthy version of the ketogenic diet with interval  fasting. There are no options. It will help you a lot. Secondly, you need to start exercising regularly. This will saturate the body, including the heart, with oxygen. You need to continue exercising for the rest of your life. The next thing I recommend is very important for the inner layer of blood vessels and for the heart muscle. These are only trinols, a type of vitamin E. Cotenols are 50 times more effective than tocopherols. When you take only trinols, you need to buy not only trinols mixed with tocopherols. You need to buy just trinols or a complex of only three tocopherols. They will help saturate the heart with oxygen and protect the inner layer of blood vessels and the heart. These are some of the most effective antioxidants and are especially good for the heart. They are also good for the liver. They can slow down fatty liver disease. 4. You need to increase the amount of tri-unsaturated fatty acids in your diet. The best source for them is cod liver oil. It is better than just fish oil because it contains not only omega-3 acids but also vitamin A and vitamin D. These vitamins are important for the health of the body, including heart health. The last thing I recommend is something called vitamin K2. It does not provide calcium. accumulate inside the blood vessels and vitamin K2 should be taken together with vitamin D3. I decided to make this short video to tell you about a simple way to prevent a heart attack. If you haven't watched my new video that I released recently, the most harmful foods for the cardiovascular system. By the way, it's not sugar, but something else. If you haven't watched it, here it is. Take a look.