Let's discuss how to stay calm under stress and with high cortisol levels. If you live on earth, you've probably experienced stress at least once in your life. This is, of course, sarcasm. It seems that the credo of today's world is to keep your adrenal glands on edge and keep you in stress mode around the clock. When you take on a problem, it is very important to understand it well. Therefore, we will carefully analyze the main hormones that regulate stress and these two hormones, cortisol and adrenaline. Both hormones are produced by the adrenal glands. We have two adrenal glands, they are above the kidneys. They have two layers, an outer and an inner layer. The inner layer consists of nervous tissue. This is where adrenaline is produced and secreted. The outer layer consists of glandular tissue and it produces cortisol. Cortisol is a hormone. Adrenaline is a neurotransmitter. It is similar to a hormone, but it works through the nervous system. These substances essentially adapt the body to a state of stress. The more stress life around you gives you, the more the adrenal glands are activated to ensure the survival of the body during stressful events. These two hormones are not intended for long-term action; they should work short-term and then  turn off but the problem is that the adrenal glands do not have an off switch they only have an on switch you may have heard of the fight or flight mechanism to the part of the autonomic nervous system this part is called the sympathetic it is an on switch called the parasympathetic division is a rest and digestion mechanism because it works in a calm relaxed state if you suddenly get stuck in stress like many people you will have an active sympathetic fight or flight and very little activity of the parasympathetic we will discuss how to make it the opposite but the big problem is that the parasympathetic division does not affect the adrenal glands they are under the control of the sympathetic division so there is no off switch but I will tell you what to do when we talk about the sympathetic nervous system run I want to draw attention to this run what it means run it means running away from something it is very closely related to the state of fear and saying fears I also mean emotions such as anxiety and worry every time you worry or worry this is a type of fear when you avoid something  resist, you are moving in the opposite direction, but stress in general is extremely necessary for survival, it forces the body to adapt and become stronger, that is, we do not need to avoid all stress, but overwhelming stress hinders us, and long-term chronic stress brings our body to such a state that we can no longer turn it off, many areas of the body often get stuck in a state of stress, and now I will tell you why this leads to what happens when the body experiences stress and cortisol is activated, what happens, let's start in order, the first thing that will happen is that you will not be able to sleep, you may find that you wake up at two o'clock in the morning, at this time, cortisol should be at a minimum, and you suddenly wake up at two o'clock and not a wink of sleep, and you sleep best in the morning when you need to get up, and your circadian rhythms are inverted when cortisol is high at the wrong time, I suffered from this problem for about 12 years, I know about this firsthand, it literally destroyed my life until I found something that I will share with you now, I applied it to myself and was able to sleep normally and return to normal rhythms, but if you can't  You won't be able to sleep, you won't be able to cure the adrenal gland. The next moment, chronically high cortisol seriously affects the heart. This disrupts both blood pressure and heart rate and causes inflammation in the blood vessels. Cortisol has an anti-inflammatory effect. Synthetic cortisol prednisone is used for any inflammatory diseases. The problem is that with chronically high cortisol levels lasting for months and years, cortisol resistance develops in the receptors, resistance to cortisol, and then cortisol no longer has the desired effect. Resistance to cortisol is the same as to insulin. That is, with an increase in cortisol, inflammation increases and the symptoms from which it should protect intensify. Therefore, long-term excess cortisol will maintain inflammation. This forces people to take medications. People begin to take anti-inflammatory prednisone for any inflammation, especially such as arthritis, autoimmune diseases, and joint inflammation. This happens after many years of stress and cortisol, when it no longer works and you get only the negative effects of cortisol, but not the positive ones. The next function of cortisol is simply amazing. It affects white blood cells and immunity. Normally, cortisol should suppress the immune system and turn it off, because it tries to protect you from immune hyperactivity from excess inflammation. Cortisol puts the immune system on pause for a while. That's what it does: cortisol deactivates and turns off very important organs and T-cells called natural killer cells, which normally perform two tasks: kill viruses and cancer cells. The more cortisol you have in your body, the less immune protection you have at this time. That's why almost everyone who gets an infection and gets sick right before it has experienced a stressful event. Stress activates cortisol and shuts down the immune system, which is why the body can no longer fight, so stress makes you vulnerable to viruses, bacteria, fungi, mold, and so on. Moreover, some bacteria use a strategy to gain an advantage in the battle with your immune system by activating your hypothalamus so that it gives the command to produce hormones and activate cortisol, since the bacteria knows that if cortisol is elevated, the immune system weakens and can be defeated. The relationship between cortisol and memory is also surprisingly interesting. Cortisol is originally intended for Improves short-term memory for emotional events, which helps with survival, but chronically high cortisol destroys the hippocampus, which is like a memory switch. As a result, memory lapses, confusion, loss of concentration occur. You are constantly fixated on 1-2 problems; you simply cannot stop thinking about these problems. As a result, the gears are turning. You begin to solve a problem in the middle of the night when it is not the time for it. This is the result of chronically high cortisol. You are in problem-solving mode, but your solution is not so good. Next, you begin to lose certain minerals and vitamins, especially potassium. You begin to lose potassium. Potassium is a mineral necessary for physiological relaxation. Without potassium, the pulse rises quickly. We have a serious loss of potassium, in addition to the already huge potassium deficiency that most people have, because they do not eat enough potassium-rich foods, for example, vegetables, but they consume a lot of sugar, which depletes potassium. The next thing you lose is vitamin B1 and thiamine. Thiamine is a key anti-stress vitamin. Thiamine gives you a feeling of calm, relaxation, the effects of stress go away, stress and high cortisol deplete B1, vitamin B1 reduces stress, lowers cortisol and increases other things, such as HMC, which is good for calming, you also lose H plus and hydrogen, everything you need to know about it, it is acidic, and by losing acid, you end up with a more alkaline environment in the body. People with chronic high cortisol, severe stress, become more alkaline, they become acidic, they begin to have problems with muscle stiffness, they begin to have tekkek, twitching, muscle cramps, the absorption of electrolytes worsens, and many other problems appear, especially with breathing, they do not have enough air. But at the very beginning, with high cardio, there may be an increase in acidity, acid reflux, then the acid goes away and the level decreases, now you have a lack of acid and digestive problems, but otherwise everything is in perfect order. The following catabolic effect, what is it? This is when muscles begin to lose mass. The body increases cortisol to break down muscles into the building blocks of which they are built - amino acids, which can then be converted into glucose. The body  It tries to get quick energy in the form of sugar, that is, glucose from its own muscles, but at the same time, collagen in the joints and skin breaks down, as does elastin, a protein that causes wrinkles and makes you look older. But that's not all. Cortisol also destroys bones, causing them to burn out and then one after another. Therefore, during menopause, when the larvae stop working, the adrenal glands have to work for two and provide insurance and not cinque. And if by the beginning of menopause they were already weak, they become overloaded. The adrenal glands get tired and can no longer do their job. Now, glasses. What happens to the kidneys from high cortisol? They filter worse. Filtration is reduced, which means they do not retain some minerals, for example, potassium and magnesium, and you lose these minerals. This is one of the mechanisms of mineral loss, but you retain sodium. Therefore, with problems with the adrenal glands, fluid retention is often a disease in which the adrenal glands burn out, while you lose sodium and retain potassium. This is a rare disease, so I will not dwell on it in this  A video about Addison's disease, which requires consuming a lot of salt and not a lot of potassium, because then you lose salt. This is rare for most people. The opposite problem is either a variant with elevated cortisol, that is, Cushing's disease. The next point associated with cortisol is an increase in glucose, that is, sugar. Cortisol is a glucocorticoid because it helps regulate glucose, helps release stored glucose, helps produce glucose from non-carbohydrate sources of proteins and fats, and even from ketones. Therefore, cortisol can activate insulin and deposit fat in the belly and cause all the negative effects of high insulin. This is what I have a million videos about. Now let's talk about digestion. We remember that digestion is controlled by the sympathetic nervous system. Rest and digestion are a switch. Digestion occurs at the lowest level of stress. At high levels, digestion becomes inactive and sluggish, and digestive problems begin. Bloating can also develop. Ulcers can also develop. So, stress and cortisol should be low to digest and absorb nutrients.  I already talked about the connection between cortisol and belly fat. This is due to high insulin, because cortisol simply converts everything into sugar and releases a lot of excess sugar for a quick energy boost. Then, with high insulin levels, a vitamin D deficiency occurs. It's interesting that vitamin D can act like cortisol, but without the side effects. Vitamin D is a very powerful anti-inflammatory. It is very important for immunity in general. It helps suppress immunity, but it doesn't turn it off. It helps improve it. It helps minimize inflammation or reduce cytokines and inflammation. When inflammation is too strong, and as you can see, high cortisol over a long period of time is very harmful. Okay, enough of the bad stuff, let's talk about the good stuff. What to do about it? How to lower cortisol? How to stay calm despite a stressful environment. The first thing you need to do is very important. I have a video about this: balance the mental stress to which the body has not yet adapted. The body is not designed for the amount of mental stress we deal with. But mental stress can be balanced with physical stress, physical activity, do physical work around the house, but also  It's best to do it outside in nature. It's very healing for relieving mental stress. It will remove stress from your thoughts, improve blood circulation, and help you feel tired and fall asleep. Mental stress can be tiring, but it doesn't help you sleep, so increasing physical activity is very important. If it's not the most important point, you can also exercise. It's a more organized form of physical activity, but physical work is better, although both options will be useful. Next, you need to stay active, keep moving. Because in a state of anxiety, in a state of fear, the body is kind of paralyzed. You generally do almost nothing, you distance yourself and don't act. This only maintains stress. The more you do something, the less stress there will be. Number 3, as I already said, vitamin B1, thiamine, is the most important vitamin for stress. If you've never taken B1 during stress, you won't appreciate how incredibly it can help. I usually take nutritional yeast when I'm stressed. I take it in tablets. It works like a switch. In a matter of minutes, I'm already calm. I feel good. I cope with stress. If you haven't tried it yet, it's definitely worth keeping on hand.  The next two minerals that are very important during stress are magnesium and potassium, and you know that they are both found in those very things called vegetables. Eating a lot of lettuce every day is very important for maintaining mineral levels to be able to overcome stress. For comparison, if you just eat protein, you will remain on edge, and protein foods do not have enough potassium and magnesium. Moreover, if you eat carbohydrates, this is very bad. Carbohydrates will keep you in sympathetic fight-or-flight mode. vitamin T is also a necessary and important vitamin for reducing stress and improving mood. You will feel much better with vitamin D. Many people experience depression and are in a state of paralysis without knowing that it is due to a lack of vitamin D. Vitamin D can act like cortisol but without the side effects. It helps get rid of inflammation and performs many other functions for the immune system, and so on. The fourth point is to follow a healthy version of ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. Both of these actions will strengthen the opposite division, the parasympathetic division of the nervous system. This will calm you down, you will feel better, improve cognitive function, reduce stress and brain fog. Increase your stress resistance and this will improve your mood, relieve anxiety and bring a high level of calm. Number five, take good supplements with good adaptogens. These are herbal components that help increase stress resistance. Under the video, I will leave a link to the abbot that I recommend. 6. The combination of proper breathing with sleep. Let me explain. In stress mode, your breathing gets out of whack, or your inhalation or exhalation will be either too short or too long. They will not be the same. If you can achieve the same inhalations and exhalations, you will sleep much better since control over the autonomic nervous system will increase. What happens to your breathing under stress? When you go to bed, at this moment, monitor your breathing. Just inhale slowly, inhale and exhale at the same level, and it doesn’t matter if it’s five seconds, 4 or 3. Just focus on the uniformity of your inhalation and exhalation, and you will find that your sleep will become much better. In addition, there is a lot that I would like to say about sleep in this video, but I’ll better release a separate one. Improving your sleep is extremely necessary if you don’t sleep and  You are stressed, let me leave a few links in the description specifically about sleep. If you have this problem, the last thing I will say and it is very cool is a stress extraction technique I developed and I will teach you this technique and it is very easy to use on yourself. I developed it and, based on many years of practice, I use it on patients and on myself. It can perfectly relieve stress. I will show you how to do this. You can learn all about this in this course. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. In the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, return a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package you will find a gift: a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it and give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.