Hello, in this video I want to discuss whether it is true that shampoo and conditioner restore hair. Now, everywhere you look in shampoo advertising materials, everyone says, “Look, our shampoo contains biotin, lemongrass, collagen, shea butter, all sorts of natural ingredients that restore and rejuvenate your hair.” In fact, shampoo is not capable of this. The fact is that the hair is dead. My condolences, everything that has grown beyond the scalp is dead. There are no blood vessels or nerves in the hair. Try cutting your hair and see if it bleeds. Will it hurt? It won’t hurt. Everything you apply to your hair from the outside can only coat the hair like a film to make it seem thicker. In fact, it’s just something and doesn’t fix it. The effect may last one day until the next wash. The point is that in order to really restore your hair, you need to act from the inside. You need to eat differently. You need to avoid certain things. I invite you to my course: Health diagnostics by hair. Dry, brittle hair or oily hair and dandruff, hair loss, baldness, premature graying are signs. who talk about failures within the body, in my course I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause. Sign up using the link below. Before the meeting, you need to learn a couple of points. First, fat-soluble vitamins are critically important. These are vitamins A and D. They are all essential for your hair and they are all found in healthy fats, avocados, coconuts, and also in healthy grass-fed animal products. Another point is trace elements. They are vital for hair growth, but it is difficult to get trace elements from food because fertilizers in the soil replenish only three elements, but not trace elements. Trace elements help in building proteins, and hair consists of protein, so you need to get trace elements, especially zinc. It is very important. If there is a zinc deficiency, hair will fall out. In addition, B vitamins, for example, biotin, it is very important. You can get it from food or from supplements. But the fact is that biotin is only one of the B vitamins. The most important thing is to get all the nutrients. Secondly, what destroys hair is high insulin levels. That is, sugar, bread, cereal, crackers. These are the kinds of things that increase insulin and literally do not  They allow nutrients to reach the hair. If you look at a diabetic's hair, it either falls out or has split ends. It's dry and generally bad. The point is that hair needs to be treated from the inside. If you want more information, link below and write comments. Thanks for watching.