Of all the things that can improve health, one factor is, so to speak, a champion, and recently I discovered that I don’t have a video specifically about this. This factor is related to the diversity of microorganisms in the intestines and how we can increase the diversity of our microflora. Firstly, what is diversity? This is the number of different types of microorganisms living in the intestines. There is also the factor of microflora richness, this is the total number of microorganisms. Ideally, we need a rich microflora with many different types, and this seems to contradict the idea that health is cleanliness, the absence of microbes. It seems that here everything is just the opposite: we need many microorganisms, but inside, and they must be friendly. Without this diversity, imagine that you have more hostile pathogens. I’m talking about pylori, clostridium, and E. coli deficiencies. All these microorganisms live inside the body in a healthy environment and they don’t bother us. As long as our relationship with them does not change due to environmental changes, without this diversity, a variety of problems are possible: diarrhea, inflammation in the intestines, more toxins, obesity develops, metabolism slows down, mood worsens, and all this is connected with the so-called dysbiosis. In fact, Dysbiosis is associated with almost all existing diseases, even with Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, ADHD, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, anxiety, depression. So I think this topic is very important. Dysbiosis is even associated with cancer. Dysbiosis is usually present. So it is very important that we have a wide variety of microorganisms. They create vitamins for immune protection, reduce inflammation, provide food for colon cells, help create amino acids, neurotransmitters and proteins, provide energy, and perform a lot of health-related functions. You also need to know that 99% of all microorganisms in the intestines are bacteria, and the remaining one percent are friendly fungi, friendly yeast, friendly mold, and other friendly microorganisms. So it's not just bacteria. And if we talk about bacteria, there are two categories. Both categories are anaerobic bacteria, that is, living without oxygen. However, the category is called strict anaerobes, this is a type of microorganism that dies in the presence of oxygen, that is, they can only live in the absence of oxygen, and the second category of anaerobic bacteria is called Facultative anaerobes are bacteria of this type that can live, although they are called anaerobic bacteria. They can live without oxygen, but they can also live in the presence of oxygen. And most studies study facultative anaerobic microorganisms, not those microorganisms that cannot tolerate oxygen and die from it. Although this is 99 percent of bacteria in the intestines, and only one percent. These are other bacteria that can live with and without oxygen. It is interesting that most studies study only this one percent. In other words, we do not know much because it is difficult to grow microorganisms that can only live in an environment without oxygen. So, we do not know an awful lot, but we do know that the higher the diversity, the greater the health. And even for food to be rich in nutrients, a diversity of microorganisms in the soil is necessary. So, if you need food rich in nutrients, you need a huge diversity of microorganisms in the soil. For health, you need a huge diversity of microorganisms in the intestines. It is their diversity in the soil that provides the plant with immune protection and gives it vitamins and minerals. Phytonutrients make it resistant to diseases and the plant becomes stronger. There are microorganisms in the plant itself. Plants have their own microflora. This affects animals that eat plants. Their health depends on the health of the plants, and this is related to our next topic. How can we increase the diversity of microorganisms in the gut? The first way is to eat food that is grown in soil with a diversity of microorganisms. So, it is better to buy greens and vegetables at the farmer's market than in a regular store. After all, you have no idea where they came from, and their lack of taste generally speaks for itself. The tastier the vegetables, the more nutrients they have. This means they grew in soil with a very good diversity of microflora. Another way is to eat more diverse types of plants. So, in salad, I was very guilty of this. Usually, I ate the same lettuce for a very, very long time, and recently, when I learned all this, I began to bother with the variety of plants from which I make salads. I add things to salads that I have never eaten before, and when I go to the store, I buy several new plants and make from them.  I eat salads and I have definitely noticed a big difference. It increases the diversity of microorganisms in the intestines, and physical activity, that is, positive stress, has the same effect, improved sleep and intermittent fasting give. Yes, fasting creates positive stress, which increases the diversity of microorganisms in the intestines, unlike snacking during the day, because of them, a lot of lazy microorganisms appear. They are just like the animals on my farm. If I let them snack all day, they become fat, lethargic, and move little. So I keep my pigs on intermittent fasting; they eat once a day. I feed my chickens twice a day, a six-hour window, that is, 18 hours, they fast. I also do not allow many snacks between meals so as not to interrupt the fast. Also, variety can be increased by consuming more phenols. What are phenols? These are phytonutrients such as flavonoids in various plants, including lemons, limes, berries, and so on. Phenols also include tannins in various herbs and even in different teas.  Curcumin in turmeric is also a phenol. Phenols are a large group of substances. There are many different types of phenols. If you eat a lot of vegetables, perhaps berries and other plants, you will get a lot of phenols. This promotes a wide variety of microorganisms in the intestines. A very good way to increase diversity is to eat sprouts or microgreens that are grown in soil. Sprouts are rarely grown in soil, and as for microgreens, you need the ones that are grown. Not on coconut fiber, but in real soil, it is difficult to find, but you can grow them at home yourself. These microgreens contain a lot of unfriendly microorganisms in the plant itself, but also phytonutrients, including a lot of polyphenols and fiber. And our microflora simply loves them. So, microgreens greatly improve the condition of the intestines, and the beauty is that you need very little of it because it is very rich in phytonutrients. The next factor is probiotic products, kefir, sauerkraut, they are absolutely necessary; they contain a huge variety of microorganisms. Where the real diversity of microorganisms is in sauerkraut.  Cabbage, kimchi, even kefir, contain many different microorganisms. So if you eat such foods, you benefit from this. Let's take just one microorganism, lactobacilli. Certain lactobacilli help us produce dopamine, and dopamine helps alleviate and potentially even prevent ADHD, depression, anxiety, and many other similar disorders. In addition, it is better to eat more raw foods. If you eat completely overcooked or fried vegetables, they will benefit the microflora less than raw ones. I think you need a balance of vegetables: steamed, fried, raw. It is very important to talk about what reduces the diversity of microflora. Number one, broad-spectrum antibiotics are deadly. If you take antibiotics, take them carefully. Be sure to take them with probiotics or probiotic products. This is very important. Other substances that you may not know about are also antibiotics, for example, glyphosate, which is found in GMO products. Glyphosate is sprayed on the soil, and glyphosate is actually classified as an antibiotic. Unfortunately, this chemical is found in a huge number of products.  It is in almost everything. This means that we need to actively strengthen our intestines. Animals that are fed just one thing, say, just one, two, three types of grain or even grasses, receive fewer microorganisms and they have less diversity of microflora, because animals receive microorganisms thanks to the diversity of plants. That's why when I sent my beef for analysis, if you haven't watched it, I'll leave the video link below. I have a very diverse plant life in the pasture, not only grasses but also weeds. There are probably more than 40 or 50 different plants that we animals have the opportunity to eat. This is their buffet with all sorts of things. I sent my beef for analysis. It was compared with beef from many other farms in the country, and here you have health. I even had three times more phytonutrients in my beef than most other farms. Yes, that's right. Animals contain plant substances. So you can get antioxidants from beef. It just needs to be very healthy. Diversity is also reduced by stress, artificial sweeteners, inflammation, fatty liver, and any liver problems, because the liver produces bile. And without a sufficient amount of bile, an imbalance of our microorganisms occurs, dysbiosis occurs. Our bacteria actually produce bile, and bile regulates the proportions of certain microorganisms. For a variety of microorganisms, you need a healthy liver. Sterilized food, pasteurized food, irradiated food, overly processed food, all this is very harmful for the intestines. As I already said, monotonous food is also harmful. So, the next time you are at the store, choose a variety of vegetables and start adding something new to salads. And a couple more points: if you have a child, breastfeed him. After all, if you do not breastfeed him, the baby will not receive microorganisms and colostrum from you, and later he may have a problem with the diversity of microflora. The same applies to a cesarean section. Natural childbirth increases the diversity of microorganisms. I wanted to cover the topic of diversity in detail to emphasize it, because it is very important. And if you haven’t seen another video of mine about digestion, this is a very interesting video, watch it.