Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll discuss how to dissolve kidney stones, but first, I want to warn you, be sure to discuss this information with your doctor because the goal is not to replace the medications or surgeries you've been prescribed. I just want to present this as a useful supplement for your doctor to help avoid relapses or slow down stone formation. Sometimes, dissolving stones takes several months. If invasive procedures can be avoided, then in my opinion, it's worth a try. You can always do an ultrasound and see if they've decreased. Or, come to me, here's some information. Most kidney stones consist of calcium oxalate or phosphate. In 20 percent of cases, or a little less often, uric acid crystals. There are two types, or rather, there are more of them, but these two main types. Gallstones are completely different from those in the kidneys. They form differently. Cholesterol stones are caused by a lack of bile. Kidney stones, if you take the most common ones, are calcium oxalate. There are two points to pay attention to. First, remove oxalates from your diet. This is a kind of byproduct of metabolism, but in the kidneys, oxalates bind to calcium.  Kidney crystals form that can cause many problems. They can get stuck right in the kidney, just before the ureters, causing fluid retention, pressure, and severe pain. The symptoms of kidney stones are very similar to those of gallstones. Sometimes it's unclear what causes what because they are very similar, but you can do an ultrasound or CT scan to find out. The main mechanism is that a person usually has low citrate and high oxalate levels. These levels help prevent the formation of new stones and dissolve existing ones. There are two ways to focus on: increasing citrates in food and reducing oxalates. Let's start with point 1. The first is to increase levels. There are many brands of lemon juice that you can drink. I like Valkein lemon juice, but you can generally take any lemon juice. In principle, any lemon juice will do, but I recommend high-quality lemon juice; it's much more nutritious than Valkein, and the best is better, but any organic juice will do. Lemon juice contains a lot of citrate, of which any element is best. In any case, citrate can be taken. I like it much more than sodium citrate. Potassium citrate will be divided into most of the potassium.  It will go here and citrate will go here and will start to combine with calcium and help break it down. This will solve the problem for me. Citrate of the second thing is to avoid oxalates. I will put in the description a link to a list of different types of products where there are too many oxalates, and where there are few, use it. At the very top of the list is spinach. Spinach contains hundreds. Just one hundred grams of spinach contains literally hundreds of milligrams of oxalates. Next, we have a lot of them in avocados, a lot of dates, a lot of grapefruits, a lot of potatoes, wheat, beets, a lot of mango, a lot of kiwi, canned pineapples, a lot of figs. This is a lot of oxalates in nuts, unfortunately, there are also a lot of them in almonds, a lot, a lot, a pity. Did you know that kale or cabbage has very few oxalates, although cruciferous vegetables have about twenty milligrams per 100 grams of spinach, hundreds of milligrams in cabbage, few oxalates in Chinese cabbage and  Cauliflower is also low, cucumbers are low, take this list from the link, analyze it, mark everything you need to do to change your diet. That's what I want to say. The point is, and I talked about this in some videos, calcium from a dissolved state settles in various soft tissues. When your body is too alkaline, when you have alkalosis, calcium precipitates from the solution and begins to clog joints and so on. This is true, but if you get calcium from food, for example, from cheese and similar products, it will not get into the calcium that is in the kidneys. In fact, part of this calcium from the gastrointestinal tract will bind oxalates and reduce the chance of stone formation. You should worry so much about additional dietary calcium, for example, in waters, calcium in the form of food supplements, especially calcium carbonate, it is better to avoid it, so just don't take dietary supplements with calcium. But you can eat foods that contain a lot of calcium. What else I want to say is that there is uncertainty with vitamin D. There are various new studies that say that vitamin D actually helps reduce old ones, and that it increases them.  but here's what I think vitamin D increases calcium absorption in the intestines by 20 times, this does not mean that calcium will end up in the kidneys, so I think it's okay. Vitamin K2 is also very important if you have kidney stones because it helps keep calcium in the bones. It helps with the flow of calcium from soft tissues and its influx into the bones where it belongs. That is, this vitamin is very good against kidney stones. Opinions are divided and about vitamin C, more precisely ascorbic acid, it is synthetic. We are talking about large quantities. Some studies show that it increases, others do not show it. I have no opinion about vitamin C. I don't know how exactly it works. Some people think that cranberries help dissolve kidney stones. It doesn't help. Everything that cranberries can do for you will reduce the viscosity of bacteria in the bladder. Now about uric acid crystals. This particular type of stone develops when your blood sugar is too acidic. Your urine is too acidic. There may be several reasons. First, you ate a package diet and now you have kidney stones, or you have problems with insulin. Many diabetics have stones in their  kidney stones because sugar is involved since fructose sugar can lead to the accumulation of uric acid in the body. If you have uric acid, you need to increase the pH of the body, and this can be done. You can increase the alkalinity of the body by taking potassium citrate or even lemon juice because they are both alkaline, although lemon juice is an acid in the body, it turns into an alkali, so potassium citrate and lemon juice will help with both types of stones. Lastly, but also very important, if you have uric acid crystals in the form of kidney stones or gout, you need to normalize insulin, lower its level. This happens due to insulin resistance. In the description, there are links to the materials in this video. I wanted to cover more or less everything because I have many videos about different aspects, but this video is to give you a general idea of what to do if you have kidney stones. Thanks for watching.