You know, it used to be thought that our brain doesn't regenerate, that brain cells aren't renewed. This is completely false information because brain cells can regenerate. In fact, it's the rate at which brain cells regenerate that determines whether cognitive functions will or won't work with age. So, today we'll talk about how to actually speed up the regeneration of nerve cells fivefold. Yes, these studies were conducted on animals, but there were also many studies on people. I'll list a lot of things you can do to increase your brain size. You don't have to do all of this, just do what you can, and it would be great if you could indicate in the comments which of these things. How do you feel? You can add to your lifestyle to increase your brain size or at least the rate of neuronal regeneration. After all, it might be difficult for some people to do all of this. Just do what you can, it's better than nothing. Nerve regeneration is called neurodynesis. Many of these studies were conducted with the hippocampus. The hippocampus, although it's not exactly known, transmits information related to memory, learning, spatial orientation, remembering the location of things, solving problems, and for this, memory is needed, thinking, and so- called memory. Object-of-place memory is memory associated with objects and the places where they are located.  For example, where did I put the keys and so on, but if you don’t remember where you put the keys, this doesn’t mean that you have a problem with the brain. Perhaps you just ate the wrong thing the day before, perhaps your blood sugar. Not quite if the husband’s wife, parents, other relatives, or someone else starts having memory problems. The worst thing is to remind a person about it, point it out to him, because the more you remind a person of something, as if saying you’re losing your memory, the worse his memory becomes. Even in working with patients, I noticed in married couples who came to an appointment that sometimes one of the spouses corrects the other if he said something wrong or forgot something. I took such a person aside and said if this happens again, just don’t pay attention to it, and later I found out that the person stopped making mistakes when they stopped pointing out that he was wrong. So I think if you focus too much on something, this condition can worsen. Here’s what’s very interesting. In connection with the brain, if you look at the size of the brain, its weight, and compare it with the whole body, the weight of the brain is only about two percent of the weight of the whole body, while it consumes  20 percent of the body's total oxygen 20 percent of the body's metabolism occurs in the brain The brain is an energy eater That's why the first thing I'll say is so important The most important thing you can do to increase the brain and prevent its atrophy is regular consistent exercise and aerobic exercise is best This is when the body gets a lot of oxygen this does not mean that other types of exercise are not very useful But if you add long walks or something else that allows you to get a lot of oxygen it will be even better than other types of exercise Personally, I like to alternate high-intensity workouts with hiking or long walks this is perhaps the most important thing you can do to improve the condition of the brain regular exercise And vice versa, if you do not move, do not exercise all day being indoors is not good for the brain The second most important action for the brain is fasting not only intermittent fasting but also intermittent long-term fasting it is a very powerful stimulator of certain factors that help the brain grow and restore its function So you need to eat twice a day and fast at the same time for at least 16, 17, 18 hours That would be ideal But if you can eat once a day and fast for 23 hours that's even better everything  It depends on your lifestyle and how much repair your brain needs, because there may be other problems, but the point is that if you eat too often and snack, which is extremely harmful and causes a lot of problems, the brain suffers the most, so the idea that the body and brain need to be constantly refueled is false information, the body and brain are doing great here. When we don’t eat so often and periodically fast for a long time, perhaps for two days, then cold therapy is a very powerful stimulator of neurogenesis, that is, the growth of new nerve cells, you can take an ice bath or just a cold shower. Some of you will not do this, but some will. It definitely stimulates brain restoration. All these three factors were in the lives of people in ancient times when we were constantly hungry in the cold and constantly trained by running after animals to catch them to eat, and our DNA was formed in these conditions, adapted to these three factors in order to survive better, because this requires a powerful brain. So if you train in the cold and don’t go to really strengthen your brain, the opposite situation is constantly comfortable conditions, food is always at hand, say in the refrigerator, and you just sit without Let's move on. Omega-3 is a very, very powerful stimulator of brain growth. It is found in cod liver oil. Most of the brain consists of DHA, docosahexaenoic acid. This is one of the omega-3 fatty acids, and this will greatly help you. Fish oil or cod liver oil is very easy to consume regularly. On the other hand, there are oils that are very harmful to the brain. These are oxidized oils. They are heated, like vegetable oils, for example. These oils are obtained using heat and solvents such as hexane, and then they are heated again when fried in a pan or deep-fried. This is very, very bad for the brain. Of course, these oils have recently replaced saturated fats. And this is coconut oil, lard, and butter. They are great for frying. They are very stable, provided that you consume few carbohydrates, and this brings us to the next point. Low-carb. Because sugar, other empty carbohydrates, and generally excess carbohydrates in the diet cause strong oxidation in the brain, and the main sign of neurodegeneration is glucose hypometabolism. This means that neurons  They can't metabolize glucose, this is the main sign observed in nerve cells, and this means that nerve cells are destroyed because they don't receive glucose fuel. Does this mean that you need to eat more glucose? No, this means that you've already eaten too much glucose and developed insulin resistance. And now you're essentially developing resistance to glucose as well, which is what destroys your nerves. You're essentially depriving them of energy. How can you use this information? You can cut back on glucose in your diet and you can supply your neurons with much better fuel, ketones. Ketones are fuel that bypasses the damage caused by glucose and feeds neurons directly. How can you do this? Simply consume carbohydrates and the body itself will begin to create ketones. Ketones are also taken as a dietary supplement. You can do intermittent fasting, which produces ketones. You can also take MCT oil, which will produce more ketones. In addition to cold therapy, you can also use heat therapy, a sauna, or a hot shower. This can also be useful, but not as useful as cold therapy. I'm sorry. Also for  Vitamin B1 and thiamine are very beneficial for the brain, and vice versa, thiamine deficiency is very common. The worst thing for the brain is that vitamin B1 deficiency causes Wernicke Korsakoff syndrome to develop. This is a serious B1 deficiency accompanied by neuronal degeneration, which causes many problems in the brain. This is usually caused by excess sugar and other empty carbohydrates in the diet. A lack of vitamin B1 causes inflammation in the brain. B1 brings many benefits to our body, especially the brain, and also relieves stress. The next point is probiotics, which is interesting because the intestines are connected to the brain. Microbes in the intestines produce serotonin and many other neurotransmitters. So, if there is a problem in the intestines, then there are problems in the brain. In fact, one of the side effects of taking antibiotics is problems with the brain; mood and cognitive functions suffer. Perhaps even certain types of dementia. It's interesting that simply by improving the condition of the intestines, you can speed up the restoration of brain cells, and for this you need to eat foods that contain friendly microbes, probiotics, sauerkraut, fermented foods, vegetables from soils rich in microbes, and the fiber in vegetables serves as food for our microbes.  If you eat a lot of different vegetables or different leafy salads, then this is even better, because thanks to this, the microflora will be more diverse. There is another antibiotic, at least this substance is patented as an antibiotic. This is glyphosate, a chemical that is found in GMO products. It can change the microflora in the human intestine. This is another reason to eat organic products. Another factor that is beneficial for the brain is the sun. Sunlight gives us infrared radiation. More than half of it penetrates the skull in sunlight and increases the level of melatonin. Melatonin is an antioxidant that promotes brain health. It is very interesting that in the sun we produce vitamin D. It also improves brain health. But when you are indoors under artificial lighting, this does not help the brain at all. There are also phytonutrients from plants that are very beneficial for the brain. This is quercetin, turmeric, phytonutrients in green tea. A huge number of phytonutrients in a huge variety of plants can help you. There are also foods rich in choline. Choline is a kind of raw material for the synthesis of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter of which there is a lot in the brain. We need Acetylcholine and its Halin. What foods are rich in Halin? What are egg yolks, organ meats, fish? So, all of these foods are very important for the brain. We also have grass-fed animal products, unlike grain-fed ones. Grass- fed foods are better at reducing inflammation due to the ratio of omega-6 and omega-3, ideally one to one. This is something else you need to know. When consuming animal products, there is a big difference. Further, adequate sleep is not just about the number of hours of sleep. And the quality of sleep is very, very important. If you have insomnia and you live on caffeine and other stimulants, this will begin to affect the restoration of nerve cells. And what about coffee? Excess caffeine can definitely lead to brain problems. But a small amount of coffee will not cause problems. In addition, coffee contains polyphenols, and they are good for the brain. But if you drink a lot of coffee, excess caffeine can negate this and create a lot of problems. After all, if you think about it, when we drink coffee, it stimulates motor function. And its excessive stimulation can cause harm.  Another very important nutrient for the brain, especially for the hippocampus, is zinc. Zinc is needed for various enzymes. Zinc deficiency can lead to hippocampal atrophy and worsen cognitive function and mood. Since I touched on the topic of omega-3, these rich children's oils are so important for brain health and are easy to add to the diet. I have provided more information in this video. Watch it.