One day, I was hauling a large bale of hay on my tractor. This bale weighed about a ton and was on the front of the front loader. I was driving up a hill on my farm. There were no flat areas, only hills, depressions, steep slopes, cliffs, and so on. So I was driving down to the left. My wife told me, “You should ask someone more experienced,” and I said, “Don’t be afraid, I can handle it.” And I drove on, but the tractor in front had too much weight and was raised high. So I was driving down a flat slope of a hill, and then the tractor began to tip over. And at that moment, I experienced what is called stress. In general, in this situation, there are two options. I chose the second one and quickly jumped out of the tractor. I tried not to break my neck, but the tractor knocked down an electrified fence and fell off a cliff. In general, I was stressed. We will discuss this in detail today, and I will give my case as an example. At that moment, I experienced serious shock and stress. At such moments, the Bailey Run mechanism built into the autonomic nervous system is activated.  The autonomic nervous system operates independently of our will. It works automatically without any control on our part, and the key word in all this is control. The stress will be stronger the less you control the situation, and the less the better you keep it under control. There are types of stress for the body such as sports training, a jacuzzi, or an ice bath. All this is positive stress, which is beneficial, but stress that you do not control puts you in a bad state. In my case, I had a sudden adrenaline rush, a lot of adrenaline. It stayed in my blood all day along with cortisol. I had panic. I also hyperventilated. I couldn’t catch my breath for a long time. My blood pressure jumped, my pulse rate increased. I was pouring out. This happens with sudden stress. The autonomic nervous system triggers a survival mechanism and begins to change physiology and anatomy in response to this stress. I want to start by clarifying the key factor that influences what happens under stress. You either control what is happening or you don’t control it. Situations can be different. This also applies to relationships. It happens that you have a relationship with someone, but you do n’t  You are completely in control. You are stuck in this relationship and you do not control it, but it controls you. When you are stressed, you have a lot of involuntary secretions from various glands. Reactions occur that you do not control. In our body, there are two organs that can both work automatically and obey your will. The first such organ is the diaphragm, this muscle that is located under the lungs and allows you to breathe. And when you realize that you are in a stressful situation, you either breathe frequently or your breathing is interrupted. That's it, or it's like this, or it's rapid. It's curious that the problem lies precisely in the imbalance of oxygen and carbon dioxide. Oxygen is not absorbed when there is too much of it and little carbon dioxide. That's why, during a panic attack or asthma attack, you breathe into a bag. So you inhale more carbon dioxide. What restores oxygen absorption. Curiosity: inhale, exhale, breathe cycle for about 4 seconds, concentrate on it. This is a very powerful way to regain control of your body and pull yourself out of this reactive state. Fight or Flight. That's exactly what I did when that adventure happened with I walked home by tractor, there was nothing to drive, and I slowly worked with my breathing, inhaling and exhaling, to pull myself out of this shock, and the second organ is your skeletal muscles, flight muscles can contract reflexively, they react to different things, if you touch a hot stove or like I do to a fence to check if it is energized, you will not have to think about how you will pull your hand back, this is an automatic reaction, an involuntary reflex of skeletal muscles, but you can control the same muscles at will, and this is the second recommendation when you are stressed and actively use your muscles, do physical exercise, control your body, and or go for a long walk, walk for a long time, set your muscles in motion, washing out adrenaline and cortisol, these two things, in my opinion, are very important in order to pull yourself out of a state of stress, the headquarters of our autonomic nervous system and the Bailey-Beggie mechanism is in the brain, in the brainstem, it is located under the rest of the brain and is part of the limbic system, it is associated with some  emotions And of course, during stress, you experience emotions like fear, anger, and so on, but the brain system, and especially the brainstem, are extremely sensitive to a deficiency of thiamine and vitamin B1. This means that if you have a deficiency of vitamin B1 for any reason, these two parts of the brain will suffer up to tissue destruction. The process is reversible, but it can happen. So if you have a B1 deficiency, the consequences of this problem in the brainstem and limbic system are almost the same as with hypoxia, a situation when you do not have enough oxygen. Oxygen is something very necessary for us. We need to breathe. Therefore, when you are suffocating, for example, you are under water, you cannot surface and cannot breathe, this activates the sympathetic nervous system in the form of reflexes in response to stress. So, it turns out that B1 deficiency creates the same effect as moderate hypoxia. This is called pseudodepopsia, and along with it, breathing difficulties arise. I say this to emphasize the importance of B1 for pulling yourself out of stress and for protecting yourself from stress. Especially your respiratory system and nervous system, and even sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) are associated with B1 deficiency.  This situation is when a baby dies in its sleep, it simply stops breathing. So, B1 maintains high oxygen levels, supports breathing, and protects you from stress. These are three things that should be used during stress. Perhaps you already know all this, but I wanted to emphasize this again. There is much that can be done to cope with stress. I have structured and collected detailed information about this in my anti-stress course. If the issue of reducing stress levels is relevant for you, come to the course. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give a list of the best means for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.