Today we'll talk about testosterone. The first thing I want to say is that steaks and eggs greatly increase testosterone. Before I talk about why this happens, I want to talk about the decrease in testosterone with age. Recent studies show that this is not a fact at all. The decrease in testosterone is caused by something else. Age does not have a significant effect on it. This is good news. If you understand what increases testosterone and what destroys it, you can control your testosterone and be in good shape. So, do n't be fooled when they tell you that it's age-related and this is inevitable. Let's move on to the topic of why steak and eggs can increase testosterone. Firstly, red meat contains a lot of zinc, and zinc is the best at increasing testosterone. People with zinc deficiency develop a disease called hypogonadism. This is simply a zinc deficiency, so you need to eat foods rich in zinc, and red meat contains the most of it. What about fits? Egg yolk, namely, cholesterol in egg yolks and fatty steaks is a precursor to testosterone. Testosterone is a sex hormone and it is produced for a long time from cholesterol and  Anything that lowers cholesterol will also lower testosterone. Another key nutrient that increases testosterone is vitamin D, and it's found in yolks. It's important to know that eggs are the first thing you need to eat, not lean but fatty steaks. You can also eat burgers and eggs. You need to eat not only the protein but also the yolk. You need to move breakfast to lunch. Eliminate breakfast because if you eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner, that's too many meals and it will increase insulin. Another reason why steak and eggs are a good way to increase testosterone is their low carbohydrate content. I don't recommend adding toast, potatoes, or orange juice. You need fewer carbohydrates. insulin resistance lowers testosterone. insulin can increase testosterone. This is true, but when you start increasing insulin over time, it stops working. This is insulin resistance. It no longer works, and this lowers testosterone. I'll continue talking about what increases testosterone, but I want you to know that if you compare what lowers testosterone with what increases it, the second list is much more important than the first list of what suppresses testosterone. If something suppresses testosterone, you can  Loss of heart rate, adding products to increase it will all be in vain, but first, let's go over what increases it and then why it decreases it. 2. Training definitely increases testosterone, they also increase other hormones, growth hormone, fr, glucagon, all these hormones burn fat. Third, zinc, I already talked about this when I talked about red meat, but oysters have even more zinc than meat. 85 grams of oysters will give you zinc 3 times the daily recommended dose. Zinc is found in soup products, in red meat, and it is also found in nuts, especially pistachios. Fourth, asparagus, what is it about asparagus that can increase testosterone? Asparagus increases not only testosterone but also sperm production, which is good for fertility. Asparagus is also good for the kidneys, and healthy kidneys are necessary for normal testosterone production. The same applies to the liver. Asparagus also contains vitamin E, which is considered a fertility vitamin. It increases not only testosterone but also other sex hormones. 5. There is a neurotransmitter called Dopamine gives a feeling of pleasure and can influence testosterone and activate it. Testosterone can increase dopamine, and dopamine can increase testosterone. One good way to increase dopamine is dark chocolate, of course, low-carb. If you eat it, eat it in the morning, closer to lunchtime, in the evening, because chocolate can interrupt sleep. Sixth, truffles contain testosterone, so they can be added to the list. And finally, saffron. Saffron is perhaps one of the most expensive spices, but it is considered an aphrodisiac that increases testosterone and libido. Now we know what increases testosterone, let's talk about what destroys it. This list is much more important to know. First, you guessed it: sugar and empty carbohydrates suppress testosterone more than anything else. Why? Because they cause insulin resistance. This means that to increase testosterone, you need a titrogenic low-carb diet. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates and at the same time take all kinds of supplements and exercise to increase testosterone, you are wasting your time. Second, Statins block cholesterol, and the cursor is needed to create testosterone and other hormones. I'm not telling you to stop taking statins. I'm just giving you information, and you decide with your doctor. Two and a half is not on the list, but still, alcohol, especially beer, blocks testosterone and makes the body produce more estrogen. In fact, estrogen comes from testosterone, and beer and other alcohol will speed up this process. Sorry for being blunt, but that's true. Third, stress. Cortisol is a stress hormone, and it also seriously suppresses testosterone. There are a lot of ways to cope with stress. If you haven't watched my video about this, I'll leave the links below. One of these methods is exercise and long walks. If you combine long walks with high-intensity interval training, you'll be in good shape. Fourth, poor sleep is a killer of testosterone and libido. If you have poor sleep or sleep apnea, it will seriously ruin your hormones. I have a lot of videos about sleep, and the links will be below. Five, monosodium glutamate is also known as modified food starch. Read the ingredients of foods and avoid it.  Did you know that canned soup contains as much MSG as 10 packs of chips? This is a chemical that makes food taste better than it actually is. It's found in plenty of fast food and processed foods. Avoid it. Also, soy and soy derivatives like soy protein isolates made from soy protein powder. If you look at the ingredients in your food, you'll be dreaming about how much soy is already in your diet: salad dressings, protein bars, diet shakes, and so on. But it also increases estrogen, but not the one you need. In women, soy can increase plant-based estrogen, which is weaker, and block your own estrogen, preventing it from reaching the receptors and causing estrogen deficiency, which leads to a bunch of other problems. That is, it seems to increase estrogen, but at the same time, it also decreases your own estrogen in the body. 7 microwave popcorn contains a chemical with this name in the package and it is a hormonal disruptor. Hormonal disruptors are substances similar to  Estrogen and endocrine disrupting substances are many, this is one of them, just avoid it, and there's no popcorn anyway, KI 8. Obesity lowers testosterone. When you have a lot of fat, an enzyme called aromatase increases. Aromatase converts testosterone into estrogen at an alarming rate. The more fat you have in your body, the more estrogen you will have and the less testosterone you will have, but if you go on a low-carb diet, this fat will go further down the list. Aspartame from diet sodas interacts with compounds in the brain that lower testosterone. You see, testosterone is controlled by the brain. Many people focus on the testicles and adrenal glands to increase testosterone, but in reality, it depends on the hypothalamus and pituitary gland, these are the main glands responsible for testosterone. Any disease affecting the brain, like Alzheimer's or where meninges or any neurodegeneration will affect testosterone, this is another reason to be on a low-carb diet. You produce Ketones help the brain, you also help the pituitary gland and hypothalamus, and thereby help their dependent hormone, testosterone, first and foremost. The last item on the list is plastic water bottles. This plastic contains chemicals, especially bisphenol A, which is also a hormonal disruptor and can also increase estrogen. So, either buy a filter or buy water in glass bottles. In general, I wanted to give you information not only about how steaks and eggs increase testosterone, but if you haven't watched my videos about the benefits and their benefits, I recommend watching them here.