People do a lot of exercises, do sit-ups, do abdominal exercises week after week, and they do n't change at all. I'll explain to you why abdominal exercises don't reduce belly fat. I read a study, I'll leave the link under the video. It shows that abdominal exercises have virtually no effect on weight, body fat percentage, waist size, abdominal skin folds, and reducing subcutaneous fat on the belly. Subcutaneous fat is the superficial fat that's located just under the skin. Well, the benefit of these exercises is that they increase overall endurance. You can do them. What's great about the belly? There are three types of fat. There's superficial fat, the fat under the skin, which is subcutaneous fat, and there's also fat in the liver. First, the liver fills with fat, and then the fat from the liver spreads to the abdominal organs and around them. But all three types of fat, subcutaneous fat, visceral fat, and liver fat, occur for the same reason: too much insulin, and the reason for this is excess carbohydrate consumption. But does abdominal exercises reduce the level of  There is no insulin, they do not reduce it, that's why people do not get results. If this is your first time on my channel, you know that with a few things you can radically change your waist by 80 percent changing the shape of your stomach. Its reduction does not depend on exercise but on diet. You need to cut carbohydrates. Start healthy. There is a link below on how to start and you should definitely start intermittent fasting. The combination of these two factors plays a major role in reducing your waist. Of course, you can do exercises, but not just abdominal exercises. You need high-intensity interval training. They will certainly help, but only by 15 percent. Thank you for watching and see you again. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.