I have many videos about what to do with estrogen dominance. In this video, I will talk about what to do with low estrogen, say in the postmenopausal period, or you just have low estrogen. Here are a few symptoms: hot flashes, thinning hair, breast atrophy, vaginal dryness, depression and MP, loss of collagen. I do not recommend a low- fat diet. A ketogenic diet is needed, that is, a high-fat diet. Cholesterol is needed to produce estrogen. Next, number two, Boron, this trace element is very important for maintaining normal cholesterol levels. Boron helps balance estrogen, lowers it if it is elevated and increases it if it is low. Next, herbal remedies that increase estrogen, wild fennel from Thailand, pueraria medifica. Next, fasting and a low-carb diet. Fasting and a low-carb diet lower insulin. What does insulin have to do with it? insulin increases androgens in the female body and indirectly lowers estrogen. Frequent meals, snacks, and a high-carb diet will lower estrogen levels. Let's move on to vitamin E. Why is it important? Because  Of all the glands in the body, the pituitary gland needs the most vitamin E, especially after menopause. Therefore, with a vitamin E deficiency, hormones that signal the ovaries and adrenal glands may not be produced, and the need to produce estrogen. When choosing vitamin E, do not take the synthetic version, it can really help. You need to regulate the level. With high stress levels, cortisol increases, this is a hormone that simply turns off estrogen. During menopause, the adrenal glands must insure the ovaries; they produce the same hormones in smaller quantities. So if the adrenal glands are weakened at the beginning of menopause, their fatigue will only increase. The same part of the adrenal glands that produces cortisol produces estrogen. Thus, reducing stress will help produce more estrogen because the adrenal glands will work better. You also need to adjust the exercise so as not to overtrain. A lot of training without proper recovery will turn off estrogen. So, you need to sleep well, recover, and not overexert yourself with training. Some people feel good with  One or two workouts a week. But as soon as you switch to 3 or even 4, your body goes haywire, everything starts to hurt, and estrogen levels drop sharply. Well, that's all there is to it, ways to increase estrogen levels. I invite you to my course on ovaries and body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, food lists, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.