Let's discuss different strategies that can be used to stop overeating, or, let's say, bingeing to the point of losing one's pulse. There are a couple of problems with overeating. Of course, you can overeat both unhealthy and healthy foods, which can greatly overload the digestive system. Satiety is a very subjective feeling, and the difficulty is that sometimes the food that people eat for certain reasons does not satisfy them. Let's discuss how much you need to eat to avoid overeating. That's the big question. In Japan, people follow a very good principle. Of course, these are people who follow traditions, and more modern ones are probably not so traditional. There, they eat until they are 80 percent full. I think this is a good limitation and a good one. If you can do this, and in fact, the best solution to this problem is to have no appetite and not have any cravings. True, if you achieve this, everything will be easier. Of course, for this you need to follow a healthy diet. That is, eat high- quality, nutrient-rich foods that satisfy you, and there should be few carbohydrates. This will greatly reduce hunger between meals and during intermittent fasting, the stomach  It changes. Because you eat less often, you will eat less, because your stomach can't fit as much food as before, especially if you eat once a day. You simply won't be able to cram that much food into yourself. You will feel uncomfortable and painful, and you won't do it. As a rule, cravings for certain foods are caused by low blood sugar. You are trying to maintain glucose levels to preserve the glucose reserves in the liver, glycogen. And you constantly need to eat something, preferably carbohydrates. Sometimes you also crave bread, which may mean that you need more B vitamins. Sometimes you crave only sugar, which may mean that you need more potassium. Perhaps, probably not, but perhaps, a craving for chocolate may mean that you need more magnesium. And of course, cravings for dirt usually mean that you need more iron, and cravings for dairy products may mean that you need more calcium. I intuitively know what I need to eat if I go to the store or on a specific day before a meal. I generally know what my body needs more of. Because I'm in ketosis, and therefore it happens that I crave some foods more strongly. On some days, I need much more celery, on others, more protein.  you need to reach a state where you are in tune with your body But here is the worst question that can be asked, what does my body want to eat today? Popcorn, pizza, chips, cookies. Never ask yourself that question. Here is a better question: what can I eat that will really make my body healthier? Of course, you need to be Keto-adapted to fat to ask such a question, or do you constantly have low energy, low blood sugar? In fact, there is. I recently learned that there are certain genes that can be a problem. They can cause an addiction to sweets and can lead to the fact that you cannot stop eating certain things when you start eating them, and this is one of my problems. If I start eating sweets, I can't stop. I eat a huge amount, also with other carbohydrates. I just don't start, but I think the worst factor in all this is restaurants, especially with a buffet, to get the most for your money, you take a lot, but why stuff your body with so much food? It's crazy. There are certain foods, especially in America, that are served in much larger portions than you really need, huge steaks, grams per  350 you really need so much protein and of course pasta and then of course dessert I found that in Europe the portion sizes are much smaller there are restaurants that serve small portions but they serve a lot of portions in one restaurant I'm not kidding we were given 11 of these plates they were small but after the seventh plate I hoped it was the last one because it was a pleasure we just tried one dish after another one after another I think here's one Great advice just decide how much you are going to eat and then the next day you have problems with blood sugar because insulin has increased and now you have cravings for unhealthy food there is also such a factor you need to eat everything on the plate because somewhere in the world people are starving so you need to finish everything on the plate if this is your case just put small portions for yourself So there are hormones that increase appetite cause hunger there are hormones that cause a feeling of satiety first let's discuss the hormones that cause hunger such hormones include ghrelin insulin and cortisol stress hormone ghrelin hunger hormone is activated by various factors one of them I know from my own experience that when they get enough sleep my appetite  Definitely, stress increases, another factor under stress is that you want to eat more, in addition, when we eat empty carbohydrates, they usually do not contain what should theoretically satiate. And empty carbohydrates stimulate ghrelin. When a person is stressed, he is not in the present moment, especially if he is somewhere among people where he does something that he usually does not do, because he is not in the present. He enters a certain state and begins to eat, while he eats whatever comes to hand, and now the eating pattern is completely disrupted. insulin is another hormone that stimulates appetite. Any food causes a surge in insulin, and because of this, after an hour and a half, you want to eat again, especially if you snack. Of course, carbohydrates. In addition, large amounts of protein and sodium glutamate can also increase insulin and cause a feeling, and of course, cortisol. Under stress, a person eats more, and not what is necessary. And here's what's interesting: people on a diet usually do not eat sugar, but they use artificial sweeteners, they can also cause a feeling of hunger. What's interesting is that they can stimulate insulin. Here's what else can increase appetite: a lack of bile in the gallbladder, say you have gallbladders.  Stones mean that you don't have enough bile, and bile helps dissolve fat and extract fat- soluble vitamins. Let's say you had your gallbladder removed. You will most likely have a lack of bile, as well as any liver problems. Or tightness under the rib cage on the right and pain on the right side. These are all subtle signs of a lack of bile. And if you don't digest certain fats, you may not achieve satiety; you feel like your stomach is full, but there is no satiety, and this encourages you to eat more. By the way, a remedy for this is taking bile salts after meals, 1 capsule. This will help. A low-fat diet can undoubtedly increase hunger; fat is a great satiator. I recommend eating more fat on the theta diet, especially after meals. This will allow you to fast longer, and this will help you. Junk food, especially empty carbohydrates, can be found in any store. All those flavored chips that are full of chemicals with incredible aromas and spices, but they don't have any real nutrients. You eat them. Go and God, they are so delicious. But they don't satiate. So, you can eat a whole pack, of course.  Manufacturers do this on purpose, it's no secret. If I buy a bag of chips, Yes, Rita, I can't eat just one, I eat the whole damn bag, and then I want more and more, so just don't go into those sections of the store or other places where they sell them. People also overeat to get energy because they feel tired, they eat to relieve fatigue, they usually eat more to get rid of fatigue in the hope of getting more energy, this is another reason for overeating, of course, what they just ate or what they overate will soon cause fatigue. In addition, people eat out of boredom, this is common, you're sitting at home and you're just bored. Why not eat? You don't need to eat at all. You're not hungry, you just like to chew chips, and not celery, but something crunchy like nuts like pistachios or something like that. If a woman is pregnant and she has a craving for some food, I hope she's on a diet, this can definitely mean that the baby needs something, so Eat nutrient-rich foods. People also eat because they have Something hurts. So they're trying to get rid of the pain. So there are many reasons for overeating. Let's discuss another hormone, Leptin, which causes a feeling of satiety. If leptin levels are too low, there can also be a feeling of hunger in overweight people, in people with insulin resistance, in people with metabolic syndrome, in people with diabetes, low leptin levels are therefore they are more hungry, and the people I just listed have elevated insulin. So, in terms of hormones, everything works against them. It will be more difficult for them if you don't have enough leptin, you won't achieve satiety. So, let's discuss ways to increase leptin levels. In addition to losing weight from insulin resistance and diabetes, a good night's rest helps increase leptin levels. Reducing stress can help. Regular exercise and other physical activity help increase leptin. If you eat more fiber, it helps increase leptin, but I'm not talking about these new functional dietary fibers, but real vegetables. Fasting also increases leptin levels. At first, you will be hungry, but then the body will switch to burning fat. When you fast intermittently, your appetite goes away and your level  Leptin starts to rise and the best sign that you are burning fat, that you are in ketosis, is loss of appetite. And of course, if your appetite disappears, leptin levels rise. Omega-3 fatty acids help increase leptin levels. Green tea helps increase leptin. Probiotics and fermented foods rich in microbes increase leptin levels and make us more full. Food rich in nutrients in itself allows you to feel fuller. There is little research on this topic, but I know for sure that: I live on a farm. When I eat eggs from my chickens, I am full. Which cannot be said when I eat eggs from other chickens. When I eat meat from my farm, I am incredibly full. What is the reason for this? Is it fat, proteins, or carbohydrates? No, it's internal. The fact is that there are a lot of them. Most people, especially Americans, just eat empty calories, so they just keep eating and keep eating. And they are always hungry, and it's terrible. If you are trying to follow a diet or improve your health in order not to overeat, you need to follow a healthy diet. It is imperative to include intermittent fasting. I also recommend  eat vegetables first then you will first get a lot of very low-calorie fiber and nutrients And this will definitely help to stay full until the next meal, whereas protein is usually less effective in eliminating hunger So first eat vegetables and first decide what and how much you will eat so you can control what you eat protein in moderation 85 100 140 170 maybe 200 grams of greens you need 7-10 glasses Of course, if you eat twice a day, divide it by 2, this can be done of course Eat the fat that is in the protein I also eat additional fat whether it be pecans or macadamia nuts or maybe avocado olive oil maybe Keto dessert plum butter with food In addition, to so to speak, better understand what is happening, you can chew food longer I see that many people just throw food into themselves as if someone is chasing them chew food thoroughly before swallowing This will help digestion I think restaurants are a little dangerous Unless you go to the right restaurant not  Go to buffets and control what you eat. If you're at a restaurant where they serve different types of bread and appetizers, be careful about what you put in your mouth and the portion size in drostanolone, especially if you go there often. So, we talked about how not to overeat, but I think it's very important to know what you need to eat. What foods are the healthiest, and that's what the next video is about.