Hi, today we'll talk about when to take vitamins. I've been asked many times what time to take nutritional supplements, so in this video I'll tell you when. In fact, it's not that critical. It's not too important with a couple of exceptions, but you can still slightly optimize their intake. By the way, when you take dietary supplements, they don't affect your ketosis. They don't interrupt intermittent fasting. Just so you know, get up and two topics at once in one video. So, B vitamins and vitamin C can be taken at any time. They are mostly water- soluble. Except for the fat-soluble analogue of vitamin B1, benfotiamine, it must be taken with food or fat so that it is absorbed. There are also fat-soluble vitamins such as ADC or CO2. They are better absorbed with food or fat. Let's say you drink coffee in the morning. It contains a little fat, then you can drink these vitamins at the same time. This fat will help them be absorbed. By the way, when you take vitamin D3 and CO2, to remove excess calcium from the body, be it kidney stones or calcium in the arteries.  Calcium in the joints and other things cannot be combined with dairy products. Dairy products are excluded because you do not need excess calcium. You need to create an artificial calcium deficiency so that the vitamins take it from soft tissues. If you have stomach problems, you drink various medications, for example, betaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar in tablets. Take them right before meals. If you drink apple cider vinegar in liquid form with water, you can drink it at any time without problems. If it is concentrate in tablets, drink them before meals. Food enzymes should be taken right before meals. If you drink purified bile salts to support the gallbladder, I advise drinking them after meals because they are alkaline and if you drink them, you will neutralize or weaken the acidity of the stomach, which is undesirable. Salts after the rest before. If you drink green supplements, many drink them in the morning. This is absolutely normal. If you want to experiment, I slightly enhance their absorption. You can drink them with food or even with coffee. Coffee will be right because it contains fat, one of the main Phytonutrients, carotenoids, are fat- soluble, chlorophyll is also fat- soluble, so if you add fat or take them, you will absorb more phytonutrients from them. This is a small thing, but I wanted to tell you about herbs. There are many herbal remedies, you can drink them at any time. Herbal tea can also be drunk at any time. Electrolytes are better absorbed on an empty stomach when there is more acid. Acid is needed to absorb trace elements. When you take, for example, calcium carbonate, it is alkaline, it will absorb some of the acid. So, if you drink calcium, I generally do not recommend drinking calcium carbonate, but in general, you should not take calcium before meals. This will reduce the concentration of gastric juice. If you drink calcium, drink it right before bed, but electrolytes are great on an empty stomach. Again, if you want, you can drink calcium before meals. It's okay. Problems with calcium absorption can mainly occur in those who do not have an acidic environment in the stomach. Probiotics should be taken right before bed. I also forgot about one bat. This is Hilok, there is also P6, this is another chelate. Chelates should be taken on an empty stomach, not combined with microelements. Wait an hour and a half after eating or taking other dietary supplements before taking chelates, and after chelating before taking microelements, also wait an hour and a half, let the chelate pass through the body and remove what you want to remove, be it heavy metals or iron. Then you can take microelements and restore them. And so, chelates on an empty stomach. That's all, thanks for watching, guys. A short announcement. I have a new healthy body plan. Go to my website. It's right on the main page. The link is in the description. Download it. It's free. Try it.