I had a feeling that everyone knew why they were drawn to carbohydrates at night, but as it turned out, not everyone knew this. One thing is known for sure, and this is definitely a fact. If a person is drawn to carbohydrates in the evenings, it means the body is not in ketosis; it does not burn fat. The two most important indicators that the body is in ketosis are the absence of hunger and cravings for carbohydrates. But if there is frequent hunger and cravings for carbohydrates, this indicates that you are not in ketosis. It means that something is going wrong. Most likely, your daytime meals, breakfast, lunch, or dinner, contain too many carbohydrates, or perhaps you ate too many carbohydrates the previous evening. If you are dressed but ate carbohydrates in the evening, you may still experience hunger because the blood sugar balance is disturbed. This is where it will manifest itself in a few hours and this can last a day or even two. What you ate yesterday will manifest itself the next day. A high-carbohydrate breakfast, as in many people, sharply lowers blood sugar. Breakfast is at 8 am, and at 10:30 am, sugar drops and you urgently need a snack. Then at noon you go to lunch.  and there is pasta, noodles or rice as a side dish with someone, let's say protein, you are good, probably immediately after you want to take a nap, but at 3:00 you want a snack again, you are hungry again and finally dinner, carbohydrates again, you are full, satiety lasts for an hour and a half and then eight or nine hours, you again feel that you need a snack and then chips, salted nuts, popcorn come into play, an excellent option, I was also in this trap for many, many years, my knowledge of nutrition was insignificant, I had everything according to the classic pattern of cravings at night, I gave in, but now I will tell you how to get rid of this craving in the evenings, the amount of carbohydrates is a maximum of 30 grams not per meal per day, second, skip breakfast, just forget about breakfast completely, you did not eat anything all night, you were fasting, why break the fast, hold out a little longer, adaptation will take a couple of days, you will get used to it, but then you will not even want to eat breakfast, you just need to overcome the habit, in fact, you are not even hungry, do not eat if you are not hungry and add fat to  Diet: No low-fat diet, more olive oil, butter, avoid bone protein, add more fat, especially for evening meals, to prolong satiety, you also need to consume a lot of potassium, large portions of vegetable salads. I noticed that if I don't eat a lot of salad in the afternoon or evening meal, I don't feel very well. Potassium is necessary to stabilize blood sugar levels and cope with hunger and cravings. I usually eat salad first and then everything else. It's that simple. If you want to learn about everything else, follow the link below. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.