Here is the question of how to relax, it would seem like a simple question, but for some it is very difficult. A relaxed state will not only help you sleep normally, but also increase endurance. If you are an athlete, many athletes are especially better at actively engaging in relaxation, and this improves their performance. This affects the speed of reaction time. In general, the more relaxed you are, the better your concentration and composure will be, and the better you can learn in general. Relaxation is very often not given due attention. Most people feel like a huge clot of stress. I will show you a small exercise that will help you and I recommend doing it regularly. The question is where the body stores tension: in the back, in the chest, in the head. We will consider this. Perhaps you are sitting now. This is good. Now I will show you this exercise. We will go through the entire body and relax each part of it, and then you will have to maintain this relaxation, no matter what you do, be it driving or stressful situations, or maybe work. I am not saying that you need to reduce productivity, you just need to relax while you work or drive a car, and you will sleep much better. So, the first thing you should do while you are sitting is to get rid of all the tension in your forehead, in every crease, in every wrinkle, just relax your forehead. Relax, what about your scalp, is it tense? Loosen it up. Relax. Relaxation is essentially doing nothing. You don't need to focus on anything. Let everything go as it goes. Now let's talk about the eyes. There are a lot of muscles around the eyes. Relax these muscles around the eyes. Let the eyes lie relaxed in their sockets. It turned out great. Try to relax them even more so that they seem to grow. Or let's move on to breathing. Breathe slowly so that each inhalation and exhalation is even. When exhaling, relax your chest. Now let's move on to the jaws. The jaw muscles probably contain the most tension compared to other places. Relax the jaw muscles. Release them so that it is literally off the floor. You will find that your shoulder blades relax at the same time as your jaw relaxes. Many people clench their teeth at night and a lot of tension appears in the jaw. You need to relax the jaw even when you eat because a lot of tension accumulates there. Now relax your lips, then your tongue, and then relax your neck. Start from the front. All tension is released.  which has accumulated there, just let it go, move to the back of the neck, most people have tension there, so let it go, relax the back of the neck, then the shoulders, the trapezius muscles are the muscles located above the shoulders, let's start on the right side, relax this muscle, imagine that it is melting, move to the right arm, melt the biceps, this muscle in front, now the back muscle, the triceps, release it, now the forearm, relax the hand of the right hand, move to the left shoulder and the trapezius muscle, relax them, now the upper front muscles of the arm, the biceps, release the tension from it, now relax the triceps, the back muscle, let it melt, then relax the muscles of the left forearm, relax the left hand, now the upper body should already be relaxed, but let's move to the front of the chest, release all the muscles inside the chest, taking slow breaths in and out, move to the stomach, many people pull it in all day because they don't want it to choose, but in this exercise  let it go, give it free rein, relax all the muscles, both on the surface and deep, the muscles around the abdomen and in its lower part, now the back, the middle of the back, relax the muscles that are around the shoulder blades, give them free rein, relax them, you want to hunch over, please, but don’t strain yourself in an attempt to relax, because this is tension, just try to maintain slow breathing and relax all your muscles as you exhale, try to relax all the muscles even more, now let’s move on to the lower back, we very often accumulate stress, try to release these muscles, there are muscles going upward, there are muscles inside, there are muscles around the buttocks, various kinds of internal muscles, imagine that they are all melting, relax them, release them and all the tension from the lower back if it hurts, the pain can go away along with the tension, if you have tension there, just let it go, okay, now let’s move on to the right thigh, relax the front of the thigh, now on the other side where the hamstring is, once the bast shoes are in these places so that there is no tension at all, now let’s relax the shin and the front Relax the part that is under the knee and then relax your foot and all the toes on it, just relax all the muscles in this place. Now let's move on to the left part, starting with the upper thigh and relax it, it's called the quadriceps. Relax it well. Now relax the back of the hamstring, let it relax completely. Then move on to the shin, relax it, and if there is tension in it, relax it, and switch to the front of the thigh and do the same. Relax well. Now move on to the foot and toe, let them melt and relax. Now you should be in a comfortable and relaxed state. Make it a habit to do this every day until you bring this process to automaticity and can maintain this level of relaxation. Especially before going to bed, your sleep will improve, you will feel better and you will have less stress. Well, it makes you feel better. It is very important to stay in this state. The more stress you experience, the more often you should relax the body to counteract stress. The main thing is to maintain relaxation. Leave comments.  Until next time, I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type due to stress. During the course, I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen immunity awaits you in the package. I'll tell you how immunity works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course.