Today we will talk about methylene blue. I have never made a video about it because it is not a natural remedy but a synthetic drug. It is sold without a prescription and has been used for a very long time. It has amazing properties that I want to tell you about. If I am not mistaken, it was discovered in 1876. It became the first synthesized drug in medicine. It was used as the first antibiotic, as one of the first antipsychotic drugs. In 1891, it was used for malaria. It is used even today by resuscitators for cyanide or carbon monoxide poisoning. This compound has a very interesting effect in small doses. It can act as an antioxidant. I am talking about doses from half a milligram to 4 mg per 2 kg of weight. For example, I weigh 185 pounds. This is about 84 kilograms. If you calculate, I will need at least 42 drops per day, since this liquid in one drop is about half a milligram of the substance. I would take 10 drops diluted in water 4 times a day. If you take this remedy, take a one percent solution.  Made according to US pharmaceutical standards in such a solution One drop contains half a milligram For what problems can methylene blue potentially help with septic shock, especially if your blood pressure has dropped significantly during anaphylactic shock This is a very strong allergic reaction to viruses Methylene blue has antiviral properties for clouding of consciousness loss of PA and also studies have shown that it helps with depression It also helps with candidiasis It is also effective for tissues that require a large amount of oxygen A little later I will explain why in neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's Parkinson's and even with gout due to the breakdown of uric acid in small doses it acts as an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory Methylene blue can help with all ailments associated with mitochondrial dysfunction Now I want to talk about how it generally works in the body this is actually Quite interesting what it does in the body it acts as an artificial electron recycler I'll try to explain what I mean Imagine that you have a battery and this battery is filled with electrons you need these electrons to  generate energy electrons and also in the body in the mitochondria, in fact, the body converts food into electrons that are stored in ATP molecules for energy and in our mitochondria there are a lot of processes with electron movement exchange methylene blue, as it turned out, can remove electrons where they are not needed and send them where they are needed. That is, it helps to correct the exchange of electrons, this is called the redox cycle, this is one of the reasons why methylene blue can give energy when tired. Since we are talking about mitochondria and this is the heart of our metabolism, oxygen is also involved in the process of converting food into energy, methylene blue helps mitochondria absorb and transport oxygen, it even improves how the body uses oxygen, you can imagine how many problems this can solve, however, it also has contraindications, for example, taking SIOS, which is used to treat depression, if they are taken together, there will be too much serotonin and of course, before taking anything like this, consult with your doctor. I just wanted you to know about methylene blue and better  You could also buy and read a book about it. I believe it can help with problems related to oxygen and electron exchange within the mitochondria. I have a lot of videos on how to help the body improve its health. If you haven't watched this video, watch it.