Today we will talk about how to protect your brain from stress. This is the problem with stress. The brain decreases in size from stress. The brain undergoes atrophy, especially the hippocampus, which can almost always be observed when a person has Alzheimer's disease. Fortunately, there are two parts of the brain that can regenerate, only two, not all. It just so happens that the hippocampus is one of them, thank God, the second is the olfactory bulb, it is responsible for the sense of smell, for the perception of odors, for their comparison. The hippocampus is a part of the brain whose functions are still debated. There are many theories about this. It somehow affects short-term memory. This is a kind of mechanism that seems to connect to the base of the brain and searches for memories, but short-term, not long-term. It also affects the ability to learn. It also affects the ability to navigate. If the hippocampus is damaged, there will be problems with this. This is directly related to navigation. That is, the hippocampus is in some way responsible for navigation in space. For example, if you are in the city. You have a map. And you need to get out of the city. With a damaged hippocampus, it will be difficult for you.  Find your way and also remember where or at what point in space you were and it will be difficult to remember where you parked. This is observed in Alzheimer's disease and it just so happens that 80% of patients with Alzheimer's disease have symptoms of type 2 diabetes, so stress can reduce the brain in size, but also high sugar. Glucose and carbohydrates, but I'll tell you what can be done about this. How to protect the brain, because nowadays everyone is exposed to stress, you should try these six things. Be sure to regularly consume vitamin B1 for this. I recommend nutritional yeast, but B vitamins should be without additives, not fortified, not synthetic. The source of such vitamins, not fortified and not synthetic, is nutritional yeast. You need vitamin B1, it perfectly strengthens the hippocampus. In fact, if a person is an alcoholic, he has problems with the hippocampus, which arise from a deficiency of B1 and affect the deepest part of the hippocampus. B1 reduces stress. Secondly, DHA and EPA are two omega-3 fatty acids, they can be obtained from fish oil, cod liver oil, or algae.  These two acids can prevent brain shrinkage. In the description, I will leave links to the studies I relied on. You need omega-3 fatty acids. Why? Because the brain is partly made up of these healthy fats. Third, zinc. Many zinc receptors are located in the olfactory bulb and hippocampus. Loss of smell can be one of the symptoms of zinc deficiency. That is, zinc affects not only the bulb, but also the hippocampus. Zinc can be obtained from seafood or taken as a supplement. Zinc does a lot of things. It helps the immune system and maintains testosterone at normal levels. Next, we have the fourth point: fasting. Fasting has a very interesting effect on the olfactory bulb and the olfactory bulb. It increases something called brain-derived neurotrophic factor. It's like Rastishka for the brain. That is, when you fast, new brain cells are created. The fifth point is amazing. Of course, Keto is low-carb and healthy. Keto ketones have a wonderful effect on the brain. The brain loves ketones. They are anti-inflammatory and can nourish neurons even if they are damaged. When brain cells have a hard time getting glucose, this is how ketones work.  They bypass obstacles and directly supply the brain with nutrition. Sixth, physical exercise can slow down or prevent brain shrinkage. Probably because it fills the brain with various powerful compounds, as well as oxygen, that is, you get a lot of oxygen. You can try other methods, for example, an oxygen chamber, all kinds of training, which I made a video about, but these are the most important methods that will help you maintain normal brain size. Thank you for watching, I invite you to my course on the adrenal body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal body type. The adrenal gland is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will find a gift: a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.