I've been asking for a video on this topic for a long time. Today I'll tell you how to quickly get rid of puffy eyelids and dark circles under the eyes. It turns out that the main cause, or at least the most common cause of both of these problems is the same, and this is very good. If you search for information on this topic, many people write that it's just fatigue, lack of sleep, stress, hypothyroidism, a disease and hashimoto, in which lymphocytes leak into the thyroid gland, or it could be an early sign of the Epstein-Barr virus, or maybe it's alcohol or an allergy. I can tell you that these are not very common causes of dark circles or puffy eyelids. With kidney problems, there is always swelling around the eyes. This is true, this reason is not the most common, but it is possible. The whole point is that fluid accumulates and fills the tissues. This is called interstitial fluid retention. Protein is lost in the urine and protein is lost in the blood. Therefore, with a lack of albumin, protein in the blood, fluid retention occurs and swelling and puffiness around the eyes occur. Transverse stripes on the nails. Horizontal stripes on the nails indicate  It might be worth checking your kidneys, parasites could also be another possible cause, but let's look at the most common cause of puffiness and dark circles under the eyes, and that's hyperinsulinemia, what is it? An excess of insulin in the blood, insulin resistance, which causes the pancreas to produce too much insulin. This often happens, and can be seen in the early stages of type 2 diabetes and is almost always seen in diabetics. Of course, most people have insulin resistance, so this problem is very common. If there is puffiness around the eyes and dark pigment, there are most likely a lot of carbohydrates in the diet because carbohydrates stimulate an increase in insulin levels. Another condition associated with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia is acanthosis nigricans, what is it? This is a disease in which folds on the body darken, for example, the armpits or a dark strip of skin on the neck. Darkening under the armpits or near the chest. This disease manifests itself as hyperpigmentation, also caused by elevated insulin. The more insulin, the more melanin is produced, which makes the skin darker.  When consuming carbohydrates with elevated insulin and insulin resistance, the body will retain fluid like a large sponge, and retain it in different parts of the body. Most often, the ankles swell, and of course the eyes, the area under the eyes or upper eyelids. Sometimes you look at a person and it’s immediately clear that he eats carbohydrates, with swollen eyelids, and many have no idea why this is so. They think it’s hereditary or lack of sleep, and the reason is carbohydrates. Carbohydrates also retain sodium in the body by 3, and this is retained and a serious lack of potassium occurs. So, what can be done about this? I’ll give four tips. Use them to fix this. First, stop eating carbohydrates. This can’t be fixed without including carbohydrates. This is the first thing. Second, stop snacking. Snacking is evil. Every time you eat, insulin is produced. Forget about snacking. Third, you need to start intermittent fasting. This is a regimen of when you eat and when not to eat. It must be combined with a low-carb diet. Together, this is called the keto plan. A combination of a low-carb diet and intermittent fasting without snacks will certainly remove the problem of bags and dark circles. There is something else to speed up the process of dark circles under the eyes. Start taking potassium or consume foods rich in potassium, but not bananas or potatoes, for example, add beet tops to a salad. Eat more greens in general. 7-10 glasses of avocado a day. It contains about 800 milligrams of potassium. Broccoli also contains a lot of potassium in mushrooms. And so on. Four points. No carbohydrates, snacks. Start intermittent fasting and push potassium. The bags will go away, and the dark circles under the eyes will too. It will take some time, two or three weeks, or maybe even four, before you notice a difference. For a deeper dive into the topic, I suggest taking my basic course. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.