Hello Today we are answering questions, nothing I say is intended to provide medical assistance, but only encourages you to study the topic yourself if it helps you heal, do not mention us. So Steve, let's get started right away, because we have so many questions, great, and no matter what Dr. Ber says, I lost 23 kilos and feel great, so sometimes this helps. So we will answer questions on social networks, Gabriela Rambla asks, why do some people say that carbohydrates are needed for thyroid health? Does eating carbohydrates help someone? The thyroid gland controls metabolism. So, with a lack of food, it can adapt. It can adapt to this and change its function. The effect of carbohydrates on the thyroid gland indicates that the level of the main thyroid hormone T3 changes. So, yes, when we cut carbohydrates, the thyroid gland adapts and the level of this hormone can be rebuilt, because the body creates energy much more efficiently and it seems that this is abnormal. But this is GIZ, because hypothyroidism is diagnosed by the hormone that it produces.  the pituitary gland thyroid stimulating hormone And it is usually stable So the thyroid gland does not get sick does not weaken, but simply adapts to the new fuel So I do not know anyone who has switched to a low-carb diet, this speaks of the efficiency of our metabolism Here is the answer to your question, someone with Nick is annoying Recommend natural alternatives to painkillers such as Paracetamol I think one of the best remedies is high doses of vitamin D3 After all, it has an anti-inflammatory and analgesic effect, vitamin D deficiency causes literal pain in the bones, severe pain in the lower back and all that, I think a good solution for pain is 20 Even 30,000 IU of vitamin D per day with magnesium for pain, they also use many other remedies I have tried Many of them sometimes Some of them work and others do not, for example, willow bark, stinging nettle root helps well with inflammation, another remedy is turmeric, it helps with pain, but the best remedy is vitamin And you need to think about what is causing the pain, is it caused by some old injury Maybe the matter is  There are many ways to eliminate pain in digestion, depending on its cause. I made many videos about pain in different parts of the body. You need to watch them, because sometimes the pain is caused by an old injury, and then a different approach is needed. What do you need to watch these videos? Well, a question from Res Velasca Rambla. My wife had a full line of Tomi at 31 years old. It's very sad now she's 45 and she's been on intermittent fasting for 3 months, she even fasts for 36 hours, observes Tomato, but she's not losing much weight. What else can she do? What's going on with her? The question is, why did they do it for her? If so, then she probably still has a serious vitamin D deficiency. Usually, fibroids and even endometriosis occur when there is very little vitamin D. Taking vitamin D helps in these cases. Its deficiency may be one of the reasons why she isn't losing weight. Vitamin D greatly affects metabolism. That's why people usually gain weight in winter. One of the reasons is vitamin D deficiency. I have a video about this, even if we talk about the United States. In those States where there is more sun, people lose weight better than in other States, and their metabolism is better. So I advise you to watch this.  As for the possible cause, there could be many other reasons, but I would start with this. Well, excellent, users with this, what would you recommend to stop or slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease? Oh, that's terrible. First of all, I would try to feed the neurons bypassing the pathway through which they usually get energy. I would feed them ketones. I assume that you don't do this. I would start cutting carbohydrates and switch to a strict keto diet. Because neurons prefer ketones to sugar. They feel much better from ketones, and excess sugar creates insulin resistance, and neurons literally starve. Without glucose, you give them more glucose, and the body rejects it. You can mitigate this by switching to a teto diet, that is, cutting carbohydrates. You can even benefit from MCT oil or even ketones in the form of ba. By taking them, you increase the supply of fuel to neurons. So, there are many other factors here. For example, it will be useful to take niacin to nourish the mitochondria with coenzyme. Q10 magnesium all this has an effect But this is only a general idea of ​​​​what needs to be done More information is in my videos good what would you advise a woman who survived a stroke MCT oil totril and vitamin B1 complex of B vitamins and all that Yes, with a stroke, there is not enough oxygen in some parts of the brain and this can affect the appearance of hypoxic tissue in which there is little oxygen Yes, the vitamin will help eliminate some of the scars also in a hyperbaric chamber When a lot of oxygen enters the body and the goal is to correct all this when there are areas in the body damaged due to a stroke or heart attack, this is the so-called ischemia in them there is little oxygen and vitamin D does not work with a lack of oxygen, this is one of the problems, so you can take more vitamin D so that it gets there and exercise a lot so that a lot of oxygen enters the body great we continue to answer questions someone else writes from Facebook please tell me about MGO in honey is it useful have you heard of this Yes this substance If I'm not mistaken in honey manuka which is useful for the immune system I think it's excellent  I have a video about this, you can watch honey has some amazing properties that are completely different from sugar, honey does not seem to affect blood sugar the way sugar does, so perhaps honey is the safest of all sugars. Of course, I'm not telling everyone to eat a lot of honey, but if you have a good metabolism, if you digest honey, then it's a good sweetener. Laura from Facebook asks a great question. How can you reduce redness from niacin? Start with small doses, somewhere around 25 or even 50 mg, and after a while, gradually, over the course of perhaps one or even two months, start increasing the dose little by little, and then there should be no redness. There is a form of niacin that does not cause redness. I can't say that it works, but I'm sure it has benefits. Yes, niacin causes redness in the skin, start with small doses, and over time, the redness will become barely noticeable. I take a lot of niacin, the redness does n't bother me. Does anyone else care? I would do that. Well, good luck with this. Someone from YouTube, do you recommend it?  Fasting for women after menopause I am 67 years old and I am worried about sweat. Yes, and I recently made a video about how to fast outside of the menstrual cycle, although you do not have one, but probably have its residual effects, and if you fast so that fasting does not interfere with certain circadian rhythms in the body, things will go much better for you, but one of the problems women have after menopause is that by fasting excessively, they lose more muscle mass. So do not rush if you are fasting and feel unwell, find out what you are doing wrong or fast less, because some people, both women and men, do not tolerate long-term fasting well; they simply feel weak and you will not get much benefit if you fast for 3-4 days and feel terrible. Except in cases where they are fasting because of cancer, then I would grit my teeth and fast, but with long-term fasting, ideally, you should feel good and not too bad, and one big mistake women in menopause make is that they do not consume enough high-quality protein. Be sure to eat more protein constantly. I recommend red meat. You can eat eggs, but red meat is completely grass-fed.  It's best to eat less and also build muscle mass through exercise, and then perhaps you'll be able to fast for longer. Many women experience atrophy afterward, and they think it's fat. But it's just atrophy. Men also experience atrophy, which is age-related sarcopenia. In general, I'll make a video about how to prepare a fermented milk product with bacteria. It stimulates stem cells for muscle growth. I highly recommend this video. It should be released not this weekend, but next weekend, and its title will include something about depression and microflora. Dear viewers, please wait for this video.