This is a topic in which I have a fairly high level of competence simply because I have practiced in this field for 30 years and taught my methods to more than two and a half thousand doctors. This information may seem paradoxical; it is not taught. However, it is very effective, as you will now find out. If you have muscle nodules on the back of your neck, on your shoulders, here, or on your back, then you will like this video. What kind of nodules are these? Roughly speaking, they are balls of contracted muscles. Many different Gurus in different videos say that you just need to massage these nodules, undergo trigger point therapy, use different massagers to break up these nodules. Yes, they will go away for a while, but then return. Of all my patients with nodules, I think this problem tormented me the most, and only years later I realized what to do: massaging these nodules, hot compresses, cold compresses, trigger point therapy, stretching the nodules, stimulating them, including with electricity. I think all this is a waste of time. This is what you need to know. Muscles always work in pairs. Many muscles work together. But usually there are two main pairs of muscles that create movements. Look at  Her arm is flexed by the biceps and extended by the triceps. So, movement is created as for the back of the neck. She tilts her head back and the muscles on the opposite side push the head forward. If we talk about the key area, there are muscles that raise the shoulder and there are muscles that lower the shoulder, and if we talk about the back, there are muscles that move the shoulders back and there are pectoral muscles that move the shoulders forward. This must be considered in the sense that each muscle has an antagonist. All muscles work in pairs and they are electrically coordinated by nerves and every time a muscle is stimulated, a switch is triggered in the antagonist muscle on the other side and for the muscle to contract, the antagonist muscle must relax. We can take advantage of this instead of massage and trigger point therapy for a muscle. Why not work on the antagonist muscle and you know that it works magically. Every time a knot forms, you need to find the opposing muscle, the so-called antagonist muscle, and stretch it. You will find that the contracted muscle will melt like butter in a frying pan. Let's start with the back of the neck here you have  tense muscles the name of these muscles If you want to show off the splenius capitis and splenius cervicis, they are also known as the posterior neck muscles. When the posterior neck muscles are tense, you need to stretch the anterior neck muscles. You can simply do this. Tilt your head back like this, stretch it 5-6-7 times, and then notice the sensation in your neck. But there are also scalene muscles. They are located in the front of the neck, here, to stretch them, you need to turn your head like this. Then, in the other direction, usually one side will be more tense, and that's what you need to work with. Now, by comparing the sensations at the back of the neck, you will feel relaxation. In this video, I just want to convey to you the principle itself. How many times? How long should you do this? It already depends on the severity. You can stretch for 10 to 30 seconds and repeat three times. In simple terms, the next thing I want to discuss is nodules in the upper back. This is a common problem. Usually, it's the trapezius muscle or the muscle directly below it, it's called the levator scapulae muscle. These muscles make a similar movement, raising the shoulders like this. If you sit at a desk all day.  So of course these muscles will be tense another question which muscle is the antagonist Which muscle lowers the shoulders down The fact is that both of these muscles that raise the shoulders are opposed by a muscle called the latissimus dorsi and this latissimus dorsi is attached to the back of the humerus here then goes down to the chest then attaches to other connective tissue under the arm there are many ways to stretch this muscle you can hang on a bar to stretch this muscle if you do not have a horizontal bar you can take a regular chair Kneel and put your elbows on the chair then stretch your arms to your head So you stretch this place below your arms this area and stretch the latissimus dorsi this is a very good stretch if your shoulders are tense and you stretch the latissimus dorsi just feel how much they relax and instead of massaging and whipping this muscle stretch the antagonist muscle shi If I decided to do stretching on a chair or hanging I would prefer  Hanging really stretches the latissimus dorsi and gives amazing relief not only to the trapezius here but also to the shoulders. There is another way to stretch this muscle. The latissimus dorsi is the muscle that goes over the rib cage and is attached to the back of the shoulder blade. A simple way to stretch it is to sit on a chair sideways, throw your arm over the back of the chair and stretch your torso in the opposite direction. You stretch your torso in the opposite direction and stretch the scalene muscles while sitting straight. This will create a stretch that will relax. Both the trapezius muscles and the muscles underneath them are also a very good stretch. Pull and hold for 30 seconds and repeat this three times and the result will amaze you. So now let's move to the middle of the back. There are two sets of so- called rhomboid muscles. They move the humerus, that is, the shoulder blades back. This is how they are also lifted, but the overall movement is backwards. So here too, the antagonist muscles are the pectoral muscles. These muscles in front are a good stretch for the pectoral muscles.  In the corner of the room, you raise your arms and push your chest forward to stretch the pectoral muscles. You can also do this in a doorway. You simply enter the stretching mode, pull, hold for 30 seconds, and repeat three times. You will notice that the rhomboid muscles of the back have become very good. Here are three areas of the body where nodules occur and a couple of stretches for them. However, I hope you watched. Before this, 80 percent of all these nodules are actually caused by your digestion, something in the digestive tract, most often the gallbladder. Often the problem is in the tubes in the ducts between the liver and the gallbladder. They become clogged with sediment and bile accumulates in the liver, which creates reflected tension in the rhomboid muscles, especially on the right, in the trapezius muscles, or in the muscles that lift the scapula, on the right, on the left, it also happens, or in the muscles of the neck, here if you stretch them and do not feel any special changes and relief, then pay attention to your digestive system. Let's say now you have tension in the neck, or pain in the upper trapezius or in the right  rhomboid muscle, here's what you need to do with your own hand, massage it on the right side under the ribs, to the right of the middle, feel there, feel for a hard spot, press as hard as you can bear and hold for about twenty seconds. Do this right now and notice if it brings relief. Now we know that your problem lies in the digestive system. This means that you are eating something that you shouldn't eat. For beginners who don't know yet, I recommend a link below because it will completely solve your problem. Most often, the problem is in the gallbladder, and I'm not saying that there are stones there, just bile that is too thick, it's called bile sediment. The best way to fix it is a supplement with high-quality bile salts. This will help get rid of the sediment so that it can flow out and you get relief. And of course, I recommend my formula for the gallbladder. Of course, the link below in this product has many components, salts, enzymes to help the stomach, to thin the bile, this is a complex product. So, I gave you complete instructions on what to do with muscle nodules and I think now you should take a course on the gallbladder, where I give special techniques. Gallbladder massage and much more. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, do you need to remove it? And if your gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly to avoid complications? How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea. I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.