Hi, I want to give a little advice on how to wean children off sugar. The average child eats about 30 kilograms of added sugar per year. This is only added sugar. I'm not even talking about bread, pasta, cereals, crackers, that is, hidden sugar. Not everyone understands this. Added sugar is everywhere. Sweetened milk, chocolate milk, sweetened tea, fruit juices, soda, sports drinks, vitamin drinks. They are everywhere, and ketchup and other sauces, breaded balls on faces. I'm not even talking about this list. You can continue the list yourself. Our goal is to get the child to experience the process of burning sugar, burning fat, improving mood, mental activity, learning ability, and stabilizing blood sugar. There are a lot of advantages, so this is very important. The problem is that it's either white or black, no shades of gray. It's unlikely that you can do it gradually. In other words, you can't enter ketosis. Reduce your sugar intake. They need to be eliminated completely. The fact is that even with a small amount of insulin, ketosis disappears. Even if you reduce your sugar intake, the cravings will remain and the blood sugar will be low. That's how it works all the time.  Up-down-up-down. The best solution to this problem is to replace sugar with something almost identical. An example might be cookies adapted for whales, pies adapted for chum, and sugar-free chocolate, as well as those bombs, i.e., giraffe cookies. If you give something like this for dessert and don't let the child eat starchy foods like French fries, you'll achieve a switch. It will take two or three days for the child to wean himself off sugar and feel great. You can even add nutritional yeast to the cookies so that it gets into his body, but you can also sweeten them before the ritual with a degree or xylitol. In this case, the child won't even know that you've replaced something. You just need to say, " Today, instead, we're sitting here," and in three days, his body will adapt to burning fat, his mood will improve, and it will become easier and easier. The main thing is to prepare. The description will contain a link to a large collection of recipes. You can start making all kinds of Tetta Bombs, and at some point, ask the children to help. You also need to remove all the junk food and fast food from the house.  Sweets, all products with sugar, including hidden sugar, so that only the bombs remain. This way, you will make the transition, you will change this and start a new trend with the whole family. I really appreciate your attention, and if you like my videos, subscribe to the channel and I will keep you updated on future events and webinars that will start very soon.