question Is it possible to get kidney stones if you take a lot of calcium? Well, it has been established that if you take mg of calcium carbonate, I never recommend it. It's like eating stones or concrete. It can increase the risk of kidney stones. So, yes, this is possible. Another situation is hypercalcemia, which occurs for various reasons. One possible reason is huge doses of vitamin D. I mean hundreds of thousands of IU over many months. This can lead to hypercalcemia, which leads to kidney stones. But a more likely cause of kidney stones is a malfunction of the kidneys themselves. They can be damaged due to years of poor nutrition, and it becomes difficult for the body to get rid of certain things. Most often, calcium oxalate stones form in the kidneys. If you know that you are at risk for stones, try not to eat foods that are high in oxalates. Here are some of these foods. They are also keto-compatible. Almonds, exclude them from your diet. Spinach. If you eat cheese with spinach, then the oxalates from the spinach will combine with the ca already in the gastrointestinal tract and therefore will not  They will be absorbed into the blood and will not get into the kidneys. This is one of the solutions to the problem of oxalates. There are fewer in steamed spinach. Swiss chard has a lot of oxalates. It is better to avoid it. Chocolate can also create problems. Another reason is a lack of citrate, so either take something like potassium citrate or other minerals in the form of citrate or drink lemon juice. In case of risk of kidney stones, I recommend drinking 60 or more milliliters of juice per day diluted with water. If you already have kidney stones, I recommend 240 ml of lemon juice per day because citrates help dissolve calcium oxalate stones. The next point is probably the most important: make sure to drink enough fluids, at least 2 liters if you are prone to kidney stones. In this case, the urine will not be too thick and then it will be very difficult for your body to create any stones. Some people even drink 3 liters per day, but at least that much should help. The next point is that there are some microorganisms that help dissolve oxalate stones. There is evidence that stones can  There are n't enough microorganisms to cause the occurrence, and research is currently underway. People are given these microorganisms to reduce the risk of stones, but there are no such drugs on the market yet. However, we already know that with a healthy microflora, the risk of kidney stones is reduced. Another important point is to include plenty of fiber in your diet because it binds to both calcium and oxalates. So, eat more greens, but without spinach and chard. And finally, bile. If there is enough bile and bile salts, this also reduces the risk of stone formation. Bile binds to both calcium and oxalates. Some people take purified bile salts; they help dissolve kidney stones. I hope I answered the question. Thank you for watching. We are pleased to present to you the Healthy Chum Salt Summit 2020 online. 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of chum health and intermittent fasting. Watch online at a convenient time exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of chum fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. The 2020 Chum Salt Summit in Russian is waiting for you.  Sign up now N