Today we will talk about how to ensure that you never have cavities again and this information is completely applicable to your children. So it makes sense for them to look at this too. I have a lot of experience in this area because all my teeth without exception had cavities. It's a pity that I didn't know about all this then. The word caries has Latin origins and means decay. I can't wrap my head around how a person's tooth enamel can rot, because it is stronger than even steel. Decay of tooth enamel at an early age is simply nonsense. How is this possible? It's not normal. Let's turn to the experts of the American Dental Association. This is what they say. This is food for bacteria, thanks to which they multiply and secrete various acids. To avoid this, you need to brush your teeth and also use dental floss. It is very important to visit the dentist regularly. They advise limiting snacks. This is good advice. Eating a balanced diet is also good advice, but how do you know that your diet is balanced? Of course, they also recommend whole grain products. They advise using fluoride toothpaste and also using dental sealants. This is a kind of plastic coating for teeth. This thing will certainly protect your teeth.  from harmful acids and you need to minimize the consumption of added sugar is also good advice. Here's an interesting fact. Many years ago, sugar manufacturers created an organization called the International Sugar Research Foundation, a kind of PR agency for this industry. And recently, about 300 documents were found in the basement of, I think, one university. These were meeting minutes and other documents of this group of sugar producers, and very interesting information was found there about a conspiracy with the National Institute of Dental Health. They developed a plan to hide the link between sugar and caries. Decades ago, they decided not to replace it with toothpastes with the author and dental sealants, and also to study vaccines. They have not yet begun to claim that the cause of many problems is fat and not sugar at all. Such interesting information. But that case. If you didn't know, it's true that sugar and starch, and starch include rice, grains, corn, and similar products, as well as bread, pasta, cereals, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes. All of these are starches and sugars. Sugar and starch are excellent food for bacteria that produce acids in the oral cavity. These bacteria begin to ferment sugar and starches. They ferment, and the by-product is various acids. One interesting fact about  Fermentation cancer cells get fuel through fermentation, it's interesting they change the way they get energy to ferment sugar and carbohydrates, it's very interesting cancer uses the fermentation process in a person with restless legs syndrome who eats a lot of sugar and starch will have a lot of fermentation in the body and also a deficiency of vitamin B1, in other words, if you eat a lot of starch and sugar, your need for B1 increases significantly because one is necessary to metabolize all this sugar, I myself was a walking example of restless legs syndrome. When I was in my 30s, I woke up in the middle of the night and literally kicked my legs on the bed, there was so much energy in them, I did n't suspect that it was the ice cream and other carbohydrates eaten at night that created excess fermentation and a serious deficiency of vitamin B1, which greatly overloaded the nervous system. As for cancer, in my opinion, if you eat a lot of sugar and refined carbohydrates, this can lead to damage to the mitochondria. And this is one of the mechanisms of cancer. There is also another interesting problem associated with the enzyme font in the intestines. If you have too many bacteria in the small intestine, although they should be in the large intestine, you will experience Excessive fermentation will eventually lead to a serious deficiency of vitamin B1, magnesium deficiency, and zinc deficiency. Because these microbes will eat all these nutrients. So if you have such a problem in the intestines, your need for these nutrients increases greatly. I am telling you all this because it is worth understanding. What problems with fermentation in the body can occur? We need normal fermentation in the large intestine and do not need excessive fermentation in other parts of the body, including the mouth. As for the oral cavity, there is protection against this problem. There is an enzyme that is a type of enzyme that helps break down starches. It also inhibits the synthesis of acids and the appearance of caries, but its action depends on B vitamins, especially B1. An interesting fact: the more carbohydrates you eat, the higher the consumption of this enzyme and its deficiency. The more acid, the less this enzyme is activated. A neutral or slightly alkaline environment is needed for it to act. You can even take a small paste and notice the acidity in your mouth. If the pH is below 7, then this enzyme probably simply will not work. There are other things, such as saliva, to neutralize acid. For example, Sodium bicarbonate is essentially baking soda, the body produces it. To neutralize acids, people do a lot of different things to try to minimize this problem, get rid of these bacteria, fight tartar, drink baking soda, brush their teeth, and so on. Yes, they use fluoride and seal their teeth with sealants, but all this is just the tip of the iceberg. This does not eliminate the cause of the problem. To prevent cavities, you need to exclude sugar and starch from your diet. You need to wean children off sugar and starch. Many people have the idea that a low-carb diet and a keto diet are only for overweight people and are not suitable for thin people or children. Well, this is not true. Using cavities as an example, I wanted to show how sugar and carbohydrates affect your health so that you understand the importance of switching to a ketogenic diet. I believe that children also need to switch to a keto diet. Fasting is not necessary for them. But they need a ketogenic diet, and preventing cavities is just one of the reasons to do so. You can learn about what a keto diet is and how to switch to it from this video.