Today we'll talk about how to burn belly fat extremely quickly. This is a continuation of my other video with five important tips. And today we'll look at tips six through ten, but first, I'll briefly repeat the first video for those who have n't watched it. There's a link to that video below. It's very important, as it lays the foundation. So, tip number one: If our goal is to burn maximum fat, we need to bring the body into a state of ketosis. For this, there should be very, very few digestible carbohydrates in the diet. Digestible carbohydrates are total carbohydrates minus fiber. In a ketogenic diet, certain carbohydrates are not taken into account, namely, leafy green salads. We don't take these carbohydrates into account because they are needed in the diet. They contain a lot of potassium, magnesium, vitamin C, and other nutrients, including phytonutrients. Although leafy greens are mostly carbohydrates, carbohydrates are not a problem; they don't raise insulin. From a large portion of greens, we get a lot of fiber, which, although it is a carbohydrate, does not stimulate insulin. So, klicha and fat are two things that do not stimulate insulin.  That's why you need to eat greens with olive oil, pure fat. So we also don't stimulate insulin, and green salads. You need to pour vinegar on them, you can use balsamic or apple cider vinegar, because vinegar is another product that perfectly normalizes blood sugar levels and also lowers insulin, even if you eat some carbohydrates. So vinegar is very, very important. Another piece of advice: first, eat a green salad, and then proteins and fats. After all, if you do the opposite, eat proteins and fats first, you can get full and not eat a green salad. And of course, I recommend eating 7-10 glasses of greens a day. It may seem like a lot, but a small handful of greens fits in one glass. And that's not very much. Next, you need protein from 100 to 170, maybe 200 or 230 g of protein, depending on your build. If you're a man, you need a portion of protein twice the size of your palm. If you're a woman, you need a portion of protein the size of your palm. It's very, very simple, of course, it also depends on your age, metabolic rate, activity level, whether you exercise, and  and so on Also It depends on how many times a day you eat two or one if you eat once a day you certainly won't eat as much protein as in two times because this is a huge amount of protein When you start something like amat one meal a day the need for nutrients even in amino acids decreases because the body adapts another important point about protein Don't eat lean protein Eat the fattiest protein you can find because there is a so-called insulin index this index reflects how much insulin increases from certain foods if you eat protein without fat for example whey protein powder insulin will increase much more than from fatty meat or other fattier protein So if you eat chicken Eat it with the skin if you eat fish Eat it with the skin and eat the fattiest fish you can find for example sardines in oil are very good and not just in their own juice Eat either a fatty steak or perhaps a beefsteak where there is a lot of fat Then the insulin level will be minimal number three dietary fat you need to add more fat to your diet especially at the beginning of this program because thanks to this  You will be able to fast longer because low-fat diets give you a feeling of satiety, so it is very difficult to go without food for a long time on such diets. By eating more fat, you will feel fuller and be able to fast longer. Yes, the more fat you eat, the more the body burns calories and the fat you eat, and not from its own fat. But when you are just starting this program, it is very, very important to be able to fast longer so that the body can quickly switch from burning sugar to burning fat, and fasting will allow you to achieve this. As soon as you adapt to ketones, two things will happen: the craving for food will disappear and your appetite will disappear, so it will be very, very easy for you to follow this program and not stop it. What is it like to diet? If you constantly want to eat, this is torture on our program. You must understand that in between meals, your body eats, it eats its own fat, and this is exactly what we need. You need to fast. As long as possible, ideally, and additional fat at the end of a meal will allow you to do this, but then, after a few weeks, when you have already adapted and everything is going well. If you want to speed up, you can reduce the amount of fat in your diet once you have already  Adapted, you can cut fats not radically, just don't Add them, then you will be able to burn more of your own fat than fat from food. Number 4, we discussed nutrients on this diet. Be sure to take electrolytes and B vitamins. Nutritional yeast is a good source of natural B vitamins. These two sets of nutrients. Minerals and B vitamins will prevent most of the side effects of the keto diet for burning fat, such as teto fatigue, teto rash, teto fungus. An important part of these nutrients is sea salt, it is also very important. After all, when you cut carbohydrates, a lot of fluid leaves the body, and along with the fluid, you lose electrolytes and various salts. And if they are not replenished, then during the process of burning fat, you may feel weakness, lethargy, and so on. So, be sure to take these nutrients when following the Keto diet and fasting. Add something desirable and pleasant to this program so as not to feel deprived. Many people stop eating unhealthy food and then they get bored on the teto diet. If you do not diversify it in any way and do not  brighten it up by adding some food that imitates or resembles different goodies that they ate before, say, I like to eat chocolate after a meal. Of course, I don't eat it late at night. This chocolate is completely compatible with keto. It has no sugar. It has sugar alcohols and it does n't have all that newfangled stuff or dextrins. You can't add these to this chocolate. Sometimes, to make a small dessert for fun, I mix whole cream, pecans, and Keto-compatible chocolate chips. For me, this is the best dessert. There are hundreds of different Keto desserts that you can make, especially when you're starting out. After all, it's something new. You need to get into potassium. I have many different recipes. Below are links to a couple of collections. Go to this. This was a brief overview of the first five points. Let's move on to point 6. The sixth point is reducing stress levels. You may not realize that stress, chronic stress, is almost the same. Stress activates a hormone called cortisol, and cortisol. Cortisol has another name, glucocorticoid, because it mobilizes glucose, converting various substances such as protein and fat into glucose.  and even ketones during stress mobilize excess proteins that it may not need, for example, proteins from the muscles of the thighs from the buttocks, and the body uses these proteins as a source of energy in a state of chronic stress, there is even the so-called Cushing's syndrome, which is associated with high levels of cortisol, usually this manifests itself in the shape of the body - a huge waist, thin legs. No buttocks, because a lot of protein from them turns into sugar, which then turns into fat. Therefore, you need to reduce stress as much as possible. If you look back at your life and remember when you started gaining weight, then it probably started after some kind of stress, perhaps pregnancy, perhaps severe stress, I do n’t know, stress in a relationship, say, a divorce or some kind of loss. All these stresses can greatly affect blood sugar levels. What should you do? You need to resist stress. It is impossible to completely get rid of stress, but we can kind of manage it. I would identify people who usually cause you stress, because usually these are people, and I would push them away from myself for a while, just avoid them for a while. It sounds trite, but this is a very powerful factor. If there are no people around you who create stress, if those around you improve your mood, they spoil it, then your adrenal glands will be very happy. You should also avoid  news because the news is mostly bad and sometimes in bad news they also exaggerate the colors you don't need this especially if you want to lose weight I already talked about this in other videos but physical labor helps to lower cortisol levels Even better than training because it not only makes the body gather strength but also distracts the mind from problems So any way to distract the mind from problems is very useful for dealing with stress long walks in nature number six stress is also associated with number seven sleep The more stress, the worse sleep because poor sleep increases cortisol levels That's why people want to snack when they are tired because of the wave of cortisol that ebbs and flows Not to mention the fact that the most fat is burned when we sleep and not during the day So any way to sleep a little more will definitely help you A very short story Once a patient came to me who was on a different program for a whole year a training program and in a whole year she lost weight, it seems, half a kilo or a kilo, maybe half a kilo in a whole year she trained three times a week, each training session lasted 2 When I saw her, she was very depressed. I found out that her diet wasn't that bad, but her sleep was terrible. We worked on her sleep, helped her improve it, and what do you think, she finally started losing weight. It's very strange that you do n't do anything to improve it. But in fact, you do a lot. You allow your body to heal and fix itself, and then you lose weight. So, if you go to bed a little earlier, say, half an hour earlier, try to sleep half an hour longer in the morning, then, oddly enough, this will greatly help you lose weight, and at the same time, you won't be so hungry, because your appetite will decrease. Tip number one, at the root of the problem associated with trying to lose weight, is the so-called insulin resistance. This is the real reason for what's happening in your body, which doesn't allow fat to go away easily. It's what prevents you from overcoming the set point. Drinking water is a level below which weight doesn't fall, no matter what. You need to focus all your attention on insulin resistance and get rid of it. There are a couple of things in addition to what I've already said that can speed things up: firstly, regular intake of apple cider vinegar somewhere.  A tablespoon with water throughout the day will help normalize blood sugar levels and increase insulin sensitivity so that its level is not too high. That is, it will lower sugar and insulin levels. You can also add cinnamon to food. Cinnamon is a very powerful spice that helps lower blood sugar levels, for example, cinnamon toast. I'm kidding. Toast is not suitable for us. Cinnamon can be added to anything. I have a video and more on this later. Chromium in the form of a supplement. Lina Chromium. T beta cells of the pancreas secrete insulin. This can also help. Vitamin D can also help the pancreas lower insulin levels. Potassium from the greens you eat from electrolyte powder can seriously help with blood sugar and vitamin B1 is also very important for reducing insulin resistance. The number of workouts is not just a combination of both types of training, namely anaerobic and aerobic. Anaerobic training is training that is performed without oxygen. High-intensity interval training. Other types of aerobic training are performed with oxygen, for example, walking, hiking, cycling, and so on. I  If I were you, I would combine both types. I would use high-intensity training, whether it be cycling, weight training, plyometrics, or sled pulls. There are a million different exercises, but the point is that you need to train so that your muscles hurt not only the next day, but for the next 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 days. This training should be serious. I have a lot more data on this, a link to the video below. The training should be really hard so that during the recovery process there is a powerful surge of growth hormone, which uses a large amount of fat. And on the days when you rest, you can’t train when your muscles hurt, you will rest for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 days or more until all the pain goes away. On these days, use aerobic training, walking, hiking, low-intensity training, they don’t make your muscles hurt, but they increase endurance. I would combine both types and number 10, intermittent long-term fasting. This is the real bomb. I assume you regularly fast intermittently. I hope you eat once a day. This is called amat. At most, two meals a day. Try to move them closer together.  Intermittent fasting is the icing on the cake. I'm sorry. This is the highlight of our diet. Sorry, I'm going off track. This is what will tie it all together. So, at least once a week, fast for two days. This will use much more fat and you will feel better and perhaps you can do it once a week. So, on the weekend, fast for two days and you must strictly follow the principle of don't eat if you're not hungry. I consult with many people and talk to them to help them get off a weight loss plateau. I ask, are you following a diet? Yes, I eat once a day but I'm still not losing weight. I ask, are you hungry when you sit down to eat once a day? Oh no, I'm not hungry at all. Then why are you eating? Why not take advantage of the loss of appetite by fasting for as long as you can? I have people who started this program and didn't eat for 5 days. Yes, they take nutrients, electrolyte powder, nutritional yeast, etc., but they are not hungry. So, they don't eat and you know that they achieve their goal.  It's much faster because you need to realize that when you don't eat, the body eats its own fat and this is beneficial. The body uses its own fat. Why interfere with it? When you eat, every time you eat, it doesn't matter what exactly your insulin rises. Those who need to lose weight significantly can benefit from losing their appetite. Why eat if you're not hungry? Your body eats anyway. I think people think you need to eat to get nutrients, but you can take them. Why do you need food? You only need food if you need energy, but you get energy from your fat. If you haven't watched my first video about the first five tips, I think it would be very useful to watch it so you'll get all the information. Watch that video.