How do you get vitamin D from the sun without getting skin cancer? I get a lot of feedback on my videos and many people are really afraid of the sun because it causes cancer, wrinkles, photoaging of the skin. In general, it is harmful and should be avoided. On the other hand, they want to get vitamin D, but not from supplements. We must not forget that in the process of evolution, humans lived in the sun for a very, very long time. Our bodies have adapted to it and even created natural filters from solar radiation, namely, ultraviolet rays. The skin is protected by a pigment called melanin. Melanin prevents damage to the skin by ultraviolet radiation. The amount of melanin depends on skin color. The darker the skin, the more melanin and vice versa, and this determines how effectively it is filtered. Ultraviolet light, that is, how many of these rays pass through the skin and create problems. It is true that when you get a sunburn while in the sun, it can increase the risk of skin cancer. If you regularly expose yourself to ultraviolet radiation, this can reduce the level of vitamin A. Free radicals can damage DNA and cause a lot of other harm. But here's what's interesting. If you are in the sun but do not let things get burnt, you can, on the contrary, reduce  The risk of cancer usually occurs as follows: ultraviolet rays from the B range hit the skin and then these rays interact with cholesterol, which people usually consider something bad because it causes a heart attack, clogs up the bones, which leads to stroke, and so on. However, without cholesterol, it is impossible to synthesize vitamin D, it is impossible to create cell membranes and a fairly large part of the brain, well, all sex hormones, testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, and even cortisol are created from cholesterol, without it, there will be no these hormones. Imagine how many problems this can create. Without cholesterol, it is impossible to produce bile, which helps to absorb fat-soluble vitamins, it is needed for cell membranes and the synthesis of vitamin D. So, cholesterol must be sufficient. That's why, for example, statins or a low-fat diet can interfere with the production of vitamin D. So, ultraviolet light hits the skin, converts cholesterol into vitamin D, and then this vitamin D is activated in the kidneys and liver, and already in its active form, vitamin D exhibits its wonderful properties. However, some people do not even hear about taking more than 2000 vitamin D, it is incredible because the recommended  The daily requirement is somewhere around 600m-e, which of course is not serious. These daily intake norms for vitamin D were calculated a long time ago, at that time there was no information about the effect of vitamin D on immunity. 600m-e is barely enough. Only for the prevention of osteoporosis, at that time such things as obesity, metabolic syndrome, age, and so on and so forth were not taken into account. And by the way, the toxic effect of vitamin D occurs extremely rarely. You need to take hundreds of thousands of international units over the course of months to get a toxic effect from vitamin D, including such a serious one as kidney stones. But if you drink two and a half liters of fluid a day, this will protect you from kidney stones. 19 thousand different genes in your body require a difference in vitamin D. Vitamin D is necessary for the immune system. It is a remedy for autoimmune diseases, depression, and viral infections, especially cytokine storm. Each part of the immune system has receptors for vitamin D. So, it turns out that 69 percent of the population suffers from a lack of vitamin D. If you are healthy, young, you do not have metabolic syndrome and excess weight and you, say, sunbathe in a swimsuit for half an hour during the day when the sun is most active, while you do not live in the northern regions but somewhere closer to the equator, then if you have white skin, you will receive about 50 thousand e of vitamin D. If you already have a tan, you will receive about 20 thousand e. If you have dark skin, about 8000, but there are many factors that can prevent you from absorbing this vitamin D, for example, the time of year or the place where you live, that is, the latitude how much further north or south relative to the equator. But back to the topic of our video, how can you protect yourself from the negative effects of sunlight? Here are some actions that can be taken. Eat enough foods with vitamin C, because the more antioxidants your skin has, the better you protect it from damage caused by ultraviolet radiation. And not only ultraviolet B but also other types of ultraviolet radiation. So, vitamin C is very important. Another key vitamin is vitamin E. There are also vitamin deficiencies that should not be allowed. They are needed to correct all the DNA damage that can occur for various reasons, including  Ultraviolet radiation. In fact, if you are deficient in any of the following micronutrients, this alone can make you vulnerable to DNA damage, not only from ultraviolet radiation but also from other factors. Phosphates are very important. They can be obtained from leafy greens. The next nutrient is niacin. It is found in almost any food. It is found in animal protein, for example, in beef, vegetables, nuts, and many other products. Magnesium is very important for protecting against damage and for restoration. It is found in leafy greens in the chlorophyll molecule. In addition, during fasting, the amount of antioxidants that protect the skin increases. A low-carbohydrate diet is also very important. There is an excellent sunscreen for long-term sun exposure. This is a cream that you can make yourself. Take a quarter cup of coconut oil, the same amount of olive oil, the same amount of sesame oil, and 2 tablespoons of zinc oxide. Take the option without nanoparticles. And by the way, sesame oil alone can block ultraviolet radiation by a third, and coconut and olive oil by 20 percent. So, mix all these ingredients and apply the resulting mixture. On the skin, this is much better than the cream from stores that have a lot of additional chemicals. And in conclusion, another important point: ultraviolet radiation is opposed by infrared radiation, both from the same source - the sun. So, being in the sun, you also receive infrared rays. To get more and less UV rays, you need to be in the sun at the beginning of the day or at the end of the day, and not at midday, when the sun is most active and UV radiation is strongest. At sunrise and sunset, you will get a lot of kalachi. They pass through clothing, penetrate deep into the body and cause the synthesis of melatonin. This melatonin is different from that produced by the pineal gland. This is subcellular melatonin. It is found in other places. Its production is stimulated by infrared rays. It is surprising because darkness produces the same effect. So, being in the sun, you stimulate the production of melatonin, the most powerful antioxidant that can protect you from harmful ultraviolet rays. Thus, if you get sunburned while in the sun, you double the risk of skin cancer, but if you are in the sun and avoid burns, you reduce the risk of skin cancer. Read more about  How to get the required amount of vitamin D and what it does for the body. In my course, the link below invites you to my course, Vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentations on longevity and health. Find it at the 2019 summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link below is waiting for you on the course.