I received a question whether it is possible to overcome insulin resistance and how long it will take. In this video, I will answer what insulin resistance is. This is a condition in which cells stop consuming insulin, they reject it, that is, insulin receptors simply stop receiving insulin. As a result, the consequences of such a condition are as follows: without insulin, cells do not receive fuel, do not receive nutrition, they begin to feel hungry, and you are drawn to carbohydrates. A signal is sent to the pancreas that insulin is not entering the cell, it tells it that we do not have enough insulin, let's get more, and the pancreas produces more insulin. With insulin resistance, insulin usually exceeds the norm by 57 times. The problem is that such a level of insulin is harmful to the body, and since it does not enter the body, the blood sugar level will be high, because the function of insulin lowers blood sugar. The dynamics of the process are such that the hormone tries but cannot perform its function, cannot control blood sugar, it grows higher and higher, and meanwhile, the cells feel hungry. If you have insulin resistance, the brain sculpting then they do not receive nutrition and die, this is Alzheimer's disease, and so this is what leads to insulin resistance is excessive insulin exposure, which is caused by constant carbohydrate consumption and too frequent meals and snacks. How to solve this problem is to reverse the process, prolong the absence of insulin, avoid insulin activation for some time. The problem is that if this is not solved, you will not lose weight, all your workouts will go down the drain, your diet will not work, and you will be constantly hungry and will not be able to stick to them. In my opinion, to overcome insulin resistance, you need from 3 to 8 months or more. The beauty is that you can also overcome prediabetes and type 2 diabetes. I believe that ketogenic diet provides about 20-30 percent improvements. Intermittent fasting provides about 60 percent improvements. Putting them together, we get 80 percent, but if you follow a healthy diet along with intermittent fasting, you can achieve 90 percent success, even more. Why is that because healthy diet itself provides key nutrients: zinc, vitamin D, chromium, potassium, magnesium, and B vitamins that speed up the process. And if you want to speed up the results even more, add physical exercise. Reduce stress, get more sleep, and take dietary supplements to better supply nutrients beneficial to the pancreatic beta cells associated with insulin resistance. You can find out if insulin resistance is going away by taking a test on Yandex insulin Resistance Homo I.R.  But for me, it's enough to follow these six points. First, does hunger go away? Can you last longer between meals? And does belly fat cool down? This means that fat around the internal organs is going away, especially fat from the liver. Blood pressure is decreasing. What's the matter? With high insulin levels, the arteries become stiff. And with healthy ketogenic intermittent fasting, I also advise consuming more vitamin D. Blood pressure can improve, but sometimes it takes up to a year to get blood pressure under control. Then, good blood sugar levels. Most people notice changes immediately. But if you've had type 2 diabetes for many years, can normalizing sugar take up to a year? Number five: The dawn phenomenon goes away. The dawn phenomenon is when you wake up in the morning and you haven't eaten yet, but your blood sugar is already high. This means you're in the transition phase. You're adapting to ketosis, but insulin resistance is still there. If this phenomenon is there, but it's starting to pass, and over time it will disappear, then insulin resistance has greatly decreased. Six: A noticeable surge of energy is a good indicator. Everything is going as it should. I'll add number seven: You feel full from food. If earlier  With insulin resistance, you could have been eating idat. Now you're full. Of course, you need to eat the right foods. But the feeling of satiety after dhea indicates that nutrition is reaching the cells, and it's working. That is, you no longer have resistance. Because insulin resistance blocks the flow of nutrients into the cells, it's difficult to feel full. Thanks for watching. See you in the next video. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.