Today I will show you the best way to get rid of belly fat. I have n't released a video about belly fat in a long time, but I have a lot of them. I will leave the links below if you haven't seen them. But I want to cover new information and give you a better understanding of what is happening. Because every time you solve a problem, it is not solved. Think about it, maybe you are solving this problem. This is very significant in the context of losing weight, because about 98 percent of attempts to lose weight end in failure. You can count calories, reduce them, or exercise more and see if it works, but there is a much better way. In this video, there will be exercises because they are also important. This is not the most important thing, but one of the important things. I will show you 5 different exercises that are very useful. But by and large, only 15 percent of the results are achieved through exercise. When I go to the gym, I see people trying to lose belly fat with exercises week after week, but to no avail, and there is a reason for understanding this reason. I will give an in-depth excursion into metformin, which is a diabetes medication, and I will tell you why it also helps with weight loss.  I don't recommend using it, but it's important to understand why it works, but more on that later. There 's also gastric bypass surgery, which also helps you lose weight, but not for the reason you might think. It's not because of a reduction in calories. The reason is different. Understanding these two things in the context of losing weight will confirm the validity of what I've been saying for a long time. Most people know this. But if you have belly fat, it means you have fat in your liver, and this fat seems to overflow from the liver into the abdominal cavity. If you look down and can't see your shoes, it means you have a fatty liver. It's very important to fight the real problem of fatty liver, as well as what leads to it. Most people will agree that it's excess insulin. This is an excessive amount of insulin. If you have too much insulin, the body stores fat in the liver, it overflows into the abdominal cavity and becomes visceral fat. If you lower insulin, and this is a fat-storing hormone, this mechanism will help you start using up and burning fat, especially in the waist area, and also in the liver. The real problem is not only excess weight, but also excess insulin.  and you need to reduce carbohydrates, but you also need to understand something else. Let's talk first about metformin, this is a drug used for diabetes and other diseases, for example, with polycystic ovary syndrome, because it helps women with this disease. This drug lowers insulin. It is used for polycystic ovary syndrome because high levels of androgens cause hair loss, facial hair growth, and a deepening of the voice can be due to increased insulin. Metformin lowers insulin. Metformin is also very effective for weight loss. Why is this because it lowers insulin? I do not recommend taking it under any circumstances if you were prescribed it. I do not recommend quitting it. I just want to explain how it works. Metformin was originally isolated from a plant called goat's rue. It was found to have properties that contribute to increased sensitivity to insulin. So, metformin helps get rid of insulin resistance. insulin resistance occurs due to the effects of insulin. Metformin overcomes this and makes cells more sensitive to insulin and the body reduces its production. But here's the thing. You may also  We didn't know that metformin stops the production of glucose in the liver when you have insulin resistance due to diabetes or diabetes mellitus or simply insulin resistance, which is common in most people. The liver produces too much glucose. This is called gluconeogenesis, not a new day, but the creation of something. Glucose is glucose, too much sugar. I'll note that some people at the beginning of a ketogenic diet experience a dawn effect in the morning after waking up, high blood glucose levels. This is because the liver has produced a lot of glucose from fats, proteins, and ketones. Every time with insulin resistance, the liver produces a lot of glucose. Imagine you've reduced your carbohydrate intake but you're still not losing weight. The body simply produces glucose. It does n't even come from food. The body produces it from fats. Many people don't know this. Metformin eliminates this by interrupting glucose production in the liver. The problem is that Metformin has side effects. There's even a warning on the packaging about lactation. You can even die from this. It depletes vitamins B1 and B12. You may not know that there are herbal remedies.  Products such as berberine, which can produce an almost identical effect, so why take metformin if there is a natural alternative? Metformin's action is to reduce glucose production in the liver, which helps you lose weight, because glucose is converted into fat with the help of insulin, and metformin also reduces fat in the liver. Anything that lowers insulin and removes fat from the liver will help you lose belly fat. Metformin does both. The fact that metformin helps get rid of belly fat and even diabetes confirms what I've always said: you need to focus on lowering insulin. If you want to successfully lose belly fat, let's now move on to gastric bypass. You might think that if you reduce the size of your stomach and bypass part of the small intestine, you will eat less and lose weight due to a reduction in calories, but in fact, something else is happening. There is a certain hormone, let's call it simply GIP, which increases insulin in the small intestine. With gastric bypass, you practically destroy this hormone; it will no longer be activated. With gastric bypass, you significantly reduce insulin levels. That's why it works for type 2 diabetes. That's why people lose weight, but at the cost of surgery, which I don't recommend because  In my opinion, you don't need to go that far. You just need to understand that in the small intestine there is a hormone called GIP that increases insulin every time you eat, regardless of the type of food. If you eat, it increases insulin, and so two factors increase insulin: carbohydrates, glucose, or sugar, and frequent eating. And even then, in favor of the effectiveness of the intermittent fasting concept, you need to eat less often. You do n't need to reduce calories, but eat less often. Intermittent fasting is a necessary, powerful way to lower insulin. It eliminates the root cause of belly fat formation and also removes fat from the liver. I hope it has become clearer to you why it is so important to target the real problem of insulin in order to rid the liver of fat and ultimately get a flat stomach. Here's what you need to do. First, a low-carb diet. Second, intermittent fasting. These two factors are the most powerful, and in just 14 days you can remove up to half of all the fat from your liver, which usually affects your waist. Third, there is a very important exercise for the torso. I will go over them at the end. I will show you them and this will also be useful. How these exercises help you lose weight. They do not remove fat from the stomach, but simply strengthen the muscles and also help.  Lowering insulin helps reduce insulin resistance. This is what gives results, it's not about burning calories, as most people think. 4. Fiber, for example, when you eat enough greens, is useful for a number of reasons. Firstly, magnesium and potassium help with insulin resistance by increasing insulin sensitivity. In addition, microflora feeds on fiber, releasing short-chain fatty acids in return. One of these acids is butyric acid, which in turn increases insulin sensitivity. This helps reduce insulin resistance indirectly, that is, intestinal microflora helps you lose weight. 5. You need something similar to metformin, for example, berberine is an excellent herbal remedy that is useful in many ways, but one of its properties is increasing insulin sensitivity. Next, apple cider vinegar: a tablespoon per glass of water and drink this drink two or three times a day. You can add lemon, too. But apple cider vinegar increases insulin sensitivity by reducing the amount of insulin. Seventhly, you need to reduce stress levels. Stress activates cortisol. Cortisol forces you to eat sugar. insulin increases when stress has the same effect as eating candy in terms of what it does to Glucose and insulin, you need to go through life with a relaxed state of mind. I have a ton of videos about this. Take everything lightly, don't be too serious. I've already given a ton of information on this topic in my good sleep. You won't be able to get rid of your belly if you can't sleep. You need high-quality sleep for seven to eight hours. If you have sleep problems, there are useful links in the description. Now, to the exercises. In the first exercise, which is well suited for beginners, you need to touch your toes, but not standing. You need to lie on the floor, lift your body and touch your toes. Here's how to do it: lie on your back, raise your legs at a right angle. Well, for complete beginners, this may not be very good, but most can do it. This exercise engages the lower abs. When you lift your upper body off the mat, reach your hands toward your toes. Hold the upper position for one to two seconds, then slowly lower yourself. I recommend doing 1-3 sets of 12-18 repetitions every other day. This is an excellent exercise for the torso. The next exercise is bicycle crunches. For this, you must rotate your torso to prevent stretching your hips or neck.  Lie on your back on the floor and pull your shoulders away from your ears like this lie on the floor knees and heels on the floor cross your fingers behind your head then return to the starting position using your torso lifting your upper body off the floor and raising your knees directly above your hips now on the way out twist your torso bringing your right elbow and left knee towards each other at the same time extend your right leg hold this position for 12 counts and then inhale back to the starting position then on the other side this is one repetition do two to three sets of 8 18 repetitions depending on your physical fitness third berts this is quite difficult this is a very explosive exercise it is serious tv root abdominal muscles first you need to stand with your feet shoulder width apart squat down and place your palms on the floor in front of you directly under your shoulders jump back and put your feet back push-up position push up once jump with your feet to the starting position sharply you will jump up raising your arms above your head  When landing, lower yourself back into a squat position. You need to do 6 to 10 sets of 12 25 repetitions, but introduce this exercise gradually. It takes time to get used to it. It's quite intense. 4. The boat pose. This exercise powerfully works the abdominal and back muscles. Here's how to do it in a sitting position: lean on your buttocks and tailbone, lift your legs up in a Latin position, stretch your arms forward parallel to the floor, hold this position for about a minute, and repeat two or three times. 5. The front plank (lanka) requires a lot of strength and endurance. It works the abdominal muscles, back, and torso. The plank is one of the best exercises for the waist muscles, but it is also useful for the buttocks and hamstrings. It improves posture and balance. First, place your forearms on the floor. Your elbows should be directly under your shoulders. Your arms should be facing forward, your forearms should be parallel. Stretch your legs underneath you and rest your toes on the floor. Your body should form a straight line from your shoulders to your heels. Tighten your waist muscles, buttocks, quadriceps, and slightly draw in your buttocks so that your lower back is straight.  Try not to lower your hips or lift your butt up to the ceiling. Keep your body straight. Make sure your head is straight and your neck is in the middle position. Look at your forearm. Hold this position for about 40 seconds. At first, it might be 20 seconds, but gradually increase it to 40. This should be done 2 or 3 times every other day. Well, now you have a clear plan for how to get rid of belly fat. There is much more information on how to properly follow some intermittent fasting in this course. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.