Let's discuss two very important things to avoid premature graying. If you look at my hair from above. It's completely natural, of course, at the temples. There is a little gray hair on this side and on that side. There is an age factor, and eventually everyone's hair goes gray, but the purpose of this video is to show how to avoid premature hair behavior. Some people's hair goes gray, but too early. It doesn't just depend on genetics. Although genetics play a role, there is so-called epigenetics, which is what you can do. It matters more than genes, and even if you have genes that predispose you to gray hair, you can do a lot about it, but you need to know two very important things. 1. It is the pigment in the hair that gives it color, and the enzymes that produce this pigment depend on a trace element called copper. With copper deficiency, there may be a tendency toward premature graying. But what causes copper deficiency? Yes, it can be caused by diet if there are no foods rich in copper. Which I will talk about soon, but there is something else you need to know. Due to high cortisol levels, for example, under stress, a person loses mussels because  Cortisol uses many enzymes that contain copper, in other words, more stress equals a higher need for copper equals more copper loss. And when the mussel is no longer there and there is not enough enzyme called tyrosinase, and it is needed to create melanin, which gives hair natural color, gray hair appears. How does this apply to you? What is the matter with stress? Perhaps you even noticed that the more stress, the more gray hair. So, of course, the solution is to reduce stress. By all means, but while you are reducing stress levels, you can get more copper, for example, from foods rich in copper. In general, I do not recommend taking copper in the form of supplements. I recommend getting copper from food. However, dietary supplements with copper can be taken, but they should also contain other trace elements, especially zinc, because zinc has to work together. Never take only copper, and the ratio should be correct, one to ten. You need 10 times more zinc than copper, that is, do not take a lot of copper, take it enough. Before moving on to the products, I will tell you about the second factor, which is equally important, and this is essentially age. The aging process with age, we accumulate hydrogen peroxide, it accumulates. Hydrogen peroxide bleaches our hair. Another question is how to slow down aging. Well, we need to slow down the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide to at least preserve hair color. There is an enzyme that naturally breaks down hydrogen peroxide very quickly, it is called catalase, but I do not recommend buying catalase-rich products. I recommend eating foods rich in catalase, I will tell you about it, but first, a few words about catalase, because it is a curious enzyme. Catalase breaks down hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen. One catalase molecule can break down a million hydrogen peroxide molecules in less than a second. So, the presence of catalase in the body allows you to slow down the phenomenon caused by hydrogen peroxide during the aging process. By the way, the immune system uses hydrogen peroxide. White blood cells use hydrogen peroxide as a weapon against pathogens. If you have a sluggish infection or, like many, chronic fatigue syndrome, coronavirus, Epstein-Barr or herpes, it either activates or goes dormant again, and so on. A lot of hydrogen peroxide can be released. So, a healthy immune system is very important.  So, first, you need to reduce stress and get more copper so that there is an enzyme for creating hair pigments, and on the other hand, you need to increase the level of catalase so that there is as little hydrogen transfer as possible. So, what foods are the richest in copper? All seafood, shellfish, especially oysters, are very important. And secondly, mushrooms. You need to eat more mushrooms. They contain the enzyme tyrosinase, which contains copper. By the way, there is copper in organic grass-fed beef liver if you are vegan. You can get copper from spirulina. These are foods with copper. And what foods can increase catalase levels? Catalase is found in grass-fed beef liver in vegetables, especially in cruciferous vegetables. There is also a lot of catalase in sprouts and microgreens. Add microgreens or sprouts to your salad to get a little more catalase. It might be worth using arugula as a base for your salad, because it is a cruciferous plant. Other cruciferous vegetables can be sautéed, just don't overcook them. But of course, in addition to all this, you need to reduce your stress levels, take measures to exercise to relieve stress and  Treat life so that there is no stress, don't be too serious, don't get stuck in stress, avoid smoking, alcohol, fast food, sugar and other empty carbohydrates, and one more thing about catalase. I found an investigation that showed that a low-fat diet is not good, a higher level of fat in the diet, like in the keto diet, can increase catalase levels. We always return to a healthy ketogenic diet, which I constantly recommend. And these nutrient-rich foods are cruciferous vegetables. These are grass-fed meats and even offal. And if you don't like offal, you can buy them in the form of dietary supplements. And the last interesting data. About catalase, I found another study that was conducted on mice. This is a note for those who have mice. It was found that stimulation of the catalase gene significantly increases lifespan. It's interesting, this is logical, because catalase affects mitochondria and it is an antioxidant, and excess hydrogen peroxide is damage from free radicals, the destruction of mitochondria. We discussed premature graying of hair, but let's  Let's explore the topic of hair in more depth. Is there anything else that can be done for hair? The answer is yes. Come to this course. I invite you to my course on health diagnostics based on hair. Dry, brittle hair or oily hair and dandruff, hair loss, premature baldness. Gray hair is a signal that indicates problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.