I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Goiter. Cysts and thyroid nodules. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, food lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there. The most common symptom of leaky gut syndrome is bloating. There are cells in the intestines that look like plants turned upside down. When leaky gut syndrome develops, cracks appear. Holes between these villi can allow all sorts of particles to penetrate through them without the permission of the immune system. Let's say you ate a dish with an egg, and some of this protein leaked through the intestines. Because of this, the immune system goes crazy. After all, they think it's a virus, bacteria, or some other pathogen, so they mark this protein, and when you eat eggs again, an immune reaction suddenly occurs, and you are perplexed.  I have an allergy to eggs, the same thing happens because of peanut protein or anything else, and then suddenly you have an allergy to different foods. And you don’t know why this causes a lot of inflammation, joint pain, this also manifests itself in the form of many different skin reactions, psoriasis, dermatitis, even headaches can occur, because there is a connection between the intestines and the brain, but the greatest harm from a leaky gut is that it can provoke an autoimmune disease such as Hashimoto’s disease, an autoimmune thyroid disease when the immune system attacks its own tissues. But here’s an important question. What causes leaky gut syndrome? If we know this, we can get rid of bloating and all the associated symptoms. Here are seven common causes of leaky gut. I’ll start with number seven: gluten. Gluten is found in cereals, this is the only protein that people cannot digest, and many are allergic to it or simply intolerant. The second possible cause of leaky gut is sugar. If you eat a lot of sugar, it causes something like corrosion in the brain. Number P fiber is considered that Fiber is good for the intestines and that's true. After all, our microorganisms eat fiber, but the problem is that if you have leaky gut syndrome and you eat fiber, bloating increases because the work of all the microflora in the intestines is disrupted and it begins to produce a lot of gases. Number four, lectins, especially in legumes, are found in grain-fed dairy products, that is, from cows that are fed grain. If it is indicated that they are grass-fed, it is good, otherwise, consider that they are fed grain. Number three, certain raw vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage. Number two, seed oils, corn oil, canola oil, they cause severe inflammation and because of them, the intestines will definitely become leaky. Number one, vitamin D deficiency, even if you eliminated gluten or went on Kornevo for a couple of months, because fiber made you worse. You need to take a lot of vitamin D to completely heal the intestines, or get a lot of sun, but just don't get sunburned, 20,000 vitamin D3 each.  day thanks to this the intestines will begin to heal but there is something else that you need to know and this is glutamine glutamine is the most important nutrient for the intestines and the most glutamine is contained in red meat another product that has a lot of glutamine is cabbage there is glutamine in sauerkraut there is a lot of glutamine in bone broth in eggs in kefir also you need to think about zinc the most zinc is in oysters it is in all shellfish in any seafood including kelp and the last most important action that you can take is to give the digestive system a rest and recovery this is called fasting this is perhaps the most important and this will really reverse the situation and it is a pity that they did not tell me earlier what I am telling you now If you liked this video share it with those who might find it useful