Let's discuss castor oil and its benefits for the face. This is a natural Botox created by nature. It has stood the test of time. It has been used for thousands of years by Egyptian, Roman and many other civilizations due to its healing properties. The main question is whether we should be afraid of the ricin toxin in castor oil. It is actually 6,000 times more poisonous than cyanide. This compound is 12,000 times more poisonous than snake venom. So, let's discuss castor oil. Thanks to it, the skin looks soft, radiant, elastic and firm. Fine and large wrinkles are removed. If dry skin is affected, castor oil should be used. It is the main phytochemical humectant. This acid retains water and saturates the skin with moisture. Many people apply this oil to their face in the evening and wake up in the morning and are amazed at how different their skin looks. It can also be applied to hair. Soon I will show you how to apply it to hair and scalp. If you have split ends or dry hair, the situation will improve very quickly and this plant substance has a very powerful anti-inflammatory effect when applied to the skin.  Castor oil is excellent for relieving inflammation on the face. Castor oil also has an antimicrobial effect. It is important to understand that our skin is home to many microorganisms that protect us from various harmful factors. There are many skin-related problems caused by the overgrowth of bacteria, yeast, or even fungi. Castor oil is an excellent remedy for them. Bacteria play a role in the development of acne. Castor oil also contains a lot of vitamin E. Vitamin E protects us, for example, from ultraviolet radiation. Castor oil can, for example, be applied to a wound to help it heal. It can also discolor dark spots on the skin, thanks to which the skin can acquire a beautiful, even color. Castor oil contains provitamin A and beta carotene, which improves skin condition. It also contains a lot of magnesium and potassium, which also benefit the skin. There is even evidence that castor oil stimulates collagen synthesis. It is very important to have as much collagen as possible for rejuvenation. Castor oil should definitely be applied to any scars, including window scars, stretch mark scars on the stomach. If there are any scars on the body, it is necessary  regularly rub a few drops of oil into them for 30 seconds and in terms of anti-inflammatory action, this oil is comparable to cib profe how to use it many people mix it with other oils coconut olive it can be mixed with hundreds of oils others use it as is without mixing one of the problems with this oil is that it is thick sticky just put a couple of drops on your fingertips and rub them into the skin of the face dry wrinkled reddened irritated areas rub A little more oil if you use a couple of drops it will cost somewhere 3 cents a day so you will have to fork out I advise applying the oil before bed by the morning it will have time to penetrate the tissues and be absorbed into them with caution apply the oil in the abdominal and pelvic areas If you are pregnant and not yet ready to give birth because this oil can induce labor also this oil is used to remove makeup it can be mixed with some cream and used to remove makeup this will bring additional benefits if you wear this oil on your hair Especially if your hair is falling out I advise rubbing it into the scalp potentially this  It can stimulate hair growth, especially with regrowth. Rub the oil thoroughly into the skin in the areas where you want to grow hair. I would put four drops on my fingertips and lubricate my hair completely before bed. And when you wake up, your hair will be perfectly moisturized. As for the type of castor oil, I paid more for cold- pressed oil without Xanthium, it’s a solvent. Take organic oil. With Xanthium, oils are extracted from many seeds. So, if you use soybean oil, rapeseed oil, cottonseed oil, corn oil, you get Dixan. Jamaican Black Castor Oil is often used. It seems that this amazing oil is even better than regular castor oil from other places. If you need to grow eyelashes, castor oil is an excellent remedy. Just rub a little oil into the roots of your eyelashes every day and you will see how the situation begins to change for the better. And the last thing about this toxin in castor oil is nothing to worry about. This particular toxin is removed during the production process. The producers of this oil know about this poison, so the oil is checked to make sure that it does not contain poison. Unfortunately, there is no poison from this  There is no simple antidote, and if you are poisoned by it, you need to go to the hospital for help. Some small doses cause death in two or three days, which is very dangerous. But if you use oil, there is nothing to worry about. It is a paradox that something so poisonous has such a healing effect on so many parts of the body. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems inside the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.