Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. I decided to record a video for those people who don't like vegetables. I'm one of them. I've never liked them and still don't like them, but I still have a lot of vegetables. Why do n't many people like vegetables? Firstly, they take a long time to work with. Vegetables need to be prepared, you need to chop them, there's a lot of hassle. And vegetables taste so-so. There's little pleasure in them, but they last a long time to chew. If I didn't need to get healthy, if health wasn't a problem, I could eat anything. I'd probably only eat potato chips, popcorn, pizza, and anything salty. I love salty foods. I definitely wouldn't eat any vegetables. But after 20, I started having problems because I wasn't eating the right amount of vegetables. So, the main thing we get from vegetables is nutrients, enzymes, vitamins, macronutrients, and micronutrients. That's why it's so important to eat vegetables to get at least some chance of restoring your liver and losing weight. You'll have to change your attitude toward vegetables and eat them in large quantities. Unfortunately, you won't be able to lose weight for a long time and become healthy if you don't eat vegetables. It's impossible even if you cook them, make soup out of them, or  eating them is not enough, you will have to eat vegetables and alas, I am not talking about corn or peas, but you won’t get the required amount, at least half of the vegetables need to be eaten raw, before some vegetables cause bloating, you can steam them, but the right raw ones need to be found, you need to find those that will not make me bloat, and a couple more comments: firstly, I manage to enjoy vegetables, but only an hour after eating, and sometimes the next day, on days when I don’t eat vegetables and feel more sluggish, I get bloated and I feel heavy, as if I ate too much protein, on days when I eat them, I feel lighter, the difference is obvious, I feel this difference, so personally, I eat vegetables because I have been convinced many times that it makes me feel better and therefore I continue because I know that it is good for me, you just need to change your point of view and start eating for health and not just for pleasure, you see, I will give you a couple of tips on how to make life easier, especially in terms of time costs, so as not to waste time preparing vegetables, I put them in a blender, I will share one quick recipe, all we need is a blender and vegetables  put vegetables and something else in a blender to make the taste better, turn on the blender and that's it, you can take the mixture to work to drink and so you don't have to sit down at the table every time and eat a bunch of greens, switched to her, let's move to my house and I'll show you everything, we're at my house and here's what we'll do I need a blender, a glass half filled with water, I'll also need kale, look how much of it is in this cup, about seven or eight cups of kale, no less, it's quite difficult to eat all of this, but drinking it is easy, by the way, kale and I freeze it, put it in a blender, it's much easier when it's frozen, so it will be stored for quite a long time if you don't freeze it, it quickly spoils and so turn on the blender in which there is only kale or water, now you'll see what happens, well, everything is mixed by the way, if you are cooking for children or if you are not trying to lose weight, you can add fruit here, put a banana and berries, yes, if you are trying to lose weight, you can add berries too, but I noticed that this can slow down weight loss in people with a stubborn metabolism, there are a couple of  You can add a couple of drops of berry-flavored Stevie to our mixture. My wife likes the chocolate flavor. By the way, we've been using instant kill shakes with berries lately. I like the chocolate-flavored one. My wife's favorite. Here's what we do: mix the solution with water. Take a spoonful of this powder and pour it in. There's no sugar in this shake, but it's sweet, and it contains instant kill shake kale. Add one spoonful and stir again. Just a few seconds and the mixture is ready. This kale shake is quite sweet. It's made with scales, and I'll wait for the foam to settle. [music] It tastes like there are berries in it, even though there are n't any. Here you go. It's a wonderful drink, low in sugar. You can drink greens this way. You can take it with you to work or drink it when you get home from work if you don't want to eat a whole mountain of greens. Here's a simple way to drink greens. I used kale, but I don't like the chocolate flavor. You can try it too. That's all there was to it. This was advice on how to eat more vegetables.