There's a cool topic, I'll show you how to make your own vitamin D supplement using mushrooms. Mushrooms usually grow in semi-darkness. The only daylight they see is when they are picked and processed. Mushrooms contain very little vitamin D unless they are exposed to ultraviolet light. There's some very interesting research showing that when exposed to light, the amount of vitamin D in mushrooms increases to levels far exceeding the minimum daily dose. Vitamin D levels in mushrooms can be increased to values ​​from 5,000 international units to 46,000 international units and even higher. In this video, I'll show you exactly how to do this. You can use shiitake cherries, miitake mushrooms, or button mushrooms. Other mushrooms are also suitable. When these mushrooms were exposed to light during the study, it was found that exposing the folds on the bottom of the mushroom cap to light produces the most vitamin D. If we use button mushrooms, they should be cut or sliced lengthwise to increase the surface area to create the same effect. I'll note that  The type of vitamin D produced in mushrooms is vitamin D2, a slightly different form of vitamin D. Its bioavailability is lower and it breaks down faster, but that's okay because the concentration of vitamin D increases significantly, so you 'll get quite a lot of vitamin. I also recommend eating these mushrooms with some fats, say butter, or eating them stewed simply because vitamin D is better absorbed with fats, because it's a fat-soluble vitamin. But mushrooms contain h-she nutrients. They have a good set of B vitamins. They contain strong zinc and copper. They contain a vitamin C complex. They contain potassium and many other nutrients. Nikita is compatible because they have few carbohydrates. So, here's how to do it. First, you need to get the mushrooms. Buy them in a store or collect them in the forest or grow them yourself. As I recently recommended, shiitake mushrooms are oyster mushrooms or champignons. In order for this transformation to occur in these mushrooms and increase vitamin D, you will need a source of ultraviolet light. Unfortunately, it almost never happens in winter, and if you live  in certain northern latitudes, so I recommend you do this in the summer months, but you can also do it in the winter using ultraviolet lamps. In general, in the summer in June, July, August, take your mushrooms, turn them over and remove the stems so that the gills are facing up and the cap lies on a sheet, for example, on baking paper. The stems must be removed because almost no vitamin D is formed in them. The gills form. This applies to shiitake and oyster mushrooms. The gills of champignons are sometimes invisible. If you take champignons, cut them lengthwise, lay them out on baking paper and leave them in the sun from 10 am to 6 pm. This is the best 8 hours for exposure to sunlight. That is, exposure to ultraviolet B for 6 hours. Take the tray with mushrooms back into the house. You can cover it. You need to protect the mushrooms from Vladi. After all, our goal is to dry them in the sun. The next second day, take them out into the sun again and repeat the same procedure, exposing them to the bright sun from 10 am to 6 pm. Then bring them in.  Back to the house and they will probably be completely dry. You can tell that the mushrooms have dried by breaking them open. They should crunch if the mushrooms are still wet. You may need to finish drying them with a vegetable dryer. When they are completely dry, two days in the sun should be enough for this. Place them in a glass jar and close the lid tightly. I also recommend pouring rice on the bottom of the jar. You need to cover the bottom and a little more so that it absorbs excess moisture. Because moisture softens the mushrooms, we need to keep them dry without any moisture so that they can be stored for a whole year. By placing the mushrooms in a glass container, you will preserve them for a long time. But it turned out that if you leave the mushrooms to dry in the sun for three, four, five days, the vitamin D level drops significantly, so this can only be done for two days. If this is not summer, you can buy an ultraviolet lamp and do exactly the same procedure. Look, 100 grams is about one glass of shiitake mushrooms can give up to 46 thousand international units of vitamin D 2. This is simply incredible when using a lamp.  By exposing shiitake mushrooms to ultraviolet light and keeping them under it for 18 hours, I hope you're sitting still. You can raise your vitamin D levels to more than 200,000 international units. This is a colossal amount. If you do this, let's say you ate just a few mushrooms, not a glass. This will give you a huge amount of vitamin D. We made this vitamin D ourselves at home. If we do this with champignons, we'll get a little less, about twenty thousand. Other studies used mushrooms without drying them. They exposed fresh mushrooms to the sun for 15 minutes to 2 hours, and in that short time, we got 600 to 5,000 international units. This is even without slicing the mushrooms. The main idea is to expose the mushrooms to sunlight or ultraviolet light. Well, now that you know how to make vitamin D yourself, you need to fully understand all the beneficial properties of vitamin D. Here's a video about it, watch it.