That's why I decided to make a video about this problem. The fact is that it is very widespread, from 30 to 50% of people have it. And most of them do not even suspect its existence. It is associated with a genetic mutation, and since this problem is likely to exist in the same proportion of viewers, it is very important to know more about it. It concerns one gene. Its name is on the screen. This gene is responsible for one specific enzyme, and the enzyme that is activated by this gene has exactly the same name. This gene is also called the detoxification gene, but it has many functions. It is involved in the production of neurotransmitters, adrenaline, dopamine, serotonin, and GABA. It is also involved in hormonal regulation. But today I will focus on the role of this enzyme, which is associated with detoxification. If it is mutated or somehow modified, and this is evident from the analysis, then the function of this gene will be lost by 25-80 percent. Just imagine, we are literally swimming in all kinds of chemicals, hormones, toxins, pesticides, heavy metals, substances that change our endocrine system, endocrine disruptors.  mold fungi toxins and if your ability to get rid of these substances is weakened by 25-80 percent, imagine how this will affect you. It may not affect you. If you live in perfectly clean conditions without contact with chemicals, everything is very clean, the diet is impeccable, but this is not always the case. This gene is needed to help methylate substances. Methylation involves adding a methyl group to some molecules, which helps the substance to be activated. This allows you to break down substances, produce neurotransmitters, and repair DNA. It is simply an addition to the biochemical pathway that allows it to work as it should. This gene is associated with folate. This is vitamin B9, but it is difficult for you to convert folic acid into the active form of the vitamin, that is, folate. This is why it is very dangerous to consume a lot of synthetic folic acid. It will accumulate and act as a toxin and will not be able to convert into the required form to perform its functions. What are the consequences? The more toxins that act on, the more damage from free radicals, the more oxidation, the more inflammation, fibrosis, which can  Overgrowth of the liver can also lead to insulin resistance or fatty liver. This gene is also associated with choline. Without choline, you will not be able to produce acetylcholine, which is necessary for the parasympathetic nervous system, which should calm you, you will not be able to produce the neurotransmitter for this system, your digestion will not work well, the quality of sleep will decrease, Choline also prevents gallstones and problems with the breakdown of fats in the liver and cholesterol can increase. Not to mention the fact that bile will accumulate in the liver and What's interesting about toxins in general, we are talking about chemicals in the environment, many chemicals pesticides insecticides herbicides fungicides heavy metals, they are all classified as inductive degraders and also estrogenic, since their structure is similar to estrogen. Here is another interesting point: estrogen affects reproduction. There are even studies on the effect of these chemicals on the environment in a lake where frogs were exposed to their effects and as a result, their sex changed from male to female. Another problem is the accumulation of these estrogens in  In the body, estrogen begins to dominate in men and women, this is reflected in testosterone levels. In men, effeminate breasts can develop. A very good remedy for this is the use of phytoestrogens, for example, cruciferous vegetables contain many other plants that contain estrogens. Phytoestrogens help replace dangerous estrogen with another estrogen that is less toxic or non-toxic. They prevent estrogen dominance. They will help you protect yourself from toxic substances. If you have this genetic problem, a regular detox will not help you. You will have to maintain a full frequency. Even alcohol or large amounts of caffeine will be a challenge for your liver. If a certain amount of mercury will affect one person in one way or another, the same amount of mercury will cause much more harm to you. There is a very simple thing that can be done to address this problem. You just need to understand that the enzyme that converts nutrients like folate into an active form is turned off. If you start taking more folic acid in the right form and more other vitamins, for example, B12 in the right form, and also take Choline, then you will ensure the proper functioning of this gene.  Many They could be gone, this is a very simple solution, and here's what I recommend for this genetic problem. Of course, something should be avoided, for example, synthetic folic acid in many fortified products, multivitamins, fortified nutritional yeast, you should take non- fortified ones, because you need natural B-vitamins. A link to a video about all this will be below, and what should you take? You need a type of folate such as methylfolate, type B12, which you need, methylcobalamin, and take halin. I also highly recommend taking a natural complex, not synthetic. There are also B vitamins in nutritional yeast, but just make sure that they are fortified with magnesium. Another very important factor, but magnesium can be obtained from leafy greens because leafy vegetables. And if you choose dark green leafy vegetables from cruciferous vegetables, this will further enhance the detoxification process because cruciferous vegetables are one of the best ways to enhance the detoxification of the first and second phases of the liver, while fat-soluble poisons are converted into water-soluble particles that are not poisonous. There are also cruciferous vegetables. Phytoestrogens So they will also help balance excess estrogen. I wanted to deepen your knowledge of a problem that is very common, but many do not know. Full information about this enzyme is in my other video, which will appear here.