Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  Please, Dog.  So why are beef and lamb healthier than chicken, eggs or pork?  Well, we'll find out soon enough, says someone on YouTube with the cool nickname Catapult X. Please tell us about the benefits of crystalline organic sulfur.  I am a woman, I am 70 years old, my knees hurt, I have a Baker's cyst, and my hip joints hurt.  I have a video about sulfur.  By increasing sulfur levels, certain foods and supplements can increase sulfur levels. Many sulfur compounds are beneficial for joints and connective tissue.  But when you eat meat, you get two sulfur-containing amino acids.  This is our main source of sulfur.  So you can eat more meat to get more sulfur from meat.  I don’t even know what kind of sulfur you’ll have in your dietary supplement .  And sulfur is a raw material for some compounds that strengthen joints.  But Sulfur has many other beneficial properties.  Fine.  Asks about a coma from YouTube.  What advice would you give to someone with glaucoma? It is best to take high doses of vitamin D3, perhaps 30-40,000 IU per day along with K2 and magnesium.  There is an excellent book about glaucoma and high levels of vitamin D. Its author is an ophthalmologist from Germany.  The book has been translated.  I tried to contact him and interview him.  He extensively tested high doses of vitamin D3 in glaucoma and got fantastic results.  He is a doctor and specializes in eye diseases.  I started reading his book.  It is very difficult to find.  I need to post the data from this book somewhere, otherwise I’ve been looking for it for a long time myself .  I am reading this book for the third time.  He describes many other eye diseases that vitamin D helps with. Amazing.  If you are interested in the topic of vitamin D, you will definitely be interested in this.  And you know, you've been a great help to us all, but I think we need to repeat these seemingly frightening figures. 30-40,000.  And you also said that in half an hour in the sun we get how much vitamin D?  It seems like quite a lot.  in half an hour, probably 10,000.  Yeah, 10,000.  But what is 10,000?  This is 1/4 of migma.  Wow, 1/4.  Instead of 10,000, you can take a quarter of a milligram of vitamin D. Which of these numbers scares you, Steve?  I'm very timid, but now we know.  A Facebook user asks if it is possible to cure hypothyroidism with natural remedies without taking medication.  Yes, you can. Without a doubt, in 90% of cases hypothyroidism is an autoimmune disease, Hashimot's disease.  High doses of vitamin D3 are needed here.  I recommend looking at the Kaimbra Protocol and finding a doctor who is trained in high-dose vitamin D3 and working with them remotely to figure out the exact dose you need. But, even if you don't have Hashimot's disease, you may need nutrients to strengthen your thyroid gland, whether it's a little iodine, selenium, a healthy diet.  Here's the thing .  Many people ask what to do about this. I'm assuming you've watched my other videos because when it comes to any illness, the first thing I always advise people to do is switch to a healthy version of a low-carb diet.  This is what I advise.  And see if the problem goes away after a few weeks.  And if you take all sorts of medications but continue to eat incorrectly, all these medications will go down the drain.  Well, great. Now let's find out the audience's answers to the quiz question, which was: Why are beef and lamb healthier than chicken, eggs, or pork?  75% answered because they eat herbs.  20% said because they have more vitamin B12 and 5% said because they have more omega-3.  Who is right?  Yes, pigs and chickens are fed grain, which affects chicken eggs.  Yes, cattle are sometimes fed grain too, but I'm talking about completely grass- fed meat.  And these animals, sheep, cows, eat only grass.  No grain.  That is, they eat their natural food. And this is amazing, because grain, that is, grass, contains a lot of fiber, and in winter we feed them hay, that is, dry grass.  Essentially, we are feeding them fiber that even they can't digest, let alone us.  But microorganisms in the intestines of these animals ferment this fiber.  And in essence, it serves as food for microorganisms.   That 's why cattle have huge bellies. Even sheep and scythes.  Essentially, we are feeding microorganisms, and these microorganisms contain a lot of protein.  It is from these that animals obtain protein.  And microorganisms secrete amazing compounds that serve as food for a cow or sheep.  So when we eat grass- fed animals, we get much less omega-6, and omega-6 causes inflammation.  So, try an experiment.  Eat more beef and lamb for a while.  You can eliminate other types of protein and see if your inflammation decreases.  You may be very surprised by how well you feel.  Question from Lina from YouTube.  I use inversion therapy for 10 minutes.  The spine stretches perfectly.  Can this also slow down hair loss?  After all, this allows more blood and nutrients to flow to the scalp .  This seems logical to me.  I think it's a great therapy that's underrated.  Here we hang upside down or at some angle, not quite vertical, and all this blood flows into the scalp.  I think it's brilliant.  It is also a decompression of the spine.  I really like it, highly recommend it.  I also have a table for manual therapy.  It bends like this and allows us to simulate this effect of stretching the disks.  But I like the inversion table for its simplicity.  You can start from any angle and gradually increase it.  Yes, blood flow increases greatly.  Great, asks Terisa from Facebook.  Can you share your thoughts on fibromyalgia treatment?  I understand her.  This is not fun at all . If fibromyalgia is on the right, then the problem is in the gallbladder and bile ducts, this will get rid of it.  Many people have it on the right, but it is not fibromyalgia.  We also need to see if any dormant virus has emerged from hibernation, be it the Epstein-Barr virus, the cytomegalovirus, or even the herpes virus.  These viruses can sleep and then wake up.  You may not have a full-blown infection, but you may have general inflammation of the muscles, bones, or joints because the germ or virus has come out of dormancy, which often happens due to a weakened immune system, which is weakened primarily by stress.  So I always ask, "When did your fibromyalgia start?"  And I hear: "Oh, such-and-such a day is good. What kind of stress did you have before that?" And usually people say it was the loss of a loved one or some other stress. And then you just need to reduce stress and cortisol to cope with it. After all, as stress increases, so does cortisol. And this is a very powerful factor that suppresses the immune system. It turns it off in a jiffy, and you need to eliminate it to restore the immune system so that it is not blinded. Then it will be able to return the viruses to dormancy.