Let's talk about how to reduce a nodular goiter with natural remedies, but first I want to voice a disclaimer. This video is not intended to replace medical treatment. Consult a doctor before following these tips. My goal is to give you more information so that when choosing a strategy, you know both points of view, the official and the alternative. Unfortunately, many alternative tips are buried very deeply on Google and are difficult to find. So, let's start by examining your thyroid gland yourself. For this examination, you will need a mirror and a glass of water. First, you need to determine where the thyroid gland is located. I run my finger down my throat to this small protrusion, this is the Adam's apple or Adam's apple. It is called the prominent cartilage, although the thyroid gland is not located here, but lower. If I lower my finger a little lower, it will be in a small depression. Here, from here and below, here you can feel a kind of corrugated tube. This is the trachea. These are small cartilages that feel like small protrusions. Here, if you go lower, we will feel two small protrusions. These are two small rings, this is the thyroid gland, and so on. Place your finger on these two rings and the other finger here at the bottom where the collarbones connect. The thyroid gland is located right here. It looks like a butterfly. It has wings and a small bridge in the middle. The thyroid gland is located right here. If you put your fingers on it and take a sip of water while looking at the mirror, it will rise a little. When you drink, when you swallow, you need to look to see if there is a small protrusion, a small lump, or a small tubercle that sticks out. Also, feel to understand whether the left side is symmetrical compared to the right. If one side is larger than the other, this is abnormal. Both sides should be the same size and no lumps, protrusions, or tubercles should be felt. If there is any of this, then you may have a nodule or an enlarged gland. The first thing you need to know is that these nodules are very, very common. They are extremely common in young people, in children, and in 50 percent of those over 40, they can appear and disappear. 95 percent of them are benign and only a very small percentage are associated with cancer. If you consult a doctor, he will probably prescribe  Blood tests and ultrasound, look at the level of sitogen hormones and antibodies, because in 90 percent of cases, hypothyroidism is a consequence of Hashimoto's disease, and this is an autoimmune disease with inflammation. The name of the disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, has the ending -ed, which means inflammation. With Hashimoto's disease, there will be more nodules. I made a lot of videos about hypothyroidism, its symptoms, and what needs to be done. In fact, Hashimoto's disease is more of an autoimmune disease. They are diseases of the thyroid gland itself, and Hashimoto's disease is caused primarily by a fight in the immune system, and the causes of this failure can be severe stress or trauma. This is such stress or shock, say, the loss of a loved one, which can lead your immune system to such a state that a variety of problems can arise, especially autoimmune ones. Let 's consider 6 factors that contribute to the appearance of nodular goiter. First of all, I would exclude all dairy products and see if the nodular goiter disappears. Dairy products contain a lot of hormones that can stimulate the growth of the thyroid gland. After all, if you think about what milk is, it is intended for  simply be it calves, sheep, and any other animals or babies, so milk contains a lot of different hormones for growth, so drinking milk can be one of the factors. If you exclude dairy products, perhaps the nodules will disappear. The second factor is gluten. Those who watch my channel probably don’t eat gluten, and beginners need to know that gluten is found in grains. It is a protein in grains and it is closely related to Hashimoto’s disease. Without going into details, there are similarities or closeness between the genetic characteristics of gluten and the thyroid gland. In other words, if you eat gluten, your body perceives this dietary gluten as an invader or pathogen and begins to produce antibodies. Then these antibodies can switch and begin to attack not only gluten but also the thyroid gland. Now, I don’t want to go too deep into this. There is a link below on this topic. Perhaps these nodules will completely disappear if you simply avoid gluten. I recommend switching to a whale gene diet because there is additional data that insulin resistance, which occurs due to excess carbohydrates, causes  a tendency to form nodules on the thyroid gland, and a combination of intermittent fasting in China will greatly help reduce these nodules due to its anti-inflammatory effect alone. By the way, vitamin D is very useful for Hashimotosis, especially in doses of 30,000 to 40,000 international units, although I have not found any correlation between low vitamin D levels and nodular goiter. The presence of autoimmune diseases means a vitamin D deficiency, and so vitamin D can help. Number three is selenium deficiency. Low selenium levels are associated with nodular goiter, so I definitely recommend getting it. Selenium is found in Brazil nuts. Just one Brazil nut will give you your daily selenium requirement. Selenium is also found in fish, tuna, salmon, and other fish. In addition, selenium neutralizes mercury very well, which is found in fish. It is also found in soups, any meat, and eggs. Many people think that with nodular goiter, it is necessary to take iodine. Maybe they are right, maybe not. And here is why taking excess iodine can lead to the formation of nodules. Therefore, iodine can  help you if you have an iodine deficiency, but if you, say, already eat a lot of seaweed, then you don't need to eat even more of it or take j, because this may be the cause of the nodules. This is my point of view on j. If your diet already contains a lot of seaweed or iodine, reduce their amount. If you have nodules. If your diet does not contain seaweed or iodine, I think a little seaweed can help you reduce the size of the nodules. Seaweed is good because it contains not only j but also silene and another mineral that will be discussed is zinc. Zinc deficiency can increase the predisposition to the formation of nodules. What foods contain zinc? Red meat, shellfish, oysters, and many other foods. If you decide to take silene or zinc in the form of supplements, I will write the doses I recommend below. Number five is estrogen dominance. Excess estrogen, and the thyroid gland has receptors for estrogen, can be the cause of nodules. Therefore, women with estrogen dominance often develop nodules, especially during pregnancy or taking medications. birth control or while receiving estrogen replacement therapy. So, if this is your case, talk to your doctor. You may need to change birth control or choose another natural hormone replacement therapy because estrogen greatly affects the thyroid gland. There are many natural remedies for lowering estrogen. I will leave link number six below. There is an interesting study link below. And with the combined use of turmeric, a powerful anti-inflammatory agent, spirulina. You also led. With the combination of these three components, it was possible to significantly reduce nodular goiter. There is a link to this study below. I wanted to give you a simple strategy based on natural remedies. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Enlarged parts and nodules of the thyroid gland. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos are waiting for you, a list of products, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland. Sign up for the course at the link below. See you there.