Hello, today we'll talk about a very non-standard, unusual, paradoxical method for cleansing fatty liver. Before moving on to the method itself, I'll tell you a little about the liver. The liver weighs about one and a half kilograms, is located on the right side here, and performs 500 different functions. The problem is that with the development of fatty liver, there are practically no symptoms; the stomach begins to bulge, but symptoms almost never appear until everything goes too far, and eventually a person begins to feel fatigue, weakness, and nausea; abdominal pain in the right shoulder; pain in the upper right trapezius muscle; headache on the right side; pain in the right rhomboid muscles. The danger is that with fatty liver, after years of inflammation, cirrhosis of the liver develops; scar tissue forms; because of this, the liver loses the ability to perform its main function of detoxification; thus, toxic waste and excessive amounts of cortisol accumulate because the liver acts as a buffer and regulates excessive amounts of cortisol, a stress hormone, and this is one of the causes of adrenal fatigue. Excess estrogen also accumulates in the body; this can manifest itself in different ways; in men, breasts may grow; in women, Estrogen dominance begins, the risk of developing cancer appears, a functioning liver is very important for detoxification and regulation of cortisol with estrogen, another problem is that as liver function decreases, less bile is produced, if bile is not produced, toxic waste fats are not broken down, you cannot absorb vitamins A, A, E, C, omega-3 fatty acids, and the list goes on. There are two types of fatty liver: one due to excessive alcohol consumption, the second due to reasons unrelated to alcohol, this type develops due to poor nutrition. The main thing that leads to fatty liver is fructose, high-fructose corn syrup, it is found in soda. The idea is that fructose causes fatty liver 20 times more often than any other sugar. The non- alcoholic type of fatty liver affects 25 percent of the population, and not only people with excess weight or a protruding belly. Thin people die from fatty liver twice as often as overweight people. Probably, thin people think they are healthy and can eat whatever they want, and they do.  Anything, the next point is quite interesting. There are many studies on this topic, and here's what happens in mice on a diet deficient in methionine and choline. Fatty liver developed, but they didn't gain weight. They didn't develop insulin resistance or diabetes. Only fatty liver. Methionine is an amino acid. Halim is an essential nutrient from the B vitamins. Methionine is a precursor, that is, the raw material for the most powerful antioxidant in the body. Glutathione is a sulfur-based compound that helps break down chemicals. Halen, or in detail, is a substance. That is, it dissolves fat in the body and it can remove fat from the liver. Now about that very paradoxical method. When it comes to cleansing the liver, treating liver problems, you think of cleansing with vegetable juices, low-fat foods, eating less meat, and so on. But this way you will achieve only limited results. Look at foods that are high in choline, such as yolks, liver, dairy from grass-fed animals, and cruciferous vegetables. Methionine is found in beef, chicken, and pork. Nuts, fish, eggs. Thus, the two most important Nutrients for correcting steatosis or fatty liver are found in foods high in fat and protein. To cleanse and heal a fatty liver, you don't need to switch to low-fat foods. You don't need to minimize the amount of protein. Protein should be moderate, not too much, but you don't need to eliminate all of these foods. Instead of juices and vegetable diets, you need a combination of cruciferous vegetables and different proteins, including fish and egg yolks, of course, grass-fed. Detoxifying a fatty liver is necessary for two things: firstly, cleansing from toxins because the liver performs the function of detoxification. Cruciferous vegetables contain a lot of phytonutrients that will help in this matter. By the way, some animal products, offal, fish, and seafood also contain antioxidants that help release toxins from the liver. Not only vegetables, we need to get rid of toxins and also get rid of fat. To do this, you need to reduce the amount of carbohydrates, and that is why healthy chum salmon is so necessary. The healthy version of healthy chum salmon is based on the concept of low carbohydrates and lots of vegetables, which is extremely important. And of course, intermittent fasting is why it stimulates the body to use up its reserves.  Glycogen uses fat as fuel, this creates a kind of vacuum that draws out fat, this is what you need to start removing fat from the liver. I also suggest taking halen in supplements, because they can be obtained from protein, and halen too, but a little extra choline won't hurt. I recommend 400-500 milligrams. You can take up to 3000 milligrams if you want, but I usually always start with 300-400 milligrams of choline. It comes in tablets or powder. Start taking it. It will begin to dissolve fat in the liver and speed up the entire healing process. It's also worth adding cruciferous vegetables. I advise steaming or lightly boiling them because this will release more phytonutrients. A lot of choline is entrusted to high-quality protein. You don't need to buy it in a regular store. Find high-quality protein in a health food store. The last point is very important. If you are trying to cleanse the liver, especially if you have a fatty liver, and a low-fat diet will not produce enough bile to detoxify it. One of the functions of bile is this  Bile detoxification is needed not only for the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins but also to help the liver remove toxic waste. Bile production is stimulated by large amounts of saturated fats, so you should continue to consume egg yolks, possibly organ meats, and a moderate amount of protein to ward off bile and avoid developing a methionine and choline deficiency. Thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel to stay up to date with new videos.