Hi, I'll answer the question of whether it's possible to eat these vegetables on a ketogenic diet. Let's discuss this because there's confusion here. We'll talk about beets, carrots, peas, and tomatoes. I'll also add a list of potatoes, corn, and artichokes. They're also in this category. Let's start with beets. They have a lot of potassium: four hundred and forty-two milligrams of potassium per glass. All these numbers per glass also contain 13 grams of carbohydrates, of which 9 grams of sugar. The amount of sugar is much more important than the amount of carbohydrates. Because the amount of sugar should be very, very low. If a product has a lot of carbohydrates, they can still convert into glucose very slowly if there's a lot of fiber, but if there's a lot of sugar, it will convert into glucose very quickly, and it doesn't matter how much fiber there is. Although it softens the process in beets, there are 9 grams of sugar, which is a lot of protein. 2.2 grams, but there's 38 grams of fiber. There's quite a lot of fiber, which will help soften the sugars. But the question is, should you eat beets? If you're trying to join Titos, maybe you shouldn't. However, if you're okay with it, like me. Your weight, you can safely eat beets. This vegetable is very good for the liver. It has a lot of nutrients. Beets cleanse the gallbladder well, but if you're trying to get into Titos, it's better not to eat beets. Carrots have 195 milligrams. Let me remind you that potassium is needed to lower insulin, so you need a lot of potassium. Look at the carbohydrates: 6 grams, compared to beets, quite a few, half as much. 2 and 9 grams of sugar, compared to beets, very, very little protein, not very much fiber, half as much. So, on a ketogenic diet, carrots are perfectly acceptable. It's unlikely that you'll have serious problems from them because they have quite a bit of sugar and carbohydrates. Besides, they contain fiber, so you do n't have to avoid carrots. Next, peas are basically regular peas, they contain 354 milligrams of potassium, which is quite a lot. 21 grams of carbohydrates are also quite a lot. 8 grams of sugar is a lot, and look at the protein, there are 8 grams. It's interesting, I heard, but pea proteins are like this, and carrot protein is  They don't say that much yet, peas have 7 grams of fiber, quite a lot. In general, I would stay away from peas because they have a lot of sugar. Tomatoes have 292 milligrams of potassium, 4.8 grams of carbohydrates, which is a little less than in carrots. Three and two grams of sugar are quite a bit, which is a little more than in carrots. Tomatoes are probably better to eat than beets. Carrots and peas are practically tied with carrots, but there is quite a little sugar in tomatoes. They also have 11 grams of protein, one and a half grams of fiber, not as much fiber as peas, but still a little, and there is almost the same amount as in carrots. So, I would say that tomatoes are okay on a ketogenic diet. Of the vegetables discussed, carrots and tomatoes are okay, but beets and peas are probably not worth it. Potatoes have 897 milligrams of potassium, which is simply an incredible amount. There are also 37 grams of carbohydrates, which is a lot, but look at this. 1.7 grams of sugar is not much, but we know what starch is, it turns into glucose.  Faster than we would like 4.3 grams of protein is not a lot but look 4.7 grams of fiber so potatoes although they have a lot of potassium that's the problem the number 37 and this is a real problem carbohydrates are much higher than in tomatoes or carrots but little sugar if you have small children potatoes will suit them well give them sweet potatoes yamz red potatoes must be organic as food potatoes are not bad but they can slow down weight loss then corn 476 milligrams of potassium quite a lot 123 grams of carbohydrates that's why corn does not suit us besides all corn gamma we don't need this 1 gram of sugar is not bad but still solid starch I was very surprised that corn has 16 grams of protein is hard to believe but this is the number given by the data source and there is no fiber but corn protein doesn't even know in my opinion some kind of nonsense artichokes in artichokes as much as 644 milligrams of potassium they are second only to potatoes carbohydrates in them twenty six and nine grams and  This is a very high amount of carbohydrates on this list. Artichokes are right after potatoes. This is a very high amount of carbohydrates per cup. And look, 14 grams of sugar. Artichokes are the worst food on a ketogenic diet. Don't eat them. 3 grams of protein. 2 and 4 grams of fiber. I recommend sticking with carrots and tomatoes. The rest of the items on this list are not worth eating. That's all. Thank you very much for watching and see you next time.