emeemeeme, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin ar CWG — доброкачественное пароксизмальное позиционное головокружение. Это причудливое название состояния, при котором кристаллизмический кальций срываются со своих мест и перемещаются по другим частям уха, вызывая головокружение и чувство, что всё вокруг вертится, когда вы находитесь в определенных позах. Например, вы наклоняетесь и всё начинает кружиться. Если посмотрим, как устроено наше ухо, информация поступает в ухо, It goes on a small membrane, and the vibrations are on another mechanism, like this amazing, and this kind of thing. It's a very interesting thing. It's a very interesting gyroscope, which allows you to know where you are, in certain places, in which you are in the direction, which is quite a miracle. So this thing is a miracle. It's like this one. The crystal of calcium is and the cells are in the middle of the channel. There are some hairs, which are the inside of the cells, and they are in the inner nerves that are in the brain. And in order to reduce the sensitivity of all this system, the cells are in the gel. And by the way, the organism is a very interesting thing. To make the sensitivity of the higher part of the cell, it needs to be mass in the upper part of the cell. It allows the cells to be more effectively to understand information. So these crotchets of calcium, which are normal, they should be in this place. It's just these gruzs, which are fixed in the gel. So it's a normal thing, and it's a very interesting mechanism. But the question, on which I answer now, is the question, why some of these crystals are disclared from the inside and moved to other places, in other parts of the ure, where they have to be, where they have to be. In the post-menopause, risk of this higher risk. And the other thing to understand this is actually the microcosm of the cells, which are to keep this calcium in the place of the cells, in the inside of the body. They are called calcium, the cells of the cells. So I decided to look deeper into these cells. I have a few cells. I wanted to know, what they are and they are. And I have a clear understanding. They are really in vitamin D3. That's right. And I have a lot of people with Vertigo have a lot of the D3. And in principle, it's logical, because vitamin D, compared to other people, has a large number of functions. He controls 2400 different genes. So, his role is not to be able to to the metabolism of the calcium and the body of the cells. He works with immune system, increases the immune system, increases the immune system, and regulates the blood pressure. And also, he also, on the calcium-related cells, which will not allow the calcium-related cells to be able to be able to break down. So I looked at this research. And, and, there are a lot of research about vitamin D and its connection with Vertigo. It's a very important thing to do with Vertigo. It's a very important thing to do with Vertigo. Here's one. It's a very important thing to do with a paroxysmal, a positional, a lot of attention with vitamin D. Meta-analyze. Now, there are some researches. I've found out that I've found out that. And I've found out why. The thing is that if you take a lot of vitamin D, for some people, it's not working. If you're going to take it in small doses, and with all the barriers that have been in people, with all the barriers that have been in people, with insulin resistance, if you're in a weight, or, and what's more important, if you're not going to eat enough vitamin D a day, then you'll wait to not wait. If you're not going to eat enough vitamin D, then you'll wait to wait. And now, subscribe to the channel and click on the bell, to be able to get all the notifications. If you're not going to be able to get all notifications, YouTube can't forget about new videos. This simple действия you will help you to continue to develop the channel. And we continue. Because the type of vitamin D, which you need to control these the type of vitamin D, is the part of the system of your body, at least at least at least at least 6 000 to 10 000 of the unit of vitamin D3 every day, every day. And if you look at the research, where people gave them enough vitamin D, you will see very good results. If you take small doses, like 600 ME, which is recommended for vitamin D, which is ridiculous, it's not a problem. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. Especially if you take it once a week or twice a week. In the meantime, vitamin D can actually be able to restore the system of theemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeemeeme Why? Because vitamin K2 tells the body to go to the body, where should be the calcium. If you have no vitamin K2, you will end up with more calcium. And this may affect our situation. Vitamin K2 is not studied, but D3 and Magni is studied well. But they are not studied separately. I have not found any other research and that and that and that. So, I think they are studying each factor individually, and it's hard to know, what does it do. But if I had such a problem, I would take the D3 and Magni with this year. And I would take the D3 and Magni with this year and I would take the D3 and Magni with less than 10000 E every day. Now you know what to do. When you start drinking vitamin D, you will try to solve this problem. It may be a week or two or a week or a week or a week or a week, because you work with the first reason. You have a lot of people. The deficit of vitamin D is very serious. So, quickly and with small doses, the problem will not be solved. But can you do something else, while it is done? There is an excellent, simple procedure. It is called the maneuver Apple. Now you will see how to do it. I am going to the massage table. I am going to the floor. I am going to the floor 45 degrees in my head. And I am going to the floor. My head is on the floor. My head is on the floor, but not on the floor, but on the floor, so that my head is slightly bent down and down. In this position, it will be clear, there is a vertical and how it is strong. Now I will sit down. I am going to pause for a few seconds, so everything will be relaxed. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. And then I will rotate the floor for a few minutes. We will now look at the symptoms of Vertigo and their power. Then I will turn it over. For the first time of demonstration, let's say that when I was lying, I had severe severe hurtiness in my head. This means that the right is in the right now. So I will do the treatment on the right. I will explain everything on the right. I will take my legs and sit on the table. I will turn the head to the left. Then I will lay back. I will stay in this position until Vertigo stops. Then I will wait for another half minutes. After 30 seconds, I will turn the head to the left. I will turn the head to the left. So that it is on 45 degrees, so that it is on 45 degrees, so that it is on 45 degrees, so that it is on 45 degrees. Again, I will wait until the head and then another half minutes. For the heavy cases, you might need to wait for a minute in every position. After the period of time, I will turn the third position. I will turn the head to the left, with my head, with my head down to the table, with my head down to the table, about 45 degrees. You can take the head down to the table, about 40 degrees. Like this. Like this. Okay. After my Vertigo stops, I will wait for another 30 seconds. I will move into the last position. I will sit up on the table, with my chin, with my chin, with my head down to the table. In this position, I will sit minimum half minutes, but, more than I can wait for a minute. You want to be in this position, to be in your head, and everything else, and everything else, to get up and get up, and get up and get up. I have a free document. This is my daily daily document. This is my daily document. This is my daily document. This is my daily document. I feel like I'm on 18, even though I'm 60. I will give you free. So, there is a link below. and you can download it. So, I want you to do the main things. I hope you have a solution. And because so many different problems are related to the vitamin D, the other nutrients, please please please please please What are the benefits of the vitamin? This is the course. I will be right back. The problem with health begins when there is no important vitamins and minerals. The deficiencies can be revealed differently. From the chronic pain to the pain in muscles, from problems with the brain to the immune system. How to make it safe? How to make the vitamin? How to take the vitamin? How to take the vitamin? The nutrients Dr. Berg will tell you about the lack of vitamins, how they affect health and how to make them heal. More 100 of the course, the contents and the списments. All the necessary to understand the topic. Please be sure to subscribe to the course below.