Hello everyone, let's start with a quiz question. The word "doc" is used by oncologists. The word "cured" means that a person has been cancer-free for 5 years. Dear viewers, write what you think about this. Now, questions from social networks. Hura from Facebook writes to me: I just had a total hecto- cystectomy. How can I now increase estrogen levels? Fortunately, the adrenal glands also produce estrogen. So, strengthen them with a good adaptogen, ashwagandha. Take it with black pepper. It's absorbed much better. It will strengthen them. I also recommend a product from the Standard Process company. I'm not affiliated with this company, but they have a product called UFN. I always recommend it. If the uterus has been removed, most often the uterus is removed due to fibroin. A video about fibroin in Domet. If the uterus has been removed, this does not mean that the problem no longer exists. The presence of fibroin is a very interesting sign of a deficiency of one vitamin. From the video, you will find out which one exactly. I found data in studies. And not only that this nutrient reduces fibroin. This is when  I had a practice, I had many patients with fibroin. How to get rid of insulin resistance. It seems we have already discussed this. insulin resistance means that insulin no longer works and does not perform its function. And the reason for insulin resistance is high insulin levels over some time, chronic stimulation of insulin, while the body develops resistance to it. After all, it is trying to solve this problem by adapting to insulin. To eliminate insulin resistance, you need to know what stimulates insulin and stop this. Steve. What is the main factor that stimulates insulin? Carbohydrate consumption. Yes, you need to cut carbohydrates, and fasting reduces carbohydrates. Fats will begin to burn for a long time instead of when you fast. There is a catch. After all, if we do not eat anything, we reduce everything. I answered correctly. Yes, well done. You need intermittent fasting and a low-carbohydrate diet. And if you have berberine, berberine is one remedy. It is comparable to metformin. From metformin in combination with B12, I think there is less harm than from any other drugs. I do not recommend it, but only compare it with harmful drugs, but it really reduces insulin resistance So if you reduce insulin resistance and it is the basis of countless problems, then you can imagine how much benefit it provides. I studied the data on metformin and thought If it reduces insulin resistance, then it should prolong life, and yes, it turns out that it is taken. And for this, if it does this, then it should reduce fat in the liver, lower blood pressure. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Everything that reduces insulin resistance improves many things. Excellent, I'm right. Let's see. How did the audience answer the quiz question, and it sounded like this: Among oncologists, the word "cure" has returned after 5 years, you are not cured. The meaning of the word " cure" has incredible nicknames, and this is one of them. What do you think about logical muscle testing to assess the correct level of nutrition? Have you heard of this? Yes, this is muscle testing. I taught this to 2,500 doctors. Honestly, I know now I think it is not trustworthy because it is a very subjective method, because here they test muscles to assess different things. The question is, what exactly are we testing? How does it work? Nobody knows. So all this is shrouded in fog. We can conduct testing. Regarding vitamin deficiency, are you seriously sure about the accuracy of the double- blind method? This will confirm no. In general, I have been using this for many years, I thought it was excellent and got great results, but I don’t know this. I just think there is a better way. This is deep metabolomics Flora from Fez writes excellently. My brother already has Bosch E. coli. Antibiotics don’t help. What do you recommend to help him recover? I think I would eat a lot of garlic, onions, and oregano to really increase the level of these natural antimicrobials. After all, they are more selective in their effect on pathogens and do not harm your bacteria. This is great. There are other methods, but E. coli naturally lives in our body and it does not bother us until we anger it, so I think you need to look at your environment. What are you doing that activates this microbe and becomes hostile to you? Maybe it’s the antibiotics? Then add probiotics. I don’t know. I need more data. I would take natural antimicrobials: oregano, thyme, garlic, and even onions.