Hello everyone, in this video we will discuss 10 reasons why your belly may not shrink on a ketogenic diet. It would be great if I could give you a simple diet that would work for everyone and always, but everyone is different and there are many reasons that can prevent your belly from disappearing. Let's start with number 1. You are doing something wrong. Many of those I talked to tell me what they do. I see that they did not read the book but just watched one video and are trying to do everything half-way. They are following a diet partially or incorrectly. Let's say you want to reduce your carbohydrate intake to 20 grams per day or even less. If you have a very slow metabolism, if you are now in menopause and you have already tried many diets, you need to limit yourself to ten grams of carbohydrates per day. This is the level you need because you need to take into account a slow metabolism. You need a little from 85 to 170 grams of protein per day. You need to eat a lot of greens. As for fats, at the very beginning you will have to eat more fats to last from one meal to the next, and when you get used to it, you will have to reduce the amount of fats again because we do not  You need the body to burn fat from the diet, converting them into ketone, let it do this with its fat, you will have to reduce the amount of fat so that the body fat goes in. I have a lot of videos on this topic, watch the description, this is number 12. You do not observe intermittent fasting and only sit on those, then nothing will work because each meal stimulates insulin, therefore, intermittent fasting significantly speeds up the results and lowers insulin, and therefore this combination is so important. Intermittent fasting is very useful for a number of reasons, but this is a separate topic of reading etiquette and intermittent fasting. First, eat three times a day, gradually move to two, moving breakfast forward until you are hungry in the morning, then combine lunch and dinner into one meal, this is ideal. I picture in the end, you can leave one meal a day if your metabolism is very slow and or you have a slow thyroid. This is what you need to strive for at this stage, number three. The diet works, although it seems that this is not so. At the beginning of the ketogenic diet, many people lose a lot of weight, and then suddenly the weight loss slows down and they think that the diet is not working. They did not lose half a kilo a day, but now they lose half a body weight in week and get upset that the diet isn't working. A very healthy person loses a maximum of a kilogram per week. I'm sorry, but these are the facts. An average person can lose half a kilogram per week. The diet still works, it just takes time. Your goal is to become healthy and then lose weight. So, focus on other indicators of energy, sleep, memory, concentration, and inflammation. Pay attention to this and not just weight loss. But if you lose even 200 grams per week, the diet is working, it's just slower. You can always speed it up. The main thing here is not to give up. If you lose 200 grams or half a kilogram per week, just change something. Number four, if you have fatty liver, your ability to produce ketones and the effectiveness of growth hormone will be lower. You will get rid of fat more slowly. You need to somehow help fatty liver. In the description, there is a link to a video about what to do. What you need is khalin, a B vitamin that removes fat from the liver. It will help you. And here's another point about fatty liver. If you have a big belly, the body will first have to get rid of the fat in the liver and only then the fat in the abdominal area. So,  Know that even if your belly doesn't shrink, your body still burns fat. It just needs to remove fat from your organs first, and only then tackle the fat around them and the fat on your belly. I brought this up because this happens very often. The body will first tackle the fat in the liver and around the organs, and only then other fat. Number five, you gain muscle mass in women during menopause. Many muscles often atrophy. This muscle loss looks like fat, but in fact, it's atrophy. You can check this by sitting on a chair and then standing up. If it takes a lot of effort, because your quadriceps and thigh muscles have weakened, it means you have atrophy. So, you'll have to regain your muscles. While you're on intermittent fasting and Hetaday, these muscles are denser than fat, they're heavier, so your waist size may not decrease, even though you're getting stronger. I want to emphasize that you need a very healthy diet and about a year or two to regain your muscles with exercise, so this won't happen in a week or two. You'll have to work long and hard, it's not pleasant, but you need to take this fact into account. You will regain your muscles, but not right away. Atrophy is a serious problem, it's no joke.  You can say that your muscles have practically disappeared. Number six, you are training incorrectly or not training at all. Exercise is not the most important thing in losing weight, but they stimulate growth hormone, tone muscles, and help to lose weight a little. This is important. High-intensity, short-term exercises are best. Short, intense sets for the whole body are best. If you can run sprints, that would be ideal. But some people have bad knees, and an exercise bike would be suitable for them. You can also use an elliptical trainer, but many people will have to start with walking. This will be the first step. Do what you can, gradually increasing the load. Number 7, if you have bloating from unfamiliar vegetables or from excess fat or something else, it’s because you don’t have enough gastric juice or bile from the gallbladder. It can also remain large. When I had my own practice, I had patients whom I taught because of food allergies. Others ate in Kyiv and they suffered from bloating for weeks. They couldn’t understand that they couldn’t digest this food. Constipation occurred. And how to lose weight if you are constipated anyway? You need to eat foods that you can.  Usually, lettuce is easier to digest than spinach or other vegetables. So, choose what vegetables you eat and make sure you don't get bloated. Apple cider vinegar, betaine hydrochloride, a gallbladder supplement, may help. Number eight: other health problems. Let's say you have thyroid problems or other hormonal problems. Maybe you have hot flashes or, I don't know, a heart problem. Various health problems can prevent you from losing weight because, when a healthier body stops, it sometimes solves other problems first and only then begins to lose weight. So, I suggest first strengthening all the weak links in the body. Let's say you're trying to lose weight but to no avail. Where is the weakest link in your body? It's the thyroid gland, the adrenal glands. Fix this and then see what happens with your weight. Because health comes first, and then weight loss. Number nine: medications. Many medications, from antidepressants to statins and cholesterol medications, have side effects. They interfere with weight loss. In fact, many side effects from these medications are associated with increased insulin resistance and increased insulin, you will have to talk to your doctor and look for some other medications, maybe something natural that will help you, you need to discuss this with your doctor, but medications can interfere with your weight loss and progress will be slow because of them and one more thing about medications if your blood counts are normal and the doctor requires taking medications, find yourself another doctor because you should not take medications when you do not need them number 10 stress and lack of sleep can have a very bad effect on reducing the belly I have many videos about techniques that can be applied about what you can do and what to eat and take to reduce stress usually you need to strengthen the adrenal glands to sleep better and this in turn will help you lose weight faster some people just needed to start sleeping better and they started losing weight they did not change their diet, did not change anything, exercised as always, we just worked on their sleep a little, improved it and suddenly they began to lose weight amazingly and so here is the whole list for you figure out what is stopping you and fix it thanks for watching