Today we will discuss a very important topic.  How to remove plastic from the brain?  I'm talking about microplastics.  The brain accumulates more microplastics than all other organs combined.  The brain accumulates seven to three times more microplastics than the liver and kidneys.  I'll tell you how to get rid of plastic, and not just plastic, but also so-called everlasting chemicals.  They bind to proteins in the blood and create a lot of problems, especially as they accumulate and bioaccumulate. This is a very important video, because if you take action now, you can avoid many problems.  I saw a report that the average person's brain contains 7g of plastic.  Here's the first thing you need to know about plastic.  Plastic recycling is a big scam.  This is just a way to encourage you to continue buying plastic products.  Only 9% of plastic can be recycled.  Huge amounts of plastic are burned, and the bulk of it ends up on the ocean floor.  On the bottom of plastic containers there is a small image that looks like a recycling symbol.  And people think, "Oh yeah, that means it can be recycled."  Well, watch this.  Recycling into secondary raw materials is an expensive and labor-intensive process.   It is always cheaper to create new plastic from fossil fuels.  The polymer industry has acknowledged that there are no effective market mechanisms for collecting mixed plastics.  It is highly doubtful that this can be done in a cost-effective manner.   There was never much faith that the reprocessing would ultimately produce a significant effect.  I think everyone knew that there was no infrastructure to actually recycle all the plastic.  If people think that plastic is recycled, they won't worry so much about the environment.  It should be said that technologies are currently being developed using plastic-eating bacteria and plastic-eating fungi .  Enzymes that decompose plastic are being developed .  But until they are created, we have only two things left. First, avoid plastic, I'll tell you about it .  And second, there are ways to help your body get rid of some of this plastic. and eternal chemicals.  Let's talk about the brain first.  The brain has a lymphatic system that acts like a dishwasher to clean the brain.  This system operates during prolonged deep sleep. Quality deep sleep is essential to flush plastic out of the brain. You can also get rid of plastic through autophagy.  It partially eliminates these toxins.  The best way to induce autophagy is fasting.   You need to fast for at least 18 hours to induce any significant autophagy.  Plastic chemicals cause a lot of negative stress, but this can be counteracted if the body has powerful antioxidant systems.  To do this, you need to eat something that contains a lot of sulfur. These are garlic, onions, cruciferous vegetables. There are also other natural remedies: NC, rastorobsha, tutka - these are excellent remedies.  Now let's discuss perhaps the most important way to get rid of eternal chemicals and plastic.  If you have tap water, you need a water filter.  It will help remove the plastic. Find a filter with great reviews or a whole-home filter.  Let's consider other very important factors.  You'll be surprised at how much plastic you're exposed to from your daily cooking routine. Plastic cutting boards should be replaced with wooden cutting boards.  After all, when you cut on plastic, particles break off and end up in your food.  Next are the capsules that you put in the dishwasher.  They need to be replaced, as I did, with something that does n't have plastic.  Coffee filters contain plastic.  So if you use them, replace them with biodegradable filters.  When it comes to sea salt, I highly recommend using sea salt that is harvested from the ocean rather than the sea.  Unfortunately, there is plastic in the ocean , and it ends up in the salt.  Even tea bags can contain plastic. Take natural plastic-free bags and bottles for children.  It's better to breastfeed, but if you can't, buy a glass bottle.  The problem is that the nipple is usually made of plastic, since glass nipples do not exist.  It is very difficult to find a pacifier that does not contain any plastic at all .  But if you find a pacifier that is made of pure silicone, it is a little better.  I would use it.  I would definitely buy stainless steel bottles instead of plastic bottles and fill them with my own clean water.  When buying cleaning products, choose plastic-free sponges.  I'm mentioning this because you may not know they exist, and you need to know.  Another source of large amounts of plastic is the lining of food cans, even soda cans.  I used to drink a lot of this kind of water, but I don't drink water from cans anymore. There is a thin layer of plastic inside the cans .  You don't need this.  I would avoid canned food and drinks.  What about toothbrushes?  There are bamboo toothbrushes.  Their bristles are made of bamboo, not plastic.  This is another simple, not very expensive solution.  We just need to reduce the impact of plastic on the body.  Kitchenware with Teflon. Get rid of her.  Replace it with stainless steel or ceramic cookware.  I would never microwave anything in plastic.  Never.  And store food in glass jars, not plastic ones, whenever possible.  If you eat popcorn from a bag that you microwave, it's completely covered in plastic.  Don't put everything in the microwave .  Dental floss is another hidden source of plastic.  It's unlikely that there's much of it, but there are dental floss options that don't contain plastic or everlasting chemicals.  Tampons. Buy all-organic cotton tampons.  If you start reducing your body's exposure to plastic and timeless chemicals now, it will prevent many problems.  That's exactly what I do.  Unfortunately, medicine is not particularly concerned with prevention.  Doctors examine you every six months when you are older.  Oh, we detect the disease at a certain stage in order to start treatment with drugs earlier.  Examination is not prevention, and in this video I am talking about real prevention.  Take note, tell others and see you next time.  If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.