I invite you to my course ovarian body type this is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms and other gynecological problems externally this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen my course will help you restore women's health You are waiting for my unique videos lists of products and exercises for effective training sign up for the course at the link below until we meet Which vitamin is most effective in helping to reduce uterine fibroids uterine fibroids are a tumor, but they are benign, not cancer But this is the main reason for stertomy removal of the uterus and this is a common occurrence there is evidence that from 20 to 50% of women under 50 have some kind of tumor MMU uterine or endometriosis but let 's start with the uterus itself what is it It is partly muscle and partly gland the uterus can be compared to the soil a seed or egg enters and then begins to grow Therefore, it contains a lot of nutrients that the embryo feeds on after fertilization and the uterus has an amazing ability to recover scientists are trying to find a way to use this property for restoration of other body tissues, another amazing property of the uterus is its ability to increase in size 500 times. I told my wife Karen about this, to which she said, “What do you think?” A mother of three children doesn’t know this. Here I realized that it’s not worth continuing. Here’s what else I learned about uterine fibroids. Some studies have shown that vitamin D can help reduce the size of a tumor. But why does vitamin D even have such an effect? ​​The fact is that vitamin D affects the genes that control growth. In publications, it was noted that the vitamin D receptors in uterine fibroids are very different from the receptors in normal uterine tissue. This means that tumor tissue receives less vitamin D, which means that the growth process is less controlled. If you think about it, vitamin D is not actually a vitamin A hormone. And when someone has a vitamin D deficiency, this increases the risk of developing uterine fibroids, and the uterus is a very hormone. There is also an enzyme called aromatase, which converts androgens into estrogen, and there are many different aromatase inhibitor drugs and medications, but it turns out that vitamin D is a natural aromatase inhibitor. In addition, vitamin D directly affects the uterine fibroids themselves when  Vitamin D is not enough for some tumors and even cancer kills itself when it is damaged, but with cancer and other tumors there is a problem. There is no such controlled cell death when it commits suicide due to damage. As a result, the cells of cancer and other tumors grow and grow, but vitamin D can help enhance the process of apoptosis in uterine fibroids. I will tell you how much vitamin D you need to drink to achieve this, but first I want to mention Dr. Bruce Holisal, who essentially conducted a lot of original research on vitamin D. He is a professor and has more than 500 publications, mainly about vitamin D. He also has interesting videos. He claims that the conclusions of many vitamin D studies with positive results are rejected by leading journals. From his words, it seems as if they do not want people to know about the positive effect of vitamin D. I want to tell you about another study on this topic. This extensive study looked at vital signs. About 25,000 adults took part in it, which is quite a lot, and no benefit was found from either vitamin D or omega-3 in terms of reducing the number of cardiovascular diseases.  problems or cancer if you read the materials of this study, you can notice a couple of questionable points when analyzing the results, the first 2 years of observation were excluded. But it was during that period that there were significant improvements in terms of Cancer and the second point, if we consider separately people without excess weight and people with obesity, it turns out that people with normal weight have a lower risk of cancer. I emphasize this because people with obesity and excess weight need more vitamin D because it is stored in fat cells and in a person with obesity, the concentration of vitamin D is lower. They also set restrictions. First, there should be only one dose of vitamin D per day. And how much do you think 10,000 no 2,000 they think that 2,000 is a high dose of vitamin D. There is also yes that they did not fully fulfill the conditions of the randomized placebo- controlled study. In addition, information about the time spent in the sun, how much people were outdoors and indoors, was not taken into account, and 94% of participants did not evaluate at all from the point of view of vitamin D. What would I do? If I were a woman with uterine fibroids, I would take  somewhere around 50,000 vitamins Yes, you thought that this is a lot, that such an amount is toxic, there will be side effects, and so on, but if you also take vitamin K2, magnesium, zinc, boron, and vitamin B6, these cofactors will protect you from possible hypercalcemia, excess calcium in the blood. If you take 50,000 a day, then along with this, I would take 500 mcg of vitamin K2. I would also take 800 mg of magnesium, this is important, magnesium will help reduce calcium deposits. I would take 50 mg of zinc. I would also take vitamin B6 and boron. As for the doses of the latter, look at the packaging. I would also switch to chum, why to reduce the amount of insulin, which can enhance tumor growth, and not enough cruciferous vegetables to reduce the effects of what can mimic estrogen. I would limit the amount of milk in the diet. Milk is food for calves and it has a lot of growth factors. In addition, milk contains a lot of calcium, and its amount should be reduced. When you drink a lot of vitamin D, the following video is important to watch.  This is dedicated to the topic of vitamin toxicity, but in my opinion, it's not about vitamin D and a lack of cofactors. I talk about this in more detail in this video.