Let's talk about how to stop diarrhea. One of the serious problems in this case can very quickly arise a severe lack of electrolytes and some nutrients. And this can create huge problems for the heart. You may feel dizzy, because one of the purposes of the large and even small intestine is to absorb electrolytes, and electrolytes are needed by the heart, so if they are lacking, a problem can arise in the heart rhythm, whether it is a feeling of heartbeat or arrhythmia. So, you cannot allow prolonged diarrhea, because it can be dangerous. So, with diarrhea, a person loses electrolytes, fluid, possible dehydration, salts, probiotics, microbes, they are also lost, and a person also loses acids. There is so -called lactic acid, which we need in the large intestine. It helps absorb nutrients and protects us from some pathogenic microbes. It has other functions, and all this is essentially lost. Thus, if you have diarrhea, you must definitely replenish all this. It also does not hurt to replenish trace elements, because one of the big problems worldwide is associated with a serious zinc deficiency in children. This is Diarrhea, diarrhea due to food poisoning or something else can lead to a loss of zinc, and zinc deficiency can cause diarrhea. One leads to another. So, diarrhea can occur due to a virus or bacteria, food poisoning, antibiotics, and the use of sugar alcohols such as xylitol, erythritol, monoxide, and maltitol. Diarrhea can also be caused by excess bile. Bile lubricates the colon, and excess bile can lead to diarrhea. For example, one of the possible side effects after gallbladder removal is a huge excess amount of bile that flows out of the liver, which in itself can cause diarrhea. Another problem is that with diarrhea, bile is not fully reused, that is, a person loses bile and there is a shortage of it. This can reduce the ability to digest fats, absorb fat- soluble vitamins, and so on. Bowel dysfunction, whether it be Crohn's disease, diverticulitis, irritable bowel syndrome, or celiac disease. If the intestinal mucosa is damaged, this can cause  and diarrhea and constipation, as well as problems with the absorption of nutrients. If this is your case, I advise you to watch my video about this at the link below. Diarrhea is also a side effect of some medications, such as metformin, and other drugs for depression and anxiety can also cause diarrhea. So, in the colon, we have many microbes, probably about 400 species of them, they all work together. They feed on the fiber that we supply them with from vegetables and other sources of fiber, and they enzyme it, they convert fiber into certain acids that are good for us, these are short-chain fatty acids, these acids serve as nutrition for the cells of the colon, they can also supply us with energy, they also reduce insulin resistance and strengthen the immune system. When bacteria enzyme fiber, a certain mass is formed that forms stool. So, we have bacteria and fiber, and both are necessary to prevent diarrhea. One of the necessary actions is the restoration of probiotics. The microbe buy good probiotics below is a link to those that I recommend and take probiotics should survive in the stomach. Get into the intestines and start creating natural, this is called Flora, friendly bacteria. You can also drink kefir without any additives. Goat kefir is much better, it has fewer carbohydrates. In general, kefir is also very useful. It actually contains probiotics. It is much better than yogurt. NM has many more necessary bacteria. I also recommend drinking Kambuka Buu. It has lactic acid, it replenishes what you have lost and improves well-being, and quickly. Now about what kind of fiber you need to eat after diarrhea. Here are some tips. Fermented vegetables. Why? Because fermented vegetables are already partially fermented, it is easier to break down because they also contain beneficial bacteria and acids. And also fiber. By eating fermented or fermented vegetables, you get the maximum benefit because they contain not only fiber in a digestible form, but also acids. The acids in rosol are very useful for the colon, and such vegetables also contain beneficial microorganisms. Sauerkraut is very, very useful. Because it contains both prebiotics, fiber, and probiotics. Kimchi is an excellent product. Berries, especially blackberries, seem to help very, very well. Berries allow our microbes to take this fiber and slow down this process. Below is a link to another video of mine. You can add blackberries to kefir, blend it and drink it. This gives excellent results. A very good remedy. Buy kefir powder and take it. It seems to give excellent results. So, here's what you need to do to avoid diarrhea: improve your overall health. The main goal of healthy ketosis. My course is about it. Come if you want to understand it in more detail. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.