Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, I'll tell you about the fastest way to lose weight. I'll show you a very effective strategy. The main thing in it is one fat-burning hormone called growth hormone. It's produced by a tiny gland in the brain and the pituitary gland. This hormone acts through the liver. Growth hormone is the main fat-burning hormone. Its production can be stimulated by intermittent fasting. Here's a strategy that gives excellent results. So, the first step is you need to eat only three times a day, no snacks. You don't need to eat five times, but a little at a time. Three meals a day and that's it. No snacks. Soon I'll tell you what you need to eat. First, I want to explain the pattern you need to follow. For three days in a row, you eat only three times a day. No night watches. Only three meals. After three days, switch to two meals. Perhaps you don't want to eat in the morning. Then you can eat the first meal at lunch and the second at dinner. But other than that, nothing. If you're hungry in the morning, have your first meal in the morning, then eat in the middle of the day. Stretch out this interval. Some people want to eat at half past eleven and then at four o'clock in the afternoon. This is a good situation, but eat only twice.  no snacks in between during the day, because snacks will increase insulin, insulin will lower the level of growth hormone, we are trying to increase the level of growth hormone, the third step after three days of two meals a day, switch to one and a half meals a day, that is, one time you go a normally large portion with all the nutrients, I will talk about this a little later, and then instead of two meals, you just drink a green shake, you can use a ready-made powder or you can make a smoothie, say, and skevia and stevia with berry flavor for sweetness, but it should just be a green shake, if this gives you bloating, switch to spinach or something else, I like to put kale, beet tops and parsley in the shake, and also add a little liquid stevia with berry flavor, the drink is excellent, an immediate surge of energy, this will be half a meal, in fact, this is one meal and then a bunch of greens, because you need to remove the fat that you burn after three days of one and a half meals, return to three meals a day, it is clear if you  For example, if you don't exercise much and have a very stubborn metabolism, you can switch from two meals to one and a half, eat two or one and a half times a day. Some people need to eat three times. See how you feel. Is there fatigue? Eat three or only two times. Continue changing the number of meals. Why, in fact, do we first eat, then don't eat, then again, and then eat, then don't eat again. This will increase growth hormone and start burning fat. What you eat is very important. First, you need to eat vegetables. Why? Because they have few carbohydrates and a lot of vitamins and nutrients. You need a lot of salad or vegetables, but of course, I'm not talking about corn. So, we eat vegetables and a little protein. The amount of protein should be about the size of a deck of cards or your palm and somewhere around 140 grams, which on average can be a little more or a little less. You also need fats, healthy fats. Why do they allow you to stay full longer? First, eat little fat, then more and more. For example, peanut butter or bacon, but make sure that the bacon does not contain nitrates.  You can also eat coconut fats and avocados. Coconut oil can be made in those bombs. I'll give you the recipe under the video. You can make a lot of things with fillings and pecans. We need low-fat fats. We're not satisfied with low-fat fats. We don't need them. It's very important not to eat sugar, not to eat starch, not to eat rice, no corn, no potatoes, and even beans are too high in carbohydrates. No snacks. This is the fastest way to lose weight. You'll lose weight and feel better. It's important to eat lots of greens to flush out fat. We burn fat, and this increases growth hormone levels. We alternate the number of meals, and so on, until we reach our goal. The process will go even faster if you do exercises, but this is already a good start. Leave your comments and see you in the next video.