Hi all.  Today we start with questions from our viewers.  Original Dr. Berg dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. Aurora from Facebook asks if Elglutamine helps cure diverticulosis.   Yes.  Yes. Glutamine is an excellent remedy for any inflammation in the intestines. He helps to heal him.  And guess what foods are high in glutamine, Steve. Oh, I wish I knew this so I could show off my erudition.   Okay , imagine this, it's meat. Meat.  And this is one of the reasons why the root diet works well for some people with intestinal inflammation.  After all, glutamine has an excellent effect on the intestines. Instead of taking glutamine supplements, eat more meat and cut back on other foods. Moreover, the more severe the inflammation in the intestines, the worse the effect of fiber on it.  It's like rubbing an open wound with sandpaper. I'm sure you've heard this. Fiber is essential for gut health.  Fiber, prebiotics? No, it is not needed.  It will only make the problem worse. Yeah, I was one of those who was brainwashed on this topic. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Written by Gabriela Strumble.  I am 26. A metabolic test showed that I have normal insulin sensitivity.   Hooray! But at the same time, I have male-pattern hair growth: ketosis, oi, keratosis, pilaris and feather.  But and But.  What is the reason for all this? You were wise to take this test. I think it was the Hom and R test. This is what measures insulin resistance. And this is the main cause of baldness, hair problems, receding hairlines, male-pattern baldness and female-pattern baldness.  So, low insulin resistance is good.   It is very important to cut carbohydrates and do intermittent fasting.  This should help.  But other factors also influence hair.  If you have had SPK, take more inositol.  This is a good remedy.  I also recommend taking more vitamin D. It nourishes the small area around the hair root, as well as zinc and B vitamins. They are all very important.  I think these nutrients may have something to do with your hair, but then again, dandruff and flaky scalp are usually caused by problems with your gut and microflora.  Surprisingly, the state of the intestines and its flora is reflected on the skin, even on the scalp.  For the scalp, I recommend a couple of excellent products. This is onion juice, as well as rosemary oil. You can do all this to normalize sebum production, get rid of dandruff, even psoriasis. Wow, this is helpful.  Now for the quiz question.  Please, Dog. What is harmful about modern wheat, as opposed to ancient wheat? I thought the ancient wheat was all rotten by now, but maybe it was a little more healthy. I'm just comparing them.  I'm not saying you should eat ancient wheat.  What is the big difference between them? Good question.  We are waiting for your answers, friends.  Linda from YouTube asks what is the best way to treat inflammation due to the terrible Crohn's disease.  I'm sorry, Linda. We are dealing with inflammation in the intestines. It is usually caused by consuming modern wheat and other things like seed oils, which increase inflammation in the gut.  So, the most important thing now is to heal the intestines and limit what can irritate them.  If you have Crohn's disease, I highly recommend following the Root Diet for at least a couple of months to restore your intestines and minimize what irritates them. This is my advice.  Excellent, asks the princess from Facebook.  What a beautiful name or nickname?  Can I take magnesium glycinate?  If I have pre-bet, high cholesterol and LDL, you should definitely take it.  After all, magnesium will really help you lower your blood sugar. In addition to this, I recommend that you start cutting out carbohydrates. When I say cut carbs, people sometimes don't understand, so sometimes I explain it this way. Read labels, eliminate anything with sugar, and reduce carbohydrates to... But some things are only listed in the ingredients. There is a whole category of industrial starches, but these ladies don't list them as starches.  They are disguised with complex names such as maltodextrin, modified food starch, corn starch, spelt flour, and wheat flour.  These are ultra-processed industrial starches, which are essentially sugars. And you need to remove them to achieve changes in diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome, fatty liver, obesity and many other problems. Excellent question, YouTube Palace.  What can a woman do after menopause to maintain normal iron levels in the blood?  This problem exists.  It seems that if you eat red meat several times a week, you get enough iron.  But let's say you still have a problem with hardware.   There is too little of it, and sometimes too much. Copper is a trace mineral that we need in small amounts to regulate the availability of iron in the body. But again, I would solve this problem with healthy eating.  Don't skip animal protein, as it contains a lot of iron. But I think before menopause you lose iron through your periods, but after menopause it's hard to get rid of iron, so I wouldn't take iron supplements at all. Always get iron from food. You said that men can do a lot of harm to themselves by taking iron in excess.  Women after menopause have the same problem.  Or they have some way to avoid the increase in iron levels. Yes, they have the same problem, because they cannot get rid of the excess iron and there is no mechanism for removing it. So it's one of those nutrients that the body finds so important that it doesn't want to give it up, unlike other nutrients that we can easily get rid of.  if there are too many of them.  And iron is one of the food sources for microorganisms, both good and bad.  And our body has different systems with which it hides iron from pathogens.  So there is a real war for iron. There is a genetic problem that leads to excess iron.  And what’s surprising is that the person usually has anemia.   Wait a minute. How so?  All iron is locked in the cells and does not enter the blood.  And the key to solving this problem is copper.  Copper helps mobilize iron, store it safely, and make it available to cells.  It's a bit complicated, but it's worth considering if you have a hardware problem.  Fine. We wish good luck to you, the chambers, and everyone else.  Now let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question. What is harmful about modern wheat, as opposed to ancient wheat?  I thought ancient wheat was better, but I could be wrong.  78% responded: "Modern wheat has fewer nutrients because it is highly processed."  12% said: " Modern wheat has more gluten and glyphosate."  And 10% said: "Ancient wheat was ground differently. It has more bran and nutrients."   Yes.  Yes. In general, modern wheat has many more chromosomes.  She has a completely different genetic structure. Even the gluten in it, which is a protein, is not the same as in ancient wheat. In fact, it is extremely resistant to the digestive process.  So you eat this product and can't digest the protein in it, and it causes a strong reaction in the colon, even if you don't have an allergy.  It creates a problem in the colon, increases its permeability, and this is leaky intestine.  And that's bad, because when the gut becomes more permeable, the immune system can mistakenly label that protein as a pathogen.  And gluten has an interesting chemical structure. There are different types of gluten.  More precisely, gluten is a general category.  It contains different gliadins.  But the point is that the structure of this protein molecule is very similar to the molecules of thyroid tissue. If the immune system labels it as a pathogen, as something harmful, it will begin to create antibodies that attack its own thyroid gland.   That 's why many people have Hashimot's disease, which is a thyroid problem caused by gluten. And ancient wheat has much less gluten and is much safer. And it is unlikely that glyphosate was used in ancient times .  And this is another one - it's a herbicide. It is used for drying wheat.  But the problem here is this.  It is classified as an antibiotic.  So they patented it, and we eat it.  And modern wheat contains antinutrients, such as phytic acid.  It blocks the absorption of zinc, magnesium and other nutrients that heal the gut. Explain to me how wheat is beneficial? Nothing, but we are told that it is good for the heart, complete nonsense.  In addition, the starch in wheat causes a significant spike in blood sugar. And bran, that is, the hard shell of the grain, rich in fiber, is far from the best type of fiber.  Again, we are fed this lie mainly because wheat brings in a lot of money. We subsidize its production, taxpayers pay for its production, and companies buy it cheap and make products from it that have a long shelf life.  You buy them, get side effects, and later pay for treatment.  You pay three times.  So this is a big, this is a big problem.  As for Einkorn, it is an ancient wheat.  I don't recommend it, but it's much better. The difference between these two types of wheat is huge. You try the diet again, but nothing helps.  Try a proven technique.  The Theta Menu book is a ready-made meal plan for weight loss and health. Healthy eating, a clear plan, and step-by-step recipes will help you lose weight without stress and stay full.  Start now and feel the results.  Download the book using the link below.