Today I'll tell you how to get rid of asthma symptoms. I'll give you one excellent technique that everyone who has asthma should definitely know, but it will also be useful during stress, people who snore, suffer from asthma, and even those who ca n't sleep. This technique is taken from Professor Buteyko's book called " Shut Your Mouth." This is the so-called Buteyko breathing method. It is extremely effective for asthma. Before moving directly to the technique, I want to explain how everything happens because at first, not everything sounds logical. You need to understand the basics. So, if you compare a healthy person with a person suffering from asthma, the average number of breaths per minute for a healthy person is from 10 to 12,000. Asthma patients inhale from 15 to 20 breaths per minute. They breathe more often. The amount of air inhaled at a time by a healthy person is about 500 milliliters. Asthma types inhale from 700 milliliters to a liter of air. A healthy person inhales 5-6 liters of air per minute. An asthmatic from 10 to 15.  Liters of air is the volume of air per minute. It is clearly evident that an asthmatic consumes much more air than a healthy person. Now the illogical part. It is usually believed that carbon dioxide is a waste product. We exhale it to get rid of it. But carbon dioxide is actually more important than oxygen. More precisely, it is just as important. But with asthma, it is actually even more important. To understand why this is so, you need to know something about the boron effect. The boron effect discovered by Dr. Boron is that the binding of oxygen to hemoglobin in the blood depends on CO2 carbon dioxide. That is, oxygen cannot attach to hemoglobin. It cannot enter the blood and be transported by the blood without a sufficient amount of carbon dioxide. This is an interesting fact that I learned about quite recently. Okay, let's move on. Inhaling a larger volume of air than usual does not increase the amount of oxygen in the blood. This also doesn't sound entirely logical. Trying to inhale more air does not let more oxygen into the blood. The blood is already saturated. The saturation level is already 90-98 percent. When you try to inhale more air, you lower the level of carbon dioxide. I already said that when the amount of carbon dioxide decreases, oxygen does not bind in the blood. Therefore,  When people hyperventilate, they lose consciousness and get less oxygen. Why is this? Because less carbon dioxide is supplied than is needed for hemoglobin to bind oxygen. That is, the more air, the less oxygen is delivered. You've received the information. Let it settle. If it doesn't settle, review this part. It's important for the next part. And here's another thing: during breathing, approximately 75 percent of oxygen is supplied and exhaled with the air. Let's move on. So, the less carbon dioxide, the more the airways are narrowed. When an asthmatic feels like there's not enough air, in fact, there's not enough carbon dioxide. So, carbon dioxide, the so-called exhaust gas, actually relaxes the smooth muscles of the bronchi. It relaxes the bronchi and helps breathing. So, what is the real problem with asthma? Excessive breathing. What an asthmatic usually does is try to inhale more air, suffocate, constantly try to inhale more, and with excessive breathing, the ability of oxygen to bind to hemoglobin is blocked and it only gets worse. This is quite logical if you look at it from the point of view of stress. During stress, we try to breathe more often and inhale more. air and what do we breathe with our lungs, our chest, breathing like this and all this increased breathing only interferes with the supply of oxygen, the sympathetic nervous system is activated, the fight or flight mode is not a state of rest, I'll tell you a short story, once I went to lunch with a patient whom I consulted a long time ago and so we are sitting talking and suddenly she is like I can't breathe, I can't breathe, she choked on food, I begin to remember how to do the Heimlich maneuver, I picked her up and tried to do it, it doesn't help, and people around are sitting and watching, doing nothing, no one even called an ambulance, and then I got worried because nothing was helping, her face was already burgundy in the eyes, the question of what to do and fortunately an idea occurred to me, I say calm down, just relax, I sat him on a chair, began to massage his neck and say don't resist, just relax and bam, she started breathing, how is that because during the fight or flight reaction, during stress, everything narrows, including the lungs and throat, so during an asthma attack, you definitely need to relax the more  The less oxygen you breathe, the less oxygen enters the blood and the more the problems of sleep apnea, asthma, hay fever, nasal congestion will worsen, and so I'm showing you the technique. It's very simple. Instead of breathing quickly, you'll begin to slow down your breathing and instead of trying to inhale to get more oxygen, gasping for air through your mouth, just start breathing very evenly and very softly through your nose. Some people cover their mouths with a band-aid when they go to bed. To train yourself to breathe through your nose, you need to achieve a state where your breathing is very quiet, soft, and unnoticeable. When you lie down to rest, your breathing shouldn't be audible. Your breathing should be completely quiet and very soft. The air enters very easily through your nose and exits easily through your nose. Don't breathe with your upper chest. Focus on breathing through your stomach. Trying to lower your diaphragm activates the vagus nerve, which stimulates all the parasympathetic nerves. Thus, the autonomic nervous system is both voluntary and involuntary. In other words, the autonomic nervous system can be controlled with this kind of breathing. You can bring it out.  Get yourself out of a state of sympathetic overexertion, fight or flight, simply calm your breathing, focusing on the air that slowly enters and exits through the nasal sinuses, and do not breathe with your chest, but breathe with your stomach. But first of all, you need to do one thing: measure how long you can hold your breath without discomfort. The time of a comfortable breath hold is if you can hold your breath for less than 10 seconds, this is a sign of a severe condition of severe asthma. If you can hold your breath for 11-20 seconds, everything is not so bad, but there are probably many symptoms associated with asthma. If you can hold your breath for 21-40 seconds, then there are fewer symptoms, and if you can hold your breath for more than 40 seconds without severe discomfort, then there are no symptoms associated with asthma. That is, asthma symptoms are directly related to the ability to comfortably hold your breath. So the goal is to reach this level and maintain it for at least six months to make sure that the disease is in remission. Of course, one cannot talk about a cure, one can only talk about remission. The question is holding your breath, this healing technique, no, it is just an indicator or a tool that can be used to understand the presence of progress. The exercise itself is active. Slow down your breathing, breathe through your nose through your diaphragms, and when you rest at night, the air very slowly enters and exits through your sinuses. Tracking a comfortable breath-holding time, you will notice that you can hold your breath longer and longer, and with each 5-second increase, you will feel better and better. What does this technique do? It increases the concentration of carbon dioxide and something else. When breathing softly through your sinuses, the amount of another very useful gas called nitric oxide also increases, which relaxes the sinuses. You will notice that after this, the sinuses will begin to open, relax, and it will become easier to breathe through your nose. Then check the time you hold your breath. I recommend pinching your nose to make it easier. It's very simple. Start breathing through your nose. Make sure your breathing is soft and calm. During sleep, it should be manual, very quiet. Slow down your breathing as much as possible so that carbon dioxide helps oxygen bind to hemoglobin. Use your diaphragm and chest in your breathing. You can put your hand on your chest and stomach to practice. Also, after this technique, you will notice that your stress level has dropped sharply, and the quality of your sleep will be significantly higher.  Everything related to this process is improving. I'll leave links to videos on this topic. You can watch them too, as well as a link to the book. But if you're not yet familiar with my acupressure techniques for removing stress from the body, they're included in this course. The link is below. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I'll tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course.