Today I'll talk about some great antiviral agents. What is a virus? It's a particle of genetic material enclosed in a shell. It 's strange, but a virus isn't alive, but it can try to harness the energy of your cells, invade a cell, penetrate DNA, and go into remission for years. Then it's called a latent virus. It can manifest itself with age when you're stressed or sick. So, if you're healthy and young and don't stress, then everything will be fine. That was sarcasm. Now let's look at antiviral agents. Many phytonutrients have antiviral properties. For example, the phytonutrients in garlic, but vitamin D tops the list. It's one of the best natural immune system boosters. It's not even really a vitamin. It acts on the body like cortisol, but without side effects. It's great for autoimmune diseases, fights inflammation, and it's also a good antiviral. Zinc is a powerful antiviral. It's great for sinus problems and the flu. I already said about garlic, I don't know why. It's either its properties or its smell that drives people away, but it works further.  Monolaurin is a substance in coconut oil, another powerful antiviral. We also have a lot of it in Brazil nuts. Olive leaf extract is a very good remedy, especially for the flu. Oregano is not only an antiviral but also an antibacterial and antifungal agent. It kills everything in the body that shouldn't be there. Colloidal silver is also a good antiviral. Curcumin is a phytonutrient. Licorice root, vitamin E, green tea extract, and one of my favorite remedies is Lvov's I acid. I didn't record a video on it. It also helps against viruses. In my opinion, vitamin D is better than antivirals. Zinc and FU. Lvov's I acid are viruses that cause cancer and viruses that provoke autoimmune diseases. If there was a latent virus in the body and over time it came out of remission due to stress, these two symptoms will appear: pain, mainly muscle pain and fatigue. As a result, when you take something from this, a surge of strength appears and the inflammation disappears. Because when the virus is activated to some extent, it greatly burdens the immune system.  leads to muscle pain and fatigue, well, that's it, that's the whole list. If you want to know more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and click the bell.