So you're stressed and want to know what to do. Here's some very important information. Be sure to watch the video to the end because I'll show you a very powerful set of techniques for dealing with stress. The acupressure technique I developed works great. First, a mineral bath for relaxation. Here's how to make it. Take a quarter cup of pink Himalayan salt, a quarter cup of Epsom salt or Epsom salt, magnesium sulfate, a third cup of apple cider vinegar, and 15 drops of eucalyptus oil. Pour this into the bath. A combination of hot water with these salts, magnesium sulfate, and apple cider vinegar will significantly enhance relaxation. The scent of eucalyptus alone will calm the nervous system. Magnesium is good at reducing adrenal stress and promoting a good night's sleep. These 70-plus elements, I'm talking about both macro and microelements, will have a healing, calming effect on the body, and you'll notice that your skin will become absolutely amazing. After such a bath, I'm sure you'll like this combination. The next thing you need to do is take a long walk, at least 45 minutes.  Get out into nature if you're not in quarantine and can leave the house, but ideally you should get out to a place with plenty of fresh air and space. This is very, very important. Next, spend 20 minutes a day in the sun. If the weather is sunny, this sun combined with vitamin D will help recharge the adrenal glands, and believe it or not, it will help you sleep better. Not to mention that vitamin D produced in the sun is extremely important for immunity to reduce inflammation. It is also beneficial for the adrenal glands. Next, don't watch the news, it's a constant source of negativity, and you do n't need it at all right now. Your stress level needs to be kept as low as possible. Personally, I spend 10 minutes in the morning and 10 minutes in the evening stretching. This is necessary for good sleep. The next point, and I think the most important one, is acupressure. I'll now show you how to do it. Believe me, even if you're not a fan of acupressure or consider it some kind of shamanism, this is not true. It's very effective. I'll show you the techniques. Just try it and see for yourself. The first thing you need to do is show this video to someone, for example, a friend or family member. Rather, a family member, because you're probably in quarantine now and you  You can do this to each other, you just need to take your hand like this, take your middle finger and not necessarily your thumb and press, you need to support your forehead so that your head does not go forward and right into the base of the skull with these two fingers, press inward and hold like this, make sure that the pressure force on the left and right is the same and just press gently and hold, your head should be in its normal position, not tilted back or forward, just hold it like this gently for about 30 seconds. This way you will significantly reduce the tension in the upper part of the neck, then go down a couple of centimeters and press there and you can also press a little more here, so we go down along the neck and try to find areas of tension and hold there longer, just press and hold, at first it may be difficult for you to do this because you need a strong hand, I have already done this with 40 thousand people and my hands are already strong, I can do this all day long, but you may need a break or even get my massager, which follows the shape of my hand, with it you can do this lying on the couch, you just need to press here and hold, press and hold, press here and just hold  30 seconds and the person will feel great relaxation, then ask him to do the same for you, we will move on to the next step, in the next stage we will stretch the middle of the back, here first take your thumbs, that is, take bend your index finger like this and your thumb, hold here and pull your head back as far as you can, tilt your head all the way, come on, come on, forward like this, forward all the way, then back when he bends his neck back, I take hold with the other hand, close the essence, well, back and stretch, that is, I press forward here and he stretches back, move lower a couple of centimeters and repeat bring carry the thread back I let him bend himself, sometimes, which my hand represents, I move a little lower, come back tennis tennis, hold like this for a second, forward, go lower, repeat again, act rush back to the end like this and forward, then back again, we stretch, stretch forward, lower, stretch okay, good, lower is no longer necessary, why is this necessary, this will stretch the middle of the back and in this area the nerves pass, the sympathetic nervous system is located there, then  That fight or flight, a person will come to such a calm relaxed state that he will want to take a nap. So the first technique is the neck, and here, and the last one will be a simple stretch. Place your hand with your thumb directly under the base of the skull on the left side of the animal, the occipital protrusion, place your other hand here, lift it and stretch it forward, pull it like this, gently lift it and stretch it forward, do this three times on this side, then move to the right side, lift it and forward, lift it and tilt it, try to pull the head away from the neck, and I'll tell you, many people have a lot of tension here. Start stretching this area, they will experience such relaxation that they will want to take a nap. Here is a good massager that I developed, it imitates my hand and you can use it yourself if you don't have someone to perform this procedure for you. Actually, I developed it for myself. I have a more detailed video about acupressure, if you haven't seen my webinar about stress, be sure to watch it here.