Do you have such age spots on your skin? If so, I will show you how to get rid of them. I will tell you where they come from. They can be called age spots or liver spots. But in fact, these spots do not necessarily appear because of the liver. In fact, it is just an excess of this substance, melanin. Melanin is a skin pigment. It gives the skin a certain color. This pigment protects the skin from ultraviolet radiation. The sun emits many different waves, or you can say radiation. Ultraviolet radiation is the spectrum of visible light, which includes all the different colors and infrared radiation. Being in the sun, we are constantly exposed to a certain amount of radiation, and melanin is needed to protect from a special range of ultraviolet energy. This pigment, melanin, is very similar to pigments in plants, for example, chlorophyll is one of the pigments. There are other pigments that also protect plants from ultraviolet energy. These pigments are antioxidants by nature, and melanin is an antioxidant. The question is what causes excess melanin production. In the summer months, you can notice that there are more of these spots than in winter. In the summer, there is more ultraviolet radiation. With age, more spots may appear. With diabetes, they can also appear.  During pregnancy, pigmentation can also increase if you are taking birth control or hormones, for example, estrogen, pigmentation can also increase, also in a state of severe stress. You may notice increased pigmentation. Why? Because excess estrogen increases melanin, excess cortisol increases melanin, excess insulin increases melanin. In general, all these factors increase melanin. Its function is to protect you from ultraviolet radiation. It also acts as an antioxidant, and at this stage, you may think that melanin is something bad. No, it is trying to help you. The real reason for the increase in melanin is that it counteracts free radicals and oxidation occurring in the skin. In our skin, there is a huge number of antioxidant networks, much more than in the blood, even more than vitamin C. There is some vitamin C in the blood, but there is much more of it in the skin, and when the amount of antioxidants in the skin decreases, guess who is forced to pick up the baton and do their job. Melanin. And when you see incredible things on your skin, you know that this is an attempt to help you, and this is an indicator that the skin lacks antioxidants. You lack vitamin C and other antioxidants.  Before the mechanism of melanin formation, we have the enzyme tyrosinase. This enzyme causes darkening. It is necessary for the production of melanin. If you read about the inhibitor and tyrosinase, the substances that block and balance it are all antioxidants: cinnamon, cocoa beans, grape seed extract, green tea, aloe, vitamin C, licorice, quercetin and melatonin. Melatonin should not be confused with melanin. It is a sleep hormone, but it also has many other functions. It is the most powerful antioxidant in our entire body. Guess what best activates the production of melatonin. Sunlight, but not the entire spectrum, but only the infrared part. By the way, this is half of all solar radiation. So what causes these dark spots? No, not necessarily. If you bake, fry, and burn in the sun, then yes, this will be an excess. But usually, spots are caused by sun exposure and a lack of antioxidants due to poor nutrition, and melanin has to compensate for the damage. But as for infrared radiation from the sun and the production of melatonin, here's what's good: you don't necessarily have to expose your bare skin directly to the sun. Because infrared waves pass through clothes, they pass through the hat and reach the skull itself and so begin to produce Melatonin in the body to fight spots in two ways. The first If you need a quick result, you can take any of these products in the form of some kind of cream and apply directly to the skin, say, a serum with vitamin C works very well. The trouble is that you will have to use it until the antioxidants in the skin are restored. People do not understand that this is an internal problem and solve only the external problem, they smear themselves with creams and wonder why the spots return because the real problem is inside. You can use these substances as a defense mechanism. But in general, you need to increase the antioxidants in the body so that they are enough in the skin. How to do this? To do this, you need to eat more raw food. I mean a green salad, vegetables, and the like, not only cooked vegetables. Eat foods rich in zinc. Zinc is extremely important for the skin and also for building antioxidant networks. Fasting, by the way, perfectly activates the production of antioxidants in the body. Fasting and exercise are both methods are very effective. That's why fasting is so beneficial for the skin. Of course, you need to avoid sugar and stress because both of these factors deplete antioxidant reserves and, of course, being Avoid sunburn regularly. Be in the sun, but cover your skin before you burn. I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects; such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.