Today I will tell you how to get rid of santoma, what is santoma - This is an accumulation of cholesterol and triglycerides, it forms on the skin, in fact, it is an accumulation of macrophages, immune cells that eat various things and that have absorbed too much cholesterol and triglycerides, santomas look like yellowish-white formations on the skin, sometimes they appear along the edge of the eyelid. Here, sometimes on both sides, sometimes on the palms or on the elbows, on the knees, on the Achilles tendon, all this is very interesting, but what is the cause of this and how to get rid of it? First, let's look at what is known about oxanthomas, we know that they are often associated with certain conditions, not caused by them, but associated with them, among such conditions, hereditary disorders associated with fats, for example, familial hypercholesterolemia is a hereditary disorder that is transmitted through genes and means high cholesterol, and it is very difficult to treat, this is a problem. When the liver does not have enough lpnp receptors for cholesterol, the body cannot get rid of this cholesterol and it accumulates, including santomas Santon is also associated with other things. We will also list the first obstruction of the bile ducts, what is it? This is a blockage of the bile ducts. Bile is the main thing that gets rid of excess cholesterol. It can be in excess due to the fact that bile does not function. Another condition is called primary biliary cirrhosis. In this case, the flow of bile is also blocked. It does not flow as it should through the bile ducts, and this creates a problem with the removal of cholesterol. There is also so-called cholestasis. Stas means stagnant, motionless bile does not move through the ducts. A sediment has formed in the bile ducts. According to my observations, many people suffer from this. The sediment in the bile ducts blocks the passage of bile. Many problems arise, including pain radiating to the right shoulder, inability to digest fats, discomfort in the right hypochondrium, an increased risk of gallstones due to a lack of bile salts and cholestasis. When the bile ducts are clogged, they precede the formation of stones because bile dissolves this Santoma sediment is also associated with high A1c glycated hemoglobin and diabetes. When there is too much glucose in the blood. If a person has xanthomas, this is a small red light that tells you that you have high cholesterol, possibly elevated triglycerides, and probably elevated LDL. For the reasons listed above, people often think that if they have high cholesterol or triglycerides, it means they are getting too much cholesterol or triglycerides from fatty foods. But this is not always the case. Carbohydrates, including refined ones, and sugar are easily converted into triglycerides and cholesterol. Therefore, the cause of an excess of these substances and LDL may be an excess of carbohydrates and not fats. On the other hand, many people think that the keto diet is a high-fat diet, when in fact, this diet means low carbohydrates. It does not necessarily mean a lot of fat. By removing carbohydrates and limiting proteins, you end up eating more fat, but ketones are created by reducing carbohydrates. So what to do if you have xanthomas? I will name a few things. The most important thing is to take niacin. I recommend taking 500 mg per Extended-release capsules two or three times a day, by the way, niacin is one of the most powerful means for lowering cholesterol. Especially for reducing cholesterol deposits, it also reduces the amount of LDL that is absorbed by macrophages. The second point I recommend is Halin. It is available in supplement form. Halin prevents the appearance of fat in the liver and also helps lower cholesterol. The third point is what it is. It is a special type of bile salt. It helps the ducts, it promotes the removal of cholesterol from the body, it helps the receptors in the liver perceive LDL, it lowers LDL cholesterol levels. It does a lot of things. All we need is to normalize the removal of cholesterol from the liver to remove its excess. So, niacin, Choline, here I also recommend eating huge portions of salad, 7 to 10 glasses a day. I would also add walnuts to the salad, they contain a lot of omega-3 precursors, which lowers cholesterol. I would dress this salad with extra virgin olive oil and add garlic, this will also help get rid of cholesterol. The next tip is daily exercise, especially if you have elevated triglycerides. This  Excess triglycerides in the blood can be burned by spending more energy. So, add physical activity. The next piece of advice is to strive to get more protein from fish and seafood, which contain a lot of omega-3 fatty acids. This also helps. You can also buy the so-called red yeast rice extract, which is a kind of natural statin. A very powerful cholesterol-lowering agent is possible. You don't need such a strong remedy, but if you can't lower your cholesterol, you should try point number eight. Switch to a healthy version of the keto diet, but with one caveat: you switch to a keto diet but don't add a lot of fat. Eat the fat that usually goes with protein. Just don't add fats. Not butter. Nikita, desserts, or other additional fats. You can stop, for example, with olive oil, three, namely fish oil, cod liver oil, and sardines. This way, we will reduce carbohydrate consumption and avoid an increase in cholesterol levels, especially if you are diabetic or have elevated glycated hemoglobin. Finally, intermittent fasting can be of great help in normalizing your lipid profile. I invite you.  For my mini-course on skin health diagnostics, you might have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These aren't just skin defects; these signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I'll show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.