Let's discuss how to get rid of stiffness and feel younger. I was 28. It bothered me a lot. I felt like I had aged, like I was 50. Now I'm 55. I feel like I'm 20. I had a lot of pain back then, and I consumed a lot of carbohydrates. I'm assuming their effect on the body. Everyone already knows that a lot of carbohydrates make joints flexible and cause inflammation. I'm thinking about this. You know about other common causes of stiffness today. 1. Excess iron. Iron provokes inflammation, leading to liver problems. Iron is found in many foods, especially those fortified with iron, especially if you go out in the sun. I hope you don't eat them or pasta and the like. And there are also additives in some of the most popular multivitamins. Iron is too much iron, which is poorly excreted from the body. Especially in men, it accumulates and leads to fibrosis, inflammation, and ultimately even cirrhosis of the liver. Stiffness and definitely. So, it's best for us to avoid iron. If you already have too much iron in your body, exclude red meat from your diet because it contains a lot of iron. It's just  By the way, you will notice how the inflammation will begin to decrease. The second so-called vegetable oils, which are actually made from seeds, are grain oils. They should be avoided: corn, soybean, rapeseed, cottonseed. And also safflower and sunflower. These are all omega-6 fatty acids. Omega-6 fatty acids provoke inflammation and are treated with solvents. But these products only lead to mobility in the body. So avoid them. Use coconut oil instead, especially when cooking. Olive oil can be consumed. But remember that olive oil in the store is not always real olive oil. In the description, I will give a link to my video about olive oil. There are more specifics there. If you consume too much omega-6 and insufficient omega-3, an imbalance will occur that will lead to inflammation and stiffness. There is an excellent analysis showing the ratio of these fatty acids. But I recommend simply starting to eat more fatty fish: sardines, cod liver oil, and other fish oils. But be careful with them. Don't buy some low-quality product for high quality, after all.  You have to pay for very cheap fish oil, there's a lot of crap in it, so high-quality cod liver oil is best. Perhaps this is Zhora, this is the most important thing that you get omega-3 fatty acids from it. A deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids leads to inflammation, pain, and stiffness. If you are on a low-fat diet or if you are a vegan, keep in mind that omega-3 fatty acids are mainly found in fish with orders, they can be obtained from algae, but then you will have to buy supplements. But these are essential fatty acids, they are important. If you don't eat them, or if you don't like fish and other foods, you may develop inflammation due to a lack of omega-3 fatty acids. Two essential fatty acids are go and go, start taking them, and you will notice how stiffness will go away, most likely in one or two weeks. Then increase the dose of vitamin K2, what is it? This type of vitamin removes calcium from joints and soft tissues and sends it. It works in tandem with vitamin D3. D3 also helps reduce muscle inflammation and helps get rid of joint pain. Taking D3 will make you feel much better. I take these vitamins together. What do vegetable oils, fish oil, and vitamins K2 and D3 have in common? They are all fats. So, if your body has problems digesting fats because you have something wrong with your gallbladder, because of this, essential fatty acids from cod liver oil and fish oil or even fatty fish are not absorbed. A deficiency occurs. Many people suffer from mobility, pain, inflammation, and even fibromyalgia. Because of problems with the gallbladder, it is usually felt on the right, or rather, it is felt on the right and left. Usually, these are problems with the pancreas because it and the gallbladder work together. The gallbladder concentrates bile. Bile is produced only in the liver, mainly in the liver. Additionally, it is produced by microflora in the colon, but all the bile produced enters the gallbladder and is concentrated there. When you leave, the bile should enter the intestines and  break down fats into smaller particles, and the pancreas produces an enzyme called lipase, which breaks down these particles further so that the body can absorb them through the small intestine. A significant portion of fats is absorbed through the small intestine, and a little further along the small intestine, just before the large intestine, there is a place where bile should be absorbed and sent for reuse. 95 percent of bile is reused. If inflammation of the small intestine occurs, a bile deficiency will also occur, and so a lack of bile can be due to problems with the liver, gallbladder, small intestine, or large intestine. So, a lack of bile leads to many things. What I mean is that a lack of bile leads to mobility. Whichever of these remedies you take, under the video, I will give several links so that you learn more about the connection between gallbladder and pain, inflammation, and other mobility. I had this problem for 12 years. I didn’t even think that it was connected until one day I found out about this and I haven’t had any more of these. A good indicator of problems with the gallbladder is a feeling of tightness or fullness.  In the right hypochondrium, the remedy for this is purified bile salts. If you want to learn more, follow the link under the video. In general, bile helps to digest these fats. Very often, only mobility is associated with a lack of certain fats or problems with the absorption of fats. Thank you for watching.