I decided to make a video about glutathione in particular because I myself had a glutathione deficiency. I will tell you a little about what I learned while working on my body. After all, if there is some kind of deficiency, you need to analyze everything and understand what the matter is. Glutathione is the main antioxidant in all cells. It helps remove heavy metals, reduces damage from free radicals, and helps resist excess oxidation, especially if there are a lot of chemicals, mold, and so on around. I will tell you how to make sure you have enough glutathione without dietary supplements. First, you need to know that the body produces glutathione. I would take BAT with glutathione only in case of paracetamol poisoning. Paracetamol deprives the body of glutathione and creates a high risk of liver damage. In this case, you need to take BAT, which is called NC, a precursor of glutathione. But it is usually given in the emergency room. Let's consider the symptoms of glutathione deficiency. With glutathione deficiency, there are problems with sleep, fatigue, clouded consciousness, and mood problems are possible. depression anxiety now about the causes of glutathione deficiency is alcohol a diet with a very, very low calorie content overtraining in my case the main reason was overtraining because I eat generally very healthy food but sometimes I train too much Also, if you are a vegan then your need for glutathione is higher mainly because vegans have a hard time getting certain proteins But even if you are not a vegan but eat little protein this can be the reason for low glutathione levels glutathione is formed from three amino acids one of them is glycine as for other amino acids a complex chemical reaction occurs here I am talking about this small aspect Only because 45% of people have a mutation of a certain gene called methylene tetrahydrofolic acid If you take a lot of folic acid in the form of dietary supplements m stop taking them and start taking vitamin B9 in the form of methyl fal because of my genes it seems that I have a hard time absorbing choline Therefore I need to eat more foods rich in choline And this is liver and eggs  Yolks Glycine can also be obtained from some cruciferous vegetables I am only mentioning this because it is not that simple The topic here is complex and I will only give you general advice on what to do but if she problems are not solved, perhaps you need to dig deeper and check your genes and here is what is important here If you have some signs of glutathione deficiency, then now I will tell you What you need to focus on First, you need enough glycine How to get Glycine do not avoid organ meats if you eat chicken Eat it with the skin fish too Eat with the skin this is a great way to get enough Take a whole chicken and simmer it with the bones with the skin with everything else Eat this chicken soup also there is a lot of glycine in jelly but I am not talking about the jelly that is usually bought I would buy Knox jelly cubes and make jelly yourself or you can cook bone broth it has a lot of gelatin and there is also a lot of interesting data that Glycine improves sleep because it increases glutathione levels helps remove  toxin and helps produce the antioxidant glutathione number two take tilt nav group B B12 and fala tov I am not telling you to take these vitamins I am saying that you should avoid synthetic vitamins If you are already taking dietary supplements as they can reduce the ability to use these two vitamins If you have the problem mentioned with slenami what is usually B12 in animal meat it is easy to get from meat vegans with B12 problem And what about fala tov fala is in organ meats in regular meat does not necessarily contain a lot of fala tov If you are on a carnivore diet you can eat organ meats such as beef liver Also fala is in dark leafy greens I am talking about fala about methyl fala vitamin C another precursor of glutathione and it is in unpasteurized greens and so on number four enough sleep If you do not get enough sleep not enough glutathione This is a huge stress for the body go to bed earlier Try  sleep longer Use sleep enhancing products this is very important The next point is to avoid overtraining as I did I trained every day with high intensity If you train intensively say run uphill like I do it twice a week on the other days take long walks walking helps to increase glutathione levels a marathon or continuous running for a long time has a very bad effect on glutathione it can greatly reduce it I already said that stress also reduces glutathione So it is useful to take adaptogens There are many ways to reduce stress you can walk reduce stress in different ways you can listen to music art or hobbies I work with wood all this is great for reducing stress physical work also relieves stress great because it makes you distract yourself from what is bothering you number Sem I have already said this but I will repeat enough protein this also includes a lack of calories I know people who fast too much to fast you need some health I mean if you are exhausted and fasting you will feel bad That's about the World Cup I am saying if you fast yourself well It means it works and the body it But if you force yourself to fast for a long time and feel terrible, you are not ready for this, you probably need to take a step back and prepare further. I also talked about carbohydrates. If your diet is extremely low in carbohydrates, almost zero, and your body is weakened, there are other problems, then perhaps you need to increase the amount of carbohydrates (up to 50 grams). Perhaps berries will help you. This may be the reason, because a drop of carbohydrates will increase insulin. What can help absorb more amino acids? Gray vegetables such as cruciferous vegetables also help increase glutathione, and seafood helps get microelements such as zinc and selenium, they are needed as precursors of glutathione. So, now you know about glutathione, so I want you to learn about another extremely important antioxidant, Melatonin. I am talking about intracellular Melatonin, and to learn about it, watch this video.