What happens if you eat like cows eat? I mean the stale grass that cows eat in the meadow. I mean what they feed a cow for the last 200 days of its life. It is forced to eat a huge amount of starch, while the cow moves very little because it is locked in a cage and they dump starch on it three times a day for the last 200 days of its life. Its diet is 70-90% about starch. Let's look at our food pyramid. At the very top, we see moderate fats, oils and sweets, sugar is limited. But if you look at the very bottom, the majority of calories from six to eleven parts should come in the form of starch. Bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies, and so on. The average American gets 65-70% of calories from starches. Here is a pack of corn chips. How much sugar do we have in the composition? Zero sugar and 17 grams of carbohydrates per serving. That is, 15 chips. And this is a wheat tortilla with zero sugars and 25 grams of carbohydrates. Let's not forget the corn flakes. 3g of sugar and 35g of carbohydrates many people don't understand something important about carbohydrates everyone knows that sugar is not very healthy But what about carbohydrates if you subtract sugars and fiber from carbohydrates what is left the answer is starch what is the difference between sugar and starch a sugar or glucose molecule is just one molecule when we say sugar we usually mean its main element or building block glucose starch is a chain of glucose molecules linked together this is starch but we are not talking about natural starches potatoes rice and not even about whole grains I don't mean a refined product like this corn starch And by the way we consume huge amounts of this refined starch every single day it is in many foods let's go back to the food pyramid As you can see the base of the pyramid is mainly starches and this is 65% of our calories in fact these are hidden sugars Ultra processed starch is worse than sugar from these ultra-orthodox refined carbohydrates that we are advised to eat and the only reason for such a recommendation is the huge influence of lobby groups of large food producers only four companies They control the entire grain market and they are incredibly rich. Unfortunately, those scientists who came up with this food pyramid are too corrupt. It has been established that somewhere around 90% of such scientists receive funding from Bigfoot companies. The unique feature of these starches is that they bring in huge profits. One cubic meter of corn sells for $175, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. Here's a bag of frozen corn, but it's not the same corn as in many other products. There are two types of corn: feed corn, another name for it is dent corn, edible sweet corn, the one you can buy on the cob or frozen. As for dent corn, it is inedible for us. It is used as cattle feed. To give animal meat a marbled appearance, a lot of different things are made from corn, for example, bioethanol or corn flour, modified food starch, corn starch, and also maltodextrin. 50 types of starch are produced from different products, and this is a hidden sugar that you need to know about, but that's not all. Corn oil is also made from corn, it is very harmful, like oils from Although they say that seeds are good for the heart, the average American consumes 30 liters of seed oil per year. Everyone knows about the dangers of sugar, but few people talk about the hidden sugars of starch, especially corn starch. Not only do they act like sugar, they are also the most popular GMO products, which means they contain traces of the herbicide glyphosate. So what will happen if you eat like a cow? In fact, we already eat like cows and the results are obvious: obesity, fatty liver, heart disease, and so on down the list. A normal cow's stomach is not designed to digest grain, it is designed to digest grass, grass, enzymes, bacteria, and this fiber is food for them. If you feed a cow grain, these bacteria produce too much acid, which leads to acidosis and infections, and this is not very good for the cow. This is one of the reasons antibiotics are added to cattle feed to fight bacteria. If we eat all these grain products, the effect will be similar. We eat grains and get inflammation in the intestines. And this leads to allergies and fermentation in the wrong place. fermentation should occur lower in the gastrointestinal tract and not in the small intestine So this is not an expected problem We have been eating almost like cattle for a long time if you give you dentate it tastes disgusting Unless you grind it into powder and add something to make the taste more pleasant The average American eats 16 kg of corn starch annually and also 27 kg of corn sweeteners per year of high-functional corn oil If you add soybean oil here, that's another 13 kg So what should we do Firstly, we do not need to support intensive livestock farming I strongly recommend not to buy products from farms of this type buy completely grass-fed beef If you and I start choosing such products, these huge industrial farms will have to release cows into the meadows so that they eat grass their natural food But people will not do this until they understand what is happening The basis of cattle nutrition in our time dentate such food the greater the chance to break this vicious practice of feeding cows grain I invite you to the program on healthy chum salmon and interval  Fasting From Dr. Berg, it doesn't matter if you're just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are lots of examples of what and how to eat. I'll also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I'll give you tips that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. It's an important part of a healthy lifestyle. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also about nutrients. I'll give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.