Today we will discuss What happens if you chew one clove every day for a week I recently studied several studies on cloves and they amazed me Listen to what this spice can do for the body Everyone has cloves and you just need to chew them every day Many people know that it is a natural pain reliever that helps with toothaches The natural compound in cloves is called eugenol The action of eugenol, which is contained in cloves, is the same as the action of lidocaine, but cloves have no side effects It helps not only with toothaches It works systemically for many other inflammatory diseases arthritis swelling joint pain and any inflammation Because cloves are a powerful anti-inflammatory In some studies it acted like NSAIDs non- steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen and Without side effects, cloves also have a powerful antimicrobial effect It copes even with bacteria resistant to antibiotics It also works against fungi viruses like herpes simplex types 1 and 2 Candida and even some parasites like  It acts as an antibiotic against malaria without affecting good bacteria. Clove oil breaks the biofilm, the calcium protective layer around bacteria. Cloves can break it so that the immune system destroys bacteria. This also works because eugenol literally blocks the pathogen's access to an energy source, depriving it of energy so that it does not reproduce. Cloves also have an interesting effect on blood sugar levels. They can make the body more sensitive to insulin, like metformin. But more gently, cloves have anti-cancer properties similar to some types of chemotherapy. Below is a link to a study about this. These studies were conducted on cancer cells and on animals. Similar studies have not been conducted on humans. A slowdown in the growth of cancer cells was found. The publication was in the journal Molecular Oncology Research in 2017. Cloves can also remove toxins from the liver, and interestingly, they can also thin the blood like aspirin. They can prevent the formation of plaques that lead to heart attacks or strokes. But when talking about cloves, these statements cannot be used, but not because cloves do not work or  It doesn't have a positive effect, but because diseases belong to medicine from a legal point of view, if a natural remedy improves a condition, it is considered a drug. If someone prescribes or recommends such a drug for some disease, then he is practicing medicine without a license. If you have ever taken natural supplements, you may have noticed a warning on the bottles: the product is not intended for the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation, that is, reduction or prevention of any disease. We are obliged to write warnings that essentially mean that the product is useless on each supplement. Write that it will not help you. Unfortunately, the pharmaceutical industry has a monopoly on diseases. God forbid your natural remedy cures someone, because then you will have trouble. Like a quack practicing medicine without a license. As for me, this is simply absurd. Only drugs can treat diseases. I have a question. Can a drug cure someone? Drugs manage symptoms and that's all I think so. Well, okay, if you want to take responsibility for diseases and healthcare, good riddance, but then ensure the expected results. And unfortunately, we know that drugs do not cure and that the healthcare system does not work, and everything is very  Dear people, people don't get healthier. I know many people who are on several medications, but they don't get healthier from it. And when I was practicing, unfortunately, my options were very limited, although pills could not help a person. Personally, I focused on his health. Healthcare is missing this. Doctors do not pay attention to diet, do not talk about nutrient deficiencies, they are not taught this. You need to do so that the body does not depend on any drugs. But I got distracted. Let's get back to cloves, a natural remedy that can do a lot. By the way, I am not selling anything now and therefore I can freely talk about what studies have found in natural remedies, but you can't come after me for my videos because there is a disclaimer under each video, that is, in this video I am only and it is not intended for anything else. In general, cloves can do a couple of other things. It can improve mood and it can also very quickly help get rid of bloating because it helps the production of certain enzymes in the intestines. On the scale of antioxidant activity, cloves are higher than blueberries. Clove will help reduce the amount of phlegm.  And it can help with bad breath. How to take cloves: You can simply chew them and swallow one piece a day. You can take clove oil and apply it to inflamed joints. Or you can grind it and add it to a smoothie. Well, thanks for watching, and see you soon. Do you know what superfoods are? These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these products and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and increase immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.