I have a question. How many hours a day do you sit? I'm talking about sitting not only at the computer, but also in front of the TV, in the evenings at the table, while eating, whether at home or in a restaurant, while driving, and while shopping online. We sit for a huge amount of time today, we'll talk about how sitting affects our physical fitness. Physical fitness is not necessarily equivalent to health. This is something else. It's one of the components of health. Health is affected by nutrition, dietary supplements, sleep, and exercise. Movement and physical activity. Good shape cannot be achieved without movement. And if you think about it, good physical shape is a higher ability to survive in your environment. That is, it is an advantage that helps us live, cope better with stress, be more flexible, strong, look better, and feel better. I exercise primarily because I like how I feel thanks to it and because it is a means of stress. Success in sports and even the ability to get up from a chair or get up from the floor also depend on physical fitness. Some people find it difficult to even get up from the ground. This indicates poor physical shape, how weak you are, how resilient you are, in fact, if you think about physical fitness.  - this is the ability to adapt to the environment. If you can't do this, it's a disaster. But if you can, you will avoid many health problems. The opposite of movement is a sedentary lifestyle. I have a video about this in medicine. It's called hypokinetic syndrome. Hypo means low. Kinetic syndrome is associated with movement, and this is a disease, and there are many such diseases. These are diseases of the lymphatic system, because lymph moves due to the movement of the body. These are diseases associated with the level of oxygen, blood circulation, and the accumulation of stress. Movement and exercise help get rid of stress, and many diseases are also associated with the accumulation of stress. In general, I want to tell you about ways to combat prolonged sitting. Unfortunately, I sit a lot at the computer, at least 8 hours a day, and for a very long time. So, sitting affects the human body. The body is in one position for a very long time, which is not very good for the lower back, because sitting itself increases pressure on the lumbar discs by 30-40 degrees. In addition, when we sit, whether in a car, on a sofa, or on a chair, the lower back is curved in the wrong direction, and leaning forward can worsen posture, which can cause logical pain and back pain in general.  One small change in the lower back can affect the muscles of the shoulders and neck, everything is interconnected, sitting affects the gluteal muscles and the butt, it leads to their atrophy, it leads to tension in the muscles of the back of the thigh, to tension in the iliopsoas muscle, it connects the upper and lower parts of the body, it is one of the muscles of the core and all this stress, there is also stress because of the computer screen right in front of you because of the blue light of its LEDs, blue light is a very special light, this purity carries a lot of energy and our eyes do not filter it, this greatly increases the risk of damage to the macula of the back of the retina, accelerates age-related macular, the risk of cataracts and simply worsens vision, which is probably why I now need glasses in different situations, I sat in front of the monitor a lot, not to mention fixing the eyes at one distance, which is not very good for them, in addition, blue light tires the eye muscles and reduces melatonin levels. What affects sleep, we will discuss how to deal with this, but I wanted to show you all this. And there are also so- called magnetic fields, electromagnetic fields. I have a video about them. Magnetic fields are invisible, we cannot see them.  This is energy of a certain purity that is emitted by devices like computers, electrical wires under the computer to which we connect the device, their uninterruptible power supply, and also the screen. Any electronics emit magnetic fields. I made a video about this. I bought a Tri Field device. It allows you to measure the magnetic fields that affect us. It permeated me for many years when I sat at the computer. I discovered that a powerful source of magnetic fields was the electrical wire and the backup battery. Now I move them further away from myself to reduce the impact of the magnetic field. After all, they can affect the magnetic field of the body, especially the heart. Because of this, I even began to experience sensations of heart palpitations and arrhythmia. Very strong magnetic fields mainly worsen the condition of the heart, fatigue occurs. So, a sedentary lifestyle, an unchanged body position affects the back, shoulders, neck, working with a mouse leads to carpal tunnel syndrome. What can be done number one is frequent breaks, because it’s not even about how many hours we sit, but how often we interrupt sitting. I strongly recommend taking frequent breaks at least once an hour, this is very important. There are many applications that remind you of this, for example.  Here it is, it is free, there are many others. Get up and do stretches for your shoulders, back, neck. I know many ways to stretch. For example, I recently bought a stick for developing flexibility. I have several different sizes. There are excellent stretching exercises that help correct posture for those who sit all day. When I am at the gym, I use a sleep support. I made it myself. I bought it at the store. Everything is for a dollar. These foam cylinders are just cut and put under my lower back. They save my lower back. Because when I drive, my lower back is curved incorrectly. Because car seats are terrible. If your lower back is curved incorrectly, the pressure on the discs increases, and back pain appears. You need to maintain this curve. The problem is that now I drive a jeep and I really like it, but I am tall, and the stupid seat does not lower and my gaze passes right over the top of the windshield, and I have to slouch to see the road. And this is bad for the neck. Because you need to sit with a straight neck, you need to maintain posture, the correct curve. There are different views on how to sit. Don't cross your legs, do this and that. I advise you to buy a very  I have a comfortable chair, a special chair that allows my back to move a lot. I don't sit in one position, I move back and forth. I have a chair like this in my office. As you can see, it has a flexible leg. I have other chairs, too, so I can rock, move back and forth, I can sit like this, I can cross my legs and change them, I do this and that. So I don't sit in any one position. Sometimes I hunch over, sometimes I sit upright. It's important to move all the time, sit so as not to sit in a fixed position. I do a lot of stretches with an acupressure massager that I created. I have a lot of videos about it. In general, you need to take breaks and correct your posture. You can do exercises to straighten up, lift weights with your hands. Be creative and thoughtful. You can exercise during breaks, say, squats or push -ups every hour, or you can dance for about five minutes. This breaks the unchanging pattern within which we have limited ourselves. This is an excellent interval training. Let's say you exercise intensively for one minute, rest, repeat this a couple of times. Then Work another 55 minutes if you do this for several hours a day, you will kill two birds with one stone and get some exercise and get the job done. I think that yoga is a great form of exercise for correcting posture, like Pilates. I like it too. I already said that a hobby is a stress reliever. Find a hobby that involves movement so that you don't sit while doing it. And also exercise at the same time. Remember what you did as a child. I don't know how it is today, but as a child, I had time to play. I had breaks. I didn't sit in the house all day. When children have play time, they play outside in the classics, swing, on swings, wall bars, tag. But when we get a little older, in school or college, there is no time for games. We can't go to the playground to stretch our bodies, and this is strange. And when we start working, especially if you work from home or go somewhere. God, we don't have the opportunity to take frequent breaks. So, the first is frequent breaks. I highly recommend the second. Find some kind of lumbar support. There is a large bench in the car. for the lower back I also use it to stretch the lower back Usually in the evenings to maintain the correct curve I will give a link below to some options, because more active stretching to restore the curve will not return the curve It only supports it you need to lie on the Big Bench for 20-30 minutes to return the curve, especially with is and lower back pain By the way, the lower back often hurts because of these vitamins, do not forget about this in this case, during breaks you can go out in the sun This is another way I forgot to say about walking, walking is a very important way to avoid a sedentary lifestyle As for the computer, there are ways to block its blue light, there are special glasses, you can stick a protective film on the monitor, as I did, it blocks the blue light of the monitor, this will be wise, the eyes will get tired less thanks to this, in sunlight there is a whole spectrum of wavelengths including infrared waves, and blue light is only one wavelength and it is not good for the body So ​​it is probably worth buying some kind of lamp with a full spectrum of waves, put it near the computer if you sit at it all day just so that light falls on you in which there is a whole spectrum of lengths  waves are another option, then the volume of training, I think it is very, very important to pay attention to the volume of training, whether it is just a certain number of steps or something else, it is important that it compensates for prolonged sitting. The longer you sit in one position, the more training you need to not only compensate for this but also improve your physical fitness, this will allow you to better adapt to the environment, then your level of health will be much higher than that of someone who focuses only on diet and sleep. So, I think that the combination of all these factors will improve your health so much that its reserve will allow you to live longer and withstand anything, especially stress. Not to mention how it will affect the mitochondria in your cells. This will help create more mitochondria and process all the damaged ones, and most diseases are associated with them. In general, of all the factors that contribute to health, I think training comes first and the beauty is that its effectiveness can be increased if you simply take short breaks every hour and train during this time, and now the day is coming to an end and you have already trained. As for MP, you can buy a device to measure the level of MP in your environment. Or you can immediately move away all computer equipment, especially  under the table away from you and if you talk on the phone Use speakerphone and when talking on the phone Stand up and walk move when talking on the phone and do not bring it to your head like this otherwise your brain will be penetrated by electromagnetic fields your chair is a very important factor Find a chair you like and in which you can change position do stretching and move without getting up and continue to do your work considering How long you sit in a chair every day is worth spending on it A little more money on a mattress is also not worth sparing money there are even desks with a treadmill above the treadmill and you can walk while you work very interesting there are also desks for standing work they rise with a motor you can stand at the table then lower it and sit So I wanted to make this video because we all sit too long and show creative ways to cope with this stress I invite you to an anti-stress course stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight on the course I will show you how to remove stress from the body and return a beautiful body stress closely linked to immunity. Therefore, in the package you will find a gift: a unique course on How to Strengthen Your Immune System. I will tell you how immunity works and what weakens it. I will also give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.