Hello, this is Dr. Berg. In this video, I want to show you how to improve your vision, especially if you want to do without glasses. It's funny, people wear so-called corrective glasses that don't correct anything. In fact, they make your eyes dependent on glasses, and you'll need increasingly powerful glasses. Here's a little anatomy for you. This is the structure of the eye. Its transparent part is called the cornea. Light passes through it, this is the iris. It determines the color of the eye: brown, blue, and so on. Light enters the lens of the eye, and the combination of the cornea and the lens, or more precisely, the shape of the lens allows you to see and focus vision, far or close. The lens is controlled by a muscle called the ciliary muscle, and the muscle is called the ciliary muscle, and it is this muscle that controls the shape of the lens. When this muscle contracts, you see what's close. If you can't see close, perhaps you have problems with the contraction of this muscle. It is too contracted. When this muscle is relaxed, you see very, very far away, and this alternately contracts and relaxes constantly when you look far and close. I have a question for you. What do you  What do you do most often? Look close or very far away. When was the last time you looked at the clouds or a tree or a bird or just into the distance? Probably a long time ago. Yes, if you contract this muscle all day sitting at a computer or phone or the Internet or iPad, it will atrophy to such an extent that it will stop working. That's why you need glasses. Especially today's children, they no longer go outside. Here's what you can do. It's very simple: go outside, take a walk, but don't look at your phone while you walk. Look at things in the distance. Spend 40 minutes or even an hour looking into the distance and focus on a cloud on a tree in the distance. What will this do? It will bring your eyes great relief. It will relieve the evil eye, tension, and address eye muscle atrophy. 5. Eye muscle atrophy. Because these muscles don't work, they don't focus, they are not relaxed. The muscles only reach a healthy state when they contract and relax alternately. In our case, it may have been contracted all the time, so we must relax it. Spend more time looking into the distance than you spend If you work at the computer all day, don't go outside and don't look at different things. Even while driving, you can look at objects in the distance. You need to do this if you don't want to wear glasses in the future. Well, this was just a little advice on how to keep this muscle in tone and avoid being prescribed stronger and stronger glasses. I hope this helps you. See you next time.