Let's talk about how ketones and hormones are related. How do titans actually affect our hormones? Let's look at the first and most important hormone on our list, insulin. The production of ketones actually begins when insulin is low. When insulin is too high, the body will not produce glucose. It has to work on glucose. And if it is not there, it begins to get it from its reserves of glycogen, or it begins to produce sugar, launching the so-called gluconeogenesis and makes sugar even from muscle proteins. insulin increases mainly due to carbohydrates and frequent meals. When you switch to a low-carb diet, you lower insulin. This is very, very beneficial for the body. In addition, on a low-carb diet, when the body is working on ketones and insulin is low, the pancreas finally gets the opportunity to exhale, relax, and recover. The pancreas also produces the opposite hormone. In fact, there are two different hormones: insulin and glucagon. Do not confuse it with glycogen. Glucagon is a hormone that helps collect and burn fat. It is stimulated by moderate  The amount of protein or intense training, as well as a decrease in carbohydrate consumption and a drop in insulin, insulin, glucagon, oppose each other. The next so-called FR1 insulin-like growth factor 1 is a hormone produced by the liver and its action is very similar to growth hormone. Growth hormone is an anti-aging hormone. It helps the body synthesize proteins, for example, muscle proteins, cartilage and collagen. It is produced by the pituitary gland and sent to the liver, and it starts the process of hormone production and FR. The functions of FR are very similar to the functions of growth hormone. Growth hormone is an anti-aging hormone with a fat-burning function like EFR. EFR levels rise when insulin drops, this is such a back-and-forth fluctuation. So, FR activates the burning of fat as fuel. When you don't eat or keep insulin low, as soon as you eat, a switch occurs. EFR falls and insulin rises, the process of fat storage is launched, and calories from food are used as energy, while FR takes energy from fat cell reserves and also from sugar reserves in the body. So, one and growth hormone, they are here further. We have cortisol, what kind of hormone is it? It is produced in the cortex.  adrenal glands and it is a glucocorticoid that affects blood glucose levels. When cortisol levels rise, this triggers the process of using sugar reserves as well as proteins. Proteins are broken down, this is called deamination. Amino acids are broken down and all this turns into glucose, which in turn raises insulin. So if you are chronically stressed and your cortisol is elevated, this explains the appearance of belly fat. The body takes proteins and turns them into sugar, helping you produce more sugar, and all this sugar turns into fat in the belly area. This is a survival mechanism. The body stores fat in case you have to starve so that you can survive. This is why some people accumulate fat from excess cortisol, because cortisol ultimately leads to an increase in insulin. Further, we have thyroid hormones. When you are on the diet and you produce ketones, a decrease in the level of T3, the active form of thyroid hormone, often occurs. Its amount decreases slightly. This is not a problem, because ketones allow the body to extract more energy and calories from eaten compared to sugar. This is a more efficient source of fuel.  There is less carbon dioxide waste and therefore the load on the thyroid gland is reduced, for this reason the T3 level also decreases, but you will not see an increase in the pituitary gland's loss of stimulating hormone. And therefore, hypothyroidism is diagnosed as a sign that something is wrong. T3 falls, but TSH does not rise. The body has simply adapted and become more efficient. You will not have any negative symptoms. T3 has fallen, but you feel good and have a lot of energy because ketones provide more energy. Antioxidants also act by protecting the body from damage by free radicals. Now let's talk about the structure of estrogen, among other things, it increases insulin sensitivity. If you have low estrogen levels, you may experience more symptoms of insulin resistance. This may be one of the reasons why women with age, when estrogen falls, get all these symptoms, as well as problems with sugar levels, but estrogen dominance also occurs. This depends on body weight. If a woman has a lot of fat deposits in the body after menopause, fat will produce estrogen, not the ovaries and not even the adrenal glands. When there is excess weight after menopause, the level  Estrogen will be higher if you have a normal weight during menopause. Estrogen can be low and there may be problems with insulin. Due to decreased sensitivity to it, some insulin resistance occurs, which affects blood sugar, you may be drawn to carbohydrates. This will be very useful for you. Switching to a diet actually reduces insulin resistance. In men, testosterone decreases. If you consume a lot of carbohydrates, insulin is high and the body is in nephtosis. By going into ketosis and reducing carbohydrate intake, you can increase testosterone. In women, everything is a little different. When you are not actually in ketosis, eating a lot of carbohydrates, insulin resistance develops. The body begins to produce the male hormone testosterone, which leads to baldness, facial hair, the voice becomes deep, and the belly grows. There is an interesting mechanism involved. More about this video at the link below. This is called polycystic ovary syndrome. There is a connection here: high insulin causes an increase in androgens. And the solution for this is a phytogenic diet. So, if you eat a lot of refined carbohydrates and sugar, you lower your growth hormone levels. Ketones help the thyroid gland work.  More effectively help normalize estrogen and androgens. If you want to learn more about how to start a keto diet, I'm waiting for you on this course. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.