How to strengthen and protect the immune system is what we will discuss today. Firstly, what is the immune system? It is essentially a defense. An army is an armed force fighting bad guys, pathogens. Pathogens are microorganisms that cause disease. The word "immune" comes from the Latin word "him" (meaning "lower"), which means exempt from government service. Interestingly, if you analyze the meaning, you get "protected" or "free from attacks, harm, and disease." That is, the immune system protects you from disease. It's like immigration control. If something from the outside enters the body, it must pass through the respiratory tract or the digestive tract and receive a stamp of approval from immigration control. This is what the immune system does. It constantly monitors whether something is foreign or possibly harmful, or whether this part of the body is foreign. If it detects something as foreign that could threaten the body, it automatically activates its defenses. We will talk about this further. There are three main barriers to immunity. Firstly, the skin contains many friendly bacteria that help defend against external invasions. There is also a layer of fat.  which also protects, there are certain acids on the skin that also protect, then there are the mucous membranes of the gastrointestinal tract, in the respiratory tract and sinuses, which also catch and absorb foreign particles or microorganisms, inflammation is another protective barrier that the body puts up, the main cells of the immune system are white blood cells, unlike red blood cells, they have a different function in addition to white blood cells, there are beneficial microorganisms that also help, all beneficial microorganisms together are called the microbiome or microflora, they help in many ways, from the absorption of nutrients and the processing of bile to immune defense, etc. They have such a strategy, they do it so that the pathogen has no space to live, in other words, the pathogen does not get enough food to survive, let's talk about the defense forces of our immune system, and white blood cells produce acid to dissolve and kill bacteria and pathogens, they secrete I to kill these microorganisms, they release free radicals, they produce hydrogen, you've probably seen this before when you take hydrogen peroxide and apply  When an open cut is exposed, it dissolves, foams, and kills germs through oxidation. White blood cells produce enzymes that break down and dissolve bacteria. As I already said, microorganisms compete for food and space, and white blood cells produce mucus and cause inflammation. Pathogens enter, all this mucus gets in, and they can't do anything else. It's like quicksand. The immune system also has a memory of everything that happens. Everything goes into a database for storage. When, after a long time, some bacteria enter the body again, the immune system will mark them because it can remember them and destroy them. That is, it learns over time by being exposed to these pathogens. This is how immunity is formed. Therefore, it is not very useful to keep children in such sterile conditions that they are not exposed to any diseases. After all, this is a natural formation of immunity. We also have things called phagocytes. This is part of the immune system. Phagocytes are cells that have the ability to absorb, they devour germs. They have an insatiable appetite not only for germs, bacteria, yeast, and fungi, but they also eat  Dead cells and debris, they are like sewer cleaners for everything that the body doesn't need. In one liter of blood, there are 6 billion of these guys, phagocytes. What's interesting is that they are stimulated by acid, and I think that's why it's purely my guess that when people drink a lot of synthetic vitamin C, ascorbic acid, it gives good results, even if this vitamin C is synthetic, simply because it's an acid. I would recommend consuming apple cider vinegar. Apple cider vinegar is known to increase the acidity of the body and speed up phagocytosis, like any other If you have a choice, I would recommend food-grade vitamin C. They are synthetic, but for speeding up phagocytosis, apple cider vinegar is better. Another mechanism that I want to mention, although I didn't write it here, is associated with certain white blood cells. If certain white blood cells are infected with a pathogen, we have a built-in mechanism. If something penetrates a cell, it undergoes a process called apoptosis, in which it self-destructs for the benefit of the entire body. Because if you allow a virus to penetrate the cell's DNA and begin to reproduce, the cell will start reproducing this virus over and over again. On the other hand, bad guys, pathogens also have their own defenses. They have the ability to block vitamin D. They do this through vitamin D receptors. Somehow, they know that vitamin D is absolutely essential for controlling immunity and blocking it. They reduce the resistance of our cells to penetration and capture. These insidious pathogens are also able to imitate the body's tissues so that the immune system does not recognize them. In this, they are very insidious. They can also hide in such small houses made of calcium. This is why antibiotics are ineffective against so-called biofilms. This is a topic for a separate discussion. I will give a link to a video below with detailed collections. But microorganisms have become very smart. Another mechanism is applicable especially to organisms like mycoplasma, which does not have cell walls. They move into one joint, into the synovial fluid, then into another joint, the immune system tries to attack them, but unsuccessfully. They continue to move, so it is impossible to catch them. Another mechanism is that microbes are able to form various structures, confusing your immune system. Well, okay.  Now let's talk about what to do about it. There are two groups of phenomena, those that weaken the immune system and those that strengthen it. What weakens the immune system is a nutrient-poor diet, which provokes a deficiency. If you take the Spanish flu pandemic that happened in 1918 and look at what happened right before this pandemic, a virus that spread and killed from 50 to 100 million people. What happened right before this was the First World War. During this war, colossal changes occurred in the transportation of food, food was rationed, food was preserved, many soldiers were given food like canned stew, some were given dog food, there simply were n't enough fresh vegetables. Fresh food is weakened by prolonged dieting, especially when in a stressful situation such as war. This creates conditions in which a person becomes easy prey for viruses invading the body. If you lack vitamins, micro and macroelements, amino acids and fatty acids, especially them, then you are more susceptible to various diseases, because the defense mechanism depends on receiving these nutrients. Let's take viruses for example. A virus is not a living virus.  It can't do anything to you until it penetrates the cell wall. It penetrates the DNA and turns the cell into a copy machine, taking away the vital energy from this cell. Think about what I said. It needs to penetrate the cell wall. This cell wall is two layers of fat, this is the bilipid layer of fat, and this is another reason why essential fatty acids are vital for protecting cells. You can't go on a low-fat diet when you are exhausted or sick. Fat, and by the way, cholesterol is very important for the health of the immune system. Cholesterol is a vital building block for some hormones, such as cortisol. Cortisol is very important for the immune system, and if cortisol does not have the building blocks of cholesterol, it will not be able to form properly. Then we have stress. It can probably be equated to a nutrient deficiency. In fact, in all my practice, I do not remember a single case of any disease that was not preceded by some kind of stressful event, and so stress is the most important factor. I will give a link below to information on how to get rid of stress. Lack of sleep also makes you easy prey. It is also associated with stress and glucose. I just released a video on this topic. Some viruses are more active on glucose as fuel than on any other. You already know about healthy ketogenic diets and intermittent fasting. For those who are watching us recently and do n't know anything about them, look below. I'll give a link to a specific diet that is necessary for a strong immune system. We'll discuss which nutrients are most essential for a bulletproof immune system. Vitamin C is at the top of the list, and I'm not talking about synthetic vitamin C. I'm talking about vitamin C from food or food concentrate. In nature, vitamin C always comes in a complex of many parts, and ascorbic acid alone is the most abundant food source. Foods richest in vitamin C include sauerkraut, bell peppers, berries, and green leafy vegetables. Vitamin C is capable of stimulating the production of white blood cells. It is also stored in large quantities in the adrenal glands, helping to produce adrenal hormones. The next equally important point is vitamin D. I talked about this on the previous slide. Vitamin D is an immunomodulator. It's not even a vitamin, it's a hormone. It's a factor that controls the immune system. Its function is much broader than just bone formation. The receptors for vitamin C are  Vitamin D is found in all white blood cells and in DNA. When I say it modulates immunity, I mean it controls the immune system. Many people are deficient in vitamin D and don't even know it. Vitamin D supports T-cells, which are produced by the thymus gland, which acts as a training camp for white blood cells. Vitamin D also protects against pathogens. It provides these two components that can powerfully destroy microbes. Vitamin D does a lot of good for immunity. Next on the list is a very important thing: vitamin A. Vitamin A ensures the structural integrity of mucous cells in the sinuses and respiratory centers. The best sources of vitamin A are cod liver oil, egg yolk, and butter are also rich in it, because it is a fat-soluble vitamin. By the way, vitamin D is very difficult to obtain from food, so the best source is the sun or dietary supplements. My son, the most important micronutrient for immunity, it increases the number of T-cells and does a lot more for immunity. Many people are deficient in zinc. My son, it protects very well against viruses. Garlic is undoubtedly number one in its ability to destroy  Viruses, bacteria, yeast, fungi, and mold are all powerful. Colloidal silver is essentially a silver particle in water. It has been used for a long time. It blocks oxygen to certain microorganisms. It's a powerful substance. Some people use it to rinse their noses, and it works very well. It's also very effective against viruses. Olive leaf. Have you studied it very thoroughly? I'll give you a link below to detailed information. It's useful against viruses and for protecting the immune system. There are many other things that protect the immune system, but in my opinion, these are the most effective. Thanks for watching. I know I've been quite busy, but if you have n't seen my video about stress, watch it. I think you'll like it.