Hello everyone, let's start with a quiz. I ask you, doc, what common food ingredient causes obesity in mice? Dear viewers, you can answer, and now let's move on to questions on social networks. Son from Facebook, why can blood pressure jump from 110 to 170? I believe this is the upper limit in a short time. Tests and dietary changes, you recommend that you keep a pressure journal and track what you ate right before this, since you may have something like an allergy. But if this happens more often in the morning, then you need magnesium, because our lowest magnesium levels are in the morning. That is why problems with blood clots are more common in the morning, and they are associated with heart disease. Arrhythmia often occurs in the morning, as well as muscle cramps, heart attacks, strokes, asthma attacks. The dawn phenomenon is a jump in blood sugar. All this happens in the morning and is associated with a magnesium deficiency. So I would definitely. And there are also two things, actually three things, that help with hypertension. The first is magnesium, the second.  potassium and the third is vitamin D. But it could be a food allergy. Kelly from Facebook writes very well. She has severe leg cramps at night and when she stretches, her muscles always cramp. Can you recommend something to prevent this? The simplest remedy is magnesium, but don’t buy the best-selling form of magnesium, magnesium oxide, because it won’t help. This form is only 34% absorbed. We need 80% absorption. And this is magnesium glycinate and with vitamin D because magnesium doesn’t work without vitamin D, and vitamin D doesn’t work without magnesium. That is, this is very important. Now about magnesium doses. The problem is that even 400 mg is usually 4-5 capsules, and that’s a lot. But you probably need 800 mg, which is 10 capsules a day. You can take them in parts, and be sure to take most of this dose in the evening so that there are no cramps when you wake up. I really think that the problem is magnesium deficiency. Let’s find out what our viewers answered to the quiz question, and he  It sounded like this: what common food ingredient causes obesity in mice? They said sugar, 15% seed oil, 10% high-functional high-fat. An important nuance, and for decades they have been using something else, monosodium glutamate. So, what is curious? Wikipedia claims that it is a myth that monosodium glutamate causes Chinese restaurant syndrome. It does not cause anything. There are no reasons for a hereditary connection. There is no evidence. It is considered safe. Yeah. Why is it used to make mice obese? That is, mice don’t just get fat when they are injected with monosodium glutamate. They develop obesity because monosodium glutamate destroys a small gland in the brain, the hypothalamus, and it controls eating behavior. So, mice start eating a lot. They eat even when they have no appetite. Monosodium glutamate affects the center that controls metabolism. It is located in the hypothalamus itself and is called the arcuate nucleus and destroys it. And so, your metabolism has a very difficult time burning fat. You only store it, even if you receive the same number of calories. So, here is the question. If monosodium glutamate so strongly destroys the hypothalamus of mice, then why do we  They say that it is safe for people. Well, this topic has not been studied. Yes, but we know that mice have problems from it. Maybe no one gave money for this research and usually the manufacturers pay for the research on monosodium glutamate. I do n’t know if I believe the Wikipedia article about monosodium glutamate. I know that we will ask one more quiz question and then we will talk to FOM, who has already called and is waiting. I ask you, Doc. So, why does exercise lower magnesium levels? You lost sound for a second. So, I will repeat, why does exercise lower magnesium levels. Now, let’s talk to Joseph. I will put him on the screen now. You can ask a question on the air. You have 30 seconds. Hello, Dr. Berg. It is an honor for me. I am 58. I was just diagnosed with GERD and I think my symptoms are more like laryngospasm (GLR). I have it hereditary. All my brothers and sisters have it. I did a test with baking soda and there was no burping, so I started taking betaine hydrochloride tablets with every meal.  I've increased the dose and reached the number of tablets. The question is, how can I be 100% sure? I have low stomach acidity. After all, I'm taking these tablets, but I don't want to make the situation worse. I'm doing this without the doctor's knowledge or approval. I had an endoscopy and am now waiting for the results. So, there are more complex methods for measuring stomach pH. The problem is that they are slightly invasive. However, when I was in practice, I used a kit. I have capsules with a string. You swallow the capsule, leaving the string here. The capsule is in the stomach. You lie on your right side for about 15 minutes. Then the string is pulled out. Then you take this capsule. It's almost dissolved. You put it on a litmus strip and measure the pH. I used this. But once someone swallowed this capsule, and the esophagus was dry and the capsule got stuck. So, I'm pulling this string out of the person's mouth and I think that this is no good. I just cut the string. He swallowed it. I decided not to do this anymore, but there are ways to measure pH. But you need to use an indirect method. After all, if GERD goes away When you take betaine hydrochloride, this basically means that the problem is this, so you are not taking hydrochloric acid itself, but the raw materials for its production. So there will be no harm, side effects, and all that, but if the symptoms go away, then the problem is a lack of acid, and for most people over 50, over 60, over 70, the acidity in the stomach becomes lower and lower, people lose acid. That's why they don't digest red meat and protein well in general, so another small one, let's say you did this and it worked. Great then. Watch my videos on how to get the necessary nutrients for the production of hydrochloric acid, because you need not only acid, but also sea salt, potassium chloride, and so on. In addition, there is another vitamin, B1, which also controls this valve. So I take it well. I take vitamin B1 and vitamin D 10,000 and Let's just assume that you did all this but it didn't work. You said laryngospasm in my videos about this. I said that the problem here is  calcium, but in fact the problem here is magnesium, because it controls calcium. If there is no magnesium, the muscles contract too strongly, you understand. And other valves do not contract at all, because the problem is in the smooth muscles in the valve. And HRB is the problem with the valve. So, higher doses of magnesium B1 or magnesium can help you. I also take magnesium glycinate. I don’t remember which form. I need to check if it is oxide. Replace it with glycine. Volume magnesium glycinate. Yes, because you need magnesium glycinate, since this form is absorbed by 80 percent, and magnesium oxide is absorbed by only 34%. I would really not want you to take the wrong form. So, I would try all this, and after Ned, let’s talk again and see if this helped you well. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you very much for the good call, Joseph, and for taking the time to help us. For which we are always grateful to everyone who called. So, we received answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this: Why does exercise reduce magnesium levels? Well, let’s see. 100% of those who answered said it decreases because  We sweat, so this is one of the reasons that we lose magnesium. But what's interesting is that magnesium is needed to generate energy. At the last stage of creating ATP energy, a motor is used that literally rotates and creates ATP. It makes from 100 to 400 revolutions per second. This is the rotation speed of a jet engine turbine. This mechanism, this engine, desperately needs magnesium, and the more it works, the more magnesium it spends. So, magnesium is needed to create energy for muscle contraction and relaxation. In general, training greatly increases the need for magnesium. Therefore, if you do not have the energy you used to have during training, or you have more spasms and cramps because you train more, take more magnesium. This should solve the problem, and this is exactly what athletes may not understand, so they take anything but magnesium and wonder why they are so tired, but they need the right nutrient.