Hello everyone Today we will start with a quiz question So, where does the largest amount of everlasting chemicals get into the human body? I will explain what everlasting chemicals are. There are a lot of them. And unfortunately, they have an extremely long half-life, they essentially do not decompose. And alas, they are in the environment and they get into our body and it takes years to remove them. The answer to this question is very important because we need to at least know about everlasting chemicals that affect us because they cause a lot of problems, cancer, and so on. And unfortunately, some organizations do nothing about it. Although they should, and many people are trying to force some departments to take measures and limit chemical emissions. In general, this is an important question. Find the correct answer, and we will continue. John from Facebook. What do you recommend for removing toenail fungus? Rub them with lemon juice or something else. Tea tree oil helps well. You can even do baths with magnesium sulfate. Epsom salts also help. Iodine also works, as well as high doses. Let's say you have toenail fungus that is located on your feet. deep in the nail and it is yellow high doses of vitamin D3 for some time can solve this problem This is due to the fact that in this way you immune system fights the fungus and it helped several people very well, but someone with Nick global rhythms of nature wants to know if you recommend a carnivore diet or a keto diet for people with Parkinson's disease What a horror yes I recommend I recommend it without a doubt I also recommend them doses of not only B3, that is, niacin, but also vitamin B2 B3 and B2 I need to make a new video on this topic because there are very interesting ones there is a drug called denol it is a drug for Parkinson's disease and with aging if you know how it works it will become clear that many natural remedies also work Like de prino this is an area that I want to explore and I think I need to make a video about it there is a book about de prino and the fight against aging Find it if you have Parkinson's disease Wow, to find out something there are a lot of AT 21 shame will 50 mg of tans twice a day help reduce hair loss in women, perhaps you will get the best result from high doses of vitamin D3, because in the chamber where the hair root is located, in the so-called follicle, there are many receptors for vitamin high doses of vitamin D, somewhere around 50,000 IU every day, act as a natural inhibitor of DHT, a powerful form of testosterone that burns hair So this can also help vitamin D improves the condition of the genes that are responsible for hair growth I made a video about this but remembered that it hasn't been released yet, maybe it will be released in the next few days take vitamin to solve the problem with hair I am very proud of our viewers After all, as usual, they answered the quiz question with lightning speed, which sounded like this Where does the greatest amount of eternal chemicals get into the human body? 70% answered from plastic in food products, 15% said from Teflon on the dishes in which we cook and 15% said from cosmetics You are right, they are in all of this, but the greatest amount of them gets into us from the water they are in the water if you have water from a well, check it I will shoot a video where I will check different  tap water and so on, I know it's depressing, but the plus is that there are a couple of filters that remove 100% of these chemicals from the water. And that's good. Wherever you live, in the city or outside the city, you need to know about this because, unfortunately, we've all been deceived into thinking that our water is safe, but that's not true. It contains these chemicals and they accumulate in the body. And the solution to the problem that I recommend, I'll name right now, although I haven't finished the seminar yet, or rather, the video on this topic, and it's about this. Yes, you can become paranoid about all these chemicals and try to avoid them with all your might, but in the end, if you really strengthen your mitochondria and your entire biochemistry with proper nutrition, you will change the chemical processes, your cells will adapt and gain such flexibility that they can largely overcome this toxicity, because this toxicity blocks biochemical pathways. Chemicals, okay, so be it. And we just get more, say, glutamine, N, vitamin C, or zinc to make this mechanism work better, that's my point of view. Because another way to do it. Detoxification and hiding in the closet from all the chemicals is not practical, so I installed my own water cooler filter for $ 50. Is there any hope that this will solve the problem or do I need something more complex? You can buy one of what are they called, just a water filter. What is it called, just a jug with a filter? There are only non-fit filters that remove eternal chemicals from water. You need such a filter. It is not the same as regular filters. I am going to make a video about this unfortunately, these chemicals are in the water. And water is everywhere. So, this is a problem, but I repeat, there is a solution. So, don't be discouraged. Mot, one more question. Alba with Tuba, please tell me about natural sleep aids. I take sleeping pills but want to give them up. Well, one of the best ways to improve sleep. I will post a video in 2 weeks. It will be called. I don't know the name yet, but it will be about the connection between intestinal microflora and your depression. In the video, I will show an excellent way to strengthen it with the help of certain microbes that we transform [music] into. This is not yogurt, but a probiotic. Prepared at home to improve the condition of the small intestine and indirectly thanks to it, sleep becomes amazing. This is what you need, I think, and I will advise there are many other ways. Wait for this video, I will give an excellent solution and you will sleep like a baby. Although babies cry all night, you will sleep well. Vitamin D helps before bed, magnesium in the evenings. Magnesium glycinate is an excellent remedy because it contains glycine, and it also improves sleep. After all, it increases the level of Gamma, and it helps to relax. Take five capsules of glycine magnesium and that's it. Try it. Tell me if it helped. Thank you for your questions. Subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.