I decided to remodel my studio and you will see how it will all happen I'm afraid to show you this just don't laugh okay This is such a temporary structure made in one place it's even embarrassing to show it I used to have a studio in another house but we moved to this farm and all I never got around to this temporary studio where I shoot almost all the videos so I have a digital one You probably thought that the background was real but I'm still trying to understand no it's not so well get back in place Well everything is ready So ​​I come here turn on the lights like this then the camera look at this can it's a nightmare just awful everything here needs to be changed I'll call Bill and ask him to do some repairs for me I need a regular wooden table to remove these pieces of wood from here let's see what he says Hello Bill Hello I have a problem here just don't laugh This is the kind of table I have it's cinder blocks Yeah such a temporary structure is propping up the table everything I never got around to it I think I need a new one something better than this plastic table I'll take care of this issue Excellent anything will be better than this it's all on  We're removing the trash from here. I got rid of the cinder blocks and Bill started working on the table. So today we're opening. You'll see a new studio. We've been working on it all week. I'm thrilled with it. I hope you like it too. I usually get up at 4:30 a.m. to study the information and end up recording a video somewhere around noon. Sometimes at 1:20 p.m. and even at 4 p.m. I don't have a team looking for information. I do everything myself. There's always a lot of work, but I need a good studio. And here I have it. Thanks to Bill. So let's see a demo of the studio. 2024 This is a tree that fell into my pond. Yes, we pulled it out and cut it up on a sawmill. Then we dried it in the oven and processed it. We trimmed the studio. What was there before was even embarrassing to show here. We have a little lighting. We also have this, just like on Google Maps when you look down on the Grand Canyon, but it's not the Grand Canyon. And I now have a board where I can draw. I can show, for example, how it is during menopause.  All hormones are decreasing except for cortisol, which is increasing. That's why people lose muscle mass with age. This will allow me to explain things faster and easier than on that big board. But I'm delighted with this table. How did you even come up with this idea? It looks like a real river with lighting underneath. But how did you come up with this? I thought it would be cool if it looked like the Grand Canyon. After all, you said there would be a camera on top. On this side, there's a thick layer of epoxy that tapers off to almost nothing at this edge. It seemed like a great idea to me. I decided to do it all on a beautiful base. It looks amazing from above. I really like it. It turned out great. There are simply no words. It's very beautiful. So, if you haven't subscribed to his channel yet, be sure to subscribe and watch the video about how he did it all. Here it is.