Let's talk about how to speed up digestion. This video is not only for those who experience constipation, but also for those who experience indigestion, gas, bloating, and abdominal pain. In general, everything that happens when digestion is incomplete. We'll break the gastrointestinal tract into several parts and talk about each one. We'll start with stomach acid. It's the main thing in the stomach. It helps break down protein and absorb some minerals, and it also kills pathogens. Many people don't have enough stomach acid. Many people also have stomach acid, but it's not strong enough. Page 13 should be somewhere around 13. It's like the acid in a battery. If the acid is strong and you have enough of it, the valve above the stomach closes and food is digested quite quickly. It would be very useful to add more hydrochloric acid. But you don't need to drink hydrochloric acid. This way, you completely clog both your mouth and esophagus. Therefore, you need to take a weaker acid, which will accumulate over time. The drug is called betaine hydrochloride. Take it as a supplement. You can also take materials that will help you accumulate hydrochloric acid. Salt is sodium chloride. Chloride from salt can help accumulate hydrochloric acid, you also get more potassium because potassium is necessary for the formation of hydrochloric acid, of course, you need other nutrients, but these two are the most important. You need to take apple cider vinegar, diluting one tablespoon in a glass of water, or kombucha. If you buy this drink, take the one with the least sugar, ideally 2 grams per bottle. And don’t drink the whole bottle because it’s big and it’s too acidic, you’ll drink it all overgrown. Both of these remedies will help increase the acidity of the stomach. What worsens the situation with acidity is taking antacids and calcium carbonate. Next, we have bile, it is produced by the liver, stored in the gallbladder and helps break down fats. You can take purified bile salts and take 1 capsule after meals and this will help you get rid of bloating and belching and also help break down fats. If you want your body to produce more bile, take probiotics because bacteria help you reuse bile. You can also eat beet tops to increase bile production. Also, ginger, artichoke, lemons, milk thistle, and choline all help the liver and stimulate the production of bile salts. If bile decreases, it is due to a lack of probiotics, friendly bacteria, antibiotics, gallbladder removal, fatty liver, or liver damage, which reduces bile production. There may also be problems with the outflow of bile through the bile ducts or with a sluggish gallbladder. Many problems can occur with it, and I will leave links with additional information. Bile salts or foods that increase bile production will help with digestion. At this stage, enzymes come next. Most enzymes are produced by the pancreas, which is located under the ribs on the left. The small intestine is also capable of producing some enzymes. The stomach also produces enzymes. Bacteria in the intestines, both small and large, also produce enzymes. Enzymes help you break down carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. The more raw food you eat, the more benefit you will get from enzymes, because heating destroys enzymes in food. If you eat mostly cooked food,  Canned or pasteurized, then you will steal the supply of enzymes. You can take a mixture of different enzymes as a nutritional aid during meals. But if you have enzymes, digestion will be much better. If they are not present, then many symptoms arise, such as indigestion. Black, tar-like stools may occur that stick to the walls of the toilet because fats have not been broken down in it. An enzyme called lipase, which works together with bile, helps break down fats into tiny particles. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salt. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us and we will talk about microflora. Microflora is friendly bacteria. The microbiome is the majority of the microflora found in the large intestine. A little flora is found on the outer layers of the body in each of its crevices and in the small intestine. It would be wise to take probiotics because this will improve If you've taken antibiotics or eaten GMO foods, you'll lose beneficial bacteria, and then you'll become constipated. You won't be able to produce certain vitamins, which can lead to deficiencies and nutrients. In general, when you lose your microflora, a lot happens. You need probiotics, and you also need food for beneficial bacteria, which is called prebiotics or fiber. I recommend getting fiber from foods called vegetables. Next, we have the parasympathetic nervous system. It opposes the sympathetic nervous system's fight-or-flight mechanism, which relates to stress, which relates to rest and digestion. The parasympathetic nervous system is stimulated by low levels of stress. Vitamin B1 from nutritional yeast can also stimulate this system. This system helps peristalsis and contractions of the colon walls. Taking potassium also helps this system, as does taking magnesium. If you want to watch a more complete video about digestion from A to Z, here it is. Watch it.