Let's talk about how to put an autoimmune disease into remission. Of course, we can't talk about a cure, we're talking about remission, the so- called spontaneous remission. I have a lot of videos about autoimmune diseases, but I want to share some amazing new data. After all, if you have such a disease and you want to put it into remission, you need to have complete information, including knowing one very important fact. A recent study has established a clear link between the Epstein-Barr virus and many autoimmune diseases. The thing is, you can say that this doesn't apply to you, but imagine that 90 percent of people are carriers of the Epstein-Barr virus. This virus has one unique feature that distinguishes it from other viruses. It can go into hibernation, as if it had disappeared, but then come out of it again. In other words, it goes into a dormant state and then sits and waits for the right conditions to come. Usually, when your immune system encounters a virus, it fights it and creates the necessary antibodies, and eventually, immunity to this virus develops, but the Epstein-Barr virus is not like that. This virus is capable of infecting some  Immune cells reprogram them and change their function. Normally, this is the work of certain proteins in the body. Turn on and off different genes. But the trouble is that the Epstein-Barr virus is able to bypass this mechanism and influence genes directly. It produces a certain protein that then regulates the work of your genes, causing autoimmune diseases. But this only happens when favorable conditions arise. Now I will explain. There is one type of cell that is associated with autoimmune diseases. These are helper cells. These cells are always associated with autoimmune diseases. Without complicated terms, these cells either protect you from autoimmune diseases or create a situation that leads to an autoimmune disease due to how they handle inflammation. Whether these cells will protect you or harm you actually depends on environmental factors. That is, this is your epigenetics. This explains why some people develop autoimmune diseases and others do not. Although both have the Epstein-Barr virus in their bodies, as I already said, 90 percent of people are carriers of the Epstein-Barr virus. This is one of the most common viruses among people.  We will discuss how to create such conditions to reliably protect yourself and keep all these autoimmune diseases in remission. It is called the kissing disease, so many people catch it in high school. It can cause so-called infectious mononucleosis, in which the lymph nodes of the upper extremities become inflamed, a fever occurs, and in general, you feel so-so. I had this in school. Of course, after kissing, it was an exhausting illness, it was difficult to breathe, it lasted for two weeks, a terrible feeling. The disease itself is not very contagious, it is transmitted through saliva, blood, and sperm. This virus is also called the herpes virus type 4. It can remain dormant for years and never come out of hibernation, or it comes out of hibernation in the case of the so-called perfect storm. I will talk about this right now here with us. Environmental factors. The reasons why some people get sick and others do not include their physical fitness, the ability to resist the virus, strength and immunity, as well as how stressful their environment is. Stress can provoke and activate the disease because high levels of cortisol can  paralyze the immune system one of the most powerful stressful situations is a severe loss or loss serious losses put a person into a state of grief the greater the loss the greater the stress and the likelihood of an autoimmune disease I have already talked about this in my videos this happened to each of my patients an autoimmune disease developed after some kind of stressful situation There is another interesting thing that can happen is irradiation of the intestines suppose you had an x-ray of the intestines or a CT scan this can affect the intestinal microflora cause dysbiosis and provoke an autoimmune disease or you took antibiotics this can also lead to dysbiosis and provoke the disease another option you eat a lot of homoproducts with glyphosate this can also ruin the intestinal microflora the result is a predisposition to an autoimmune disease especially if in the past you contracted the Epstein virus bar another factor nutrient deficiency for example you lack vitamin D or zinc if at the same time you find yourself in a stressful situation you will be very vulnerable to some of these diseases In addition to this medications drugs steroids and even Pregnancy stress can trigger an autoimmune disease. A unique feature of pregnancy is that some autoimmune diseases go into remission during this period, but when the pregnancy ends, they appear again. But other autoimmune diseases, on the contrary, can turn on during pregnancy. There are other provoking factors that I cannot name in this video, but although I did not directly mention them in other videos, I will leave links to them below. Those factors can also create all the conditions for a perfect storm leading to autoimmune problems. Now let's see what can be done to transfer an autoimmune disease into permanent remission. The plan is to focus not so much on inflammation and the disease itself as on the Epstein-Barr virus. This is new information. If we proceed from the fact that it is all about this virus, we will have a slightly different strategy; we will be able to focus on exactly what can really help you. So, the goal is to return the Epstein-Barr virus into remission, and one of the best ways to do this is to reduce stress levels as accurately as possible. Find out what creates a stressful situation and do everything possible to minimize this stress, at least reduce it. This will help you. There is such an analysis, analysis of variability and You can install an app on your phone to measure your heart rate yourself. I like this analysis because it tests both the prosympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems. You will learn how your parasympathetic nervous system, which is responsible for recovery, works compared to the sympathetic system, which is responsible for stress. This is a very interesting test. Some people may not even feel that their sympathetic system is dominant. Although this is true, the parasympathetic system does not work, which creates a risk of decreased immunity and activation of the virus. This analysis is good because it shows you what state you are in. Below I will leave a link to this application. Install it. If you want another remedy to reduce stress and return the Epstein-Barr virus to where it belongs, this is vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 in sufficient quantities is very important. Calis magnesium is also very important and vitamin D, and in high doses, at least 40 thousand IB. This will remove inflammation and also return the Epstein-Barr virus back into remission. In this case, you will also take enough zinc, at least 50 mg per day. So these are the two most important supplements that you need to drink. Aerobic exercise, unlike other types of exercise, gives you a lot of oxygen and also helps lower cortisol levels. What increases your control over the immune system? Long walks or not too intense cycling are also very important. Point two: eliminate dysbiosis in the intestines. The intestines play a key role, because 80 percent of immunity is in the intestines. So start drinking probiotics. And also eat fermented vegetables. But when taking probiotics, start little by little. It’s different with dysbiosis. You will provoke an immune response. If you have probiotics in liquid form, pour a little into a teaspoon. If in capsules, take half. I made this mistake when I had intestinal problems. I took standard doses and got a strong detox. Point 3: you need to fast for two days every two weeks regularly. If you do this for two to three months, this alone will not only reduce inflammation. And this will happen, but also significantly strengthen the immune system. This is exactly what we need to return the Epstein-Barr virus to hibernation. This virus is activated only when there is some weakness. 4 reduce  inflammation with the help of fasting vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. In addition, you need to get off carbohydrates, that is, switch to the theta diet. Ketones are natural anti-inflammatory substances. And the last fifth point for those who were able to watch up to this point. You are lucky because this is a very important point. PMG, what is it? Protomorphogens. What is this? Standard Process, a manufacturer of food supplements. I do not have contracts with them. They sell PMG. They have various products that contain gland extracts. More than 20 products, for example, for the thyroid gland, for lung tissue, for liver tissue. In short, they have a PMG product for almost every tissue in the body. And here's what's interesting. PNG is dehydrated animal tissue. Although this is an extract from another biological species, its use can be a separate strategy. Here's how it works. For example, you have Hashimoto's disease, it is associated with the thyroid gland. You have antibodies that attack this gland. In this case, you can take a thyroid supplement and it contains PMG. Take one capsule at night and as a result, this  The capsule enters the stomach and antibodies begin to attack this, so to speak, bait, leaving the thyroid gland alone. Take it again the next evening. So, every evening for about three months, it all depends on what kind of autoimmune disease you have. For example, with multiple sclerosis, neurotrophin PMZh is used in the brain. If you have type 1 diabetes, antibodies attack the pancreas, in this case, you take pancreatrophin PMZh. So, this is a secret weapon strategy that you can try to use. You will have to figure out for yourself where to buy these supplements. They can probably all be ordered online, or you can look for specialists in your region who use these products. And another good video that is worth watching. Since we are talking about viruses, this is my video rating, here it is, watch it.