Let's talk about seven incredibly cool techniques that will instantly relieve pain. I taught these techniques to chiropractors and physical therapists, but I adapted them for independent use. Some will need the help of another person. The first technique for shoulder pain is to lie on your stomach. If your left shoulder hurts, someone should work with the opposite calf muscle. If your right shoulder hurts, then you need to work with the left calf muscle. I'll show you an example of how this works, but the reason why this is so is in closed circuits. When walking, the right shoulder is opposite the left leg. You take a step and now the left shoulder is opposite the right. Find this cross- wiring diagram connecting the right shoulder to the left leg and the left shoulder to the right leg. I'll show you an example. The problem is in the right shoulder, so we work with the opposite calf muscle. Press on the muscle and work everything like this. This place will be sensitive on the opposite side. Everything needs to be worked out. You also need to massage the Achilles tendon well and massage for about two hours. I'm joking somewhere. Let's work like this for a minute and work on this area now take those now raise your hand yes better better much better good but how much better on a scale of 1 to 10 somewhere probably nine and nine and a half let's move on to the next technique of an amazing technique first you need to find the area of ​​pain and just press but the same place on the opposite side as if in a mirror image if it hurts with 1 star we press on the other side press in the sense massage to get rid of pain on one side of the body you need to press on the opposite side now I'll show you first you need to find out where it hurts on this side and press on the other side let's say it hurts from above take the opposite side about massaging here you can do it yourself but you can also ask someone just show you how to do it show this video massage here it will get rid of the pain there and the main thing is to find the exact spot in the mirror image how to understand that you have found it it will be very very sensitive as soon as you find it the person will immediately exclaim oh it hurts and then we are already working on this but we are not finished yet we need to work on the elbow muscle and move up the lower part don't worry we will work on  elbow and then over the muscles on the opposite side and you need to work the biceps and triceps on the back, we will massage this area with a return, let's talk about the right shoulder, many people have pain in the right shoulder, but it can come from the gallbladder. There is a phrenic nerve that goes from the gallbladder to the right shoulder, so if you work on the right shoulder for weeks or even months without much results, then most likely the reason is not in the shoulder, it comes from somewhere else. Next, I will show a technique that can cope with this. Look, here's the problem: if you eat too many nuts and seeds or peanut butter, this greatly complicates the work of the gallbladder and the ducts connecting to the gallbladder. Just remember this: when you think about what tasty thing to quickly snack on, you often choose nuts. If you eat a lot, the gallbladder will become irritated. You may feel a slight bloating. There is a small nerve that goes from the gallbladder through the liver and to the shoulder, to the neck and to the head, and if this nerve gets pinched here, it's like stepping on a dog's tail. light  There will be pain here on the right side of the neck or in the shoulder, anywhere in the shoulder, it can even reach the right, find it somewhere on the right and even in the right shoulder blade on the back side behind the shoulder, you will feel that everything here is tense and you will be sure that it is just neck pain or shoulder problems when in fact it is those nuts, remember that this can be one of the sources with the return, here is another very cool technique, we will check the range of motion in certain parts of the body and compare the movement to the right and left, forward and backward, we are looking for areas of restriction and to fix this you need to stretch in the opposite direction, here is an example of a muscle that is constantly in a state of tension or contraction cannot relax, you can either stimulate the opposite muscle with pressure or stretch it if the muscle does not move in this direction, then stretch in the opposite direction, I stretch here and relax for a second, stretch and relax, all I do is stretch in the opposite direction, that's all if you do 10 repetitions, stretching the muscle well, the arm will turn down much better, you see, that's how it is with the return, there is another technique for you with stretching  The shoulder blades are great for neck clamps. Very often, the cause of such clamps is not actually in the neck but in the shoulders. For the next technique, all you need is a folding table. Look, I'll turn your back now and show you. Find the shoulder blade, a bone in the back, pull it out a little and kind of put it on a chair. Now sit on the chair and stretch your entire shoulder up. See, I hooked the lower edge of the shoulder blade onto the back of the chair and sit like this for about a minute. Pull your shoulder up, lowering your body down. Then, change sides and work on the other shoulder blade. I know it looks strange, but it works. I just lean back and push my shoulder up. When working with the opposite muscles, signals will be sent to the trapezius muscles for relaxation. Just try it and you'll see that it works. Let's move on to the next technique. What if you removed your nose? Where is the opposite side of the nose? How to work with this? This technique will help with a nose injury. Many people have been hit in the nose, injured it as a result of a car accident, a fall, or something else. This technique will give incredible relief and actually help you breathe. Look, I'll show you how to cope now.  With this injury, because it remains in the nose, the force moves to the adjacent bone and gets stuck in the small joints near the nose. Here, from above, we will act on the nose indirectly. We will press on this bone. It should be slightly sensitive here. Feel it before we press here under the eye. Don't prick the eye. I'm not showing you the fact. We press in this direction and also on the other side. We act on the nose in this way, pressing and holding for about one o'clock in the morning. This relieves long-standing tension near the nose. The injury remains in the tissues like a force that gets stuck like a standing wave. This applies to any injury, but the nose is a common occurrence for people who have had surgery on the nose. They broke their nose, they received a blow to the nose at the top. There is a suture. We go down like this directly into the nose. This is the last technique for cranial injuries. If you had an injury, a broken skull or another skull injury, remember this technique. Let's go. I'll show you what to do. You need to massage the opposite side. Let me see here. Yes, that is, they opened your skull like this. Yes, I'll press on the opposite mirror side now I'll show you I'm just massaging when you find the right spot it will be very sensitive very sensitive tell me when you feel it let's see tell me somewhere here close here or here here is great as soon as you find the spot start massaging because during surgery or injury the plates in the head can shift in the skull there are places where the bones are connected which are called sutures and here before on the opposite side there will always be a stronger feeling and massage for about an hour jokingly there is a feeling of tension before and this side without damage on the opposite side it is always twice as sensitive I press exactly on the place where the incision was but on the opposite side now as if pulling up you can't press on the side where the incision was now I'll take my thumb and press from the bottom up on the suture the suture is the connection of the bones of the skull feel the main thing is not to ruin your hair during the procedure this is the most important thing during surgery the person is under anesthesia but the body stores memory now one secret if the injury was on this side we press as if inside it so I can press here too  eyebrow someone stepped on his head while playing basketball 6 years ago here I'll press here tell me when you feel here here here yes okay the opposite side I think I'm closing the frame we'll see and if so and that's not a fact if that's the case here this place to good next time when someone is about to step on your head dodge and dodge quickly so they don't land on the skull now what do we do he had a compression injury when he was three years old so I'll, how should I say it, lift his skull here is the back of the skull see I'll lift here and stretch everything here to relieve this pressure good or bad good I'm stretching the ligaments between the skull and the first vertebra and in which there was a crack this will help you sleep normally and feel normal I hope you liked I have another great video about radiating pain watch