Let's discuss the best remedy for Candida, we'll talk about how to protect yourself from Candida, but first I want to tell you what it is. There are things that many people simply don't know. As they usually say, there is microflora in the intestines, friendly bacteria, but not only a noticeable part of the intestinal microflora is made up of fungi, and Candida is a type of fungi, and all types of fungi together form the so-called microbiome. Myco and ome is a collection of friendly fungi, and for your information, the vast majority of these fungi are not hostile. They work together with bacteria, helping you in different ways as part of immunity, digestion of food, and the absorption of nutrients. Only when we change the composition of the community of bacteria related to the microflora do you have problems with fungi because we change their environment. I specifically mean antibiotics. One of the most important noticeable side effects of antibiotics is the overgrowth of Candida, other types of fungi, or even mold. This is interesting because fungi and bacteria also live in the soil. Their optimal proportion helps plants grow. If the correct ratio is disrupted, it will be difficult to grow.  For example, vegetables, such soil may only be suitable for weeds. In our body, bacteria secrete certain substances that make these fungi friendly and prevent them from becoming hostile and turning into pathogens. And when their habitat changes, these fungi begin to change their attitude towards the body; they stop helping us and begin to harm us. There are five main types of substances that these bacteria secrete to keep fungi and Candida in check. 1 box-chain fatty acids, including butyric acid. These fatty acids are a byproduct that is formed. When you eat plant fiber, fiber is converted into fatty acids. The intestines use them as a source of nutrition. They normalize blood sugar well and also have antifungal properties. In addition, these bacteria produce medium-chain triglycerides. You may have heard of MCT oil. It helps the body produce ketones. MCTA glycerides are also a byproduct of our bacteria. They even fight bad bacteria. We keep the microflora friendly and do not allow pathogens to grow. This is what happens with oil. There is an important fact associated with excess fat.  Candida or other fungi grow, they prefer a more alkaline environment, and one of the byproducts of fungi, including Candida, is the ammonia they secrete. A. Pasha, ammonia is very high on the pH scale, it is around 11, which is a very strong alkali. And the normal pH of the intestines should be five to five and a half, knowing the correct pH is very important. It helps maintain a balance of good and bad microbes. But as soon as you have candidiasis or a yeast infection, a white coating on the tongue, or all this grows in intimate places, you will notice that your mouth will smell slightly of ammonia. This smell comes from Candida, and this also tells us what pH the colon should have. It should be slightly acidic, but here it is slightly alkaline, which promotes further growth of Candida. Another substance that bacteria produce to keep fungi under control is bile salts. Bile salts are another factor that inhibits the growth of fungi, but no, this is a type of bile salt that I talked about in other videos. This is not what you need. What you need here is regular bile salts, and you need to take them on an empty stomach. Bacteria are created.  Other substances to control fungi, for example, antimicrobial peptides, some others. By taking an antibiotic, we destroy these bacteria, and the fungi gain complete freedom and can do whatever they want. They take advantage of this and grow. Normal Candida begins to develop threads and mold-like structures. After this, Candida becomes pathogenic, and all because the restraining factors created by the bacteria have disappeared. This is how dysbiosis occurs, a change in the composition and types of microorganisms, primarily bacteria, but dysbiosis also occurs in the fungal environment. All this creates a problem that also has a side effect: the growth of harmful bacteria. Not to mention resistance to fungicides and other troubles. This is a vicious circle: one problem leads to another. You try to treat it, and so on endlessly. I am outlining the full picture for you so that you deal with the cause. They simply eliminate the symptoms. If you are taking an antibiotic, be sure to take a probiotic as well. This way, you at least minimize the damage. After all, it takes at least 40 days to restore your microflora, and sometimes people take antibiotics much longer and  brings itself to a state where it is already very difficult to restore the previous microflora. When this pathogenic Candida appears, the inflammation in your intestines noticeably increases, your pH changes, inflammation in the intestines occurs, ulcerative colitis, irritable bowel syndrome increases the risk of many intestinal problems. Not to mention bloating and a strong craving for sweets. We will also talk about itching in intimate places, a white coating on the tongue, weakness and other things. I found one interesting report on a study of colorectal cancer. There is a high probability that dysbiosis of the microbiome of a combination of fungi can create conditions for the development of colon cancer. If you think about it, everything is logical. Friendly bacteria and also fungi help the immune system and very seriously, according to some data, microbes in the intestines are responsible for 80 percent of the immune system. Now let's talk about how to get rid of Candida. It is best to do prevention using what I will tell you. But if Candida is already present, these measures will be very effective. The first step is to take some probiotics. Good probiotics will restore the microflora, which will bring Candida under control. This is the most important thing. You need to start.  immediately But one of the things that Candida feeds on is sugar and milk sugar is also sugar and what about dairy products then? Can you eat yogurt or kefir does it really contain lactose Unless you find a lactose-free ether I would abstain from dairy products instead take good probiotics and also eat foods with probiotics such as sauerkraut kimchi salted pickled or fermented vegetables similar products In addition, this is an acidic food and it will change the pH which will make the environment very unfavorable for pathogenic Candida another important point about sugar Candida cannot live without glucose and other sugars What does this mean This means that if you starve Candida by switching to a keto diet by reducing carbohydrates by removing sugars then it will go away Glucose is the worst sugar but many carbohydrates also turn into glucose So we avoid carbohydrates Unless it is carbohydrates in vegetables there are other types of sugars such as sugar alcohols if about  You know, for example, Axelite, there are also they are also food for Yes, not to the same extent as Glucose, but somewhere around one hundredth of a percent, 10 thousand times less. But I would still avoid sugar alcohols if you need to get rid of Candida. The fact that you reduce sugar to zero and carbohydrates to a minimum means your body goes into a state of ketosis. Some ketones are derivatives of butyric acid and they can help suppress this fungal infection. In addition, ketones are acidic, which allows you to return the pH to the desired value. This can also help, which is why the titagonic diet is so important. Capric acid in coconut oil and MCT oil can bring a lot of benefits as an antifungal agent. These oils can be added to your diet. Another useful thing is vegetable fiber, it is found in leafy greens and vegetables. Eat protein foods, but exclude luxury alcohols and other carbohydrates, even fruits, and you can drink natural plant antibiotics. This is like icing on the cake: garlic, oil, oregano, thyme, sage, and also  Turmeric is also one of them. Now you have enough information to quickly solve this problem. But since we're talking about antibiotics and natural antibiotics, I recommend you watch this video.