Hi all.  Let's start with the quiz question. Please, Dog. True or false?  Our body is not designed for three meals a day. Friends, send your answers.  And now questions from social networks.  Someone on YouTube named Levit writes: “How do I stop taking supplements? Aren’t there people who shouldn’t take supplements? Aren’t people getting too carried away with them? The original Dr. Berg supplements aren’t available on OzOne and Wildberries. They sell counterfeits. The original SH products can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. So, can you get all the nutrients? Let’s just get the nutrients from food. It’s very difficult. How do I get vitamin D in winter? Just tell me. I don’t know. It’s hard to even get magnesium, it’s hard to get zinc, but it’s potentially possible. But you’ll have to choose your food very carefully and eat certain things. That’s why I recommend nutrient-rich foods. Entirely grass-fed red meat , organ meats, super-healthy foods exist, but most people are always lacking in some nutrients, which means they need vitamins, minerals, and so on. That’s why I personally take, for example, micronutrients. Because here’s the thing. You can’t  Focus on the RDA of vitamins. These RDAs are 100 years old. So take at least B1. Egor SN 1.2 mg. Seriously? Do you think 1.2 mg is enough for the average person ? No, you need more. So, especially if you eat junk food, something that deprives the body of vitamins or increases the need for them. If you have inflammation, if you exercise a lot, you need even more. The more you exercise, the more vitamin C you need. Yes, I think dietary supplements are necessary. And the problem is how much and for how long to take them. I think some basic nutrients need to be taken for a while. But many people take drugs to reduce symptoms until they eliminate their cause. Take, for example, erectile dysfunction. For this, they take medications, they take natural remedies, and there are many. But what is the root cause? You say: "Age." Not necessarily. You can take zinc, change your diet, eliminate insulin resistance. You eliminate this root cause  The cause. You take a natural BAT to get rid of a symptom. BAT alleviates the symptom, and eventually, you manage the situation. Once the cause is eliminated, and insulin resistance is a serious cause, you can stop taking BAT. Inspiring. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you of new videos. With this simple action, you will greatly help the further development of the channel. And we continue. Let's see what viewers answered to the quiz question. True or false? Our bodies are not designed for three meals a day. 100% answered that this is true. It is true. Isn't it amazing, Steve, that we lived in this routine where everyone agrees that we should eat three times a day? It seems so strange. So strange, especially breakfast. No one is hungry before breakfast unless they have a sugar problem, but we eat. And suddenly hunger appears if we continue to do this. We continue to raise and lower blood sugar. And  Here we're saving ourselves with snacks. Amazing. Anyway, when they told me about intermittent fasting, I immediately rejected it. What nonsense. It won't do anything. I didn't even know how important it was. After all, when I stopped eating breakfast and started eating twice a day without snacks, it was crazy. I became a different person. It was incredible. And I didn't even need snacks. After all, for the first time in my life, I began using a different fuel between meals - fat. Usually, a person rarely uses his own fat. And when we don't eat, if we're on a keto diet, our appetite disappears because we eat between meals. When we don't eat, the body eats its own fat. And this fuel is much cleaner. We don't starve ourselves, but our appetite completely disappears after long-term intermittent fasting. Wow, I'm not even hungry. This is also a good way to lose weight, if you want to lose weight. Yes, Dr. Burke weaned me off this habit. It's been 5 years since I've lost 23 kilos. I  I've become happier, I have more energy. And most importantly, I have no inner discipline. I was addicted to sweets. I'd buy chocolate bars whenever I saw them . Horrible. And I got rid of the agony of choice. My eating window is four hours a day, and the rest of the time I'm not hungry, and it's a miracle. After all, I had a terrible addiction to various substances, primarily food. So, believe me, friends, if you try this, whatever your schedule, if you don't eat all day, life will sparkle with new colors for you, just like it sparkled for me. And thank you for that, Dr. Burke. Thank you so much. But let's get back to the questions from social media. DBrambla writes: "I'm already on day ten of healthy ketosis.  I eat twice a day." Can you advise how to get rid of hunger and cravings for food? We've been discussing this for just 10 days. If you still have hunger, I would cut back on carbohydrates. A sign that it's working is the disappearance of hunger, appetite, and cravings for food. This means the body has switched to burning fat. To switch it to burning fat, not glucose, you need to cut back on carbohydrates and not eat often. That's how you'll achieve this. You can completely eliminate carbohydrates. This is the root cause. Diet, and you'll achieve your goal even faster. And then the body will start working on titons. It's cleaner fuel. If you've never tried it, I think you'll like it, because your brain will be very happy, your mood will be much better. There are bloggers who make very derogatory videos, trampling on people. They are critics, always seeming to react to something, criticizing  Something in their videos. I think they just have blood sugar issues . They're very irritable. That's just their routine. You can tell them by the circles under their eyes. But if you normalize your sugar, you'll become more pleasant. You'll be less irritable, more tolerant of stress and other people. You can always tell someone with blood sugar issues. They're extremely intolerant. Okay. Erika from Facebook asks if healthy chum or root diet will help with chronic venous insufficiency. This is a new topic for us. It's possible, after all, one of the main factors that damages blood vessels is insulin resistance. And it's caused by excess carbohydrates, frequent meals, and refined foods. All of this increases inflammation in the arteries. And the veins also suffer. Okay," asks Vaira ICH from YouTube. "What do you think about using rosemary sprays or extracts, as well as shampoos with it, to restore hair on the head? Are there other remedies? Try it, there is evidence that it can help. There are other very important factors. The first is vitamin D. I made a video about it. Vitamin D has a lot of beneficial effects on hair, a variety of effects. Zinc is also very important for hair. In general, I made a lot of videos about this. Hair needs nutrients, the right fuel, the right hormones. There are many remedies, and rosemary oil can potentially help. Nice. Someone from Ramble with the nickname In Search of Truth. Is there a natural way to reduce the size of the prostate so that a catheter can be removed in a man over 90? Can we help him? I don’t know. But I think the prostate enlarges again due to insulin resistance and estrogen. I would change my diet, don’t snack in the evening, because that’s why the prostate enlarges. And it affects the bladder, it affects the valves in the bladder.  So this is a big problem. Some will say: "The problem is excess testosterone." But with age, testosterone levels decrease. So there is evidence that the issue is more about stress than testosterone, in the ratio of the two. There are still many mysteries to be solved in this issue, many theories. So far, this problem has not been solved. You can wait for some research to shed light on this or try different remedies and see what helps. About 10 years ago, I woke up in a hospital room. After surgery, a nurse came up and asked: "Do you want me to remove your catheter?" And I didn't even know I had one installed. They put it in under anesthesia. I thought, for once I do n't have to go to the bathroom every 5 minutes. I said: "No way." I relaxed for three or four hours, and later returned to the real world. Thank you for telling me. Just imagine how I felt then. And the last question for Today. Suddib from YouTube, what's the ideal diet for a teenager? I think if he hasn't been overdoing it on sugar, he can eat a little more carbs. By carbs, I mean berries and stuff. If a teenager is super athletic and plays sports, then if he's on a diet like mine, that is, a low-carb diet, he'll be so thin that it might be a problem. So... But my problem was that I went too far with empty carbs. I ate a lot of them, for a very long time. It wasn't good. I paid for it. So I think if he doesn't eat gold and all that, and eats maybe some potatoes, some fruit, quality protein, and healthy fats, then that's probably a great diet for a teenager . But if he's overweight, he needs to cut back on carbs. But kids, especially younger ones, are sometimes so active that they need at least some carbs. But I think fruit is best. Well.  Well, that's a great final question. Dog, thanks for watching. Stay tuned for more exciting videos.