Let's talk about how to get rid of nail fungus, this is a problem not only of the nails, but of the whole body. If you treat the fungus only in this place, a long-term effect is not guaranteed. This is one of the problems with drug treatment of fungus. And this takes quite a long time, usually about three months, these are side effects, for example, liver damage. It would be good to find a remedy for fungus. Without side effects. But before moving on, I will give a couple of important facts about this problem. Usually they say that the cause is too wet feet and because of this, fungus suddenly appears. Many people sweat their feet, but for some reason they do not have fungus. This type of fungus can affect toenails and also cause other skin problems, athlete's foot, athlete's foot, mycosis of the beard and mustache, infection of the skin on the feet and even on the head. This particular fungus feeds on protein, and nails are just pure protein. One of the problems with external treatment of fungus is that the ointment does not penetrate deep enough into the nail to kill the fungus, because it hides deep inside the protein part of the toenail. In addition, it has unique abilities. It can  disrupt the functioning of the immune system and also avoid its defense mechanisms and here's how it does it firstly, the fungus grows very, very slowly as a result the immune system may not even notice it secondly, it can suppress those cells of the body In addition, it can go into hibernation and wait for the right moment to come out of hibernation, it can remain inactive for many years a unique property of this fungus is resistance to ultraviolet light this is part of the spectrum of sunlight ultraviolet light kills some microbes and fungi, but not a fungus called rubrum it survives with any amount of ultraviolet So irradiating nails with ultraviolet light will not help further I will reveal to you the secret of getting rid of this type of nail fungus Remember I said that it can go into hibernation This means that at some point it can wake up at the right time it is interesting to understand what exactly puts it into such an inactive dormant state so the first thing that makes this fungus go into hibernation is the ability of the immune system, especially T cells, to do their job the human immune system is a very hostile environment for pathogens including this fungus it forces it to go into hibernation mode leave  A hurricane recently hit our area and we had no power for 2 days. I have a garage and there is a freezer with meat in it, each portion of meat is in a separate vacuum package. I have a backup generator and I thought that all the freezers were working, but it turned out that the fuses in the garage were blown. I found out about this only 2 weeks later, worms were crawling inside these plastic bags with meat and I saw how the creatures were swarming there. Where did they come from? They could not penetrate the sealed plastic. It turns out that the microbes were already there and they were dormant. Many microorganisms in our body, including beneficial ones. Bacteria can be dormant. Obviously, some bacteria in the meat woke up, which provoked this increase in temperature. So, one of the goals is to drive our fungus into hibernation. If someone uses an antifungal ointment or drinks pills with this effect, this puts the fungus into hibernation, killing it. When a person stops treatment, the fungus does not remain in this state but comes out of hibernation. Another way to immerse  The fungus goes into hibernation - this is Cool and dry air is another question. What exactly brings this fungus out of hibernation? We can change the environment, increase the temperature and humidity, sweat more, and it will wake up. However, a warm and humid environment alone is not enough for this microorganism to simply take and another trigger that must be present is a change in the pH of the environment. This fungus grows best when the pH is eight, and this is an alkaline environment. It does not like an acidic environment, and the pH of our skin is normally acidic. This is the most important thing. The most important activator of a dormant fungus, its revival, is suppressed immunity. And what suppresses immunity? Stress, diabetes, excess weight, taking antibiotics that kill all bacteria, and bacteria keep the fungus under control. An imbalance occurs. Some fungi begin to grow, but the most powerful factor in awakening dormant microbes, especially fungi, is a deficiency of vitamin D, which is why the immune system is suppressed. Vitamin D is an essential nutrient for maintaining immunity and its effective functioning. There are many receptors for vitamin D inside the toenail, and this fungus has a unique ability to reduce its effectiveness.  these receptors. So it not only turns off the immune system but also turns off the ability to use vitamin D. Our goal is to activate the body's immune defense and direct it to fight this pathogen. We need to make the environment so hostile that it will go into hibernation. It is not enough to drink vitamin D3 in normal doses. You need to take more than at least 25,000 international units daily. Some take even more. What will this do? It will strengthen the immune system so much that this fungus will have no choice but to go into hibernation. We are affecting the entire body. Because this is not a local problem but a problem for the whole body. I don't know if this is true. I don't have full information. But if you find liquid vitamin D and apply it to your nails, perhaps this will speed up the process. It's worth trying. Based on the experience of different people using high doses of vitamin D3, we can say that it successfully eliminates nail fungus and without side effects. In addition, your immunity is restored. There are some other recommendations for zinc, but not in any form, namely zinc thion. This form of zinc is rarely talked about. Sometimes zinc thion is added to creams, sometimes to soap, and this is a good idea.  Powerful antifungal properties, so vitamin D will support immunity from the inside, and for external use, we also use zinc. I recommend wearing breathable shoes. You need to lower the temperature and make the air directly around your feet dry your ears. Also, change and wash your socks more often. Wash your shoes so that the fungus cannot live on their surface. At the same time, when you use detergent, it also kills the fungus. So now you have a plan and a solution. No side effects. Thank you, and see you soon. I invite you to my course: Health diagnostics by nails. Grooves and white spots on nails, brittleness, peeling, curved nails and fungus indicate serious health problems and vitamin deficiency. These problems can be hidden under a manicure, but you must act from the inside. This can be dealt with through nutrition and vitamins. I will show you how to do this in each specific case. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you soon.