Let's talk about how to increase your height. Is it even possible? Yes, it's possible. Over the years of my practice, I've met several people whose children didn't develop as they should have. Other children in these families were tall, but one just couldn't grow. They asked me for advice, and I'll tell you what I advised them. Because it worked. Between the ages of 1 and puberty, a person normally gains about five centimeters per year, and after reaching puberty, about 10 centimeters per year. Somewhere between 18 and 20 years of age, growth practically stops. On average, some people stop growing a little earlier, while others, on the contrary, will continue to grow for some time. But this is approximately the age when growth stops. So, if you're 20 or younger and you'd like to grow even more, my advice can help you. Of course, there is a genetic limit. However, if you have a deficiency of certain nutrients, this can greatly affect growth. There are 3 hormones on which the growth process depends. 1 is called growth hormone. It is produced by the pituitary gland and acts through the liver. The next hormone, fr1, is insulin-like growth factor number one. This hormone  It is produced by the liver and controlled by growth hormone and finally by the thyroid gland if it produces too little hormone this can cause growth retardation let's start with growth hormone what can lead to a deficiency of this hormone the first list of nutrients that can affect growth hormone is zinc most children with growth retardation have a zinc deficiency and many people with growth hormone deficiency usually also lack zinc zinc is a very important micronutrient necessary for more chemical reactions than all other micronutrients combined here are a couple of possible reasons for zinc deficiency in the diet too many foods with phytic acid it is found in all grains and all these so called healthy whole grain products that you are advised can lead to a serious zinc deficiency zinc and some other things deplete sugar empty carbohydrates alcohol and caffeine and also stress you also may not get enough zinc from food do not eat red meat shellfish and crustaceans or for example you are a vegan all this can create a zinc deficiency another possible reason for growth hormone deficiency is hunger I am not talking about  planned fasting with the intake of all nutrients, namely about hunger when you deprive yourself of all vitamins, minerals, nutrients, amino acids and essential fatty acids. About such hunger, I'm only 188 tall, my father's height is 196, and my brother is about two meters tall, my mother's height is 178, and mine is only 188. I think I stunted my growth by wrestling in school from grades 9 to 12, and then in college until I injured my neck. Wrestlers often have to lose weight by fasting throughout the season. I did the same. I remember once before a competition, I needed to lose weight, but I was very overweight, and in three days I managed to lose a lot. To achieve this, I wore plastic bags and trained almost all day. I drank almost nothing, I ate something like a couple of celery stalks, a couple of bags of fries from McDonald's, and some other not very healthy food. I was exhausted, but I forced myself to exercise. In the end, I reached the desired weight, and then again.  I was rapidly gaining weight and this continued for several years. All these fasts, intense training, stress and lack of nutrients probably had a significant impact on my overall health. So, if you don't have enough growth hormone, you need zinc. You also need to eat enough protein. So, people who don't eat protein may not produce growth hormone. Point number three is very important and that's sleep. Apparently, growth hormone works while you sleep, and if you sleep poorly, if you have problems with sleep and you're a teenager, this can cause growth stunting. Next on the list is obesity. The more fat you have in your body, the less growth hormone is activated. There are other factors such as smoking and passive smoking, they can suppress growth hormone. Caffeine. Look at how many teenagers there are around who consume a lot of caffeine and sugar, which takes away zinc. Of all age groups, teenagers consume the most highly processed and unhealthy foods like fast food. It's not surprising that they don't have enough. There is another factor that can lead to growth hormone deficiency and that is a lack of vitamin D. Now children have this.  It's a common occurrence because they rarely go outside instead they sit in front of the computer most of the day now about the other two hormones insulin-like growth factor if there is something wrong with the liver for example it is fatty because you eat a lot of carbohydrates or high fructose corn syrup this can suppress the production of IGF-1 and affect growth as for the thyroid gland it is very sensitive to iodine deficiency so if a child of any age or a teenager does not get enough iodine it can significantly slow down his growth iodine is mainly found in seafood shellfish crustaceans and seaweed it is also found in other foods grown near the sea but if the food is grown far from the sea it most likely does not have enough iodine if you yourself are still young or you have a child who would like to be taller than now here is a list of things that should be done first a good complex of microelements which contains zinc you should not take only zinc it should be in a complex with other microelements in swarms this is a product that I would recommend finding and taking it is called nourish  ruffian benji this supplement is sold by the company standard process search on the internet they don't pay me for advertising, but this is a very good product for supporting the pituitary gland, which produces growth hormone, I previously recommended it to some children and saw real changes in growth in those who took it 1 tablet at night for three months the next point is to sleep a lot if you don't sleep you need to address this problem below there will be links to materials on what to do with insomnia in addition, a common cause of zinc deficiency is excess phytic acid in food phytic acid is found in cereal products, so avoid them this will allow you to remove from the diet what blocks zinc and the next point is of course vitamin D ideally vitamin D should be obtained by being in the sun take children out in the sun for several hours a day is a great idea if this is not possible give them supplements with vitamin D all this maximizes growth potential but at the same time you should monitor your diet I think the best way to figure out which diet will be the healthiest for you is to look at what everyone advises especially the food pyramid this is what medical institutions recommend  and then use it as a model to do exactly the opposite. Most of the diet here is whole grains or starchy carbohydrates, potatoes, whole grains, rice, and the like, completely eliminate all of this from the diet. You are told to avoid saturated fats and consume more vegetable oils. No, you need saturated fats and you need to avoid vegetable oils. This is safe because you will not eat a lot of carbohydrates and you will not eat sugar. When you are advised to eat fruits and vegetables, you are also allowed to eat canned fruits and even drink fruit juices, considering them a complete replacement for vegetables and fruits. I do not advise doing this. Oki is pasteurized and has a huge amount of sugar. You will not get any benefit from them at all. You are also advised not to eat red meat, but where do you get zinc? Red meat is one of the best sources of zinc, so the best diet is a healthy ketogenic diet. If you want to increase growth, do you need to practice fasting? Well, I think you should do intermittent fasting because one of the powerful stimulators of growth hormone is fasting, but you must get all the nutrients. Let's say your fasting consists only of the fact that  You don't snack, you eat only three or even two times a day, but at the same time your food is very nutritious. I believe this approach will help you. Try following my recommendations for a while and then write reviews in the comments. Share your successes with us. I think you should also watch my evaluation video. Here's the link.