In this video, we'll talk about how to burn fat. This is a very important topic, but it's also very problematic because all the common recommendations for burning fat are completely outdated. Just look at the statistics: only two percent of the US population successfully burns fat and achieves their desired weight loss. The average woman spends a total of 17 years of her life on diets. What does this mean? People act based on incorrect information, and what I'm saying is based on facts from books on physiology about how the body works. There are two main sources of energy in the body: fat and stored sugar. There is also a third source: muscle, but we'll skip that for you because only in the case of a serious illness does the body begin to use muscle protein as fuel. We'll discuss the two main sources: fat and sugar. In other words, the body can store sugar in the form of glycogen in the liver and muscles, and it's used up between meals, or glucose is deposited as fat. This is how fat-burning hormones work, and depending on what you eat and do, they activate fat and release certain enzymes to break down this fat. They're called lipases, and these are hormone- sensitive enzymes.  Breaking down fats into ketones and ketones is a byproduct of fat metabolism. The body can run on them very efficiently. This fuel is much better than glucose. It is a cleaner source of energy. The body and even the brain can run on titans. Oregano-forming hormones activate sugar deposition and the conversion of sugar into glucose. That's right, that's how it works. The vast majority of people burn only sugar, that is, glucose. They don't burn fat. What happens is that they lose some temporary water weight and remain at a plateau, thinking that it was fat, but in fact, they didn't burn fat. I can prove this. I have a device that measures how much fat my wife and I have, and you can easily see that they lose water weight. Then there's a handkerchief. And so, most people burn sugar and do n't burn fat at all. In the next section, I'll talk about the only factor that determines whether you burn fat or sugar. So, it's the number one regulator that determines whether you burn fat or sugar. It's a hormone called insulin. Even in small amounts, insulin has a dominant force and prevents you from using up fat reserves. Here's a small graph of how much insulin, so to speak, insulin affects.  I mean sugar because sugar activates insulin. You could say that the main regulator of whether you burn fat is sugar and hidden sugars. But for now I'll just call insulin sugar. If sugar is high, say, here's high sugar, high insulin, you won't be able to burn fat. The body will run on sugar. Let's say you ate a little and ate half as much sugar because someone said everything should be in moderation and all that, it still won't work because insulin must be at zero. Sugar must be at zero for the body to switch to titanium and ketones, a product of fat burning, that is, ketosis. In other words, this graph is not flat, that is, the decrease is not gradual. It is necessary to reduce insulin, or as we say, sugar, to zero before it starts burning fat. Now let's talk about a condition called ketosis. Ketosis is oh, what we want to achieve. You may have heard a lot of bad things about ketosis because it is associated with diabetes, but we are talking about a very healthy version of ketosis. You understand, ketosis is the healthiest thing you can do for your blood sugar, for your heart, and also for your brain, for various problems such as polycystic ovary syndrome.  This is very important because in this condition, people usually have insulin resistance and when entering ketosis, they feel a significant improvement and so we need to switch to titos. The transition to a state of ketosis does not happen overnight. It is very easy to feed on sugar reserves; you only need to eat sugar, but entering ketosis can sometimes take much more than two days. It can drag on for a week, two weeks, up to a month, and in some situations, it will take 5 or even six weeks before real fat burning begins. Why is this? Because you have lived your whole life off sugar and your body is so inefficient and so used to burning sugar that it does not want to change. This is called ketone adaptation. You adapt to burning fat. It will just take a little longer. Don't worry about it. Ketones will appear in your urine within a few days. The important thing is to wait a little longer. I think many people are disappointed precisely because they think they will start burning fat in a day or two, and they end up disappointed and quit, although it can take a whole month for the body to adapt to burning fat, and in some extreme cases, up to six weeks. I tell you this.  Because it may start in a week or a little more for you, just hold on and don't quit because this will happen, the body will start burning fat and a lot of problems will go away. Now we'll discuss what food you need to eat to enter ketosis, and so here's what you need to eat first: you need to make sure that carbohydrates are no more than five to ten percent of the total number of calories you eat each day. The carbohydrates we recommend are natural vegetables. Why vegetables, although they contain a small amount of carbohydrates, they contain many vitamins, macro and micro elements that you won't get from proteins and fats. So we need vegetable carbohydrates in sufficient quantities, but they contain very few digestible carbohydrates, if they contain any at all. 25 percent of your diet should be proteins. What I'm telling you is not the Atkins diet. In the Atkins diet, there is a lot of protein. Our body does not consist of carbohydrates. It partially consists of proteins, but most of it consists of fats, and this is our third point. From 65 to 80 percent of calories should come in the form of fats. Before you panic, understand that I myself have been in ketosis for quite a long time, and many of my clients have also been in ketosis for a long time.  Ketosis is very beneficial for health because you feel just great, but fats should also be healthy, it shouldn't be something heavily fried, so we need carbohydrates from vegetables, we need proteins, there should be somewhere around, say, 110, 140, maybe 170 grams of protein in each meal, but most proteins come with fats, and many protein sources also provide fats, but you shouldn't consume lean proteins because you need fats to put your body into ketosis. Eskimos consume whale blubber and are in a state of ketosis, and many of them don't have heart problems at all. And if you're worried about high cholesterol, think about this: our body produces 2,000 miles of cholesterol every day. Why should the body produce so much cholesterol if it's not needed? When you consume more cholesterol or fat, the body produces less cholesterol. This is how it works. You need this cholesterol to produce cell membranes. It's the raw material for producing hormones, especially stress hormones. It's needed for the lens of the eye and even for the brain. The brain needs a lot of cholesterol to support the nervous system.  The body adapts to cholesterol, and so you need a lot of it. One egg contains 200 milligrams of cholesterol. You need to eat 10 eggs to get as much as your body produces per day. But the body adapts, you eat less, it produces more, and vice versa. So, 65 to 80 percent of your diet should be fat. This is the formula for switching to fat burning. Once upon a time in school, I wrestled and tried to gain weight, and I decided that if I wanted to gain weight, I needed to eat fatty foods, and the more fat I ate, the more weight I lost. I couldn't understand this until I learned the physiology of the process. I discovered that fat consumption doesn't affect insulin. Fatty foods don't activate insulin production. insulin is key, it should be at zero. After you switch your body to fat burning in this way, only a small dose of sugar is enough to completely throw you out of ketosis. After adaptation, you'll have more energy, your cardiovascular system, and endurance will improve. And if you add exercise to everything, it will be simply unrealistically cool. Many professional athletes do too. They practice chum salmon because it greatly improves their results. Many reputable doctors also recommend it. This is a new thing, and you know it works because it is the opposite of everything that the mainstream dictates. They say that sixty percent of the diet should be carbohydrates and devote only 5-10 percent to fat and the same amount to protein. You know that this is true. If you do not do as everyone advises, but vice versa, then the result will be. If you want to know exactly what fats you should eat in what combinations and how to make some delicious things from them, follow the link in the description. There you can download a list of what you should eat and how to do it correctly. I hope you liked it. See you in the next video.