Today we will discuss how to restore hearing with the help of nutrients. When you search for information on this topic, you see again and again and again one word that describes the cause of this condition and that word is idiopathic. What does this mean? This means we do not know. General hearing loss comes in two types. The first is congenital. This is not necessarily related to genes. It may be related to a mother's infection during pregnancy, which led to hearing loss. Or it may be related to an iodine deficiency that the mother had or to alcohol. Alcohol can greatly affect hearing and many other things that are related to nerves. Viruses can also cause hearing loss. The migal virus, herpes viruses are congenital hearing loss and there is acquired hearing loss. You may have heard the term age-related hearing loss, but this problem does not have many solutions other than a hearing aid. Here are two main factors that, as I see it, affect hearing: a group of viruses and nutrient deficiencies. When a person has an acute infection, zinc and iron levels initially decrease sharply, and zinc and iron are associated with hearing loss for this very reason. After  A chronic infection in the mouth causes ulcers, this is caused by a zinc deficiency. Loss of taste and smell is also caused by a zinc deficiency. If a person has a craving for some strange things such as dirt, ice, coal, all this can be caused by an iron deficiency. Viruses can also cause deficiencies of other nutrients, for example, a selenium deficiency. Selenium is an amazing trace element because it is needed by the thyroid gland. It helps convert T4 into the active form of the thyroid hormone T3. Selenium is also the main element needed for the functioning of T-helper cells, and these cells coordinate the work of the entire immune system. Selenium is important for inflammation and autoimmune diseases, especially if they are associated with the thyroid gland, such as Hashimoto's disease. Many viruses cause hearing loss, such as the measles virus, which, by the way, can deprive us of vitamin A. Shingles and chickenpox, like in childhood, so it is important to remember when you began to lose your hearing and what happened right before that. Did some dormant virus wake up? In addition,  The sensory nerves in the ears can be damaged due to diabetes. This is diabetic autonomic neuropathy. This is associated with a severe deficiency of vitamin B1. B1 is the main nutrient for the autonomic nervous system. And if you have diabetes, you definitely have a deficiency of vitamin B1. If there is sugar in the blood, you need a lot of B1 so that it is metabolized into the myelin sheath of the nerves. Next, we move on to vitamin D. Firstly, various autoimmune diseases can lead to hearing loss. ATO is an immune disease of the inner ear, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, and the antidote to all this is vitamin D in large doses. There is a close link between vitamin D deficiency and dizziness, and dizziness is associated with hearing. Moreover, viruses can significantly reduce the ability to absorb vitamin D at the receptor level, so even if you take normal doses of vitamin D, it may not be absorbed because the virus disrupts the functioning of the receptors. I am not telling you to start taking all these vitamins. I am only giving information so that  You tried to find a connection between some nutrient deficiency that you may have and hearing loss. Did you know that in our inner ear there are three tiny fragile bones, if they are not formed or work properly, hearing loss can begin? So, Selenium reduces sensitivity to loud sounds by reducing free radicals and oxidative stress. The same applies to iron and zinc. And about Selenium, it is a very powerful element that protects us from oxidative damage and from the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide in the body. Hydrogen peroxide can even cause an autoimmune disease. Therefore, people with vitiligo and inflammatory conditions need Selenium. But here's the thing: in order for us to be able to hear, we need a lot of potassium. And if you don't have enough potassium, you won't hear. And the last thing I want to talk about is aldosterone. This hormone is produced by the adrenal glands. It helps regulate potassium levels and thereby normalizes blood pressure. Why does aldosterone help? Because with age, aldosterone levels decrease and potassium levels also decrease. And so that you can learn more about potassium, I  I created an entire course dedicated to this one element, it's so important. What do you know about the most important electrolyte, potassium? Arrhythmia, seizures, tremors, high blood pressure and poor sleep, the consequences of potassium deficiency. How to replenish it correctly and safely, I'll tell you in my course about potassium. Sign up at the link below. See you there.