This is a very, very, very important video. So if I were you, I would take notes. I'll try to speak very simply. This is very important information. Perhaps you've seen other videos where some points are outlined, but I decided to record one video simply to explain. We will talk about how to prevent the transition from prediabetes, where the difference between diabetes and diabetes is the blood sugar level. In diabetes, the blood sugar level is 100-125. And with diabetes, 126 and above, there is another test. One with it reflects the average blood sugar level over three months. It ranges from 5.7 to 6.4 with prediabetes, and with diabetes, this figure is 6.5 and above. So, in fact, when we talk about type 2 diabetes, we are simply talking about an increase in blood sugar levels. Normally, the sugar level is approximately 80. This is approximately a teaspoon of sugar for the entire volume of blood, this is not much, and you do not need to eat a teaspoon of sugar to have this level. The body itself creates sugar from fat from calories of another type. This is what prediabetes is, and this is what diabetes is and what happens. This is what the average person eats approximately  31 teaspoons of sugar every day, this includes other carbohydrates that also turn into sugar. That is, it's not just sugar. As such, people eat a lot of carbohydrates, I don't know, about 300 grams or even more, that's an insane amount of sugar for the average American. So look at this, a normal blood sugar level is just one teaspoon, 31 teaspoons. Why doesn't the average American's blood sugar level skyrocket when someone eats a lot of sugar? Usually, it stays normal at least for a while. This is because we have a filter right here. It's called insulin. insulin filters and removes excess sugar from the blood, and what it does with it is it hides it, it turns it into stored sugar, the so-called glycogen in the liver, in the muscles, also, some of the excess sugar turns into fat, some is cholesterol. The body doesn't want a lot of sugar in the blood. Why is sugar very, very dangerous for the inner surface of blood vessels? Sugar causes corrosion inside the vessels, in other words, oxidation, and then plaques, calcification, and all that stuff appear. That is, the body really considers excess sugar to be very dangerous.  If a person eats a lot of carbohydrates and at the same time eats often and snacks, the pancreas produces a huge amount of insulin. The insulin works hard just to keep the sugar from rising. But that's not all. High insulin levels are also very toxic to the body. That is, the body doesn't like it when there's a lot of sugar and when there's a lot of insulin, and what it does is it starts to lower insulin, forming resistance. This is called insulin resistance. The cells block insulin with all their might. The trouble is that the body still needs to keep blood sugar under control, so it opens the tap and secretes more and more insulin to overcome this resistance and keep sugar levels normal. And these swings continue for 10-15 years. And after 10-15 years of insulin resistance, the pancreas suddenly says, you know, I worked hard to compensate for this problem and help you. But now I'm tired. The pancreas can no longer produce so much insulin. The tap closes and we no longer have that volume of insulin. And now if we continue to eat so many carbohydrates with such purity, the sugar level will begin to rise. Why does the insulin level decrease, so the sugar level rises? Over time, this turns into  In full-blown diabetes, it is extremely important to understand this problem if you have pre-diabetes or even insulin resistance, because it is so easy to solve with just a little effort, you can avoid all this. To do this, you need to cut carbohydrates and start intermittent fasting. I will say something else very interesting. Doctors focus on blood sugar and only on it. They do not check fasting insulin levels. Is there insulin resistance? To identify insulin resistance, you need to take a test called Homo and R, but it is never done, so the situation with insulin is kind of hidden. The situation with sugar is hidden. You see, diabetes occurs at a later stage, and prediabetes much earlier. 90 percent of people with prediabetes do not even know that they have diabetes. But one day they wake up with diabetes and somewhere around 99 percent of people do not know that they have insulin resistance. Now I will tell you what symptoms you can tell that you have insulin resistance even without taking the Homo and R test. To do this, you just need to look down and see your stomach. If you see your stomach and do not see your legs, then we know that you have insulin resistance is another symptom: frequent urination, even at night, getting up at night to urinate. This is it. If you simply cut back on carbohydrates and eat less often, you will notice that after a few days, this will begin to correct itself. This includes brain fog and memory problems, because your brain needs glucose. When you have resistance, neurons are deprived of fuel and starve, you become forgetful. This is the onset of dementia. But when you cut back on carbohydrates, your body will run on thytons, and they will feed the brain, bypassing all this. Attention will improve significantly and there will be fewer memory problems. But an important symptom of insulin resistance is that you cannot go without feeling hungry for a long time. You need to snack between meals, have a snack in the evening, fatigue after eating, if you want to take a nap. After lunch, we know that you have insulin resistance. Tingling or burning in the feet. Any sensations in the hands or feet are a sign of prediabetes. Or maybe diabetes. This means that blood sugar is destroying the vascular system.  The capillaries leading to the nerves in the feet are peripheral neuropathy. Fixing this is very, very simple. You just need to give up a high-carbohydrate diet and stop eating so often. Below are links on how to do this. You know that sugar is a strong oxidizer; it causes severe inflammation, which even increases insulin resistance. It can accelerate the transition from diabetes to diabetes. Omega-6 fatty acids, which are found in various oils such as soybean, corn, cottonseed, and rapeseed, cause severe inflammation and can also accelerate the transition. Monosodium glutamate is used in many fast food restaurants. I have a lot of information and I hope you now better understand how simple it all is. Thank you. If you don't know what to cook on Keto, the book will help you. A keto menu for two weeks is a diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from affordable products are available. The basics of keto and fasting are available at the link below.