Hi, I decided to make a video to show you what's happening in your body in terms of insulin, fat burning, and the consequences that may follow from this, and to give you a visual demonstration of what it looks like. So, there will be a little animation in the release. Let's start with this picture, which depicts the pancreas. It produces certain hormones. One of the hormones is called pancreatic insulin, and it is located on the left where the ribs end, but it also protrudes a little to the right, and sugar starts working. When you eat something rich in carbohydrates, the faster it turns into sugar, something turns into sugar quickly, something slowly, this is called the glycemic index. For example, celery turns into sugar very slowly, and candy very quickly. As soon as blood sugar rises above a certain level, the pancreas begins to produce insulin. Now, when insulin is ready, it connects to the cell. insulin removes sugar from the blood to lower its level. Then it feeds the cell. One of its functions is to feed the cell. That is, insulin is a kind of cook who feeds the cell and supplies it with fuel. insulin can also be considered a key that opens the door.  Allowing the cell to absorb glucose, when glucose enters the cell, the cell is eventually filled with glucose and nourished, then the cell sends a feedback signal to the pancreas telling it that it's time to turn off because the cell is already full, and so we have this relay called a feedback loop, and all hormones use something similar. The hormone is sent from one place to another, performs its function, and when it is completed, a feedback signal is sent in the gland, which confirms that the job is done and it is possible to turn off. If for some reason something is wrong with this signal, the pancreas continues to produce and give more hormone, although it may no longer be needed. So, what we learned is that insulin supplies the cell with fuel, then it helps store sugar, and so insulin enters the blood, takes sugar from it, nourishes the cell. In the second stage, it stores sugar mainly in the liver, but also a little in the muscles, as well as in the kidneys, in the brain and white blood cells. Mainly in the liver and kidneys, where the body stores its main reserves of sugar in the form of glycogen. That's the name glycogen.  This group of glucose molecules arranged in a chain in the body. There are two main types of fuel reserves: glycogen reserves and fat reserves. Glycogen reserves, that is, sugar, contain approximately 1,700 calories, which is very little compared to the seventy thousand calories of the average non-obese person. So, we have 70 thousand calories in fat compared to 17 hundred, that is, one thousand seven hundred calories in the form of sugar. So, insulin helps cells absorb fuel. It helps store sugar in the form of glycogen reserves, and its 3 function is to convert excess sugar and carbohydrates into fat. That is, fat is taken from excess carbohydrates. As soon as blood sugar becomes too high, insulin turns it into fat in the liver. That is, it deposits fat in the liver and deposits fat in other places in the body. Especially in the abdominal cavity. Fat is deposited around the liver, then leaks into the stomach and is deposited. That's where the stomach comes from. In the next part, we will discuss what this excess sugar in the blood is. Normally, blood sugar is from 80 to 100 milligrams per  A deciliter essentially means that you have one teaspoon of sugar per entire blood volume. The average person has about 5 liters of blood, which is a normal volume, and the average American consumes thirty- one teaspoons of sugar a day. Can you imagine how much sugar is in the body? insulin has to cope with this, removing this toxic sugar, protecting cells, and dumping it in storage, that is, in the stomach. It converts excess sugar into belly fat. Here's how it works: When sugar is elevated for a long time and there is an excess of unused insulin, insulin resistance develops. The receptor that should receive insulin is blocked, as a result, glucose can no longer enter the cell, meaning sugar cannot enter the cell because the key that allows the cell to receive the necessary fuel can no longer open the door. The cell's calculations show no signal that glucose has entered it. The pancreas does not receive feedback and does not turn off, meaning there is a broken connection. Sachs is like someone talking a lot, but no one listens. As a result, the gland does not turn off. The body tries to compensate for the situation by sending more insulin in an attempt to communicate with this cell.  For this key to finally open the door, a person with insulin resistance has 5-7 times more insulin than a normal person. This is prediabetes. As a result, all the excess insulin is distributed throughout the body but does not produce the desired effect. That is, it does not lower sugar levels, does not nourish the cells. The sugar goes to the stomach and is deposited there as fat. We secrete more and more insulin, which converts sugar into fat in the stomach and leads to damage to the liver and other symptoms. There are four main symptoms of insulin resistance: fatigue, especially after eating, when you want to sleep after lunch; second, you are strongly drawn to sugar and carbohydrates in general; third, you get up too often to go to the bathroom at night because wherever the excess insulin goes, the liquid goes there too. That is, in fact, sometimes glucose is excreted in the urine and you pee more. In addition, there will be clouding of consciousness, memory problems, inflammatory processes begin. A whole list of symptoms. insulin has other functions besides supplying cells with glucose. First, with the help of insulin, proteins enter the cell. Without insulin, cells cannot absorb proteins and amino acids, therefore.  Diabetics suffer from muscle wasting and collagen loss due to muscle weakness, they cannot build muscle mass, have problems with joints and the spine, many problems with proteins, and potassium, an essential element and electrolyte, also cannot enter the cells, resulting in fatigue, an increase in sodium, which causes an increased heart rate and blood pressure, arrhythmia, heart problems, irregular and rapid heartbeat, dropsy, swelling of the feet, poor sleep because potassium helps relax the body, muscle cramps, constipation, gout, kidney stones, so insulin is needed for many other things. If you need a good reference book on this topic, I just released a new book. A new guide to body type is an expanded promotion. My previous books are seven principles of fat burning. It has more strategies, more effective results, and is easier to apply in practice. It describes additional strategies for healthy ketogenic intermittent fasting and body types, and all this in a complex. It is subtle, how to become completely healthy for a long time. It is a diet without hunger and cravings for different foods and how to achieve great results. Good luck, it has 379 pages and 156 illustrations. When I read a book, the first thing I do is check if there are illustrations. If there aren't, we take another one. I love clarity, the lasso tool, and the subject index. A full FAQ section. A whole chapter about the sources used. I also added a card at the end: "Eat wisely," and you can cut it out. Let's say you've gone too far. It tells you what to do or you're tempted. Read this card, and it will probably convince you not to give in to weakness. I have special offers for this order book, and you'll get an additional bonus. This guide is a small book called "Not losing weight for the sake of health, but health for the sake of losing weight." This is a very powerful principle. This book is a summary of the key points of this book, with an emphasis on many illustrations of what you should eat, with examples and images of dishes with the correct ratio of fats, carbohydrates, and proteins. You can read this entire book in about an hour and a half, and it will give you all the details you need. I'll give a link to it below. Thank you for watching.