Today we will talk about how to permanently get rid of blackheads and also the so-called sebaceous filaments. Many people actually confuse them with each other, but today I will clarify this. Treatment methods using different patches, creams, and lotions. Today we will discuss how to look deeper and correct the imbalances that cause these problems. First, let's look at a typical treatment. Here we see what they do. The products are applied to the nose and then the tiny filaments and spores on the skin are removed. These pores are called follicles. Some people think that follicles are hairs. No, this is a sac that contains sebum and sometimes hair. As you can see here, the contents are literally pulled out of these tiny cavities, but blackheads are not removed. This is not the case at all. Blackheads are different from whiteheads. In the case of whiteheads, the pore is closed with a plug that protects its contents from oxidation. Fat, sebum, and bacteria are present. If the pore is not closed with a plug, oxygen is exposed to its contents, so its contents oxidize and what is inside the pore darkens. This is like  If you bite off a piece of an apple, it oxidizes and turns brown. That's what a blackhead is. So, blackheads and whiteheads are the precursors to acne. This usually happens during puberty. I suffered from it a lot. I wish I knew at that time what I'm talking about in this video. After all, I thought it was dirt and the skin needed to be cleaned. So, I rubbed it for hours, and this made the skin more inflamed and redder. You ca n't do that. As for sebaceous filaments, they can be removed in different ways, be it a patch, a certain lotion, or a special product, but they appear again. So, the main question is: What is the basis of these problems and how to solve them once and for all? To answer it, I'll turn on another camera. As we can see, sebaceous filaments and blackheads arise because the body produces too much sebum. So, the problem is that the gland produces too much material. The question is why. And the reason is in the hormones called androgens. That's why these problems often occur during puberty. But this can happen at different periods of life. Also, during pregnancy, how do we regulate androgens? This is the main question: to reduce and normalize the sebum secreted by the sebaceous glands? Well, the first remedy is vitamin A. There are creams with vitamin A that need to be rubbed into the skin to help get rid of blackheads and sebaceous filaments. But this is a treatment for the symptom. Why not solve the problem? Taking more vitamin A? Someone will say I eat a lot of carrots, but carrots only contain provitamin beta-carotene. You need the active form of vitamin A, retinol. For this vitamin to work, which foods contain a lot of retinol? I'll tell you soon. The next point is vitamin D. Vitamin D also helps reduce the secretion of sebum. Omega-3 fatty acids also help reduce the secretion of sebum. Guess what contains all three of these wonderful nutrients. If you said cod liver oil, you're right. Cod liver oil contains not only the active form of vitamin A, retinol, but also vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. In fact, cod liver oil  The richest product in vitamin A, but vitamin A is also found in other foods such as egg yolks, fish such as sardines, and many other foods contain vitamin A, but that's not all. People's diets contain a lot of seed oils. These are omega-6 fatty acids, and an excess of omega-6 in the diet actually indirectly reduces the amount of omega-3 fatty acids in the body. So, here's my opinion: of all the factors that create the problem of excess sebum, the main factor is excess oils and seeds in the diet. I'm talking about soy, rapeseed, and corn, which are found in most of our foods. Therefore, we need to consume more omega-3 and less omega-6 fatty acids, but that's not all. Look here. It says carbohydrates, sugars, and excess sugars and other carbohydrates increase insulin. And when insulin increases, androgens increase. Therefore, women with polycystic ovary syndrome have an excess of androgens, too much insulin, and to fix this, we need to lower insulin levels, we need to cut down on sugars and other carbohydrates, and we also need to  Reduce the cleanliness of meals. Intermittent fasting also reduces the production of sebum. I wish I knew this when I was in school. After all, I was the king of snacking often during the day and snacking in the evening. I didn’t know that this increases insulin, which increases androgens, and this increases the window. I repeat, the thread of the imbalance underlying this is mainly due to diet and nutrients. Thanks to this, we don’t need to apply anything to the skin. It creates a sterilization effect, kills beneficial bacteria on the skin, causes even more redness and worsens the condition of the skin. But we need to discuss another factor. We are talking about zinc. With zinc deficiency, the sebaceous glands become larger and they secrete more sebum. So, you need to get enough zinc. What is zinc in? Zinc is found in shellfish, oysters, and so on. Zinc is found in red meat. The most likely cause of zinc deficiency is an excess of sugars and other carbohydrates in the diet, or you have too much stress. This can also deprive you of zinc. When you eat a lot of cereals of various grains, especially whole grains. A  They contain a lot of phytic acid, which also takes away a lot of zinc. So this is another possible cause of zinc deficiency. Now you have a plan on how to not only get rid of blackheads, whiteheads, and sebaceous filaments, but also prevent them from appearing again. After all, you are eliminating their real cause. I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.