Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz.  Please, Dog. What is the only side effect of high doses of vitamin D3?  Friends, write your answers, and in the meantime, we'll answer questions from social networks.  Question from Facebook: What foods help lower high cholesterol? So, for your information, we need cholesterol.  The body creates it as raw material for hormones. High cholesterol sometimes scares people. But let's put the question differently.  How to lower the type of cholesterol that causes damage inside blood vessels? We are talking about small dense LDL particles, not about small sized particles.  There is a special analysis to identify them. Anything that increases insulin resistance increases bad cholesterol levels. Anything that reduces insulin resistance gives us the good cholesterol we need, regulates cholesterol.  If you want to improve your cholesterol, you need to cut down on carbohydrates.  Eat less often, do not eat oils from the seeds.  Avoid eating spoiled seed oils, which increase the intake of oxidative fats.  Omega-6 in the body.   There is no need to do this.  You don't need to eat sugar and empty carbohydrates. This is my advice to you.  And, of course, avoid trans fats. Great.  Zeba from Facebook.  Can you take colostrum if you have a dairy sensitivity?  Interesting.  Very good question.  After all, colostrum is the first milk that contains an immune factor.  But if you have a sensitivity to milk protein, and some people do, you may have a problem with it.  So it might be worth trying colostrum from animals that produce milk with A2 protein or even sheep.  Perhaps it is better.  And take it little by little.  At least the allergies will be less. But you are right.  This is a problem if you have a strong allergy to it.  We need to find another way to strengthen the immune system.  I am from the baby boomer generation.  As children, we were threatened with a teaspoon of castor oil and a tablespoon if we did not do our chores.  But Tami from Facebook asks if coconut oil is good for the liver if applied externally.  Surprisingly, she doesn't drink it.  Castor oil is a very curious thing.  It's not like other oils.  It penetrates, it moisturizes, it is good for the skin.  It is used in the form of compresses. Warm it up, apply it to a cloth and place it on the liver or the uterine area for certain problems.  And people are talking about great results. I don't know if it is fully absorbed by the liver .  I just know that people use it and claim that it works.  It might be worth trying and seeing.  I've heard great things about it. Okay, writes someone on YouTube with the nickname Live Creatively.   Please tell me how to regulate hormones during breaks? Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. You need to know that during menopause, the adrenal glands take over some of the functions of the ovaries. Therefore, anything that strengthens your adrenal glands will benefit you.  We need to give them more raw materials to create hormones.  And this is cholesterol from shellfish, crustaceans, and butter, and so on.  Don't go on a low-fat diet. There are drugs that block cholesterol. You can find a doctor with an alternative approach. And you probably need a very healthy diet to give your adrenals everything they need to make that transition. After all, over the years of practice, I have seen many times how women’s bodies simply fall apart after menopause, because stress increases so much that it affects the bones.  After all, at the same time, estrogen also decreases. In general, it is necessary to strengthen as much as possible the gland that produces these hormones, namely the adrenal glands.  A good dietary supplement made from whole desiccated adrenal glands is suitable for this, and it also improves physical fitness and increases stress resistance. I have a lot of videos about this.  Wonderful.  Everything is on this website.  drberg.com. And if you can't find some videos on YouTube because there are disagreements about them , look for them on Rambler.  There is no censorship, you will find everything there.  Let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  And it sounded like this: What is the only side effect of high doses of vitamin D?  45% said it was pores, 35% said kidney problems, and 20% said they had elevated calcium levels in the blood. What do you say, dog?  The third answer is correct.  Elevated levels of calcium in the blood. This is a side effect.  So what does this mean?  Potentially, a kidney stone may form.   There may be other problems.  This is called hypercalcemia. So, let's say, that is, that we just give up vitamin D, because we don't need kidney stones.  But you should know the dangers of vitamin D deficiency. Well, many people are more susceptible to autoimmune diseases, especially if they have problems with their kidneys. So, one solution, I'll make a video about this, is to reduce the risk of hypercalcemia. If you take a lot of vitamin D3, limit your intake of calcium supplements and dairy products, otherwise you will not have enough calcium to raise your blood calcium levels.  Also take more magnesium, as magnesium helps regulate calcium. Drink at least 2.5 liters of fluid per day.  This is an excellent preventative measure.  Kidney stones. After all, then the urine will not be very concentrated and saturated. Overall, this helps reduce the risk.  But also realize that vitamin D toxicity is extremely rare. This is a rare occurrence.  And those who develop this condition from taking vitamin D are typically taking hundreds of thousands of units of vitamin D over the course of months, and sometimes they are taking up to a million units of vitamin D3.   Like this .  Well, okay, I think this needs to be taken into account, but it’s not as big a problem as you might think, but it needs to be talked about simply because this situation exists.  This is a concern.