16 Signs Your Body Needs More Nutrients You might want to test them on your friends, neighbors, and family members. In this case, don't mention me. People sometimes get offended when you point out skin problems on their nose or something similar. We'll list all 16 signs, but first, about the causes of deficiencies. Perhaps you're simply not eating nutrient- rich foods. Or you're eating what grew in soil that doesn't have the necessary nutrients, or even grown hydroponically. A deficiency can be due to genetic problems. If you don't have enough acid in your stomach, you won't be able to digest some of the proteins and extract minerals from food. Or, for example, you don't have a gallbladder or you have problems with it. In this case, you won't absorb vitamins A, D, E, and K. Well, let's get started with number one: brittle nails. This usually indicates a lack of protein. This often happens in horses. The horse eats until it gets enough protein. If there are too many carbohydrates in the grass, as happens in the spring, it overeats trying to get enough protein, but  Eating excess carbohydrates is the same thing. And with people, they eat until they get enough protein. If you eat where there is no protein, you can easily empty a few more packs, because we constantly need to get protein number two. Blue sclera, that is, the whites of the eyes. The reason for this is iron deficiency, anemia. The whites of the eyes acquire a bluish color through transparent collagen, venous blood becomes visible, and it has this shade. If you feel pain at the top of your right shoulder blade, this means that you do not have enough bile from the gallbladder. And if there is not enough bile, this can lead to the formation of gallstones. The next point is titanium, this is a slight twitching, for example, under the eye or on the arm, this is an indicator of magnesium deficiency. Magnesium regulates the amount of calcium. And without it, normal muscle contraction and relaxation is disrupted because a lack of magnesium accelerates nerve impulses, this manifests itself in the form of unnecessary twitching of the body. The next point is flaky skin. This is a typical omega-3 deficiency. This can also mean that you are getting too much omega-6. After all, they are competitors. There is a lot of omega 6 in soybean and corn oil.  rapeseed, cottonseed, safflower and sunflower oils, instead of them, use fish oil. Or better yet, shaker liver oil. Next, high blood pressure. The first thing I would pay attention to is a potassium deficiency. Potassium maintains the tone of blood vessels, helps them remain soft, and it also helps reduce adrenaline levels and calm the sympathetic nervous system. The Bay le Beguy mechanism that increases blood pressure. Potassium also helps regulate fluids, especially by creating a balance with sodium. The next point is excessive anxiety, this is a typical vitamin B1 deficiency. If you take B1, you will become calmer and will not worry so much, even if there is a reason for anxiety, it will significantly decrease. The next point is hyperthyroidism, which corresponds to a boron deficiency. If you take boron, I advise combining it with all other trace elements so as not to look for their reserves, since they all work together. Boron is useful in many ways, for example, it is part of detergents. It is also important for bone health. It helps increase the absorption of magnesium and can reduce inflammation. In addition, boron is useful for hyperthyroidism. The next point is hypothyroidism, a key trace element that is usually lacking in this case is  Selenium It allows you to convert the thyroid hormone into its active form T3 So with Hashimoto's disease, focus on selenium The next point is crunching in the hip or other joints If the joints crunch too much, this means a deficiency of vitamin D3, to fix this, take more vitamin D3 at least 20,000 or more After all, one of the interesting functions of vitamin D3 is reconstruction, surprisingly The next point is low testosterone is a typical zinc deficiency, zinc increases testosterone levels, zinc deficiency occurs if you eat too many grains because of phytic acid or refined sugar, the best sources of zinc are red meat, shellfish and seafood The next point is your hair growing too slowly in such a situation, a common cause is a deficiency of manganese, a trace element of manganese, I repeat If you drink a trace element, do it in combination with other trace elements The next point is premature gray hair, this is usually caused by a deficiency of vitamin B5, vitamin B5 is also good for the adrenal glands And the better you are with the adrenal glands, the less you have  you stress In addition, vitamin B5 supports the enzyme catalase and it helps get rid of hydrogen peroxide that accumulates in the body The next point is redness of the gums, a typical vitamin C deficiency Or you eat too much sugar, vitamin C and sugar compete with each other, one of the foods richest in vitamin C is unpasteurized sauerkraut The next feeling of weakness is a sodium deficiency, just eat more sea salt and lastly, easy bruising is a vitamin K1 deficiency If you want to learn even more about the signs of nutrient deficiency Come to this course, there is a lot of everything, health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals, deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways from chronic fatigue to muscle pain with vision to decreased immunity, how to fix this safely, will pharmacy vitamins help What supplements to take, how and when in the nutrient deficiency course, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health and how to replenish them More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to definitely understand this  On this topic, sign up for the course using the link below.