Let's discuss the most common reason for liver transplantation. What I'm going to talk about is the main reason for liver transplants in the United States and the second leading reason for liver transplants worldwide. This reason is acetaminophen, known to us as Tylenol. In Europe, it is known as paracetamol. The problem is that the active ingredient in paracetamol is acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is found in many over-the-counter medications, such as Alka-Seltzer, Benadryl, Exe Dren, Pyr, Cassettes, Probit, U-Sin, Suda, Fett, Theraflu, Vicks, Nike Wheel, and Quill and Vicodin. Many of these medications are available in 1-gram tablets. The problem is that just 4 grams a day is already an overdose. In no case should you take more than three grams a day because this substance is so toxic that it literally destroys liver cells, and this destruction is irreversible. What's even worse is if you have fatty liver disease, cirrhosis, or hepatitis, or if you are an alcoholic, or a heavy smoker, or if you are on drugs.  Antidepressants or antibiotics or if you consume a lot of sports and in sodas, all this weakens the liver to such an extent that these 3 grams per day are already extremely toxic, if not fatal at all. What happens is that the liver produces two enzymes whose purpose is to break down this substance and turn it into something harmless. When you overload these two enzymes too much with this drug, its concentration increases, then the 3rd enzyme comes into play to cope with it and then glutathione begins to be depleted, a very important antioxidant that protects the liver. Then necrosis of hepatocytes begins, that is, liver cells. The term necrosis means the death of tissue your hepatocytes liver cells essentially die. An example to describe how easy it is to achieve an overdose, say you take Nike Will and Alka-Seltzer plus 2 tablets of each of them twice a day. It doesn’t look so terrible, really, but this amount contains 4450 milligrams of acetaminophen, and this is already a toxic dose. In fact, taking only these two drugs in two doses twice a day, you literally approach Liver failure, what should you do if you accidentally took such a quantity? First, activate charcoal no later than an hour later. This will help reduce poisoning. Second, n- acetyl cysteine is a natural remedy and a very powerful antioxidant for the liver. Next, milk thistle is a very powerful and effective herbal remedy that also helps protect liver cells. The third option is a liver transplant. The problem is that the waiting list for this operation is very long and who knows if it will be your turn, so the most important thing is to simply have this knowledge to avoid an accidental overdose. Thank you for watching and see you in the next video. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.