Now I want to tell you something about cellulite. Let's say you're sitting at home and you know you have cellulite. Here's what I'll tell you: cellulite is a myth. In other words, there's no difference between cellulite and other fat. The exception is the stomach, where there's visceral fat, that is, around the organs. But cellulite isn't really a special type of fat. In fact, it's not even really fat. It's the atrophy of the muscles located directly under the skin. With cellulite, the skin resembles an orange peel. The skin on the thighs becomes flabby. Right under this layer of subcutaneous fat are muscles that have lost their tone. They atrophy. Atrophy is a decrease in muscle mass due to the fact that the muscle is inactive. People begin to do strength exercises, including on exercise machines, and sign up for fitness clubs, but all to no avail because these are two-dimensional exercises. The secret to fighting cellulite is in multidimensional training. Let me explain. We have 90 muscles in the lower body, and we need to engage them all in training. 90 The best exercise against cellulite would be an exercise that involves all 90 muscles. It’s not easy to come up with such an exercise. I’ll show you a very good series of exercises for the gluteus maximus. We’ll start with it to increase its tone in three different ways, but this needs to be done during each workout. In about a month or two, I’ll release a program that will involve the whole body, but this series of exercises will let you know what awaits you. It’s very cool. By doing these exercises, you will work on atrophied muscles in three different ways. You need to do 10 repetitions, 3 sets of 10 repetitions. You will have three sets of each exercise. Ten times in each set. So, between sets, you need to rest from 1 to 2 minutes. So, this is a very good workout. Before showing the exercises, I want to show you a photo of a woman. She started going to the gym when she was 56. Before that, she never got off the couch. She had never done any exercise in her life. Now she’s 75, and just look at her. This woman is 75 years old, so there are no excuses and there can’t be any. This is how you can look amazing at 75. This woman is amazing.  There is no cellulite at all, she trains and does multidimensional exercises and there is not a gram of fat on her body, but maybe just a little, so don't blame it all on age, it has nothing to do with it, you just need to know how to get your body back, stop doing two-dimensional exercises, do three-dimensional ones and use all 90 muscles, I hope you like it I invite you to my course for ovarian body type, this is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems, externally this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen, my course will help you restore women's health, my unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you, sign up for the course using the link below, see you there