Today we will discuss how to block the effects of sugar, other carbohydrates, and other things. If a person is on the Keto diet but somehow deviated from it and ate something that should not have been eaten, how can he neutralize the consequences of this? This is what we will discuss. So, let's start number one. Sugar, your friend just ate sugar. What should he do? To neutralize the effects of sugar, the damage that sugar causes is like rust in blood vessels. It destroys our power plants, the mitochondria. Foods have a glycemic index. The more sugar in what we eat, the greater the spike in blood sugar and the greater the destruction. There is a scale of this index for all carbohydrate products. There is such a thing as glycemic load. It takes into account not only the amount of carbohydrates in the glycemic index but also the amount of fiber. Because fiber smooths out the spike in blood sugar, therefore, of all carbohydrates, only fiber is available, and fiber is a carbohydrate that does not affect insulin. Other carbohydrates increase it, but not fiber, it is neutral. So, the more fiber in a product, the less the effect of sugar in carrots. For example, there is a lot of fiber.  so it's very difficult to cause a spike in blood sugar if you eat carrots unless you juice the carrots and just drink carrot juice like I did a long time ago. So here's what you need to understand if your friend eats any sugar. Advise him to eat some cleachalna because it will smooth out and slow down the spike in blood sugar. You also need to know that sugar, especially refined sugar, deprives a person of potassium, B1, zinc, and magnesium. Therefore, if you take electrolytes, B vitamins, and trace elements, this will replenish their deficiency created by the sugar eaten. This is simply a way to minimize the side effects of sugar. Then there are grains, because grains eventually turn into sugar. You need to know a number of things about grains. Number one is refined grains. If you eat refined grains, they deprive you of certain nutrients because there are no nutrients in refined grains, so when you eat them, the body begins to metabolize them and take some nutrients from its reserves to burn these grains. Therefore, the more you  The more refined grains you eat, and even sugar, the more you need these nutrients, because refined foods don't have these nutrients, so you have to use your reserves to digest it. So, refined grains are a problem, but there are also whole grains. They contain some nutrients, not so much. As you might think, they also contain the so-called phytic acid, as well as other antinutrients. Phytic acid blocks the absorption of certain minerals. So, if you eat whole grains, you should eat oysters or other shellfish to replenish these minerals, because shellfish, especially oysters, contain a lot of zinc. Another big problem with grains is gluten, a protein in wheat and some other grains. Gluten allergy intolerance can seriously damage the intestines and cause inflammation in many people. Especially because hybrids of grain crops, especially wheat, have been created, and some hybrids not only have more carbohydrates, but also more protein. And this protein can do different things to the intestines, it can even act like  morphine and dull the pain it causes. And you think that it is quite edible and continue to eat it, and then one day inflammation begins in your intestines and it gives a lot of new problems that you did not even know about. By the way, to reduce inflammation in the intestines, let's say you want to reduce it, you can take glutamine or eat foods that are high in glutamine, such as meat. That's why when a person goes on a meat diet or a carnivore diet and gets a lot of glutamine from meat, his intestines usually return to normal, provided that he does not eat starch and all that. And this video is just about how to neutralize the effects of carbohydrates and other things. Also, refined grains deprive us of vitamin E. There is a close link between vitamin E deficiency and angina, because the heart needs vitamin E. If you have little vitamin E, your muscles, including the heart muscle, have a harder time working; the muscles may become weaker. So if you are thinking about eating refined grains or if your friend eats them, think about a deficiency of B vitamins.  especially B1 and other B vitamins, as well as vitamin E, need to be replenished to neutralize the effect of cereals. You can even eat nutritional yeast, they contain natural B vitamins, just make sure they don't contain synthetic B vitamins. I also want to say that if you eat grain products such as bread, pasta, and so on in Europe, they are less likely to cause bloating because cereals ferment there, it takes longer, and more carbohydrates are broken down because they are eaten by microbes, and a lot of gluten can be broken down, and because of the added iron and synthetic minerals, there will be severe heaviness in the intestines. Another factor associated with cereals is that they are often treated with glyphosate, which is a herbicide. So, the cereals you eat contain this chemical. And this is bad, so if you eat cereals, eat only organic ones. I also want to mention the similarity of the glucose molecule and vitamin C. They are very similar in their chemical structure. So, if you eat sugar, don't Expect to absorb vitamin C because sugar interferes with this, so when people eat chewy candies with vitamin C. They have a lot of sugar, they will not absorb vitamin C. Just realize that glucose blocks vitamin C, so among other things, you or your friend who eats carbohydrates or sugar should eat more foods with vitamin C. Sauerkraut has the most vitamin C, but it is also found in bell peppers and lemons. And any leafy green has a lot of vitamin C. I also want to say that any berries are a good source of vitamin C. When you eat fruit, I am always asked about fruits, are they harmful? Yes, they have a lot of sugar. The body is designed for moderate consumption of fruits, but not those that have been made sweeter. And today they have more carbohydrates, more sugar, and fruits are seasonal food. And we eat them all year round. Are fruits very different from highly functional pure fructose and glucose, and it creates a completely different effect, even in comparison with fructose and fruit juice, because fruits contain antioxidants. If someone has diabetes and high blood sugar And if you have diabetes You should be aware if you have all these side effects complications of diabetes You can significantly reduce many side effects if you just get antioxidants from also helps very well benfotiamine and alpha-lipoic acid in many diabetics due to peripheral neuropathy have or have sore feet Taking benfotiamine or alpha-lipoic acid they will at least get rid of this pain After all, they reduce the complication of diabetes diabetes affects four areas of the brain with the nervous system vascular system as well as eyes and kidneys of course changing the diet will solve everything fundamentally but to simply reduce neutralize some of the effects You can just start eating foods rich in antioxidants and you can also exercise Blood glucose can be high not only because of carbohydrate foods But also because of stress due to lack of sleep it can be high due to various reasons say you are on a diet but the body has not yet adapted and still produces sugar due to strong insulin resistance can be largely neutralized. Just by exercising every day, because exercise burns sugar and strengthens mitochondria, new mitochondria are produced. You can do something else. Many people with diabetes take metformin. You can take, for example, berberine. This is a natural remedy. According to research, it has a similar effect but fewer side effects. You can also take cinnamon. Just sprinkle cinnamon with sugar and toasted bread with butter. But of course, this is sarcasm. In fact, cinnamon helps stabilize blood sugar, just like apple cider vinegar. It helps neutralize some of the effects of consuming sugar and other empty carbohydrates. Because it increases acidity in the stomach and lowers blood sugar levels. You will see that if you drink apple cider vinegar with water in the morning when you wake up, even after carbohydrates, your sugar levels will be slightly better thanks to apple cider vinegar. I want to say one more thing about this since we are talking about blood sugar levels. If you eat lean protein such as whey protein powder, this can cause a surge in insulin, and it controls blood glucose levels. There is a so-called insulin index, which characterizes Any non-carbohydrate food that increases insulin, not just sugar and all that. Whey protein greatly increases insulin because it has no fat at all, and this brings us to the next point. Fat has a very slight effect on insulin. Fiber and fat do not particularly stimulate insulin. Therefore, you can use fat to soften the insulin response. If you have a choice between egg white and a whole egg, always eat a whole egg. If you have a choice between fatty beefsteak and lean meat, eat a fatty steak. Fatty nuts such as macadamia nuts or, say, pecans are much better than less fatty nuts. Kefir or cheese made from whole milk and Malozhitomirskaya. Fast regularly, intermittently, but intermittent long-term fasting will significantly reduce the damage done to cells. Combinations of factors also work great. For example, you eat greens, they contain fiber, they have little sugar. Add apple cider vinegar to the greens and add olive oil. So we get fat, we get vinegar, we get fiber, the oil actually helps extract fat-soluble nutrients from the greens, and this combination gives an excellent cumulative effect.  in one meal reducing the impact of harmful food I talked about sugar and about grains I will say a few words about alcohol alcohol is obtained from grains and alcohol deprives a person of B1 alcohol is excreted from the body by the liver as a toxin And this means that it damages the liver as a priority, causing inflammation and so on So if you suddenly found out that someone drank something alcoholic Tell him to take B1 to reduce the impact of alcohol B1 or nutritional yeast just B o is also good This can save from a hangover pickle is also a good remedy a kind of electrolyte it will help to cope with this you can just take electrolytes to reduce a hangover and a hangover is a sensation caused by toxins in the liver If you take anything that harms the liver, then milk thistle is a good antidote neutralizing agent milk thistle is a good remedy for any poisons be it venom from a snake bite poisonous flu alcohol Paracetamol or and this is our Next point drugs some drugs can damage the liver take milk thistle to reduce or neutralize  harmful effects If you take statins, take coenzyme Q10, otherwise muscle damage is possible. If you have diabetes and you take metformin, be sure to take B1 and B12. If you take antibiotics, be sure to take probiotics. If you take antacids, you need to take betaine hydrochloride, because an antacid removes acid from the stomach. And usually, the real cause of acid reflux is a lack of acid, and taking antacids often makes the situation worse. And if you add acid to the stomach, this will help neutralize some of the side effects of an antacid, namely, a lack of stomach acid. Number four, let's say you consumed a lot of salt, that is, sodium. And your body retains sodium and you want to neutralize its effect. Let's say it affects your blood pressure. Just take potassium. It helps neutralize the harmful effects of sodium. Then the body will get rid of the retained pressure. So, eat a lot of greens or other foods rich in potassium. The same thing with sugar. If you eat a lot of sugar, you will lose potassium. And without it, the pulse becomes higher and higher. And again, antidotes for high blood pressure. pulse is potassium number p it's not carbohydrates it's oxalates and since we're talking about neutralizing different things I decided to talk about this too when a person starts a keto diet Usually he eats spinach and also sugar-free chocolate and almonds or almond flour there are a lot of oxalates in all of this but if you eat cheese with any of these products it minimizes the harmful effects of oxalates and I almost forgot about magnesium magnesium also reduces the harmful effects of oxalates and since I mentioned salt and sodium I'll say about drinking excess water let's say you drink a lot of water and if you drink too much water the concentration of sodium in the blood can decrease this can cause a serious problem hyponatremia and possible cerebral edema there are known cases where people died after drinking about 4 liters of water in a short time of three hours So drink when you want to drink But don't drink too much but there is an antidote for this Eat some salt if you drink too much water and take the rest of the electrolytes number seven if a person on  On a keto diet with intermittent fasting, its need for minerals and B vitamins increases, and some people may experience side effects such as keto rash, keto fatigue, and so on if they don't take electrolytes or eat foods rich in these nutrients. This isn't food, but I think it's important to talk about it and emphasize stress. How to neutralize the effects of stress. What does stress do? It deprives you of zinc and B1 magnesium. So, Prim B1 will greatly help you resist stress. If you take it, your anxiety will go away, you will become calmer. Magnesium deficiency causes leg cramps and fatigue. Take magnesium and you will have more energy and endurance. Leg cramps will decrease, and stress deprives us of zinc. Low zinc levels can decrease testosterone levels, weaken immunity, and severe zinc deficiency can cause you to lose your sense of smell and taste. Another way to protect yourself from the harmful effects of stress is to exercise, do long walks, and do physical work. Do what you would like to do.  It will get you out of your head, and sleep will too. After all, sleep is an antidote to stress. Dr. Berg's new workshop, a coach on intermittent fasting and the teto diet, includes more than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which you can adopt in 3 months of training, receive a certificate, become a Keto coach, help people, and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule, do what you enjoy, sign up for the course using the link below.