In this video, I'll talk about how to quickly remove belly fat by doing intermittent fasting. First, I'll explain how insulin and fat storage in the body are related. Let's take batteries of different sizes. This large battery is your fat. This small battery shows how much sugar is stored in your liver. A thin person's body stores an average of 100,000 kilocalories in the form of fat, only 1,700 kilocalories in the form of stored energy. On average, the energy reserves in fat are 58 times greater than those in sugar. How does the switch between sugar and fat occur? To do this, you need to lower insulin. The goal of all the tips I'll give today is to lower insulin so that you switch from burning sugar to burning fat. Let's start with tip number three: two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar per glass of water. Why? Because apple cider vinegar lowers blood sugar and insulin levels. insulin is a hormone that produces fat and prevents you from losing weight. This is a very simple action. Petit 1D or even three glasses of this drink a day. Number six, combine a low-carb Keto diet with intermittent fasting.  Fasting will kill two birds with one stone. Intermittent fasting lowers insulin. But if you also reduce your carbohydrate intake, you will have great success. By removing carbohydrates from your diet, you will switch to fat burning much faster than with intermittent fasting alone. You will know that you have switched to fat burning. When your appetite disappears and it will be easier for you to continue. Tip number five: We start with a high-fat amount of fat. This way, we use more ketones from our own fat stores instead of the fat we get from food. Tip number four: You need to improve your sleep, and to do this, you need to reduce stress. There is something better for stress and sleep than exercise: physical work around the house or physical work in the yard in the fresh air. Any such activity is much more productive. Unlike, for example, running on a treadmill. In addition, physical work is good for the psyche. Your attention is distracted from stress. Tip number three: Exercise during fasting, not after meals. 26 studies have shown that training during fasting burns more fat. That is, you simply add some elements to get results faster. As for the type of training, I recommend combining High intensity no more than twice a week to avoid overtraining, many do not realize how much salt they need, especially when fasting, when there is little salt, you will sleep worse, especially it will be difficult for you to fall asleep, do not forget to add more sea salt to your food and finally, tip number one is the most important, it is better to write it down, you need to let your body determine the pattern of intermittent fasting using the feeling of hunger, the rule is: do not eat if you are not hungry. This will give your body time to adjust at the right speed. Some people can fast longer than others. When your body reaches a wonderful state of fat burning, you will feel great mentally and physically. If this does not happen, then you are not ready yet, just continue and there is no need to rush. So, you have received all these tips, but there is still a lot of information on this topic, so we have compiled it into a large and very detailed separate course. I invite you to the program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it does not matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down, this program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available on what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed, there are lots of examples of what and  How to eat, I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you are trying to lose weight, you often face barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition, an important part of a healthy diet, you need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also about nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.