The topic of today's video is eyelashes and important nutritional factors that help grow eyelashes, make them thicker and longer. Each eyelid has 100 to 200 hair follicles. Growing hair goes through two phases: a growth phase and a resting phase. If eyelashes begin to fall out or become short and thin, it means there is a problem with one of these two phases. There are many scientific names for these diseases, but they will not say anything about what is really behind this problem. Let's start with the very basics. We have eyelashes. What is an eyelash? Well, it's a protein. What does protein consist of? Amino acids. What are amino acids made of? A combination of biochemical reactions of certain substances occurs. One of the important factors is trace elements. Trace elements are needed for amino acids, which then form proteins, which are a long chain of different amino acids. If there is a lack of trace elements in the body, chaos can begin, and just like a lack of trace elements in the soil, it will have devastating consequences for plants and for animals that eat plants, and on top of that, for a person who eats animals with a trace element deficiency. I'm currently reading a book that pertains to  There's a fascinating book on this topic, here it is, by the way, I hope you can see the earth, grass, and cancer. When I first came across this book, I was immediately interested in it until I saw the price of $250. I said I would never buy a book for $250, despite the book's slogan revealing the connection between human and animal health and the mineral balance in the soil, which caught my attention because I experiment in my own garden. However, an hour later, I still couldn't get this book out of my head. I was thinking why not find used books that are much cheaper? Why is no one selling this book? Maybe it's so expensive that no one wants to sell it. And so I came to the conclusion that I should buy this book. See what's so special about it. It has to be good if it costs so much. I haven't seen a single negative review, only enthusiastic ones. The scientific language of the book is probably difficult, but this is a fascinating study of the relationship between the lack of microelements in the soil and how it affects plants, animals, and people. The basis of our health is actually in the soil. If there aren't enough microelements in the soil, where will the plants and animals that feed us and support our health get them? These microelements are essential because they are the basis of enzymes, the basis of vitamins such as B12, they are the basis of antioxidants and phytonutrients. Okay, let's get back to the main topic, otherwise I got distracted. So, if we examine and analyze the mechanism of eyelash loss, it comes down to a deficiency of a very specific type of prostaglandin. Don't get hung up on the word prostaglandin. Prostaglandin is simply a signaling molecule, something like a hormone, a signal sent throughout the body to do certain things. A lack of prostaglandin can cause problems with hair growth and inflammation, and an excess of other prostaglandins can cause headaches. For example, taking aspirin blocks certain types of prostaglandins, which is why aspirin helps with headaches. But in general, some eyelash growth medications are associated with eliminating the deficiency of this special type of prostaglandin called prostaglandin H2 alpha. We'll call it PG F2 alpha. To look smarter, there are two substances that help eliminate the deficiency of this prostaglandin. One of them is an acid called ricin leucoside.  This acid can help eliminate this deficiency and resume eyelash growth, not only grow but also strengthen eyelashes, improve their texture, quality and condition in general. The second substance, zinc, is the very microelement that I use for zinc deficiency. This type of prostaglandin is not produced. Remember, I said about microelements needed for things like enzymes and phytonutrients. They also produce this signaling molecule, prostaglandin, and you can't do without zinc. That's why zinc is so important for nails, skin, hair, the immune system, and testosterone production. It participates in literally hundreds of different biochemical reactions. There is a lot of evidence that taking zinc helps grow hair, especially eyelashes. I recommend buying a high-quality dietary supplement with all the microelements, including zinc, of course. I'll be honest, I produce and sell such a product, a mixture of all the microelements, including zinc, but I don't advocate for it specifically. In fact, it's more important to find out where your zinc deficiency is coming from by analyzing your diet. In general, zinc participates in eyelash growth, as does rizzi acid, which, by the way, is castor oil.  Castor oil is a laxative, it is a preservative, it is a product that helps women stimulate contractions during labor, it is a moisturizer for the skin and also a remedy for dandruff, but many women use it for eyelash growth. If you buy castor oil, make sure that it is organic, cold- pressed or unrefined, and such castor oil is not necessarily expensive. Most of this oil comes from the same place. Some package it in tiny bottles, while you can find the same oil in much larger quantities for almost the same money. So, the two best products for eyelashes are zinc and castor oil. Castor oil should be used externally, zinc internally, so you will also act from the inside out. There is one interesting study where mice were given aspirin, which blocks prostaglandins, and this is what happened. Exactly the same effect was found as with zinc deficiency. The symptoms of zinc deficiency and prostaglandin deficiency turned out to be the same. What is the conclusion from this video? Understand the real cause of the symptoms, understand what they are trying to tell you, and instead of masking the hole in the trough, find that  They're simply patching up the root cause of the problem, and I explain in much more detail the connection between zinc and other micronutrients and your overall health and hair condition in particular in this course. I'm inviting you to my course on hair health diagnostics. Dry, brittle hair, oily hair, dandruff, hair loss, baldness, and other gray hair are all signs of problems within the body. In my course, I'll show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below and see you there.