This information is very important If you are taking medications If you know someone who is taking them Send them this video I will show you how to significantly reduce the side effects of medications One of the main reasons for the occurrence of side effects from medications is associated with something in the liver, a certain group of enzymes that help break down certain drugs as well as toxins If this enzyme system does not work, you will not only experience more side effects, but the medication may not work as effectively As it should, of course, as you well know, I always try to offer an alternative to medications But first, let's discuss What is an enzyme? An enzyme is a protein that speeds up chemical reactions in the body and they occur millions of times faster than without an enzyme The vast majority of drugs act by inhibiting certain enzymes, for example, ACE inhibitors suppress the ACE enzyme on which blood pressure depends, aspirin, for example, suppresses the CKD enzymes that are associated with inflammation So, the enzyme speeds up the reaction But what is really curious is that enzymes do not seem to use their own energy in their work, that is, they can act repeatedly and in this sense they are simply magical Another point is that for an enzyme to work, auxiliary substances are needed Molecules they need so-called factors or coenzymes. And these are essentially vitamins and minerals now. In general terms, you know why we need vitamins and minerals. To ensure the functioning of enzymes, the body itself has many millions of different enzymes that perform different actions, but the main enzymes we are talking about today are called enzymes of the first and second phases. Enzymes are divided into a family into groups; they do not act alone. The family of liver enzymes of the first phase is called cytochrome p450. I repeated this whole family. If there are any problems with these enzymes, then the breakdown will not occur, or at least the breakdown of this drug or toxin or anything else that undergoes breakdown will not begin. Then, in the second phase, going along with the first, there is another group of enzymes, glutathione enzymes. Both groups work together. They take, pardon, a medicine and disassemble it down to the last screw, after which they turn them into harmless water-soluble particles that can be excreted through urine, sweat, or intestines. This happens not only during the breakdown of drugs, it is also done with pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, and benzene.  from petroleum products with which you come into contact with carcinogens, substances that cause cancer, smoke and chemicals in its composition, alcohol, estrogen, this enzyme system is very important not only for reducing side effects but also for increasing the effectiveness of the drug and for cancer prevention because many of the drugs or toxins to which you are exposed, if they are not completely broken down, they can accumulate in the body and poison it, increasing the risk of developing cancer and other problems. Why am I saying all this? Well, I recently delved into the topic of genetics. This is an amazing topic. There are some problems with DNA, so that can cause problems with the ability to detoxify. The section I am studying now is devoted to the genes responsible for detoxification. An important common problem is a mutation in the cytochrome p450 family of enzymes. One of these genes can have more than 2,000 different mutations that create many problems. If you take a DNA test and find that you have such a problem, then you need to work more on these enzymes. Perhaps this is why you experience unwanted side effects from drugs in general. So, first, you may have  There may be DNA mutations in these enzymes. This is the first. The second may be liver problems. For example, if the liver is fatty or inflamed or has scar tissue. This can reduce the effectiveness of phase one and two detoxification. Grapefruits also contain an inhibitor of these enzymes, cytochrome p450. This can be a problem because then the medication you are taking begins to accumulate and can cause a much greater effect than necessary. Some medications can also suppress this enzyme, for example, warfarin, antidepressants, and even statins. Your doctor should know about this. This can often lead to inflammation. This is why even, for example, omega-3 fatty acids from cod liver oil and other fish are anti-inflammatory and good for the heart, and even some are usually anti- inflammatory. Omega-6 fatty acids promote the work of these enzymes. If there is a problem with this enzyme or with the liver, you may not benefit from the fish oil or cod liver oil you took, and inflammation remains. The question remains: How to speed up the detoxification system of the first and second phases. Well, you're lucky. Because some vegetables help activate this enzyme system.  In other words, they make these enzymes work better, as if turning them on. These are vegetables from the cruciferous family, as well as alium, which is onions and garlic. Cruciferous sprouts, for example, broccoli, rich in sulforaphane, will be a powerful activator. You can also take the supplement dim, which is a cruciferous concentrate, also a powerful stimulator of detoxification of the first and second phases. Another excellent way, and very inexpensive, is simply fasting. Fasting is a powerful stimulator of detoxification of the first and second phases. This is not an obvious effect of fasting. But when you don’t eat, you begin to detoxify in a good sense. This is inexpensive. The questions are obvious. Less contact with these chemicals, toxins, and poisons. Ask your doctor. Maybe there is some alternative to your medications. Maybe you should take some natural version of these medications. And fourth, strengthening the liver is a good way to do this by getting rid of fat. I advise doing this through a healthy version of the ketogenic diet. There is also a good remedy, milk thistle, which can be taken to strengthen the liver. You can also take herbal remedies, curcumin, green tea, and garlic. I already  I mentioned it in this video for details on how to directly strengthen the liver and remove fat from it. Watch this video at the link.