Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz, and then we'll answer questions that have accumulated on social media.  The floor is yours, dog. Why do some diabetics have high blood sugar even when they reduce their carbohydrate intake?  Dear viewers, as always, we are waiting for your answers.  Written by Mek.  My stomach constantly growls and hurts. The gastroenterologist wants me to take Pepcid twice a day.  Is it possible that I have low stomach acid? Maybe.  Growling and various sounds simply indicate that your diet is not quite right for you.  So I would completely revise your diet and not try to treat the symptom with medication.  It's like jumping down a rabbit hole.   There is no good way out of it.  By doing so, you are only masking the problem.  This is my problem with doctors.  They are Steve, I have a question for you.  Can you name one drug that helps improve health?  One. This is a difficult question. Name just one of all the drugs. Just one drug, not a vitamin.  Come on , I don't know. That's exactly it.  Me too.  After all, they do not improve health, but only replace one problem with another.  For example, what do you think diabetes medications do?  Make the sugar evaporate?  No, they remove it from the blood and send it somewhere else.  So, essentially, we're replacing the problem with a side effect.  This is the problem with medicine. It is not aimed at improving health.  Some people might argue with this , but dependence on something is not real health.  If you get rid of a symptom, it doesn’t mean that you have become healthier.  I think if your stomach is growling, reconsider your diet and change it. You probably need to increase your microflora for better digestion.  We recently changed our dog's food.  They just changed her food.  And of course, Charlie, our dog, jumps on the bed at night and I'm trying to sleep and I hear purring all night long .  There is something in this new food that the dog is having trouble digesting. This is a symptom that your current diet is not suitable for you.  Interesting.  Good luck, Charlie. Someone from Rambla is writing this.  See you later, Nick .  After the surgery I developed a phyllococcal infection and am now on a two-week course of antibiotics.  Can I take a prebiotic while I'm taking antibiotics?  I wouldn't.  I would take a probiotic.  I would take it even after completing the course.  After all, an antibiotic kills all good bacteria, as well as bad ones.  So you need to bring back the good bacteria.  There will be no harm from this.  Can someone explain to me why taking beneficial bacteria while taking an antibiotic is bad?  Are we trying to kill good bacteria for some reason?  Unlikely.  So, take a probiotic.  After all, after the antibiotic, the previous diversity will not be restored. proportions of microflora and all that.  And that's a problem.  Someone will say: "Oh, all this will be restored."  Not a fact at all.  Some of this will not be restored.  Look at those who have been taking antibiotics for years.  I am one of them.  They have many different problems with microflora and digestion.  Watch my video about a microbe that saves you from depression or something like that.  There is some useful information about this.  Interesting.  I'll watch it. So, dog, our erudite viewers have answered the quiz question.  And it went like this: Why do some diabetics have high blood sugar levels even if they reduce their carbohydrate intake? 92% said it was insulin resistance, and 8% said it was magnesium deficiency.  Great answers, Steve. If someone has diabetes and they start cutting out carbohydrates, you would think that if they don't eat sugar, their blood sugar levels would drop, but often they don't drop, they stay elevated.  Why?  But the reason is something else.  The human liver is so insulin resistant that the cells cannot even absorb enough sugar due to insulin resistance. And so the liver creates sugar itself.  This is called gluconeodiesis.  That is, in the end, the lion's share, and this is interesting, the lion's share of sugar enters the blood of a person with diabetes through gluconeogenesis and not necessarily only from food.  This is curious.  The body maintains high sugar levels due to where does it get sugar, it converts fat into sugar, it converts protein into sugar, non-carbohydrate sources.  So that's why metformin is used.  After all, metformin has a huge effect. It improves the functioning of insulin receptors in the liver. It reduces insulin resistance and decreases glucose production in the liver, gluconeogenesis in diabetes.  And then the problem is that it causes a deficiency of vitamins B1 and B12.  So I highly recommend taking them.  But why not take something with a similar effect, but without the side effects, like berberine.  Berberine has a similar effect.  Read the research.  But here's the big problem, Steve.  The fact is that any natural remedy that produces a similar effect in some disease falls into the category of drugs. And anyone who heals with it practices medicine without a license.  So I don't have a relationship with anyone. doctor-patient.  I'm just giving you the information so you can get acquainted with it.  But what is very interesting is that medicine essentially has a monopoly on treating diseases, and no one is allowed to cross that line.  But there are studies that show berberine, intermittent fasting, and a low-carb diet all reduce insulin resistance so much that blood sugar levels drop.  Encouraging.  Dayna from Facebook.  Do you think Manuka honey is healthy?  Yes, yes, it is useful.  It is an antimicrobial agent, a natural antibiotic.  It helps with sore throat.  Very curious.  It has incredible properties that are beneficial for digestion.  A unique product.  I have a video about it.  Okay, writes Line from YouTube.  Please tell us about the benefits of Dim.  It is a super concentrated product made from cruciferous vegetables.  It helps regulate excess estrogen.  It is useful, for example, for gynecomastia. This excessive development of the mammary gland in men helps with this.  It should be taken if a woman has estrogen dominance.  So, it helps to lower estrogen, which many people have in excess.  Curious, asks Dora from Facebook.  What do you recommend for varicose veins?  There are several natural remedies. Check out my videos about them.  But perhaps what is very important is this.  As we age, we experience more and more problems with our veins due to a sedentary lifestyle.  We sit too much .  This is the worst part.  What is a vein?  The heart beats and pumps blood through the arteries.  The blood then enters the capillaries and then needs to return through the venous system.  Those who exercise little have weak veins and blood accumulates in them .  It's just that if you sit a lot and stuff like that, and some vein gets dilated, I think one of the best remedies for that, besides healthy eating, is regular exercise.  Okay, that seems like sound advice.  A Facebook user asks: "What's the best way to lower high blood protein levels ?"  Are you sure it's a low level of protein in the urine?  Interesting.  High protein levels can be due to problems with the liver, kidneys, especially if there is protein in the urine.  then there is a problem with the kidneys.  If there is not enough protein in the blood , swelling begins, because these proteins that are in the blood are produced by the liver.  Therefore, in cirrhosis, it does not produce enough protein.  Then the protein level becomes low, edema occurs, fluid retention, ascites, this is when the belly grows. But if there is too much protein, I need more data to understand what is going on. Fine.  Katie from Facebook asks if there is a connection between PCOS and cortisol levels? I don't think so, but I think there is a connection with high estrogen levels. After all, the remedy that works great for any ovarian cysts is iodine, and it reduces estrogen.  When I was practicing, a woman came in with severe pain in her hip.  On my advice, she checked her ovaries.  After all, an enlarged ovary or cyst can reflect pain in the hip.  And it turned out that she had a huge, just huge, swollen ovary.  She started taking kelp, and within three weeks everything was back to normal.  The pain in my hip is gone.  So yes, estrogen.  Be careful with birth control pills and hormone replacement therapy.  Some estrogenic compounds may potentially be found in soy products.  Terry, I'm so glad you're typing so much.  Here's a long question from Nata or Neita from YouTube.  My daughter is pregnant and has autoimmune disorders, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis.  It affects the spine.  Ankelosing spandylitis.  Did I pronounce that correctly?  Yes.  Fine. She keeps getting flare-ups and I'm worried it might affect her six-week pregnancy.  And at the end she says, "Thank you."  Here's what I would do . If you are relatives, I would, firstly, during pregnancy, an autoimmune disease, in theory, should go into remission.  She didn't leave.  And during pregnancy, the need for vitamin D increases, and she probably had a hidden deficiency. I think her vitamin D level was 20 nanograms per milliliter or lower.  I think it increases inflammation, so if I were her, I would start taking high doses, maybe 40-50,000 IU every day to reduce inflammation. And this additional vitamin D will also greatly help the child.  There are doctors around the world who can help her by taking high doses of vitamin D3.  They can check different things, say, the parathyroid gland. Make sure she is taking all the cofactors such as magnesium, zinc, K2. But vitamin D is also extremely important in the case of autoimmune diseases.  Great.  Someone on YouTube with the nickname "Oppressed" asks.  Regret.  What dietary supplements are best for rheumatoid arthritis?  A terrible disease.  It is an autoimmune disease. High doses of vitamin D3.  Blood tests show that it is inactive .  Very little of this form enters the immune system.  Most of it goes to the bones for calcium.  So, an autoimmune disease is a problem with the immune system. There is some abnormality in T cells that creates the preconditions for an autoimmune disease.  And the cells have receptors for vitamin D. Autoimmune disease is a hyperemmuline reaction.  It increases inflammation.  And by adding the immunomodulator vitamin D, we overcome resistance, which many people have.  And the cause of autoimmune diseases is a problem with vitamin D receptors. They don't accept it genetically or due to a past infection. If you raise your blood vitamin D levels enough, some of it will be available to your immune system.  Some people need to raise it to 80, 90, 100 or more nanograms per milliliter to have an effect on the immune system.  I finally raised it above 100, just like I wanted.  It seems like I'm doing just fine with this level.  I think my vitamin D problem is due to the fact that I have had infections in the past. Apstein-Barr virus, Lyme virus.  These viruses reduce the sensitivity of receptors to vitamin D. And there is evidence that this is irreversible.  If this is the case, you need more vitamin D to overcome the barrier that prevents it from being absorbed and to get some of it into the system.  And on that note, thank you for your wonderful questions and see you soon.