Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz.  I ask you, what is the most powerful factor in strengthening collagen tissues?  We are talking about tendons, ligaments, fascia, joints, muscles and blood vessels.  After all, they are made of collagen.  Dear viewers, send us your answers, and we will answer your questions on social media.  Someone with the nickname "Trambla" against the pharmaceutical giants asks: clove oil is for external use only.  Can you use it in toothpaste, clove oil?  It can also be taken internally.  I made a series of videos about him.  I was shocked to learn how many interesting effects clove oil's phytonutrients have.  It is an anesthetic for toothache and so on.  But it also kills bacteria, reduces inflammation, and lowers blood sugar. Watch my videos, it can be used both externally and internally.  You can even chew a bud a day.  Fine.  Let's move on.  DM Srambla writes: "You said that undigested food can cause problems in the small intestine. Could you please tell us about the typical problems that can arise from this ? Yes, I think many people have undigested food in the small intestine, and one of the reasons is a lack of acid in the stomach. But almost 90% of food should be digested in the small intestine. So, in the stomach, all this acid starts the digestion process. But what's important is that the acid activates an enzyme that is necessary for breaking down proteins. So, if there is insufficient acidity, this enzyme is not activated, the protein is not completely digested, and the small intestine must compensate for this, working harder to digest the protein. In this case, the protein is often not completely digested. This is one point. This causes a lot of inflammation, other problems, gas, bloating. And another reason is an excess of refined starch in the diet. It overloads the small intestine, is not broken down, and begins to be fermented by bacteria. This leads  to bloating and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. Yeah, that's amazing. Steve, have you ever been to a buffet ? Have you heard of those buffet restaurants? Oh yeah, there are a lot of them. You get your money's worth, you stuff yourself to the brim, you're absolutely stuffed, and then you can have dessert. So, and then I don't even know what else. So, you're essentially blocking a lot of protein digestion. And when you have that much food stuffed in your stomach , how are you even going to digest it? It's a huge strain. And that's where the indigestion comes from. Gas, bloating, constipation, nutrient deficiencies, bacterial imbalances, weight gain. And otherwise, everything's fine, just great. Oh, that just makes me sick. asks Dougie Dagmbla, what daily doses of D3 and K2 do you recommend for teenagers? I would take 10,000 IU, that's what I would recommend . Is that safe for teenagers? 10,000 and 100 mcg of vitamin K2, and also magnesium is a must. That's what I would recommend. If the child is younger, the dose should be lower. If the child is 10, give him 5,000. But vitamin D, I think I have about 290 videos about vitamin D. Perhaps we should change the topic, otherwise I won't be able to stop. Well, then I'll distract you with the viewers' answers to the quiz question. I said it was like this. What is the most powerful factor in strengthening collagen tissue, tendons, ligaments, joints, muscles and blood vessels. Our viewers, as always, have an opinion: 74% answered vitamin C, 16% said zinc, 5% said amino acids, and another 5% said vitamin E. Who won? There are no winners this time , Steve. There is something much more important in terms of, say, let's imagine that you have cellulite, and you have lost this  The fibrous shell around the fat, because it sort of dissolves with cellulite. And now you have these chaotic lumps and bumps on the skin. And you need a very powerful tool to stimulate collagen growth and regrow this shell. The same is true if you want to strengthen your joints or even blood vessels. The most powerful factor is mechanical stress. What is that ? It's training. So there are many different levels of training. And you know, you can train however you want, but you have to move. There are different degrees of difficulty. But now I really enjoy not just fast running and not just fast running uphill, but fast running up a not very smooth hill. So I literally run in a zigzag pattern. This requires preparation. But how does this strengthen all the accessory muscles, ligaments, tendons, fascia? After all, this is a very unusual method. Every step requires explosive force. You pull yourself forward. You literally create such a strong mechanical load, stress, that the core grows in response and becomes extremely stable. I  I noticed that even if I try to stretch my ankle, I can't stretch it because the ligaments are very strong and elastic. That's how it is. workouts, but quite intense ones. It's not a long 40 km jog, but a high-intensity, short multi-joint workout. So we're not just doing flexion, we're tensing 200 muscles at once. That's what I recommend, Steve. Wow, your commitment Dog is inspiring. It's a lesson for all of us. Back to the social media questions. Kyle from Facebook. What do you think about using uralithyme? Uralithyneia seems like something. I don't know what to think, Steve. Some simpler questions. Okay. Sandra from Facebook asks. What's the best way to completely heal from diverticulitis? You need to stop eating things that irritate it there. The root diet will probably heal the fastest. And eliminate anything that is likely tearing your  colon and creates problems with inflammation. Especially grains, seed oils, which are high in omega-6, that is, what's in junk food. In general, do this and eat high-quality grass-fed meat. This will help you increase your glutamine levels. Glutamine will help heal the gut. Because , you know, I would say, people don't see their colon. And so they eat all this, and then they get bloated, but they don't understand what's going on there. After all, it's not visible without an endoscope. I used to send people for endoscopy with such symptoms, and everything there is red and inflamed. What's possible here is so-called illitis, an inflammation of the last part of the small intestine. And this can cause, an inflamed intestine poorly absorbs nutrients and a lot of imbalances, a lot of symptoms arise. Even though you eat nutrients. You need a lot of nutrients to have any effect . And this is one of the problems with gastrointestinal damage. After all, it's the gastrointestinal tract that It absorbs all the nutrients. And it contains 80% of the immune system. Once you understand how important it is, you'll think twice before eating a donut, Steve.