Hi, let's talk about blood sugar levels. What sugar level is considered normal? Usually, it's from 80 to 100 milligrams per deciliter. Sometimes it can be 70, and if you completely give up sugar, it can be even less. This is completely normal. What does this sugar level mean? What do these numbers mean? Essentially, they show how much sugar is dissolved in your blood. A person weighing 75 kilograms has about 5 liters of blood circulating in the body. About 5 liters of blood. Let's take a normal sugar level of 90 milligrams. In the middle, this is a little more than a teaspoon, about a heaping spoon. Not quite heaping, but a little more than a teaspoon of sugar for this entire volume of blood. If this sugar is dissolved in the blood, you get exactly 90 milligrams per deciliter. This is normal. You can convert protein and even fats into sugar, so you don't even need carbohydrates for a normal level. But the average American consumes thirty-one teaspoons of sugar every day, which is 60-65 kilograms of sugar per year. Over a lifetime, this will be a whole garbage can of sugar.  What exactly is the reason why most of the population suffers from diabetes or diabetes mellitus and the problem is that they don't yet know that they have diabetes or that they have pre-diabetes because a blood test doesn't show this because everything starts out bad and then it gets worse and worse and then suddenly you have diabetes I'll list a few symptoms you get tired after eating you really crave sweets after eating you don't feel full you can't go without eating for several hours and when you eat you feel better this is all prediabetes but to maintain normal sugar levels you don't need to eat a lot of it I recommend giving it up altogether if you do this you will get rid of many health problems and so I want to emphasize two points you don't need sugar some say the brain doesn't work on sugar no it can work on fats on other fuel your body doesn't need sugar and so write comments see you in the next video thank you very much for watching I am very grateful please share this video and see you soon