Greetings.  Today we are answering your questions again.  Whatever I say is not meant to cure you or replace the diagnosis your doctor gave you. Take this with a grain of salt and ask your doctor before following any of our advice.  Let's get started.  Steve, my pleasure.  Let's start with a question from Suze YouTube.  Is it possible to remove mercury from the body using the MTHFR gene? I have low levels of chromium, selenium and zinc, but she has low levels of everything.  Thank you for your advice.  If you have this problem with your genes, called polymorphism, then you need to take more methylated vitamins.  Methylphalate, methylcobalamin. In addition to this, you need to eat foods that contain phosphorus. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Liver is a good product.  And eat natural foods.  Avoid all forms of folic acid.  And it is often used to enrich junk food.  And there's another problem with this gene. I just try to avoid complex terms when I speak, so I stutter a little . But the point is this.  Part of this problem is the inability to effectively eliminate toxins. And by enhancing the methylation process, you will be able to better remove toxins.  And whatever healer you use to get all this out, do it slowly. After all, when heavy metals are removed, they can again provoke an immune response and create problems.  I think you can do it, but be careful and take your time.  Don't make the same mistake I made with detoxing and ended up sick in bed for 2 weeks.  Because there is one more point here.  any detoxification. Toxic fragments of bacteria are sometimes released into the body. They are found in so-called biofilms, small calcium capsules that protect the bacteria. When parts of these biofilms break off, the immune system seems to recognize these very, very tiny particles. And this leads, in particular, to the fact that the work of the ducts begins to be disrupted . I made a video about it.  That's why before cleansing the body, you need to take something like tutka to maintain normal bile flow. This helps avoid congestion that often occurs during detoxification and causes headaches, nausea, and other unpleasant sensations. Simply because bile from the liver does not flow freely through the bile ducts. Yeah.  Well, Xiu, tread carefully, but it's still encouraging.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Asks Var from YouTube.  I am in my final course of cancer treatment.  Oh, I'm sure it wasn't very pleasant.  What supplements should I take and will fasting help me ?  - asks Viart.  I will soon release a video about what people with cancer should eat and what diet they should follow.  Because when a person with cancer asks a doctor what to eat, the doctor says, "Oh, it doesn't matter. Seriously? It doesn't matter what we eat? Doesn't it matter? I think it does. I've developed a plan that, based on the type of cancer and a person's genetics, allows us to find out what this cancer mainly feeds on , what fuel it uses. So there are different dietary plans designed taking into account the type of cancer and its stage. And besides, I'll give a list of supplements in that video. Watch it. Here are some very important supplements: vitamin D, high doses of vitamin D, magnesium, zinc. But the full list will be in that video. I've made a lot of videos about prevention, but this video is about what you should eat if you have cancer. And I'm sure there will be critics, and they will say, "There is no research yet, and this is true." But if you look at the reasons why we recommend these products, they are very logical, and it is worth trying. What is the alternative? Eating everything and not helping? Because cancer can use different types of fuel. So why  So, how about supplying it with fuel? Starve the cancer. Here's another unique property of cancer. If you don't change your diet for a while, cancer adapts to it. And if you deprive cancer of its fuel, it will switch to another fuel. And in that video, I'll tell you how to alternate your diet every few days so that cancer can't adapt. After all, our cells are very flexible and healthy, and cancer cells are very sick, they are always on the edge. We need to use this weakness of cancer to starve it. Wait for that video. Very good. Viart. I'm sure I can wish you a full recovery on behalf of the whole world. Thank you for asking this question. Question from Mou on YouTube. Is it true that black padoka helps get rid of insulin resistance? If so, can it be consumed by a healthy chum? Unlikely, because it contains a lot of sugar. It does contain some vitamins and minerals, but it still contains a lot of sugar, because that's what sugar is. I think it's better to consume it  Not the best idea. However, there are a ton of videos out there about how a low-carb diet can reverse insulin resistance and diabetes. And there's a lot of evidence to support that. So, if you have diabetes, you need a low-carb diet. I recently released a couple of videos. I'm not sure if they're out yet. Maybe there will be videos coming out soon about what to do with diabetes, what to eat, what strategy to use, what nutrients to use. Wait for those videos. I have a question, Dr. Berg. As you know, I don't follow the diet very strictly, but I do the 4x20 fast. My blood sugar is 80. Is my blood sugar related to the fast, even though I'm not strictly following the diet? I don't think I deserve that blood sugar. You're looking at your blood sugar, Steve. And that's the final link in the chain of events. I'll explain it another way, as simply as possible. All of these diseases start with a root cause and go through a series of stages. Eventually, you develop diabetes, then diabetes with complications as the disease progresses. The question is this. How do you even  Someone's blood sugar level during this entire process can be 80, that is, a normal level, even though they eat a lot of sugar. How is that possible? The thing is, something is working at full capacity behind the scenes, and that is insulin. Many people have normal blood sugar levels , and they think everything is fine. They don't know that when they eat sugar, insulin works like crazy, removing sugar from the blood. And the cells of the pancreas become so exhausted that they can no longer function. And then you have diabetes. This takes 15-20 years. So, normal blood sugar levels don't mean anything yet, because this biomarker is too superficial, like cholesterol, it doesn't tell you anything. They reflect the last links in the chain of events. You need to look at there is a better biomarker, fasting insulin. That will show how you are doing. Glycated demoglobin is also a good test, but fasting insulin reflects the real state of the tone, not blood sugar. But the question is excellent,  Steve, you're great. Thank you. Well, that's sad. I won't be bragging about it anymore, writes Sam Alice from YouTube. For the past few months, I've been fasting for 3 days once a month. But when I start fasting, I get severe pain. I take potassium, glycinate, magnesium, vitamins D3, K2. Do I need anything else? I don't know where your pain is. Usually, the pain should go away. If you have severe pain, that's interesting. I need a little more information. Do you have pain in your lower back or somewhere else. If you take vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids, perhaps you don't have enough potassium, sorry, sodium. After all, a lack of sodium can cause muscle problems. And this usually happens during long fasts. It's hard to understand what's going on here. I advise you to rewatch my videos. You probably have some kind of asymptomatic deficiency that gets worse during fasting. Is this related to  Digestion? I don't know. More data is needed.