Did you know that high blood sugar can cause the brain to shrink in size? Why? Because high blood sugar increases insulin levels, and chronically elevated insulin leads to insulin resistance over time. insulin resistance causes atrophy of the gray matter of the brain and the so-called hippocampus. By the way, the hippocampus has the highest concentration of insulin receptors in the brain. When a person has insulin resistance, their body produces seven times more insulin. Incredibly, the hippocampus's function is associated with memorization and assimilation of information. It can be compared to a switchboard that controls memories. It becomes difficult for a person to remember something. It is much more difficult to learn new things. They are no longer as smart as before. Due to brain atrophy, oxygen in the body decreases, blood circulation worsens, the level of ATP, the main source of energy in the mitochondria, decreases, that is, throughout the body. A less energetic person thinks worse, their consciousness is clouded. The good news is that this part of the brain is capable of regeneration. This is good news. There are two ways to achieve this: calorie restriction and intermittent fasting. I do not recommend restricting calories, because you  Limit your nutrients. I recommend intermittent fasting. It not only increases insulin sensitivity but can also strengthen the connections between synapses in the brain, that is, improve signal transmission. It's a very powerful thing. Of course, if you consume little sugar, for example, switch to a healthy chum diet. The results will be even better. If you need more information, there's a link under the video. Follow it. For now, just know that there's a connection between the sugar you consume and the blood sugar levels and the processes it triggers and what ultimately leads to. I've already told you about this. Until next time, I invite you to my Healthy Chum Diet course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.