Welcome to the course on how to completely ruin your health. If you want to learn how to make terrible choices and undermine your health, you've come to the right place. Let's get straight to the recommendations. Understand that there is no such thing as junk food if you eat in moderation. You can eat anything, including junk food, but let's not insult junk food with that name. Let's call it fast food or ultra-processed food. This will make you feel better. When you go to the supermarket, mostly shop in the center and not on the edges. This will save you more. After all, that's where all the empty-calorie food is. Don't forget to take your child with you. The main thing is that he is hungry and tired. Under no circumstances buy vegetables, meat, or cheese. They spoil very quickly. It's time to get acquainted with ultra- processed starches, seed oils, and snacks; they never expire. Remember, the more artificial, the better. As for red meat, it causes cancer, just like cigarettes. Ultra-processed foods have no connection with cancer. Step two: Enjoy life. Listen to this very important message quench your thirst with sweet soda, energy drinks, and sugary fruit juices. Don't think about how they can lead to obesity, diabetes, and a whole host of other health problems. As we've already been told, co-co life. Believe me, this is the path to the grave. Forgive success and understand that the food pyramid is a completely scientific idea. And don't think about the fact that the creators of nutrition recommendations have a conflict of interest. We only live once, so life should be enjoyed. The most delicious chips will absorb ZRO seed oils. Synthetic sugars and monosodium glutamate will soothe your soul. These additives are wonderful because thanks to them, chips can last for years. So don't worry, even cockroaches won't eat them. This food will calm you and protect you from life's stresses. Step three: Lead a sedentary lifestyle. Avoid exercise and cultivate a lazy seal in yourself. Remember, movement is overrated. Exercise can be dangerous. You can slip and fall. Staying at home is much safer. Research has shown that  If you fidget more while watching TV and eating popcorn, you can burn a couple of extra calories an hour. Be sure to prepare excuses for all occasions: bad weather, holidays, a busy schedule, accusers, oh well. It's not your fault. Constantly look for excuses and never [music] confess. Get used to a healthy lifestyle or lose weight immediately. Reward yourself with a donut, a glass of wine, or a huge serving of ice cream. Step five: Stay home. Avoid the street at all costs. Who needs the sun? Fresh air and nature? When can you stay home in your bubble? Don't let this dangerous sun touch our skin? If you go outside, this will protect you from vitamin D, that is, ultraviolet radiation. Stay home. After all, if polluted air doesn't get you, the sun will. Lying on the couch and binge-watching TV shows should become your main hobbies. It's safer. Glue yourself to the screen. Ignore the news about electromagnetic radiation from a monitor or TV. This is all untrue. We will soon have a metaverse. Who needs a real world? When will it be possible to live a virtual life? Step six: Eat eight times a day. Let's talk about intermittent fasting. Eating eight times a day is the best option, because it will protect you from hunger forever. You can graze in the kitchen from dawn to dusk, like a friendly cow, and don't forget to take something to snack with you. Judge for yourself, you don't know where the urge to snack will overtake you. A drop in blood sugar is no big deal. After all, you always have glucose tablets. They will help with hypoglycemia. The doctor will help you. Ignore blood sugar spikes, as long as this endless feast doesn't stop. Step seven: Understand that all calories are absolutely the same. Don't believe that certain calories activate certain hormones. 500 kilocalories in a divine donut are no different from 500 kilocalories in a balanced, complete meal. Remember, a calorie is a calorie, even in Africa. It's a scientific fact. Step eight: Evening snack. Get into the habit of snacking in the evening.  which contains a lot of seed oils with omega-6 fatty acids. Don't deny yourself a huge serving of ice cream before bed and fall into a diabetic coma. Forgive yourself for a deep sleep. Step nine: Doctors are your best advisers. Understand that alternative medicine can be dangerous. Consult your doctor before taking anything natural. After all, he has the experience and education of a nutritionist. We conducted a study in 60% of cases. It works 100%. If you have any doubts, ask the doctor. Google is a completely independent and unbiased source of information. And if you can't figure out this topic, don't worry. He will help you understand what misinformation is. Step ten: Sleep is generally needed in the grave. OTOs sleep is overrated [music]. The right medicine. If you have a side effect from one medicine, we will give you another one. It's very simple. Don't worry. If the medicines were dangerous, would they even be sold in such quantities? In general, side effects must be chosen wisely. And finally, step twelve: stay.  The blind and deaf resist any changes. Don't seek knowledge about exercises and diets. And bad habits are a part of life. Continue to believe that your illness is hereditary and that nothing can be done about it.