Today we will discuss how to burn belly fat as quickly as possible. This video is for beginners. I will tell you the very basics of how to do this, but there are very important points that you need to know. There are 5 practical life tips that you will not find in books. I have compiled them based on my many years of experience working with many people. I will try to analyze them as simply as possible, since such an abundance of details on how to eat a diet is difficult for many and some simply give up. I will show five key points so that you can succeed from the very beginning and in the end, you do not end up like many others on a plateau when it seems that below a certain point you can no longer lose weight. It is important to learn from other people's mistakes so that you do not have to make them yourself. From this video, you should understand the most important thing. You will have other questions. The answers to them and other details can be found in my other videos. You can watch them later, but let's start with the most important tips. What is the goal of a ketogenic diet? The goal is to keep insulin as low as possible. That is the goal. With low insulin levels, fat is burned as much as possible. Ketosis is when ketones are produced, and ketones are a byproduct of fat burning. The more ketones are produced, the more fat you will burn and the faster your waist will slim down. At its highest, ketosis has the following macronutrient proportions: carbohydrates. Their level should be from 30 to 50 grams. Some say from 30 to 50 grams, but I would say try not to exceed 20 grams or less, especially if you want to speed up progress. Protein in protein foods should be from 80 to 170 grams per 1 meal. Well, it depends on your body's metabolism, age, and the number of meals. If you eat once a day, then of course you need more protein. If you are a bodybuilder and exercise a lot, you need a little more, but the average person needs to consume an amount of protein the size of their palm in one meal. That's it, in simple terms. As for fats, 75 percent of the colonies should come from fats. What does this mean? 75 percent of calories. How much is that in grams? In this video, I will not delve into the complexities of measurements and calculations.  grams of macronutrients when we get to the end you will understand how much fat you need the first point instead of counting grams of carbohydrates will be much easier to consume certain carbohydrates that you don't need to count I mean green leafy vegetables salad because they contain mainly fiber and the insulin response is almost 0 since fiber is the only carbohydrate that does not affect insulin and in the case of leafy lettuce you don't need to count carbohydrates and in fact you need to consume more salad you need to eat at least 7 cups of greens a day it's not difficult a little tip about salad to make it easier to eat we use a vegetable cutter and finely chop the salad we have a whole bowl of salad we chop it the volume becomes smaller and so it's easier to eat and instead of digging into a patch from carbohydrates just eat vegetables greens and don't bother counting carbohydrates you can add different products to the salad like fiat and feel free to fly olive oil you can with vinegar and make sure that in the salad dressing there is, I don't know, no more than one gram of carbohydrates now there is a huge selection on sale with practically no carbohydrate salad dressings, but there are also many other dressings that are high in sugar. This can become a hidden problem. Why do we need so many greens? Low carbs. The main principle of ketosis doesn't really care about the amount of carbohydrates inside. The type of ketosis I recommend is a healthy version of ketosis. We not only lower insulin, we increase nutrient levels to become healthier. Reducing carbohydrates is extremely beneficial, but it is also extremely beneficial to eat nutrient-rich foods. As for salad, it has a lot of potassium, a lot of magnesium, and a lot of vitamin C, as well as other vitamins, such as K1, folic acid, and a lot of phytonutrients. These are substances with a much broader spectrum of action than vitamins, minerals, and trace elements. Consuming such quantities of salad within the ketosis framework will provide the nutrients needed to prevent cramps during games, to prevent fatigue, or the flu, and this will help fight insulin resistance. That is, it will help lower insulin even more and even give you energy. And just for reference, I always recommend eating salad first. If you're sitting down first, you'll definitely  Don't go overboard with protein if you eat protein first and then salad, in my experience many people can't eat as much salad after protein. If you find it difficult to eat so many lettuce leaves, eat as much as you can and add a good electrolyte powder. I'm not pushing my own electrolyte powder, but I can say that these are the highest quality electrolytes on the market. So, the first principle is to eat salad at the beginning of a meal, then proteins. You need to know a couple of practical points about proteins. First of all, it's better to start with the amount of protein the size of your palm. If you are a large person or you are young, then more is better. If you are older and have a slow metabolism, eat a little less. If you eat too much protein, you may start to feel lethargic and it will also slow down ketosis. The same thing happens with a lack of protein, you may feel tired because the body needs a certain amount of protein. As for protein, the main thing is not to eat low-fat protein. Find protein. The fattiest fat usually goes with protein. If you eat steaks, and I eat them often, choose the fattiest one. If you eat fish, don't take fasting. You see, salmon or even sardines.  and there is a lot of fat in both and it is much better than fasting on protein and watch out for chicken, don't just eat the breast without the skin, eat those parts of the chicken that have skin and fat, why because consuming lean protein stimulates insulin a little more than if it were a fattier protein in general, whey protein stimulates insulin the most because it has practically no fat and I do not recommend such protein, the main thing is to try to eat those proteins that have more fat, pork has much more fat than other meat and watch out for steak, eat the fat that is in it, this was the second advice now the third advice about fat if you are new to those and are just starting out, it is very important to increase the amount of fat in each meal, for example, by eating more nuts, I like pecans, but you can eat other nuts too, you can eat macadamia nuts, olives, avocado, can you pour more olive oil into the salad, can you use m-city oil? The question is, if there is so much fat, will this slow down weight loss? The answer is yes, because the primary goal of the ketogenic diet is not to start losing weight right away, but in what and this is very important if you Now we're distracted, then come back and pay attention to the following, what I'll say is extremely important to also do intermittent fasting together with healthy ketosis. Why, if you notice the level of ketones in the blood, and the scale goes from 0 somewhere to 7 or a little higher, but there is a scale. If you're on the same page, yes, without intermittent fasting, most likely, ketones will not rise above one and two, but maybe in three, this is the ketone level. The higher it is, the deeper the ketosis and the better the fat burning, and the lower it is, the weaker the ketosis will be. If you want to raise the level of ketones to 4, 5, 6, you need to add intermittent fasting. Well, maybe physical exercise, but now we're not talking about them. We're talking about intermittent fasting. The combination of low carbs and intermittent fasting works very powerfully. If you need to quickly and effectively remove the belly, to make this easier, we don't need you to have an appetite and constant hunger. We don't need cravings for food. The first strategy is to add more fat to your food so that you can last longer without food so that you can start intermittent fasting. The first goal is not to eat breakfast in order to last as long as  You can go longer, the first time you eat at noon and the second time at 6 pm, and over time you will move these meals closer together. Some of you will be able to stop eating lunch altogether, leaving only dinner, that is, eating once a day, this is called omate. Having eaten all these fats, you will be perfectly satiated and in two or three days you will stop feeling hungry altogether, you will lose your appetite. Why is this because you will be able to fast longer and go deeper into ketosis, in other words, the body will begin to burn its own fat, which will be new for many people, but the next point is don't eat if you're not hungry. Many people fail here because they eat out of habit. Someone once said that you need to eat so many times a day. They limit carbohydrates but don't lose weight. They eat when they're not even hungry. A big mistake. If you're not hungry, don't eat. Why interrupt fat burning? Now you've finally reduced carbohydrates. The body has begun to use up its fat. It gets rid of fat in the liver and stomach. The appetite goes away, because you eat, even if you don't go. So you sat down to eat, and now after some time you  You'll get hungry because every time you eat, you jump out of ketosis, regardless of what you 've eaten, simply because eating activates insulin, and high insulin blocks the state of ketosis. That's why intermittent fasting is needed, and that's why this rule is so important. As soon as you begin to adapt and burn your own fat, your hunger will begin to go away. From that moment on, reduce fats in your food, remove oils, nuts, and other unwanted items. Why is this necessary? This is especially true for a slow metabolism. If the body has a choice between fat in food and its own fat, it will first use and burn fat obtained from food, and only then its own. We are just trying to get rid of our own fat, so you shouldn't rely on fat. When you're in the middle of the process, at the very beginning of the transition, you need more fat. At the very end of this cycle, when you've already reached your goal, you'll also need to increase fats, but not in the middle of the program, when you're burning fat, you've lost your appetite and cravings for food, and everything is going well. You don't need to add a lot of fat. You need to eat only the same fat that goes with protein. Low-fat foods are definitely not  They are necessary, but just don't add extra fats unless you have a fast metabolism. When you're on intermittent fasting and in ketosis, it's very important to get all the necessary nutrients to avoid a deficiency. Because you won't be eating three times a day plus snacks anymore. If you eat two or one time a day, it's a little harder to get all the nutrients. And the fact that you're in ketosis means you'll be using up nutrients. Otherwise, your need for some nutrients will be higher than before. You'll need more B vitamins and more electrolytes. Nutritional yeast is a good source of B vitamins. I don't insist that you consume my nutritional yeast. You can take any kind, as long as it's not fortified with synthetic vitamins. But B vitamins are very important. Electrolytes are very important. Sea salt is also very important. If you don't consume additional sea salt, you'll feel weak. Make a note and start adding sea salt to your diet. If you eat a lot of greens in your meals, your need for electrolytes won't be as high because you're already getting potassium, magnesium, and other minerals.  5 you need to make these changes a way of life so that they bring pleasure that your cognitive functions will improve, the amount of energy will increase, your mood will improve and your belly will decrease will make you happier and improve well-being, but many people do not have enough treats for pleasure. There are a couple of things that I add after meals, you might also want one of them is low-carb chocolate, you can eat chocolate of the Lilies brand, there are many other types of low-carb chocolate. I like to eat a little chocolate after the first meal, not a whole bar, you can eat half and it is quite pleasant. You can also not do it every time. You can prepare very cool keta desserts a couple of times a week and eat them after meals, they are very pleasant and very tasty. Below I will leave a link to their recipes so you will look forward to the healthy version of the dessert. If you follow all these 5 basic principles, you will notice significant results, but you will still have questions. I have a huge number of videos on the questions that arise, but I do not want you to get confused in a bunch of subtleties and get lost in the wilds. I want it all to remain simple and you can  I advise you to start without having to delve into such tomes. I advise you to start right now before the information flies out of your head. And if you have questions, just search. I already have a video on each question and a couple more points. If something gives a result, you don’t change anything. Many people get excellent results and then they change something. Why did they work anyway? Continue. On the other hand, if something doesn’t work, then you need to change something. On this issue, I have a lot of videos about the board. I’ll leave a couple of links, you can watch them when you need to. And the last and perhaps most important point is that the point is not that we lose weight to become healthy, but that we become healthy in order to lose weight, first we become healthy. About losing weight, it will work out. This is what we focus on. Healthy chum salmon. To become healthy and not go into the wilds. I suggest you take my basic course. It covers in detail intermittent fasting and healthy te. The link will be below. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salt. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly you need.  What can you do to fix this without harming your health? Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.