Let's discuss the amazing mental health benefits of pets The bond between people and animals is extremely strong Did you know that 96% of people consider their pets to be family members If you have a pet Write in the comments whether you consider it a family member While studying This I was shocked by the number of serious scientific papers on this topic Reducing stress Getting rid of anxiety Getting rid of depression Especially loneliness There are large studies on what happens to hormones Cortisol levels decrease Cortisol is a stress hormone Excess cortisol literally destroys body tissue Blood pressure decreases Levels of the hormone oxytocin increase It has many different functions It is associated with pregnancy It stimulates contractions It is associated with breastfeeding Oxytocin is also associated with a sense of well-being It counteracts stress and anxiety Endorphin levels also increase What are endorphins These are substances that can make discomfort minimal and pleasure maximal In fact, they can help cope with trauma and stress So stress resistance increases Unless in the morning you find this often happens in my house that your  The dog got into the trash and scattered it all over the kitchen. We had to build something so that Charlie couldn't get to the trash. He's a very smart dog and has a very interesting way of getting to all sorts of things. He opens doors and latches, and at times like these, he increases my cortisol levels, increases my blood pressure, and reduces my stress tolerance. But for the most part, he's great. Dopamine levels are finally rising. This is a hormone associated with the anticipation of a reward. It is associated with pleasure and reduces stress and anxiety. If you have a dog and you take it for walks, write in the comments whether your pet has improved your mental health. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and can also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will find a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give you a list of the best products for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.