 Enoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscoscosc Hello, everyone. Let's start with the question of Victorina. Zempik helps to break weight, reduce insulin resistance, and increase the insulin resistance and increase the pain. What a minus? If you have a minus, I can't find your opinion. The question is from the viewers. How to save the желчных камней without surgery? My mom is 64. We want to get rid of it without surgery. One of the natural ingredients is the salt of the желчные. I would take them after the meal. After the meal, I would take them to the cup. What a gold is? What a gold is from the very concentrated of the cholesterol? He is formed because of the notwithstanding of the cholesterol. If there is no blood, the cholesterol becomes into a thick acid, and then the more than a stone. Theееее that you are connected to us, Elaine. Ask one question Dr. Bjerg. Hello, Dr. Bjerg. I have a question about the reflux, especially for those who have been diagnosed with total gastroenterology. Four years ago, because of the rake of the stomach, I completely removed the stomach, and since I have a reflux. The medical medicine has not helped. I have a change in the life of life, but the symptoms still happen. But the most important problem with the quality of life is the night pain in the structure, which is a lot of stress. So, can you say something that could help me and other people like me? Yes. Yes, there are two things. And I understand, what is it? Because of this anatomical change, the skin leaves you with the back problem of bile. And here, what is happening? When the blood comes in the stomach or even in the stomach, it can cause a lot of stress. But two things. Number one. There are different clappals. You have a small clappals in the small clappals, in the small clappals, and other clappals in the stomach, and also the other clappals in the stomach. And with the blood pressure, and the blood pressure, and on your place, I would take more B1, natural vitamin B1. Like, probably 40 or 80 mg of vitamin B1, not RSN 1,2. It does not help. B1 is a good control of the body. B1 is a good control of the body. B1 is a good control of the body. I think you have a problem with the clappals. Now, you need to improve control of the body of B1 with B1. B1 is a good control of the body. It is a magni. B1 is a good control of the body. B1 is a good control of the body. B2 is a good control of the body. And I have to do it in my videos. It's a powerful method. B1, once I used to do it all the time. You have to have a procedure in the body of the body. There could be a bone of the body, there could be a trauma, some trauma, some kind of a spasm. So, in my videos, I show you how to do it a soft massage massage with the body under the body of the body, under the body of the body, and find small areas where there is a pressure and сним them. Because that may bring a huge ease of relief. Especially if there was a operation where you are in this area. But you have to do it with both sides and watch my videos about it. I think it will probably reduce discomfort, especially at the night. Thank you, Elaine, for a great call. Great, that you are worried about how to help others. Great, that you are worried about others. Guys, right now, subscribe to the channel and press the bell to turn on the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't choose all notifications, the platform will not forget about new videos. This simple action will help you to continue to develop the channel. And we continue. Let's go. Ryan from YouTube. How do you help my child 11 years old, who is suffering with hypothyroidism? Well, that's the same. Let's first find out what he is. Is he many carbohydrates? Is he enough carbohydrates and nutrients from the food? Is he enough carbohydrates? Is he enough carbohydrates? Is he enough sunlight? Is he enough sun? He has enough carbohydrates to prevent the immune system? He has enough carbohydrates to prevent the immune system. He is a good source. He is a good source. I would like to know that. Maybe you will find one of four doctors in the USA, who practice the protocol Coimbra, high dose of vitamin D3. And that's the same. He has enough carbohydrates to prevent the immune system. But in short, that's what I recommend. Very good. Now, the answer is on the question of Victorine. Azempic helps to break weight, reduce insulin resistance, cholesterol and increase the immune system. And what a minus? It's too good to be true. The viewers also think that they are. 58% of the answer is that the minuses of Azempic are related to such effects, as problems with JKT. 32% said that if they stop taking him, his weight will be very bad. And 10% said that he can be able to to be able to lose weight. So, very good answers. I think that all are right. I think that it was better to explain people all this, before we move forward, than pushing advantage of reducing weight withoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopyoscopy In 2003 kg, it's not only a신. 40% of these kg is Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak Nak mass of the muscle will return back. Now, muscle is a metabolic machine, so now you have a problem. Now, you are left of a machine for siphoning jira, and now they are trying to take a Zempik to the end of life. Well, there are a lot of effects of the body, which are on the щitovid, on the зрение, on the digestive system. It's a lie. So I will upload a video to help people, as you can see, as you can see, I will be quiet there. I will upload a video about natural resources, which help people not to be able to do their temptation and not to be able to do it easy. There are many such tools. You can achieve the same effects of the result of the result of the Zempik, because it is a lot of influence on biohemic processes. You are aware that you have all in order with the gel. If there are a stone, do you need to remove it? If you remove the stone, how do you remove the stone? How do you remove the stone? How do you remove the stone? How do you deal with the pain? How do you deal with the pain and the pain? I will tell you in my course about the gel. You can see the link below. See you! See you!