Today we'll talk about how to slow down aging. If you want to look younger, live longer and be less sick, this video is for you. Yes, you can't tell that I'm 75 years old, probably because I'm not 75 but 59. But what I'm going to show you is based on research on the topic of longevity. I don't know if you've heard of mitochondria. But these are the body's power plants. You will be healthy and will live a long time as long as your mitochondria are working and in good condition. But if you don't go too deep into biochemistry. If you took biology classes at school, you may have heard of the Krebs cycle. The Krebs cycle is a kind of circular process. Something like an assembly line. This conveyor has different steps and different chemical compounds are involved. The food entering the Krebs cycle is converted into energy at the exit. When I studied the Krebs cycle, there were definitely not enough factors to move from one step of the Krebs cycle to the next, and so on. Nutrients are needed. If there is a nutrient deficiency, everything begins to accumulate and a blockage occurs, due to which the body cannot produce energy. If  By understanding how nutrients are related to the Krebs cycle, you can see that we need nutrients to convert glucose or fat into energy. I mention this to bring the conversation to one enzyme called ADN. ADN is involved in extracting energy from food. ADN is a very important coenzyme that helps you live longer. The energy it produces is called ATP. It also prevents muscle loss, especially in cancer. It also helps protect the body from radiation. Here's what else you need to know: with age, the amount of ADN decreases. Scientists have discovered that a certain compound eats ADN. It's called KD 38. Studies have shown that if mice are born without KD 38, they live a long life. They rarely get sick. There are five compounds that can be obtained from food that can increase ADN so you live longer. Let's start with the first one, it's called adenine. Of all the plants I could find, parsley has the most adenine. Next on the list is thyme. Then oregano. Basil and celery are herbs and spices that can be regularly added to food. The second one is anthocyanin. It can be obtained from this. Blueberries are all blue.  Purple and even red have a high content of this plant compound. Elderberry is also useful for immunity. Then there are Concord grapes, also anthocyanin is found in purple potatoes. The third compound is curcumin. It is not hard to guess that it is in turmeric. The next phytonutrient is quercetin. The most quercetin is found in onions. Most quercetin is found in the outer layers of the onion. So, when you peel onions, do not peel too much. It is also found in apple peels. Apples have a lot of sugar, so you can only eat the peel to get quercetin. The last nutrient on the list is methylene blue. This is not a plant-based but a synthetic dye. This is the first artificial drug in history. It has many uses. Where is it used throughout the world? It slows down the blood pressure well. 38. What increases the amount of ND and prolongs life? If you haven't watched the video about methylene blue, which can tie these topics together, watch it here.