Let's discuss an interesting topic. One study showed that you can reduce liver fat by almost 50 percent in just two weeks. I'm not kidding, this is not a joke, this is reliable. The study during a two-week experiment, people followed a strict low-carb diet, that is, they consumed less than 30 grams of carbohydrates per day. The results showed a decrease in liver fat by 40. 3.8 percent, not quite 50, but close. Participants in the study were obese and had alcoholic fatty liver disease. Here are a few more interesting points. First, their overall weight remained almost unchanged. On average, the weight loss was only 1.8 percent, quite insignificant. Their waist circumference did not change at all. This is useful to know. Let's say you started a separate diet and almost did not lose weight in the first week. Italy did not change. You may want to quit. Obviously, the body gets rid of fat in the liver and other organs first and then takes on the rest. The loss of fat in the liver occurred due to a decrease in this or that genesis. This means that the conversion of carbohydrates to fat is significantly reduced by about  70 9 and 8 tenths percent, meaning carbohydrates are no longer converted to fat. There is also a fivefold increase in overall fat burning, called fatty acid oxidation. That is, the effect of oxidation or burning of fat in the liver is five times more active. It's simply incredible. There are a few more interesting points. Firstly, the participants did not reduce their calorie intake. The average number of kilocalories per day exceeded 3 thousand, so it was not a low-calorie diet at all. Also, much lower markers of liver damage were observed. Fasting insulin levels decreased, as did the homo I.R. index.  That is, a decrease in insulin resistance, increased insulin sensitivity, decreased inflammation in the liver, and also a sharp increase in the number of bacteria producing folic acid and the volume of lab fat in the blood. Obviously, on a ketogenic diet, bacteria produce more folic acid, but what kind of acid is it, how does it affect the liver? It improves fat metabolism and reduces inflammation in the liver. It was also found that ninety-four strains of bacteria changed after switching to a low-carb diet. Moreover, significant changes occurred in just one day. If you are new to my channel or not new to watch my videos but haven't started the whale gene diet yet, I think this is a good enough reason to start immediately. I will leave a link with a description of a specific ketogenic diet. Start right now, don't wait. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.