Hello everyone, let's start with a quiz. Dr. Berg, why is the H1 glycated hemoglobin level the average blood sugar level for 3 months? Why does the A1c level sometimes increase when a person switches to a carnivore or teto diet? An interesting question, and now let's return to social networks. Our friend Prim writes. Acutely undermined. The health of my intestines is zero. With any intestinal damage, glutamine and zinc carnosine are needed. This should help. I think it will be useful for you to switch to a carnivore diet for a couple of months to remove the cause of the damage and begin to heal the intestines. I have an excellent video, I think it's called "The Microbe That Saves from Depression." It's about how to return some bacteria to the intestines. Watch it. This is a great way to heal the intestines. Many people use this method, and I use it myself. You can grow your own probiotic. A robot with Face asks curiously. Can you compare sauerkraut with other fermented foods in terms of benefits for the liver or possible disadvantages? Sauerkraut is just cabbage.  Cabbage and also some other vegetables, it seems. So, kimchi has a slightly greater variety of phenols and other nutrients and microorganisms, but cabbage itself, if you ferment it correctly, do it yourself, it's just put everything in it, it's the best product, and cabbage is unique in that it contains vitamin Um, and you haven't heard of it, it's called that because it's an excellent remedy for ulcers, this is the compound that I talked about in my videos. Cabbage is one of the easiest foods to digest for gastritis and digestive problems. But even the microorganisms in cabbage do not necessarily populate the intestines when you eat it; they don't always remain in the intestines. However, something in its juice or something else in all this. Or even these microorganisms themselves stimulate the growth of other microorganisms in the intestines, contributing to an increase in their diversity. Moreover, there are dormant beneficial bacteria in the intestines that awaken when the pH becomes more acidic. I think you need to lower the pH to awaken them, and so thanks to sauerkraut  the intestines will be very healthy I hope I answered this question I think it was answered And now let's talk to someone in person Jordan from Oklahoma called us Jordan As you know we like brevity You are very welcome Thank you Dr. Ber So my mother grandmother and great grandmother had genetic prion disease and therefore I am potentially at risk I have not been tested yet But my question is this I watched your video about Alzheimer's disease Parkinson's and so on It's all about improperly folded proteins I'm interested in what you think about a diet for those who are at risk have you had DNA testing you yourself haven't yet I'm 23 if I decide to have children I will definitely get tested I will never risk it so as not to pass it on I realized there is an excellent DNA test you can probably take it remotely It allows you to sort of evaluate your DNA based on the DNA of your parents there are a couple of genes that are associated with a predisposition to Alzheimer's disease dementia and so on but this does not mean anything it's just your weak spot and The question is what can be done in terms of epigenetics of the image  life so that this gene does not go wild and here you can do a lot, the most important thing is to avoid alcohol Yes, alcohol is a powerful factor that pushes you towards the abyss of Alzheimer's disease yes, you have misfolded proteins But you need to know something else about Alzheimer's disease so that I apologize for interrupting this is a prion disease it is inherited not Alzheimer's disease They are similar in terms of misfolded proteins and so on And I understand well So here's what I would do you need to get more data But of course I would avoid refined sugars I would exercise a lot regularly don't wait 40 years like me start right now Besides I wouldn't I haven't studied this but I think that there are certain cofactors that are involved in this genetic pathway I would look for data on this I haven't studied this but I data to find out what cofactors and nutrients are involved in the expression of this gene that is turn it on or off I would consider vitamin D zinc magnesium their role in this and you can take more of them to protect yourself because that's what I think  Genetics are very important from a preventative point of view, but in fact, this does not mean that much can be done to avoid it. I know that I have very high levels of inflammatory genes, that is, it sounds terrible, yes, but this also means that my immune system is a little more active, it is vigilant, so I cope with them better than those who do not have these genes, but I have an increased tendency to immune diseases and chronic inflammation. But only if I eat poorly, do not exercise and all that, but there is a plus: if there are more inflammatory genes, then the risk of cancer is lower. In my family, there are few cases of cancer, but we have more other problems. So, I would collect more data on your genes to understand how to overcome this. That's all I can say. Sorry, no problem, great. Thank you for the call. Red bell. Thank you for your brevity. It is very wise that you started thinking about this in advance and now we will find out the answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this: Why does the A1c level sometimes increase when a person switches to a carnivore or keto diet? I can't wait to know the answer. 90%  They answered that it's because of the gluconeogenesis gene, 10%, they said it's because the liver secretes more sugar or glycogen, that's true, Doc, no, Steve, that's not true. That's what's going on here. A1c shows it, as if it shows what percentage of sugar has, so to speak, attached or stuck to hemoglobin in the blood. Of course, the more sugar in the blood, the higher the A1c level, the higher the risk of diabetes and all that, but when someone excludes sugar and other carbohydrates on a carnivore or keto diet, and odi, in theory, should decrease, why does it sometimes increase? And the reason is in something else. Here's another point that was kind of missed. When your health improves, your metabolism also leads to the fact that your red blood cells live longer, and now red blood cells die not every 120 days, but perhaps every 130 or 140 days, so the A1c value changes and seems bad, although in fact it's not that simple, your red blood cells live longer. Think about what amazing things our body does with red blood cells in the spleen every second. 250 million red blood cells are processed, they release their iron, are processed, and sent to the bone marrow. Every second, 250 no 2.5 million new red blood cells are created. Every second, it's a whole machine and it's constantly working. So, the entire A1 system is based on the TER model for a certain group of people, but the model has changed, because a new factor has been added: improved health due to the reduction of carbohydrates. And it must be taken into account that red blood cells now live longer. This is not necessarily bad, because to assess health, you need to take into account all factors and not just one analysis. An excellent question from YouTube: If strict diets slow down metabolism, why does golo speed it up? Strict diets do not slow down metabolism, they help normalize it. Here's an example: if someone is constantly on different diets and now it's difficult for him to lose weight, you say his metabolism is slow. No, he has become more economical, he is economical. A small reserve of fat lasts much longer, which means it is more difficult to lose fat, because fuel efficiency is higher. You think: Wow, this is bad. How can I speed up my metabolism with intermittent fasting? It normalizes it. If my metabolism has become more economical, it is possible to make it less economical. We need to create an engine that wastes more energy. To lose weight, you need to expend energy. How can you do this? Well, you can use a lot of different methods. You can start a keto diet, and then ketones will literally disappear with urine and breath. Ketones are essentially small packets of fat, and on a ketogenic diet, on a low-carb diet, we are at least at the beginning at the adaptation stage. And what's interesting is that during hardening, the body releases a huge amount of heat so that the internal temperature is 37 degrees. How does it do this? In ice water, it expends a huge amount of precious energy from the mitochondria to create heat instead of ATP. That is, this fat is in the form of energy so that the body remains warm. So, hardening is an excellent complement to the weight loss program. I think I have listed many ways to solve this problem. One of them is intermittent fasting, at least. Everyone should eat no more than twice a day, so I think eating twice a day is very wise. But what time to do it is up to you to decide.