Today I will tell you what is behind bloating and how to get rid of it forever. You chew food. It goes down the esophagus and enters the stomach, where there is a lot of acid. The acid in the stomach is necessary for the breakdown of proteins and also for the destruction of microbes that lived in the food. The mixture from the stomach goes further into the small intestine, where 90% of the food is digested. Various things help you with this. The gallbladder secretes a liquid called bile and it begins to break down fats, but you also have secondary bile salts, which are produced by bacteria. On the left, you have the pancreas, it produces enzymes for the effective breakdown of carbohydrates and proteins. In addition, certain microorganisms in the small and large intestines also produce enzymes. I want to draw attention to this because they produce a fifth of the enzymes. Moreover, they produce beneficial acids, for example, lactic acid. Lactic acid helps the microorganisms themselves, because many beneficial bacteria thrive in an acidic environment. But how is all this connected with bloating? Bloating essentially occurs due to some kind of digestive problem. Two people eat the same thing and  the same thing happens to one person, but not to another. Why is there one significant difference between them? This is the type, quantity, and diversity of bacteria in the intestines, and in many ways, the density and health of bacteria in the intestines is related to whether a person has taken antibiotics in the past, as well as how much he took. The biggest lie about antibiotics is that they reduce the number of bacteria. But after a few weeks, everything returns to normal. This is a complete lie. If you take an antibiotic, then unfortunately, the initial diversity and volume of your microflora will never be restored. Now, I'll tell you a little more detail. I want to show you something. This is a table that lists different bacteria. You don't need to remember these names. These are bacteria that usually live in the intestines. The Latin l means lactobacilli, and the Latin b means bifidobacteria. About bacteria, after taking a broad-spectrum antibiotic, see how many percent die. 50, 75, 70, 90, but 99% of these die after taking an antibiotic. If you don't have certain bacteria, you won't have certain enzymes that they produce. Look at this list of bacteria and see how many of them  They affect the production of bile, which is needed to break down fats. And the last column shows which bacteria help reduce the risk of developing bacterial overgrowth syndrome. A lack of these bacteria leads not only to bloating but also to flatulence, belching, constipation, and other problems. There are other things that act like antibiotics. And unfortunately, they can also cause bloating. Take, for example, glyphosate, which is used to kill weeds. The company MON patented glyphosate as an antibiotic because it kills bacteria, and how should it affect microflora? Constantly getting into our body, moreover, three times more glyphosate is used to dry even non-GMO products. So you bought something GMO-free and think it's a good product, but it turns out it contains an antibiotic. There are other things with an antibiotic effect: birth control pills, steroids like prednisone, antidepressants, STIs, acid reflux medications, artificial sweeteners, chlorine in tap water, and even statins. An important point about antibiotics: if you still need to take them, I  I strongly recommend always taking them along with probiotics both during and after taking antibiotics, because you need to restore the lost bacteria. You don't need to restore the bad bacteria, only the good ones. And a couple more things. We are usually told that antibiotics must be taken for the full course of 7 days, 2 weeks, 10 days, and so on, but there is new data about this. It turns out this is not so. Talk to your doctor, but there is a new study according to which you can take them until you get better, say, 3 days, and then stop. Sometimes they scare you that you have to drink everything to the end, this only increases resistance to antibiotics. In general, this is false information. We take antibiotics longer than necessary. 80% of all antibiotics go to meat farming. So we get a lot of them. Antibiotics also affect kidney stones made of calcium oxalate. There are also probiotics called oklo bacteria. These bacteria eat oxalates. I bought some online in Europe. These are probiotics. When we take antibiotics, they kill bacteria. For example, these oxalates increase and they harm our body. Many people are more  They cannot digest food simply because they lack the necessary bacteria and the solution to the bloating problem is good high-quality probiotics to restore what people lost when they took antibiotics. It is also very important to regularly consume fermented dairy products such as kefir and high-quality yogurt, as well as vegetables, sauerkraut, kimchi, pickles, and so on. This will improve digestion and also do something else. Most bacteria in the body are inactive, they are simply sleeping, and one way to awaken them is to bring the pH into the desired range, make their environment more acidic, this will revive these bacteria and they will begin to work. Therefore, when you drink something sour, kombucha or apple cider vinegar, you will have a lot of dormant microorganisms. And they begin to help you produce the bile you need, as well as enzymes for the breakdown of carbohydrates, fiber, and even fats. This significantly reduces the load on the pancreas, gallbladder, stomach, and small intestine. When these bacteria are not present, other organs have to compensate for this, they get tired and produce fewer enzymes, which creates a lot.  problems and a solution to return the necessary bacteria to the intestines, I will leave information below about one of the most useful. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, should it be removed? And if the gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly to avoid complications? How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea. I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.