The question is: how to lose weight without changing your diet at all?  Let's start with training.   Jumping rope .  Without moving, you burn 50 calories, and when jumping rope, 560 calories per hour.  There are 7,700 calories in a kilogram of fat.  You need to jump rope for almost 6 hours to burn half a kilo of fat.  How else can you burn half a kilo of fat?  Brisk walking for an hour burns 340 calories.  You will have to walk like this for 11 hours.  What about laughter?  10 minutes of laughter burns an additional 40 calories.  And to burn half a kilo of fat, you need to laugh for 16 hours.  The next option is fidgeting.  You can burn 50 calories an hour just by fidgeting and fidgeting .  This way you will burn half a kilo of fat in 77 hours.  Let's move on to the ice bath. Staying in it for 15 minutes can burn 250 calories.  If you do 15 of these sessions in water at 7 to 10°C , say, every day for 15 days in a row, you could probably lose half a kilo of fat.  Fat is burned because the body needs to maintain a normal temperature.  It will do everything it can to keep warm, generating a lot of heat.  That's why ice baths burn calories.  You may also hear that breathing techniques also allow you to burn more calories.  However, to burn half a kilo of fat, you would have to breathe deeply for 320 hours.  Let's move on.  Sex, yes, it allows you to burn calories.  You can burn 4 calories per minute, and in an hour of sex you will burn an additional 200 kilocalories.  And to burn half a kilo of fat, you would have to have sex for 16 hours non-stop .  This way you will burn half a kilo of fat.  You can also donate blood.  After this, the body needs to restore the blood loss.  It needs energy to produce blood, about 350 kcal.   By donating blood 15 times, you will lose half a kilo of fat.  You probably already realized that even half a kilo of fat is quite difficult to lose. if you don't change your diet.  If you also eat things you shouldn’t eat, Big Macs, French fries, and drink cola. Calculate how many more calories you'll have to burn on top of that.  It will be extremely difficult for you to lose even minimal weight.  Pizza slices 285 calories. You can burn them off by running 5 km.  In Bigmat 550 is an hour's ride on a bicycle.  In this case, you will not lose weight, but only maintain everything as is.  A glass of cola contains 270 calories.  45 minutes of Zumba dancing just to avoid gaining weight. Unfortunately, only 15%.  This is the contribution of all the listed actions to weight loss.  And 85% is provided by diet.  You will have to change your diet.  There are simply no other ways .  You can't get by with just training and a bad diet.  I love working out myself and recommend it, but not as a means of losing weight.  Exercise improves physical fitness and muscle tone .  They are very beneficial for health, but they do not necessarily lead to weight loss.  Sometimes I see people who exercise hard, trying to get rid of belly fat or lose weight.  I can hardly resist the urge to approach them and give them advice.  But since you're watching this video, I'll give it to you. If you want to lose fat, not just water weight, you need to hit the key. insulin levels should be low.  The plus is that your appetite and food cravings will decrease.  This will make it easy for you to stick to the desired regime. Otherwise, you will struggle with yourself, trying to lose weight, while languishing from hunger.  Constant cravings for food will make life unbearable.  To lower insulin, switch to a low-carb diet.  The main thing to do is to reduce carbohydrates in your diet, and not just sugar.  Read the ingredients on the packaging and make sure you consume no more than 20-30 g per day.  It is very important to understand that we are not talking just about sugar, but about all carbohydrates.  It's not just sugar, but also starches and hidden sugars that also interfere with weight loss.  These include bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, baked goods, and ingredients such as maltodextrin and wheat flour.  Some people exclude carbohydrates completely.  They eat only meat, eggs, fish, cheese.  It's called the Corner Diet.  Nothing plant-based, it's simple and helps you lose weight quickly, as carbohydrates are reduced to zero.  To this we can add another powerful action. To maximize fat burning, try intermittent fasting.  Once you cut out carbohydrates, it will be easier for you to do this because your appetite will decrease.  And if you only eat when you're hungry, you'll be able to go longer without eating because your appetite will be smaller.  One meal a day may be enough for you, or you may eat two meals a day and not feel hungry at all the next day .  This way you can go without food for a couple of days.  Intermittent or prolonged fasting does not mean starving yourself.  You're just living off your own fat.  This way you burn fat and also improve your health.  Inflammation decreases, blood pressure drops, diabetes generally normalizes, depression goes away, and you feel better.  And instead of being tired, you are full of energy.  You need to understand that carbohydrates block fat burning, they block weight loss.  If you want to lose weight, exercise and other activities are just a small piece of the puzzle.  So, is it possible to lose weight without changing anything in your diet?  Answer: Yes, you can, but just a little bit .  Sugar steals your energy and health.  It's time to break free.  8 weeks.  100% support, and you won't recognize yourself in the mirror.  Join Dr. Berg's Sugar-Free program.