There are many factors that either improve health or lead to illness, and many of our actions lead to either health or illness. But today we will discuss something else, something that a person does not do and this contributes to the development of disease, this is called an omission, and such omissions are very difficult to see. An omission could be the absence of something in your diet or your environment. You do not see it, because it is something invisible. So today I will talk about how a lack of physical activity, lack of movement can affect genes, and this influence is significant. It's simply amazing. I talk a lot about food nutrients and so on. But it seems I do not have a single video on this topic and the effect of physical inactivity on health, and this is very interesting, but first, write in the comments. What is your weekly volume of opinions or other physical activity? Let's first look at the definition of the word sedentary. It means that a person usually sits for a long time. And the word sedentary is formed from the word to sit. With a sedentary lifestyle, a person sits a lot in front of the TV, at the computer, and so on. The problem is this. Our bodies were designed to survive with a lot of movement. If we really evaluate the state of genes in the body, we will see that lack of activity creates a lot of problems, both in terms of  activation of genes that promote the development of diseases and in terms of suppression of genes that promote health, since our genes were formed a very long time ago, the presence of movement, a sedentary lifestyle creates many problems for our bodies, simply from a lack of movement, in fact, 31 percent of people over the age of 15 suffer from a lack of physical activity, let's discuss how this affects our health. In the study, which I will briefly outline, they compare people who devote less than two and a half hours of physical activity per week with those who devote more than two and a half hours of physical activity, the risk of breast cancer is 25 percent higher, mortality is 41 percent higher, this is the risk of death simply due to physical inactivity, it's incredible, heart and vascular disease is 43 percent higher, the risk of diabetes is 85 percent higher, mortality from cardiovascular disease is 92 percent higher, the risk of gallstones is 49 percent higher, colon cancer is 85 percent higher, stroke is 117 percent higher, simply because of physical inactivity, it's crazy. You know, there is an idea that rest and free time contributes to our survival, lazing on the beach can help a little because it reduces stress, but this should not last long, you need to stay in motion  to reduce stress I have a lot of personal experience here If I don't force my body to move God, I start to get various inflammations, all the injuries from past years, arthritis start to bother me, I'm a perfect example of this because I need to exercise, otherwise things are going well for me. Losers, in fact, my body, my genes are designed to do a lot of physical work outdoors, for example, chopping wood or felling trees, as I found out when I do this, my body is much better. I sleep like a baby, I have no stress and I feel physically great. And when I do nothing, everything is the opposite. I think that from the time I was 30 until I was in my 40s, I think I hardly exercised at all, and it was during this period that I had the most problems. In fact, I think that only when I was over 40 did I really start exercising seriously every day, but now we know. Why exercise is important because it activates certain genes that improve health, survival, generations themselves improve cognitive function, and a sedentary lifestyle worsens cognitive function and mood in general, and it greatly worsens cholesterol levels. It has been established that in sedentary people, the lipid profile is much  The sympathetic nervous system is more activated than sedentary people, more in the fight or flight mode, which means more stress and less good sleep. The ability of active people is higher blood sugar levels, higher insulin levels, insulin resistance, so training itself greatly helps to lower blood sugar and also get rid of insulin resistance. So, training is needed not only for weight loss, you need to train because it brings huge health benefits. Another important reason why I train is that it reduces inflammation, so here a little explanation is needed. After all, if you train, inflammation in the body will be all the time. A study of my DNA profile showed that my biggest weakness is inflammation, especially if I train excessively. This explains a lot. In my early years, I wrestled in high school and college, and at the beginning of the season, I was very strong. But training was every day for two hours. I also trained at home, that is, twice a day, so I trained excessively. And my genes are not designed for excessive training. There are lucky athletes, thanks to their genes, they recover very quickly. A study of the best short- distance runners showed that their genes endowed them with great strength, incredible their ability to restore collagen is restored very quickly, they have less risk of injury. Unfortunately, I do not have such genes. I would like to have them and most people do too. You need to ensure that you do not overtrain, but at the same time, for your survival and health, you need regular training and you can very quickly find out what exercises you need. Do different types of exercises and see how your body reacts. Some people do much better from intense strength training, possibly short ones. I am one of them, and someone may do much better from endurance training. My body is not suited for marathons and any endurance training, so I do short, high-intensity exercises with plenty of rest and sleep. So, here are three very simple recommendations. Number one: regular training of the type that is right for you. And it does not have to be training, but any physical activity. This could be work. It is better outdoors, but indoors is also possible. Any increase in movement has a therapeutic effect. Physical work is also good because you are doing something useful and not just walking on a treadmill. Make sure you sleep well. If you have problems with sleep, watch the video. Follow the links below and number three.  This is a very big problem for many, it is related to training, inflammation should always be low, and to do this, do not allow excessive training. Eat foods that reduce inflammation. I want to touch on one more small point. There are many studies on this and people say that red meat causes inflammation, causes cancer, causes that, yes, everything, but they do not see the difference between completely grass-fed meat and grain-fed meat that is usually sold in stores. Such animals are fed grain, which has a lot of omega-6. Which increases inflammation, while animals get omega-3 fatty acids from grass. The difference is huge, so completely grass-fed animal products reduce inflammation. With fish, there is farmed fish, and there is commercial fish. Salmon and all seafood contain a lot of omega-3. Omega-3 fatty acids are extremely good at protecting against inflammatory genes and against excessive stress during training. Vitamin D is another extremely important nutrient that reduces inflammation. It is the most important fat-soluble vitamin. Vitamin D must be taken. Especially in winter and even in the summer months, more and more people are learning that because of  There are flaws in the genes, they cannot absorb or activate vitamin D. And this explains a lot. This explains the weakness of the immune system, explains various pains, because vitamin D is closely related to many biochemical reactions. So, vitamin D is at the very top of the list of important nutrients. Fasting, like exercise, affects our genes. This is called epigenetics. A lot of snacking is bad. You need intermittent fasting. Along with exercise, you need to focus on these two points to the same extent as on what you eat. Since we have noted the importance of vitamin D for immunity, I recommend that you pay attention. I invite you to this course. Vitamin D is a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. On the course, you will learn how, with vitamin D, to get rid of these diseases and symptoms, strengthen your health and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the Keto Summit 2019. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I am waiting for you on the course.