Hello everyone, let's start with our wonderful quiz. I ask you, doc. Why do yeast or candida infections occur after taking antibiotics? Dear viewers, you can answer Ardash from the tube. I am 30 years old and I have peripheral neuropathy. The study showed that my vessels are like someone who is 56. How can I slow down or reverse the aging of my vessels? This is generally a cart. I clarify that my vessels are like those of A-50-year-old. And you are 94. Not bad, I'm kidding, but I would do this. There is clearly some kind of chronic inflammation of the vessels. Of course, you need to change your diet. I'm sure there are too many carbohydrates in it, which will cut down on the surface of the vessels. For example, tocotrienol is the number one remedy. Vitamin D is very important. Magnesium is very important. It softens the vessels. However, I don't know about your bad habits. What about smoking and alcohol? Because of all this, the vessels also remain very inflamed. I think you can significantly improve the condition of the vessels, but there is a point of no return when their condition can no longer be corrected, but you can at least reduce the complications.  and the reason for this could also be high sugar levels, because calcium is deposited in damaged vessels, you should get tested for the coronary calcium index, ideally it should be zero, in yours it is probably high, you need to monitor this indicator over time and hopefully. But even if it does not decrease, it needs to stabilize, you need to stabilize all this so that there are no problems in the future, I think this is just a wake-up call for you that it is time to change something radically. And I hope I at least nudged you, that is what Maria from Facebook says. What will help get rid of restless legs syndrome? They say magnesium is an unpleasant thing and it is better to take them before bed. I would take 400 milligrams of magnesium glycine magnesium before bed, this is about five capsules, but take it anyway. And if you also change your diet, you will not have excess lactic acid and you will fall asleep perfectly, your legs will be completely relaxed thanks to magnesium and B1. After all, they will improve the supply of oxygen to the legs and the pH will not be so acidic due to lactic acid, because you have been thinning for what seems to be six months to a year and It helped me fall asleep. Only I woke up sluggish, my mind clouded with liquid and water. But in general, it was a wonderful momentary pleasure until I paid for it. Yes, this is definitely okay for you. Nali from YouTube has an unusual question. Will the health of my nails improve if I apply lemon juice to them? I don’t know if this will significantly affect my health. I think there are many other ways. You can drink lemon juice. It will be beneficial. What problem do you want to solve? Do you have a nail fungus or something else? There are many more effective remedies. You can watch my videos about them. Well, I hope you can handle it. Let’s find out the answer to the quiz question that was asked. So why do yeast or candida infections occur after taking antibiotics? 100% of viewers said that antibiotics harm the intestinal microflora, which can contribute to the growth of candida and other infections. They listened to you carefully. Steve, this situation is very, very similar to prison. Candida is prisoners and there are prison ones, what are they called? These are bacteria and they don’t let prisoners run wild.  And when you get rid of bacteria, antibiotics only kill bacteria, not yeast. Fungi or Candida begin to overgrow Candida and yeast and they move up into the small intestine. This is almost the same as opening the border of a country and letting in everyone who wants to come, and this is a problem. Steve. Yes, and we've seen this somewhere before. Angela Tey from Yuba asks. What vitamins or exercises do you recommend for the treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome? B6 is an important nutrient for tunnel syndrome. There is an excellent acupressure technique. It works great. Watch my video about this syndrome. It works. I used it in groups with someone from the gym and it works in a large number of cases. So, for carpal tunnel syndrome, you need B6. But of course, there are other reasons. Is your wrist overloaded in some way? Maybe you play golf or do something else. This can also be a problem. If you play a sport where one hand works, tennis, golf, this can seriously damage the elbow, shoulder, knee, and so on. You need to practice the movement in the opposite direction. I would like  I knew this before, but alas, someone with Nick Tina from Rambla asks if blood tests for B vitamins are accurate. Is it worth doing? There is a test for B vitamins, it seems, based on leukocytes, but a regular blood test is not the best way to determine the level of some nutrients. Perhaps we should make a video about this. The fact is that blood does not give us good information about what is happening deep in the body. Why? Because blood has one goal: to maintain a constant normal level of everything, so it takes from one and gives to another. It takes calcium from the bones, and here you have osteoporosis. So, blood is not the best source of information. There is metabolomics, and