Let's discuss the beneficial properties of ginkgo, also known as ginkgo biloba. Ginkgo is a tree. The leaves of this tree are commonly used in dietary supplements containing ginkgo biloba. Fossils of this tree have been found that are 270 million years old, so the tree has been around for a very long time. It grows in China, Japan, and Korea. Ginkgo biloba has a good effect on memory, blood circulation, helps with bronchitis, arthritis, and is an antimicrobial agent. It helps with anxiety, increases libido, and reduces inflammation. This is a ringing in the ears and can even improve vision, but the results of studies on this remedy are mixed. However, in fact, this is due to other factors. For example, if a person eats all sorts of junk, this remedy will not help him. But if the diet is healthy, it can help. So, the main thing in Ginkgo biloba, in addition to antioxidants and nutrients, is its ability to increase nitric oxide levels. By the way, don't forget about the nitrogen used by dentists, laughing gas, which I advise you to stay away from. But nitric oxide is a vasodilator, another name for it is endothelial  The relaxing factor, in fact, nitric oxide relaxes the smooth muscles of the blood vessels, resulting in more blood flow, more oxygen being delivered to different areas of the body, to the brain. What improves memory in the shins? What improves blood circulation in them? There is so-called intermittent claudication, in which case the legs begin to hurt a lot under load during training. Nitric oxide helps with this. By the way, nitric oxide comes from nitrates. And vegetables actually contain nitrates, so when you eat vegetables, nitric oxide increases. This is very useful for people with hypertension and those who need more oxygen. So, this was a brief overview of the beneficial properties of ginkgo. Do you know what superfoods are? These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short, succinct videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, increase immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to  eat healthy L