In this video I will give some tips on how to deal with sagging skin How to tighten skin naturally to avoid surgery or other invasive procedures What exactly is sagging skin the skin has been stretched so much that it does not return to its original shape it is as if we stretched an elastic band and it did not return to its original shape what is happening here There are two main problems here a problem with collagen and a problem with the deeper fibers called elastin which is supposed to give collagen elasticity people wonder if I need to eat more collagen will this help as a rule this is a problem It is not necessarily caused by a lack of collagen in the diet usually this problem occurs due to age skin can become sagging with significant weight loss with excessive sun exposure during pregnancy smoking can lead to this skin can become sagging due to diabetes even due to severe stress many collagen fibers can be destroyed let's look at the different components and what you can start doing right away let's start with hormones there are two different groups of hormones there are hormones that  create collagen and elastin, there are hormones that destroy collagen and connective tissue in the skin, and the main hormone that does this is cortisol. Cortisol is a catabolic hormone. This means that it destroys tissue. It destroys protein. And collagen and elastin are protein. Of course, cortisol is activated by stress, on the other hand, there are hormones that act the opposite way. These are anabolic hormones. For example, growth hormone, which is also closely associated with slowing down aging and burning fat. Growth hormone has a very specific goal. It promotes the growth of muscle proteins, collagen, connective tissue, and so on. There are three main ways to trigger a surge in growth hormone. Number one is high-intensity training with a special emphasis on intensity. The more intense your workout, the more you stimulate growth hormone. This could be sprinting, jumping on a box, cleometrics, exercise bike, any intense workout. But the main thing is that they should be short, not excessive, that's why they are called high-intensity interval training. High-intensity workouts should not be long, but short, and there should be a lot of rest between them. You can rest so there is no inflammation and recovery occurs. But what suppresses growth hormone is glucose, so you need  A low-carb phytogenic diet. Adequate sleep is also an important factor for growth hormone. Sleep also helps cope with stress. If you want to increase growth hormone levels but don't sleep, it will be very difficult. If you have a problem with sleep, you probably need to watch a video on this topic. Follow the links below. Now I'll just talk about all the factors and then you'll see what you need to focus on. Here's something else that's interesting: there's another anabolic hormone. Anabolic means that it creates proteins, and this is insulin. insulin stimulates or triggers the production of new elastin. Remember this type of connective tissue that makes the skin elastic like rubber. So, insulin triggers synthesis. And you probably expected the opposite effect, because diabetes immediately comes to mind. Well, with type 2 diabetes, there is insulin resistance. A lot of insulin circulates throughout the body. But it's not in the cells because the cells resist it. And in other places, insulin can be in excess with diabetes. insulin resistance is present in most people. A person has an insulin deficiency, and this can definitely create a problem with insulin. How can this be fixed and insulin levels increased? And insulin resistance needs to be eliminated, and for this  A ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, and training are needed for insulin resistance. There is another problem: it blocks your ability to obtain fuel, nutrients, and amino acids. That is, the building blocks for the protein needed to create collagen and elastin are unavailable with insulin resistance. So, our plan must also include eliminating insulin resistance so that you can absorb amino acids and prevent atrophy, that is, muscle loss. The next factor is related to collagen and elastin. There are cofactors, nutrients that promote collagen production and elastin creation, and the most important factor is vitamin A. I am not talking about what most people consider vitamin A, not about this quarantine. I am talking about the active form of vitamin A, retinol, and it is only found in animal products such as yolk, cod liver oil, fatty fish, and butter. Unlike spinach, it contains beta-carotene, but it still needs to be converted into its active form, and the percentage of conversion is low. Unfortunately, the definition of vitamin A has been changed and now vitamin A is called beta- carotene. As a provitamin, beta-carotene  So is Retinol. But their molecules are completely different. In general, vitamin A is a very important factor for collagen production. In fact, all fat-soluble vitamins are very important for the skin, so a low-fat diet is very harmful to skin health. When I was practicing, I learned that people sit but the so- called ideal protein diet is ketogenic. Yes, it is low-carb, but it is not yet fat-based. As a rule, the healthy version of the keto diet is not low-fat, it suggests a high fat content and moderate protein. And in the ideal protein diet, there is little fat and little carbohydrates, and as protein, this diet recommends packaged foods like soy protein isolates, that is, people were given lean protein that has undergone technological processing. I noticed that people on this diet have aged skin. The skin looks very unhealthy. It looks aged, dried out, wrinkled, and the same can be said about hair. So, you can learn a lot about what is happening inside the body by appearance, and the less fat you eat, the less fat-soluble vitamins you have, and the skin needs quite a lot of fat, which is very important for collagen and especially  Elastin is iron, but not an ordinary iron, but its heme form, which is more bioavailable. Deme iron is found in red meat, shellfish, and crustaceans. It is not found in vegetables. Vegetables contain non-heme iron. But we need a bioavailable form of iron. Since I mentioned these two factors, it becomes clear what kind of diet we need. We need animal products, not lean ones, but slightly more fatty ones, to get both retinol and the iron we need. If you like a plant-based vegan diet, then figure out how to get these important nutrients. I'm not saying it's impossible. It can be done, but it's much more difficult. Unfortunately, on a plant-based diet, many people eat too many grains and omega-6 fatty acids. Because of this, inflammation spreads throughout the body, and the condition worsens. The last thing I want to say about vitamin C is that you've probably heard that vitamin C is needed for collagen, but most people take synthetic vitamin C. This is not the vitamin C that is found in nature. The best source of vitamin C is food concentrate or foods rich in vitamin C, and one of the best such products is sauerkraut. Sauerkraut definitely has more vitamin C than any other product, it has ten times more vitamin C than a person needs, but vitamin C is also found in peppers and berries, and so on. Next, training is necessary, but it should not be excessive. During training, new vessels are formed, this is called neovascularization. New vessels appear, they carry more nutrients, blood circulation increases, this is what we need. In addition, the muscle volume directly under the skin will increase, and they will fill the voids that arise due to excessive stretching of the skin. They will fill this space, and you will look good. There will be less flabby skin, and of course, high-intensity interval training stimulates growth hormone. And there is also prolonged fasting. Prolonged fasting causes the so-called epigenetic effect in the skin, because by doing so, you trigger autophagy in the body, that is, the body processes old damaged proteins. What is this? I will now explain insulin resistance in diabetes, and diabetes is accompanied by high levels of glycation, what is this? This is when a person eats too many carbohydrates, and the protein combines with sugar and becomes unavailable, so that  A diabetic has a lot of protein glycation, which is exactly what A1c shows in tests. It shows the average blood sugar level over three months. That is, a certain amount of sugar interacts with protein in the blood, as a result, the protein is damaged, and this analysis assesses the extent of damage. This allows you to see how intensively the glycation process is proceeding, but this damage, this glycation also occurs in the eyes, kidneys, in the vessels, in the brain, in the nerves, everywhere. But it also happens in the skin. So, due to glycation in the cold and elastin, this tissue becomes inaccessible and no longer stretches, loses elasticity, this happens in the vessels, which can lead to high blood pressure. But the beauty is that prolonged fasting for three days or longer helps get rid of glycation. During this time, the body begins to clean out this cooled protein, process it, and rejuvenate, this is very cool and it is possible. And the next point, this part of the last two points, in fact, you create a protective effect, that is, you subject the body to a little stress so that it adapts and becomes stronger. Long-term fasting gives a hermetic effect, as well as training and other factors, for example, heat and cold, if Pour ice water over your face and then warm hot water again and again. This creates a sealing effect. There is an interesting article about this. The link is below. Due to the harmonic effect, we stimulate skin cells and increase tissue tone. But this is for flabby facial skin. And if it is on other parts of the body, then this should be done. I want to say something about the sun. Excess sun is very bad for the skin. I mean staying in the sun for so long that the skin burns. But it is useful to regularly be in the sun for a short time without allowing it to burn. Because this creates a sealing effect and promotes healthy skin. But it also depends on your melatonin level. From the light of your skin, if you have very, very fair skin, you burn easily, so this is another factor that needs to be taken into account. So, I have written many ways to improve your skin. Choose one or two of them and start using them. But I think that of all these methods, the most important for your skin is long-term fasting. I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems inside the body. On your course  How to diagnose the problem and fix the cause, sign up using the link below. See you there.