I made quite a lot of videos about the heart, I talked about the causes of calcification of the coronary arteries and other vessels, but there is another reason. I recently learned about it from a book. I'll leave the link below. I think this occurs quite often and I have n't yet pointed out this connection. I think you should know about this, especially if you want to avoid vascular calcification. This reason is called lactic acidosis or lactic acidosis. When I say lactic acidosis or perhaps lactic acid, you might think that we are talking about the burning sensation in the muscles after exercise. You might think so, but lactic acidosis goes far beyond this phenomenon. In fact, acidosis is a side effect of glucose metabolism. Both lactic acidosis and lactate in the blood are associated with many additional problems, for example, sudden death from a heart attack, thrombosis, that is, blood clots in the vessels, panic attacks, failures of the autonomic nervous system fraught with a lot of problems, even bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, sepsis, that is, a systemic infection, some types of arrhythmia such as fibrillation.  Ventricular and liver disease. And definitely diabetes and even cancer and restless legs syndrome, but today I will focus mainly on the connection between lactic acidosis and hypoxia in blood vessels. Hypoxia is a lack of oxygen, and a consequence of hypoxia is calcification. So, it can definitely be caused by HI, which is caused by the presence of acid in the blood. What is called lactic acidosis? vascular calcification. This is not just a consequence of age. It is not just a consequence of excess calcium in the diet or even a lack of vitamin K2. There are two main common reasons for the development of this or that type of lactic acidosis. 1. A person simply consumes too many carbohydrates. Excess sugar in the diet can result in excess lactate, which can turn into lactic acid. So, everything that increases glucose metabolism. That is, glycolysis. For example, excess sugar in the diet can create this problem. That book describes another common cause that you should be aware of: hyperactivity, dominance of the sympathetic nervous system. The "Run" mode is turned on too often. And this is essentially chronic stress. Chronic stress is very similar to the constant consumption of large doses of sugar, because stress  Turns on the Bio Swan mode and the body uses sugar as fuel. This happens because of the hormones adrenaline and cortisol, both produced by the adrenal glands. Cortisol is also called a glucocorticoid because it uses glucose, but under the influence of adrenaline, a lot of glucose also enters the blood and this can easily cause lactic acidosis. Metformin also leads to this. There is a warning on the metformin label that it can cause lactic acidosis. Why? Because one of the big problems is one of the side effects of metformin, lactic acidosis. Even the widely used warfarin, which blocks vitamin K1 so that the blood is more fluid and blood clots do not form. A side effect is communication of blood vessels because warfarin can cause lactic acidosis. Statins, which help block cholesterol, also have a side effect in the form of calcification and lactic acidosis. A lot of alcohol also leads to this and even with excessive training, a lot of lactic acid can form. I will not say that calcium deposits appear because of this, but lactation is quite possible, and with lactation, the blood pH begins to rise.  Decreasing, that is, the blood becomes more acidic. Perhaps the first symptom you will notice is breathing problems. It will be difficult to breathe. It is difficult to get oxygen, because this requires a certain pH. You will be overcome by anxiety, especially in the leg muscles. But there is an effective remedy for lactation. Dosage and you need to know about it. If you have enough thiamine, then lactation will probably not develop at all. Of course, to eliminate lactation at the root, you need to know its cause. Go too much sugar and other carbohydrates, then you are stressed. You are chronically in "beat the swans" mode. Well, there are many ways to reduce stress, but B1 can very effectively eliminate lactic acidosis. In addition, B1 counteracts complications associated with a high-carbohydrate diet, complications from diabetes, as well as a side effect of chronic sympathetic nervous system dominance or stress. B1 is the best vitamin for stress. In fact, as I said before, B1 really relieves nervous excitement, eliminates excess energy, and anxiety because it prevents or reduces the effects of lactic acidosis. Natural B1 even improves breathing. So, B1 is an excellent remedy for anxiety and the effects of lactic acidosis. In addition,  B1 can help with hypoxia, which is a lack of oxygen in the vascular system. It can normalize pH. B1 also directly prevents the formation of blood clots. So it is very beneficial for the heart and, of course, one. In addition, it effectively prevents vascular calcification. We all know that excess alcohol deprives us of B1. And this is another common cause of B1 deficiency. You know, I live on a farm and we have cattle, and when we first bought this cattle, we asked the farmer next door what is needed for cattle. Do we need to add vitamins or something else to animal feed? And the farmers said that we also need to buy a lot of baking soda. And why do we need baking soda because they can develop lactic acidosis? If you read why lactic acidosis is possible in cows, you will find out that this is a side effect of excessive grain consumption, excess empty carbohydrates. Natural food for a cow is grass, hay, and other plants, not grain. If a cow has lactic acidosis, she can become very depressed, passive, can stay to herself, possibly have diarrhea, possibly dehydration, and she can die. And unfortunately, some farmers just give  Cows are given baking soda or another alkalizing agent instead of figuring out what's going on. A cow's stomach isn't really designed for that kind of acidity. Like a human stomach, its environment needs to be slightly alkaline to ferment grass. This is just another example of what nature didn't intend for us to eat. Eat grains, sugar, and other empty carbohydrates. Number three, get enough B1, and natural thiamine, not synthetic thiamine, but natural thiamine from food. If you might have this problem, in this video we looked at a deficiency of one nutrient. But for healthy functioning, the body requires many other nutrients. I have a whole course in which we analyze other possible deficiencies and how to properly replenish them. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. The course on nutrient deficiencies will tell you about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100  Lesson plans and lists are everything you need to fully understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.