It's me again, we seem to have seen each other yesterday. So, today I'll introduce you to something else. Today we'll discuss how to improve the REM sleep phase. Normally, human sleep is divided into 90-minute cycles per night. There are four to six of these cycles at different levels and stages. The deeper levels of sleep are called slow-wave sleep, and there is a superficial level of sleep called rapid slow-wave sleep. Deep delta-wave sleep occurs mainly in the first half of the night. During this period, the body is restored, detoxified, and rejuvenated. There is a large stimulation of growth hormone. Then comes REM sleep. What is it? It's a more superficial sleep and it occurs in the second half of the night. Most people have problems with this stage. Most people get it in the first half of sleep, but there is no full-fledged REM sleep. What's interesting about REM sleep is that its wave pattern, that is, brain activity is almost identical to activity during wakefulness. But in this state, a person is asleep. You might think that if brain activity is similar to wakefulness, and sometimes even more energy is spent on REM sleep than during wakefulness, then you can get out of it. This sleep is tired with the feeling as if you ran a marathon, which is not far from the truth, the brain spent more energy in the REM phase of sleep and this is amazing, but here's another interesting fact: in REM sleep, you recover better mentally in the REM stage than in the slow-wave sleep stage. In the slow-wave sleep stage, you recover more physically, and in the REM stage, you wake up mentally with a feeling of mental reboot with improved memory and learning abilities. It's interesting that in REM sleep, muscle tone is reduced. You see dreams. I already talked about this. The brain stem is stimulated, which causes this condition. A lot of acetylcholine is produced, this is the neurotransmitter that causes this condition, and serotonin, norepinephrine, and adrenaline are practically not activated. In REM sleep, you are more sensitive to temperature. If you are too cold or too hot, this can interfere with this stage. What does all this mean? Why do we need to know this? First, when going to bed, you need to make sure that the muscles around the brain stem are completely relaxed. Below is a link to a video on how to do this. You can do it yourself with the help of this, for sure, but excuse me, a massage device. Apply it to the back of your neck. These two  things under the back of your head where the edge of the skull is, lean back in the chair and let the massager soften the muscles around the brain stem or ask someone to press on the point just under the skull below there will be a link to a video on how to do this, this is an excellent way to relax the muscles in this area, because if you go to bed with tension in the upper neck, it will be very difficult to sleep. The second point is to balance your breathing, I have a video about this when you have problems with sleep, usually lay out on your breathing and you breathe like this, inhalation happens differently than exhalation, they need to be synchronized, inhale for 3, 4, 5 seconds and exhale three, four, five seconds, achieve their equal duration, sometimes it will be an inhalation of 3 seconds and an exhalation of three seconds, sometimes it will be an inhalation of four seconds and an exhalation of four seconds, but focus on breathing, while the brain stem through the vagus nerve will send signals that will help enter the desired state, thirdly, you need to choose a blanket to achieve the desired temperature, say my wife needs a thicker blanket and I need a thinner one, sometimes there is simply not enough virt and you need to increase  Acetylcholine: How to make vitamin B1? You can make it from nutritional yeast. You can make it in any other form, but only natural. Take vitamin B1 before bed. B1 is very important for sleep cycles, especially for the production of acetylcholine, and especially when you've experienced a lot of stress. B1 counteracts stress and helps fight nightmares. If you have nightmares, you need more B1. Point five: stress is the greatest obstacle to sleep. You need to find the cause of stress and eliminate it, and somehow mitigate it. Stress is enemy number one, which will not give you any immediate relief. Here are brief instructions on how to improve REM sleep. Thank you for watching.