Let's talk about how to cook eggs to preserve the maximum nutrients. I'm mainly talking about the carotenoids found in eggs. These are the carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin. Both of these substances are very powerful compounds. They are found in different foods and provide unique health benefits. They are found in vegetables, egg yolks, shrimp, amarok, salmon, and many other foods, including avocados. But these two specific compounds accumulate mainly in the eyes. They also enter the liver and some parts of the brain, but mainly in the eyes, the retina, which is an extension of the brain, nervous tissue, and in the central part, the macula. We eat shark. And also in the lens. So, both of these compounds can help reduce the risk of developing age-related macular degeneration, as well as cataracts. I would also recommend avoiding foods that cause inflammation. These are vegetable oils, soybeans, corn, canola, and cottonseed. They cause inflammation. Damage due to free radicals causes tissue destruction. So, if you don't consume omega-6 fatty acids, eat foods rich in these two.  compounds, this helps reduce the risk of damage to the macula and lens of the eye with cataracts, a person sees as if through a fog, as if there is some kind of opaque clouding in the eye, and in the case of macular degeneration, a person loses the central part of the visual field and at the same time, a person sees objects less clearly. In addition, these two compounds block 7 light, they filter out strong light, they absorb it, so this is another plus. They have an anti-inflammatory effect. They are very powerful antioxidants. Now you know how powerful these two compounds contained in eggs are. How to preserve them as much as possible. How to cook eggs. They are very sensitive to heat. The less you heat them, the more nutrients you get. If you fry eggs, make sure the yolk remains liquid and drain the eggs, do not overdo it. Poached eggs are very good. If you fry them, scrambled eggs, just do not overcook them. And is it worth eating raw eggs? The problem is that eating raw egg whites leads to the depletion of other substances such as biotin, so I recommend cooking the whites, but let the yolk remain liquid. And for those who are new to my channel, together  What should you eat? Pastured organic eggs. Thanks for watching.