I want to show you how you can neutralize the harmful effects of caffeine. First, let's look at the benefits of consuming caffeine. I mean coffee and tea, not carbonated drinks, and then the downsides. Coffee also has harmful properties, and coffee is indeed addictive. I'll be the first to admit that I'm addicted to coffee, but I'm not going to give it up because I can control how much coffee I drink. Two espressos with a little cream and a packet of celite every morning, not a gram more. And although there is a negative effect, I'll tell you what you can do to get rid of it. After all, there are benefits from coffee too, if you don't drink too much of it. There are very interesting facts related to coffee and caffeine. People think that coffee gives you energy. In fact, there is no energy in coffee that can be miraculously extracted. The fact is that caffeine manipulates some substances that are already in the body, and one of these substances that caffeine affects is adenosine. Adenosine performs many different functions in the body. It is part of the ATP, the source of energy in the body. Adenosine triphosphate. It is part of DNA, and it has another function: it helps you sleep. As for caffeine, in its own way.  The chemical structure is very similar to adenosine and it turns out that caffeine acts as a kind of key that is inserted into the receptors of adenosine and locks them if you insert the wrong key into some lock. It will get stuck there and the door will not open. So caffeine. To some extent, it blocks the action of adenosine, as a result, a sleepy state does not occur. One of the actions of caffeine is to rid you of the substance that makes you sleepy. For me, coffee increases creativity and cognitive abilities. And my mind becomes better and sharper. The reason for this is that caffeine stimulates another substance called acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is needed for the functioning of the central nervous system and different parts of the brain. It is a neurotransmitter. It helps transmit messages in the brain. It is associated with a feeling of alertness, helps with attention, memory, learning and other cognitive functions. And the third action of caffeine is the stimulation of norepinephrine, which is also a neurotransmitter. And it turns on. When you are awake, serotonin and melatonin help you sleep, and it is adrenaline that helps you stay awake, so caffeine in stimulate. Besides, norepinephrine helps with concentration, no, and also with studying. It is similar in its action to acetylcholine. This is how caffeine works. Now let's talk about the benefits it can bring. Firstly, caffeine can reduce the risk of dementia. It can help with gallstones and fatty liver. It can help reduce liver fibrosis and even lower liver enzyme levels. If you add fat to your morning coffee, it will help you fast longer, which will facilitate the process of ketogenic adaptation. Of course, coffee helps improve cognitive abilities for a while. For me, coffee lasts for a few hours, then the effect disappears. But when I was in college, I continued drinking coffee all day and literally drank liters of it, which is, of course, very bad. At first, I could only manage it, but then no longer. Now let's talk about the downsides of coffee and its negative properties. It can increase blood pressure and cholesterol levels. It can potentially cause insomnia. It can raise cortisol, and it can also raise adrenaline. A slight increase is not scary. But with a strong increase, the adrenal glands suffer. Side effects of coffee can include anxiety and  depression, it can cause fatigue, as well as arrhythmia, it can cause headaches and panic attacks, it can cause mood swings and neck tension, as well as muscle tension, jaws and nighttime teeth grinding, coffee can also cause a B1 deficiency, and because of it, nervous tension and stress, and finally, it acts as a diuretic, which can lead to the loss of electrolytes, many of these negative effects are more likely to occur in people who are genetically unable to remove substances such as caffeine from the body. If you are watching this video and you have a problem with the fact that you consume too much caffeine, you already know about your problem and this video can help you, but even if you do not have any problems with coffee, I will tell you how to remove caffeine from the liver more thoroughly. But if you have a genetic feature associated with the enzyme that helps remove caffeine, your ability to remove it from the body can be reduced by 40 times, in which case caffeine remains in the body longer and causes more harm, but not only caffeine, but also estrogen, nicotine, drugs and medications. That is, all these toxins linger in the body longer and what I  I'll tell you it will help you quickly remove from the body not only caffeine but also other harmful substances and the first piece of advice I want to give you is just reduce your caffeine intake, that is, coffee and any other sources of caffeine such as tea, chocolate, and so on, including carbonated drinks. I did just that. I started drinking only one cup. For me, it's two servings of espresso. I drink coffee in the morning. And that's it. I do n't drink anymore. This can help. In addition, also minimize your intake, as I already said, of medications, estrogen, various chemicals, and so on. The second piece of advice is to exercise, it's useful. The more the load, the more toxins you can remove. This is the second point. Tip number three: yes, it really is cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, broccoli sprouts, cauliflower. There are two more products that should help remove caffeine from the body: celery and parsley. It would be very useful to add them to your diet. And finally, a very powerful remedy for detoxifying the body is curcumin, its source is turmeric. So, if you suffer from the negative effects of coffee or caffeine, use these tips to minimize the harm.  If you know what to drink, Nateto, and you're unsure whether a drink will break your fast, diversify your diet with this book about healthy drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar or harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes, with benefits in every ingredient. Order the book about healthy drinks using the link below.