Let's analyze a heart attack. It's the number one cause of death in the world. Heart attacks, so I think it's important to understand this problem and what can be done to avoid it. Usually, it happens like this: arteries, it turns out, were blocked from providing blood access to the heart muscle. A heart attack occurs and the person dies. If you travel to the future, let's say you didn't die, but you survived the attack. You can remember your life and ask yourself where you could have acted differently. Did I have any signs of an impending attack? I'll tell you a story. I had a red car, a wrecked pickup truck. The engine was doing all sorts of nasty things. The lights on the dashboard were coming on one after another, the engine was overheating and all that. I just drove on. But I pulled into a gas station, looked at the engine, didn't see anything, and just in case, I opened the coolant reservoir. There was no antifreeze there. That is, the truck was driving without any coolant at all. I thought, how good it is that I paid attention to the warning signals and did something. A heart attack also has many different warning signs that the body usually sends, but not always, because in  In half of the cases, everything happens asymptomatically and unfortunately there are no signs, but when you know there is a good thing, you can’t ignore them. One of the serious problems, in my opinion, is that when people go to the doctor, these signs are masked with medications. For example, shortness of breath can mean that there is a heart problem and the person is prescribed Atrovent to get rid of shortness of breath. The problem is still there, but now we no longer know that it is there. Or high blood pressure, we will treat it with lisinopril. We mask the symptom, but the problem remains, but it is already out of sight. Other symptoms indicate a blockage in the heart, especially with the myocardium. When you have chest pain after exercise or during stress, this is a serious warning sign. Or you feel weak when climbing stairs, because this strains the heart, and the heart is a pump, it should pump blood with oxygen throughout the body. If it doesn’t pump, you begin to have problems with exercise. You may become more tired during exercise. Any hints that may be there should be carefully studied to see a potential problem and do something. If you have chest pain, it will radiate either to the left shoulder, or to the arm, or to the jaw, or  back here here is what you should know but the most important point that is not given much attention regarding heart attacks is that usually everything starts with endothelial dysfunction what is it this means that the inner wall of the vessels is damaged especially the coronary, that is, the heart arteries this gives us a very good idea of ​​what causes this problem some kind of oxidation or inflammation of the artery which causes a chain of events of cholesterol accumulation protein and calcium deposits and so on and protects the inner wall of the vessels vitamin E is very important vitamin C is also very important one of the main reasons for the destruction of vitamin E and vitamin C yes you guessed it glucose and other sugars as well as empty carbohydrates all these carbohydrates deplete the antioxidant network and create inflammation in the arteries if you are new to the channel below it is written what to do if you have been here for a long time this is another reminder why healthy ketogenic intermittent fasting is needed you need to look at the symptoms as warning signs that your body is telling you about the presence of a problem symptoms are not the problem itself and when you treat the symptoms remember that the symptom needs to be understood and measures taken Eliminating the causes that caused it. Thank you very much for watching. See you in the next video. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.