If you are interested in reducing alcohol consumption and coping with cravings, call them to forgive them, this video is just for you. People drink alcohol for many reasons, to reduce stress or for health. I have a video about this. Alcohol has 0 health benefits. Two enzymes are involved in the breakdown of alcohol in the liver. 1 enzyme takes ethanol and converts it into a toxic substance, acetaldehyde. This substance harms your cells, which gives a hangover, which causes that same nausea. Then other enzymes oxidize it even further to acetic acid, that is, to vinegar. That is, in the body, the liver converts alcohol into vinegar. What's interesting is that vinegar is not toxic to the liver. There is a natural remedy with literally no side effects. It can reduce or prevent alcohol consumption. It has been well researched and the results are amazing. It has been known since at least the 7th century, when it was used in Chinese medicine. In general, alcohol has a negative effect on the liver. It depletes vitamin B1, which leads to a whole series of bad consequences. It can increase the risk of cancer. It increases the amount of fat in the liver, increases its inflammation, increases the risk of cirrhosis, scarring of liver tissue, and also It increases estrogen, and the more estrogen, the less testosterone. This natural herbal remedy is called kuzu. Kuzu is a plant that grows right along roadsides, it literally covers trees and hedges. This plant, gut zu, is from the legume family. I considered it as an alternative feed for animals on my farm because it is very high in nitrogen and protein, about 26 percent of which is protein. You can even eat it for people to put in salads or take an extract. It is also very good to put it in compost as a green fertilizer because it has a lot of nitrogen and it serves as an organic, slow-acting source of nitrogen so that the plant grows well and has a high chlorophyll content. It can also be used to suppress the craving for alcohol. One placebo-controlled, double- blind study conducted on mice showed that just one dose of 2 grams of kudzu caused a significant decrease in the desire to drink alcohol in mice after two and a half hours. Another name for this plant is pueraria, and in China, this plant was called a remedy for drunkenness or something that makes you sober.  Kudzu contains special phytonutrients involved in the breakdown of ethanol. This is similar to the action of drugs that help people reduce cravings for alcohol, but without the side effects. So, when consuming kudzu extract or its leaves in a salad, you will not only have less of a desire to drink, but also lessen alcohol intoxication. You may not even have a hangover. There are a couple of ways to use kudzu: you can take the extract before going to an event or a couple of hours before drinking. You will find that the desire to drink is no longer so strong. Kudzu also affects the neurotransmitters in the brain, GMC, dopamine, which are involved in the mechanism of addiction. I found another study about where it can be used to reduce addiction, and even to cocaine if there is such a problem. Kudzu is completely edible; it can be used as greens, just like we eat, for example, Swiss chard; when cooked, it also retains its beneficial properties. Well, there are means to reduce the desire to drink. If you haven't watched the video about how to restore the liver with natural products, here it is, take a look.