There are a lot of videos about removing purulent plugs on the tonsils, but I have not seen a single video about how to eliminate the root cause of purulent plugs. In fact, a purulent plug is a symptom of something else. I understand that purulent plugs can be another problem. After all, they cause chronic halitosis, a terrible smell from the mouth. It seems that the microbes that live in these plugs emit volatile sulfur- containing compounds. They smell like sulfur dioxide, like rotten eggs. The same smell comes from swamps or sewers. These microbes emit this gas in the back of the throat, and this can greatly spoil life. This gas is called hydrogen sulfide. So, these microbes are located in tiny depressions in the tonsils. They essentially create pus and mucus, and eventually it all turns into a small calcium stone. First, let's discuss what a tonsil is. In fact, we have types of tonsils. There are tonsils at the top of the nasal region that are not visible. There are so-called palatine tonsils. They are visible. They got their name thanks to  The palatine bone, which is located at the back of the throat, is essentially a tonsil - a kind of lymphatic tissue that acts as the first line of defense against pathogens. The tonsils' job is to receive information about the pathogen and transmit it to the rest of the immune system. They seem to be screaming, " Hey, we have pathogens here. We need to do something about this. Turn on the immune system." That is, the tonsils are a kind of guard at the entrance that prevents pathogens from entering the lungs and digestive system. People often have their tonsils removed. This is the solution to the problem. But if you remove the first line of defense, there may be some complications. It is possible, although not always, but it has been established that this increases the risk of lower respiratory tract infections, lung infections, the risk of developing Hodgkin's lymphoma increases, and the predisposition to developing certain autoimmune diseases increases. This is likely because most autoimmune diseases originate in the intestines, where pathogens invade, bypassing border control. As for the pathogens to which the tonsils are exposed, it was discovered that if you compare viruses and bacteria, viruses make up somewhere between 50 and 80%.  infections that get into the tonsils, and bacteria are only 5 to 17%, and don't forget that antibiotics only work on bacterial infections. By taking an antibiotic, you're taking a chance. After all, if the cause is a virus, the antibiotic won't help. The Stein-Barr virus is known for affecting the tonsils, but the tonsils have a broader function. We must be able to stimulate and train the immune system so that it becomes stronger. At birth, we receive innate immunity from the mother, and then the immune system learns under the influence of pathogens, this is how acquired immunity is formed. Experiments on mice living in a germ-free environment where their immune system cannot learn showed that some parts of the immune system develop and weaken, and I'm talking about this. Because sometimes when a child has tonsil pain, they are immediately given something anti-inflammatory, ibuprofen, or something else to relieve the inflammation, that is, the symptom, but it might be better to let the child get over the infection so that he acquires immunity. Here's something interesting, and I'll give a link to this study below.  I found something incredibly interesting about vitamin D. There is a significant link between low vitamin D levels and inflammation of the tonsils, as in tonsillitis. I also found another study that showed that zinc deficiency can also lead to inflammation of the tonsils, just like iron deficiency. We know that zinc, vitamin D, and iron affect the immune system. Vitamin D is a really powerful tool that helps provide an antimicrobial effect to our immune system. I found another interesting article, and here is one particularly interesting point from it. One of the risk factors for problems with the tonsils is insufficient sun exposure. Vitamin D often becomes inflamed more often in winter and less often in summer. The problem is that it is very difficult to get enough vitamin D from food, and often if children have problems with their tonsils, if they have enlarged tonsils, the main reason is that they are rarely in the sun and often do not eat salmon liver oil, shakes, and all that. If children drink sweet sodas where there are a lot of phosphates, this alone can deprive them of vitamin D. The main thing is that they are not exposed to the sun much.  A predisposing factor is a deficiency of vitamin D and perhaps zinc. It is also important for small children. You can buy liquid vitamin D and one more thing. When I was practicing, children with huge tonsils were constantly brought to me, because of this, it was difficult to breathe and snoring occurred. At that time, I did not yet know about vitamin D. But here's what I did and it gave good results. I removed milk from the children's diet. After all, many were allergic to milk, but they did not know about it, and because of this allergy, the tonsils automatically increase in size and become inflamed. As for the prophylactic dose of vitamin D, I take 100,000. If a therapeutic effect is needed to cope with something, I would increase the dose to 20 or 30 m, but at the same time you need to take vitamin K2 because it is associated with calcium and this is associated with calcium for the reason that vitamin K2 removes calcium from soft tissues, not only from blood vessels and joints. So, for every 10,000 vitamin D3, you need to take vitamin K2, this is a good proportion. Since we are talking about tonsils,  I have another video about them, it's very popular, if you haven't watched it, check it out here.