When your brain shrinks and develops brain atrophy, you don't feel it with age. The brain potentially shrinks by four tenths of a percent annually. This can lead to various cognitive impairments. Lack of concentration, you can't concentrate. You have what feels like an attention deficit. You can't do anything without being distracted. Memory impairment, you can't concentrate as before. Much of this is due to a decrease in the number of brain cells. When the brain shrinks, circulation is impaired and the ability to use glucose as fuel is also lost. Fuel stops flowing into cells. For example, in patients with Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease, nerve cells poorly absorb glucose. They starve. Communication between them is disrupted. They exchange signals worse. Is it possible to grow the brain back and how to do it? Yes, it is possible and here's how to do it. For this, you need several things. The first is B vitamins. The brain needs a lot of B vitamins. For example, if you have a vitamin B1 deficiency, one of the symptoms will be amnesia, you will begin to forget everything. This is very important. Vitamin B6 and B12 are very important. The brain consists mainly of fat. The nerves are protected by fat. When you have  There is a deficiency of B1 and B12, you begin to lose fat, the myelin sheath around the nerves, you also really need folic acid, you also need an omega-3 fatty acid called where a very huge part of the fat in the brain is just this omega-3 fatty acid where to get it from fish from fatty fish from cod liver oil I recently started using a very good product cod liver is not sardines it is real cod liver it tastes like tuna but the consistency is like pudding like tuna pudding amazing I will leave a link to the site where you can order it eat a little every day to get your daily dose of activity you also need phytonutrients they give you protection from environmental stress from the toxic effect of food poor diet anything that oxidizes tissues and creates free radicals phytonutrients protect you from this damage let's talk about blood sugar if your blood sugar is too high or too low or you have what is called insulin resistance when at first sugar in  Normal, but too much insulin will create huge problems with the brain. This is the most common problem. There are many videos about this, I will not repeat myself. There will be links below. Problems with blood sugar cause neurodegeneration. Then comes stress. Under stress, cortisol levels rise and this causes a similar effect. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, return a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package, a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course. By the way, high cortisol has a detrimental effect on blood sugar levels. As a result, problems caused by cortisol and problems caused by insulin appear. And of course, insomnia is caused by stress. Ours seriously affects the central nervous system. Of course, smoking and alcohol also affect the physiology of the brain. If you have a situation in which the brain cannot work at full strength and you begin to lose concentration, then you do not need the brain.  The brain works mainly on glucose. It can work on other fuels. Parts of the brain need glucose, but don't worry because the body can produce its own glucose from fat or proteins in the diet. The problem with the brain is that it has no sugar reserves. There is no glycogen in the muscles. It all depends on what happens in the blood. If there is not enough sugar in the blood, the brain begins to starve, but this can also be due to insulin resistance. In this case, despite the high blood sugar level, the brain will not work. Therefore, the brain should work not on glucose, but on titanium. Brain cells love concrete. If you want to know what ketones are, watch the video link that I will leave below. Ketones are a byproduct of burning fat, and on titanium, brain cells will be much more productive in terms of energy. Lastly, and most importantly, something called intermittent fasting. Meals are less frequent, and of course, this should be combined with ketones. Intermittent fasting will increase a compound called brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF).  It can be called a stretch for the brain; it will help restore brain cells. You need to combine intermittent fasting and healthy ketosis to restore brain cells. Thanks for watching and see you soon. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos. How can you not miss new videos? Just click the bell.