In this video, I'll tell you how to repair an old, weak, and damaged immune system.  As we age, our immune system begins to function worse.  Natural killer cells become fewer, which means that virus elimination is not as effective as it was at age 20.  The fight against tumor cells is no longer as effective.  There are already fewer B cells, which means the number of antibodies has decreased.  That is, the immune system loses memory.  It doesn't remember past pathogens, meaning it's not prepared, the immune system is weakened, and the number of T cells decreases, which is a key component of the immune system responsible for destroying microbes, preventing autoimmune diseases, and reducing inflammation from infections.  The number of phagocytes is not as high as before.  And fewer cells eating germs and cleaning up waste.  So age has a big impact on the immune system.  And some people, like me, who took antibiotics for a long time as a child, a teenager, and later, have a weakened immune system as we age. Also, chemotherapy simply kills the immune system, just like steroids. I took them in my early 20s. I suffered greatly every fall from poison ivy.  I didn't even have to touch it.   It was enough to stand a meter away from him. This was enough for his eyes and face to feel it.  So I took steroids every year.  I took them for 8-9 years in a row.  It weakened my immune system.  If you are taking prednisone or have taken steroids in the past, your immune system becomes severely suppressed.  There are also health problems that also weaken the immune system.  In addition, living under constant stress weakens him.   The most important thing for strengthening the immune system is breastfeeding.  But for people my age this is no longer an option.  Therefore, the next most effective supplement to take is a supplement called colostrum.  It is available in powder form.  Colostrum is a special product.  This is the very first milk that is released.  So it's just a bunch of antibodies and various substances. building immunity.  There is a very good company Soverein Laps.  This is not an advertisement, I do not receive any commission.  They produce very high quality colostrum in powder form.  It's organic, from grass-fed cows.  I recommend this version of Colostrum LD.  This version of the product uses a special technology where colostrum is enclosed in a fatty shell.  As a result, it can withstand the acidic environment in the stomach. As a result, this product is 15 times more effective than other similar ones.  Colostrum contains many antibodies that provide great assistance to the immune system.  It contains lactoferrin, which controls iron.  It contains growth factors.  This is why many athletes consume colostrum.  Because they found that it improved their results , increasing muscle mass and strength.  One of the most important effects of colostrum is the reduction of intestinal permeability.  This is a prevention of leaky gut.  Even with this syndrome, colostrum can strengthen the connections between cells, making them strong so that pathogens cannot penetrate through them. Leaky gut syndrome causes many problems: allergies, autoimmune diseases.  Colostrum is an excellent means for strengthening the inner lining of the intestines. There is one more thing to say about colostrum.  If you have a weakened immune system and take too much, an immune reaction may occur. So I recommend just a little bit, say a quarter teaspoon, just a little bit.  Take it before bed with some water.  If you take a whole spoonful, you may feel dizzy, have mucus, and start an immune reaction.  So start small and gradually increase the dose.  If a reaction occurs, wait until it stops and resume taking the medicine.  Once the reaction has started, it means you need colostrum.  But start with small doses. Some people, due to high sensitivity, need no more than 1/2 teaspoon. Next, the second point.  Acids.  The acidity in the stomach needs to be increased.  It is necessary to provide the large intestine with lactic acid.  This will reduce the number of pathogens because one of the ways to kill pathogens is acid.  There should be hydrochloric acid in the human stomach and lactic acid in the large intestine. Take bitainohydrochloride. It will support stomach acidity.  Another useful chloride is sea salt.  Don't forget about her. You can also take fulvic acid. It is very beneficial for the body.  And also tea flu kambucha.  A very useful thing.  And even probiotics for lactobacilli.  They will help the body produce the necessary lactic acid. If you remove all the intestinal flora.  All the bacteria that live there.  This will greatly weaken the immune system, so it's no joke.  Third. Fermented foods also help the immune system.  So start eating, for example, sauerkraut and kemchi. Prebiotics are fiber from vegetables. This is important because the intestinal flora needs food.  And also probiotics, which I already mentioned.  I believe that everyone over sixty should take probiotics. Point four.  Starvation.  It greatly stimulates the immune system.  I have a video about this, link below. Fasting strengthens the immune system. There is even evidence that it can literally revive a severely weakened system if fasted regularly.  I'm talking about intermittent fasting and intermittent fasting.   The fifth point is sleep.  Sleep increases melatonin levels.  Melatonin is a very powerful hormone that helps the immune system. So try to boost its levels as much as possible through sleep, but don't take it as a supplement, otherwise your body will stop responding to it over time .  The sixth point, obvious, is to reduce carbohydrate consumption, because sugar weakens the immune system. Most people who died from COVID-19 had diabetes or metabolic disorders. problems related to carbohydrates and high insulin.  Therefore, it is necessary to follow not just keto, but a healthy diet, so that the nutrients are of high quality.   The seventh point is very important: reduce stress levels as much as possible .  I'm telling you for sure , when you're under stress, your immune system literally goes to sleep.  He is paralyzed and cannot work. If you have grandchildren or are thinking about having a child, be sure to breastfeed your baby. Breastfeeding plays a key role in building a healthy immune system.  And don't be blown away by the dust, child.  Contact with germs is very important.  Children living in a sterile environment, without contact with microbes, do not develop immunity properly .  This is also very important.  And if you have an infection, don't suppress your immune system.  Very often parents give their children medications, aspirin at the first signs of illness, while they should let the child cope with the infection and allow the immune system to recover.  But when we start to bring down the temperature with medications, it weakens the immune system and prolongs the infection.  Here's how to repair an old, weak and damaged immune system.