I want to show you how to get rid of acid reflux once and for all. In college, I experienced this problem myself. I swallowed tons of antacids and had no idea what caused it. It's a shame I didn't know then what I know now. Because I could have solved this problem much easier. For months, I suffered from terrible heartburn. I had to get up in bed to make the heartburn go away because it was terrible at night. What is acid reflux? This is a situation when acid is ejected from the stomach through a valve into the esophagus. This valve is called the lower esophageal sphincter. The most important thing to know about acid reflux is that it is caused by a lack of acid. This is a lack of acid in the stomach. Due to a lack of acid, the mechanism that closes the valve separating the upper stomach from the esophagus does not start. The valve does not close and the acid splashes up. This lack of acid is called hypochlorhydria. This is the root cause of heartburn. That is, there is not enough acid in the stomach. There is another ailment called achlorhydria. This is when there is no acid at all.  It happens to some people in old age. In general, with age, the amount of acid in our stomach decreases, which leads to various digestive problems. 30% of all people over 60 have a lack of acid in the stomach. This is a big problem, and we take antacids and various medications to cope with it, and of course, their side effects are terrible. After all, we are doing exactly the opposite of what should be done. This gives short-term relief, but at the next meal, it gets worse and worse, and we continue to sit on this medication. It is very important to ensure that the pH in the stomach is correct. A normal pH of the stomach should be from one to three, this is the strongest acid on the pH scale. 7 is a neutral environment. Everything above 8, 9, 10 is an alkaline environment. And everything below 7 is an acidic environment, and each subsequent whole number differs from the previous one by 10 times. In other words, a value of five means acidity is 10 times higher than at six. If we talk about a pH from 1 to 3, this is a very strong acid. This is exactly what we need to break down proteins for the absorption of minerals.  and vitamins such as B12, folic acid, and vitamin C. Another acid needed to destroy microbes, fungi, and bacteria is to prevent these microorganisms from multiplying properly in the intestines. The main feature of the stomach is the production of acid and the closing of the valve. There is a connection between these two functions. In other words, normally, this valve should close with a sufficient amount of gastrin, a substance that triggers the production of hydrochloric acid. So, there is a connection between the level of acidity and this valve, its closing and opening. This is a parasympathetic process. What does this mean? It means that it is controlled by the part of the nervous system that controls digestion and rest, and how it competes with another system, the sympathetic system. Fight or Flight. This means that the stronger your stress, the stronger your acid reflux will be. Because with increased sympathetic control, stress weakens. This is another reason for stomach problems, including a possible cause of acid reflux, or herb, as it is also called. There are other important reasons to monitor the required acid level. I am talking about hydrochloric acid. Hydrochloric acid also stimulates the release of bile from the gallbladder. It  It helps to force the gallbladder to contract and secrete bile to extract fat- soluble vitamins from food, as well as omega-3 fatty acids and break down fats. Hydrochloric acid also helps stimulate the pancreas to produce enzymes that help digest food. Without this acid, at the right pH level, you will not secrete either bile or enzymes in sufficient quantities, which will lead to a chain reaction and the development of many other problems. At the same time, bacteria and fungi can multiply in your small intestine. This is called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, and every time after eating, you will have bloating, especially if you ate fiber or probiotics. Yes, this is the situation. Another point about hydrochloric acid. Normal stomach acidity is needed to keep Helicobacter pylori under control. We have this bacterium in our body, but it does not cause problems, but with low acidity in the stomach, it gets out of control and creates problems. This is another important reason why we need chlorine. Hydrochloric acid in the stomach is another thing.  which can be the cause of insufficient hydrochloric acid production is a lack of zinc. Many people have a deficiency of zinc. A person with a zinc deficiency is prone to problems with GERD, acid reflux, and stomach ulcers. So, to produce hydrochloric acid, you need a sufficient amount of zinc. Other things are also needed for this, for example, chlorides, say, sodium chloride. That is, salt is needed to produce hydrochloric acid. Hydrochloric acid also requires a large amount of potassium. So, the root of your problem may actually be a zinc deficiency or a chloride deficiency, or even a potassium deficiency. The point is not that you need to take hydrochloric acid, you need to get the minerals on the basis of which it is produced. Another point that many doctors do not know is the connection between calcium intake and excess calcium in the body and acid reflux. This is one of the major side effects of calcium-based antacids. Acid reflux is complete madness. The bad thing is that without understanding this connection, people are prescribed the worst thing that can be prescribed for such a disease. So, if you consult a doctor with this problem, be sure to advise him to study the connection between People with hypercalcemia and HARP, that is, acid reflux, take not only calcium antacids for acid reflux, they also take other medications, for example, IP with these drugs. The problem is that they have strong side effects, for example, nephritis, kidney inflammation, for example, fractures from osteoporosis, the development of other pathogens like E. coli. That is, these drugs have many side effects, and here's the plan: I recommend the best remedy to take that which is for the production of hydrochloric acid, this is betaine hydrochloride. Here's how to take it: start taking three tablets before meals. Look at how you feel. Let's say the problem remains, but there is progress. Before the next meal, take 4, before the next, take 5. Continue increasing the dose until the symptoms disappear. You may need 7-8 or even more tablets of betaine hydrochloride before the acid reflux completely goes away. This means that you are very lacking acid and need to accumulate it. It takes time. I would also advise the following: let's say you reached 8 tablets, the reflux disappeared, you feel great. I would continue to increase the dose until you begin to feel light. burning sensation or that you are in the stomach. This means that you have taken too much when the dose can be reduced. This way you can know exactly how many pieces you need to fix the problem. 2. Make sure you have enough potassium and sea salt in your diet because these are precursors for the production of hydrochloric acid. 3. Make sure you have enough zinc, it is also very important for this process. 4. Chew your food longer, this will facilitate the whole process, especially now when you don’t have enough acid in your stomach. Just chew longer. This will help the process and speed it up a little. 5. Try to lower your stress level because it can aggravate the situation. Don’t let the sympathetic system dominate. You need to be in parasympathetic mode. When you are relaxed, the body should be relaxed during meals. This will help digestion. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type because of such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, return a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal type of body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how it works. What lowers your immunity? I'll give you a list of the best ways to strengthen it. I'm waiting for you on the course.