Today we'll talk about how to get rid of herpes using autophagy. Later I'll explain that there are several types of herpes. It's determined by the location where it appeared. It can be in the mouth, in intimate areas. It can even get into the brain and create many problems. The herpes virus travels along sensory nerves. It can also be in clusters of nerve cells called ganglia. This virus can easily go out of remission and enter into remission. It can be activated by many factors: stress, sun, chemicals. It can seriously ruin your life. But let's not just talk about the sad things. You can get rid of it with fasting, namely intermittent fasting. It does amazing things to the body. It activates a process called autophagy. In this state, cells get rid of damaged proteins by breaking them down with the help of certain enzymes that process them. It's like a self-cleaning oven. Damaged organelles are also processed. Organelles are various parts of the cellular machinery that can be damaged, such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. What's amazing is that autophagy gets rid of them.  and from microorganisms invading the body, this is called xenophobia, xena means alien or strange, aphasia means eating, that is, in essence, xenophobia means eating pathogens or foreign microorganisms, and the best thing about fasting for herpes is that herpes moves through the nervous system, and autophagy works best and most effectively on neurons, this can be a very good tool for fighting this infection, even when we are sick, we naturally lose our appetite and starve, triggering the mechanism of fighting the infection, I want to recommend two remedies, the first is to start intermittent fasting, and the second is certain natural antiviral compounds like monolaurin, it is found in coconut oil and it is antiviral, oregano, olive leaf extract, and garlic are also considered antiviral, a couple of points about intermittent fasting, start gradually with 3 meals without snacks, do this for some time, then move on to two, even without snacks, and gradually move on to one meal, especially  If your herpes situation is really bad, I think this should be very helpful for beginners. I'll leave a link to a video below where I explain how to do everything correctly. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. Autophagy begins to work effectively after 18 hours of fasting, reaching its peak around the 23rd hour. Therefore, I recommended eating twice a day at first and then once a day to get the maximum benefit. I'll leave links to the study below the video. Try it, I hope it helps you, and thanks for watching. If you liked this video, share it with anyone who might find it useful.