Hello, today I'll show you how to start ketogenic diets correctly. This video is for beginners. What we're trying to do is change the fuel your body runs on, switch it from burning sugar to burning fat. There's a hormone called insulin, this is the key. It determines whether to burn fat or sugar. To burn fat, insulin should be low. If it increases, the body will burn sugar. Simply demolish carbohydrates and eat less often. This doesn't equate to advice to reduce calories. If you eat less often, you'll reduce calories, but that's not the goal. You can eat larger portions. The main thing is not to eat so often. Why eating less often is a good idea. Every time you eat, insulin is activated, so go carbohydrates. insulin is activated, and we need to reduce it. The combination of these two principles is very, very effective. So, what will you eat? First of all, you need to reduce carbohydrates to a minimum. They contain sugar. I'm talking about agave nectar honey, brown sugar, white sugar, date sugar, any sugar in various recipes. It can be replaced with so-called sugar alcohol. I'll leave a link to an example of such recipes. Download for free. In general, you can use alternative sources. Sweets, this means that when buying food, you need to learn to read the ingredients to ensure there is as little sugar as possible. Avoid fruits. Berries are ok, but in small quantities and only three varieties. Raspberries, strawberries, and blueberries are not allowed in fruits, especially apples. We also avoid cereals like wheat flour, bread, pasta, and oatmeal, but you know that they can also be replaced. People use almond flour to make all sorts of things from pizza to bread. There are many recipes in which flour can be replaced. Avoid starches like potatoes, but you can always replace them with cauliflower, the consistency of which is very similar to starch, not identical, but very similar. You can make mashed potatoes from it, like potatoes. You can even make a very good pizza base from it. When I say don't eat carbohydrates, there is one exception: vegetables. You need to eat a lot of vegetables, at least 7 glasses a day or even more. This could be greens or other types of vegetables, peppers, cabbage, broccoli, kale, Brussels sprouts, and at this initial stage, you can eat  Even carrots, tomatoes, and beets are fine, don't worry. Also, about vegetables, if you eat them first, it will be easier to eat 7 glasses than if you eat them after fat and protein. Because fats and proteins will fill you up pretty quickly. So, I always eat vegetables first. You can eat them with the main course, but to make sure there are enough of them, I eat them first. Not many people eat enough vegetables. By the way, vegetables provide us with two things: they supply food for bacteria, which then help with blood sugar and give us energy. They also don't give us nutrients like potassium, magnesium, or even vitamin C. What is our goal? We are trying to follow some healthy diets. Next, a moderate amount of protein, not a huge amount like in the Atkins diet, but a moderate amount. This may depend on your body type and metabolism. Age: 85-220 grams of protein. Let's say you are 18 years old and you exercise a lot. You will need more protein. Instead of measuring protein on a scale, just eat a protein product the size of your palm. Maybe a little more or a little less at this stage.  Let's not complicate things, what kind of protein should you eat? Meat and fish, chicken, seafood, eggs, cheese, unless you have an allergy or serious intestinal problems. Nuts or nut butters. When you buy peanut butter or any other nut butter, read the ingredients and make sure there is no added sugar. You don't need added sugar. Sometimes it happens that you bought cold meats and there is dextrose or added sugar, especially in bacon. In general, you shouldn't combine sugar with protein. As for the order in which you need to eat protein, first you need to eat vegetables and greens, and then protein. The main thing is not to eat lean protein or protein with a low fat content. Try to eat protein that contains fat. Why? Because it will help with insulin levels? If you eat protein that has little or no fat, for example, in powder, protein powder, then you will significantly increase insulin compared to the fat found in meat or fatty fish or silver, which has more fat. This is a very important point about protein. Let's move on. In this diet, we eat more fat. When I say more fat, I mainly mean the calorie content of fat contained in  2 times more calories than protein and carbohydrates in terms of calories in the diet on this diet includes more fat so as not to confuse you, we will stop at this, but understand that when you eat protein you are already eating a lot of fat along with it because protein products always contain fat, but you can add additional fat to the diet, for example, avocado, or you can use ghee when cooking or season vegetables with butter, which by the way is a good idea because vegetables contain fat-soluble beneficial components, even antioxidants, they are called phytonutrients, you can add oil to greens, whether olive or butter for dressing, this will help absorb nutrients from food, so it is good to combine all this, olives or their oil are also very useful, coconut oil is also quite good and some of these products also contain fat, for example, nuts are half fat, half protein and a little carbohydrates, cheese is fat and protein, eggs are fat and protein, most of these products also contain fat, in general, fat and protein go together. Many people start by eating nuts or cheese after eating their main meal to feel full, therefore  I'm saying that you need to eat fat thirdly, but of course it can be included in other products. There are fats and the ones that should be avoided are soybean, corn, rapeseed, cottonseed, and even sunflower and safflower oils. You shouldn't get carried away with these oils. The first three types of gamma oil contain chemicals that cause inflammation, although they are fats. Such fats should not be consumed. These oils can be found in salad dressings and in many other products, including mayonnaise. So, start reading the ingredients and nitpick every little thing in the products you buy. So, we talked about what you need to eat, now we need to talk about how much you need to eat. You need to eat less often, along with color, and we will observe intermittent fasting to lower insulin to normal levels. Here is the main rule: don't eat if you're not hungry. I'll clarify what hungry means. Sometimes you may feel slightly hungry, but you still have energy. You feel normal and your mood is good. In such moments, endure the hunger. You should also distinguish between hunger and habit. People have a habit of eating all the time. Even when there is no hunger, people feel that they are not as full as they would like, but we should not be all the time.  You should only eat full meals when you feel hungry. Hunger is when you really want to eat, when you feel weak, when you are slightly shaking, and when irritability appears. This is hunger. It is a mild, temporary feeling of hunger. Secondly, ideally, you should skip breakfast. This can be done gradually by moving breakfast later and later, or by giving it up right away by simply eliminating this meal. Or you can drink coffee with a tablespoon of butter, or m-city oil. This will greatly help produce ketones, which are very beneficial for the brain, and you will feel full during the transition to a state of ketosis, in which you burn fat, and ketone is a byproduct of burning fat. If you take m-city oil, it will immediately give you ketones and make the transition easier, especially for cognitive functions. Therefore, it is a good idea. If you drink this coffee with two fats, it will be easier for you to skip breakfast. It is also worth noting that around 8 a.m., a hormonal shift occurs and cortisol may rise, because of this, you may have a temporary feeling that it would be nice to eat something. This is due to cortisol, due to the hormonal shift. This is  It may increase your appetite, don't pay attention to it and be patient, that is, we skip breakfast and the third point is very important - no snacks during the day, a snack, even a low-calorie one, will make you hungry and stimulate hunger, especially if it's not a meal but a snack, so no snacks, this is very important if you want to snack, it means you didn't eat enough fat at your last meal, add fat at your next meal to easily last until the next meal, it is very important to add fat to last longer in between meals, there is much more to say, but you can drink water, tea or coffee, anything without sugar, you can take vitamins, no problem, in general, the topic is extensive, but now we are talking about the very basics, let's say the first meal is at noon, you ate yet, don't worry about calories, our goal is not to reduce calories, but just eat for the first time of the day, make sure you did everything as I said, and eat the second time at six in the evening, this gives you a time window of six hours for eating and 18 hours of fasting, if without snacks, this is a lot, this alone will bring you great benefits if you follow this method  This is exactly how you need to start chum properly. I invite you to my Healthy Chum course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.