Hello, today we will talk about where gallstones come from. There is a myth that a high-fat diet leads to gallstones. This is completely untrue. Let's look at it in more detail. Most of them, to me, are cholesterol stones, these are clots of cholesterol formed due to a lack of bile. The real initial cause of gallstones is a lack of bile. Bile is a fluid produced in the liver, accumulates in the gallbladder and becomes 20 times concentrated. It helps extract nutrients from food, especially fat-soluble vitamins and essential fatty acids. Then the pancreas secretes an enzyme for further breakdown. So, the initial cause of stone formation is a lack of bile. Because bile prevents the formation of stones, it does not allow cholesterol to concentrate and become a stone. It also removes excess cholesterol. So, bile is very, very important. You understand that if your gallbladder was removed and the lack of bile will only get worse, because now you don't have a sac in which bile would become concentrated. That is, initially, you probably had it because you had stones, they remove it and now there is a lack. Bile only increases, it does not accumulate. It turns out that you have replaced the problem of stones with another problem: insufficient absorption of soluble vitamins and omega-3 fatty acids, including very important ones, maidenhair, which is good for the brain and heart, and getting them from food is now difficult. That is, digestion without bile is like washing your hands without soap. Now I will tell you what can cause the loss or lack of bile. These are not direct causes, but indirect ones. They all lead to something that then reduces the production of bile. Excess estrogen can suppress bile and increase the risk of developing stones. For example, hormonal therapy, contraceptives, pregnancy, all this increases the likelihood of developing stones because it reduces bile production. By the way, the symptoms of bile deficiency include bloating, indigestion, gas, and because bile acts as a lubricant, also pain in the right shoulder, headaches on the right side, pain on the right side of the upper trapezius muscle or scapula, in general, everything on the right because the gallbladder can swell and irritate the nerve running through the right side of the body.  There will be several additional links in the description. High cortisol can also suppress bile production. Cortisol is a stress hormone. That is, stress increases the risk of stones because it reduces bile and you can even include cortisol from medications such as prednisone. One of the side effects is that it provokes the development of stones. That's what's important. Excess insulin can suppress bile production. Many people have excess insulin. 60-70 percent of the population has excess insulin. And insulin is activated, of course, by carbohydrates, frequent meals. But here 's what I want to say: when you combine carbohydrates, for example, bread or pasta, with proteins or carbohydrates, sugar with fats, you significantly increase insulin production. If you combine a high-fat diet with a high-sugar diet, in many experiments with mice, this is called a high- fat diet, although it contains a lot of sugar and fat, but they don't tell you about this. Gallstones or many other side effects can occur. The point is that a large amount of fat with a small amount of sugars and carbohydrates is completely safe. This will not create problems. But a combination of high-fat foods with high sugars or a combination of high-protein foods with  Sugar is dangerous in general, to avoid gallstones, you need to keep insulin low. Love down on fat diets. Vegan diets usually don't have enough saturated fat to activate enough bile. It's interesting because people think that fat causes the problem, but it is saturated fats that activate bile production. You need them. I would have experienced it myself back in college when I made meatloaf. My grandmother made meatloaf very well. She sent me the recipe. I skimmed it without reading it carefully. It said take a pound of meat, take some bread, and then mix it with the bread, bake it, and add ketchup. I didn't read the little line that said let the fat drain and discard it. I didn't touch the fat, and the bread absorbed it like a sponge. I ate it whole for a couple of years. Just think about it. I mixed saturated fats with protein and bread. A killer combination. A powerful insulin surge. I had biliary colic. I thought it was stones, but it was just biliary colic in the middle of the night. In fact, if I had continued in the same spirit, I would have developed a low-fat diet.  Increases the likelihood of developing stones because you will not have enough bile. Don't be afraid of saturated fats, provided that you consume few carbohydrates. Then there is fatty liver, which, by the way, occurs due to excess insulin. If there is too much fat on the liver, this will disrupt liver function and you will not have enough bile. Because bile is produced by liver cells, if half of the liver is fatty, then bile is produced half as much. So, a fatty liver can lead to the development of stones. How to understand in a journal your liver. Look at your stomach. If you have a small abdomen, your liver is probably fatty, but it is best to get an ultrasound. Get checked. Antacids can also impair the ability to produce and use bile. Initially, the need for antacids arose due to a lack of acid. If this seems strange to you, watch a video about stomach acidity with K below. The cause of heartburn is a lack of acid in the stomach. It sounds strange, but a lack of acid in the stomach causes the sphincter to not close and the acid to rise. If there is enough acid in the stomach, the valve closes securely and acid reflux does not occur. The fact that you need antacids indicates that you have a lack of  Gastric juice, and gastric juice is one of the activators of the release of bile from the gallbladder. So, if you don't have enough of this activator coming from the stomach, this can lead to a disruption of the gallbladder function and create a whole host of problems. This chain reaction occurs due to the fact that your gastric juice has a bad pH. Lastly, if you don't eat enough vegetables, you won't be able to nourish the microflora of the large intestine with the food that is needed to maintain the volume of microflora necessary for processing bile. 90-95 percent of all bile is processed, and most of this work is performed by beneficial microflora in the intestine. A lack of this microflora can lead to an inability to process bile. This is another common reason. A lack of bile increases the risk of developing stones. I hope this helped you understand the real reason for the appearance of stones. Leave comments. I'm interested in your opinion. I want to know what you think about this video. Please leave a comment and tell me what you think.