Hello, in this video I will answer questions about intermittent fasting and ketosis. I get asked a lot of questions and in this video I will answer them. The first question is, can you chew gum on the whale diet? Yes, it won't affect anything. I only recommend chewing gum with xylitol, they contain aspartame. Quite a few people go with sports, so you can chew gum, you can drink water with lemon. No problem at all. Lemon juice is not a problem at all, it's very sour, there's almost no sugar. Grass-fed juice is powdered. I take it myself during fasting, it's not a problem. It's multivitamins, there are all the microelements. Protein powder, unless with food, is protein, so it will increase insulin levels. Especially if it's low-fat protein or whey, you should add fat. Eat it after meals or during meals, but not as a snack. I already made a video about this. No, my program doesn't provide for a cheat day. The thing is, when you arrange a cheat day for yourself, you are thrown out of ketosis for a long time. It takes time to enter ketosis and it also takes some time to return to it. Some will need three days and for others it may take a whole week, I'm not kidding, it won't be fast, this may explain why you're not losing weight, because if you only have a little day twice a week, the results will come to nothing, and depending on what and how much you ate, calories and two meals a day, how to fit all the calories into two meals or even one, and here you need a balance, you don't need to stuff yourself with such huge portions that you can't move all day, you need to eat high- quality, healthy food rich in nutrients, I always recommend kale shakes, they have more nutrients than other greens, eat La Source, they are better quality than chicken, it may be worth taking some additional nutrients, but you don't have to overeat two huge portions, just eat until you're full, and by the way, the body will adapt to that amount of calories, there is a misconception that if you eat less often, you starve yourself and this will slow down your metabolism, this is not true, your food is rich in nutrients, if you eat a small portion and are still hungry and in  If you eat only empty calories or, for example, five small portions of empty calories with sugar, you will definitely feel constant hunger and cravings for a certain idea, and your metabolism will slow down simply because you are cutting calories, but you are lacking nutrients. The main thing here is the nutrients. Your portions should be large, but at the same time balanced and nutritious. I have a video on this topic. Next, this rash usually has two reasons. Perhaps the liver is getting rid of something, and usually this is due to the fact that you are losing a lot of fat in the body. Toxins accumulate in fat, so they are released from fat, circulate in the blood, in the lymphatic system, and appear as a rash. How to deal with this? Eat a lot of vegetables. There should really be a lot of them to compensate for the side effects of burning fat and bentonite clay. Take it on an empty stomach without giving it a screw. Clay is interesting because it looks like a small piece of clay that absorbs and collects around itself particles 20, no, 2000 times its weight, like a powerful magnet for toxins or  a sponge that attracts them and does not allow them to remain in the tissues of bentonite and clay water with lemon and apple cider vinegar during fasting is not a problem do not refuse it this is not a problem will cholesterol increase in some people yes because a fat cell consists of cholesterol and triglycerides the body can only burn triglycerides not cholesterol and some people especially those who lose a lot of weight 20-30 kilograms is quite a lot can have high cholesterol I will leave a link in the description so that you can get complete information about LDL and HDL and cholesterol in general do not worry about it if you do everything right and eat a lot of vegetables it is just excess cholesterol leaves the fat cell it must go through the liver and through the gallbladder then get a grip or chum fatigue occurs when potassium reserves and B vitamins are depleted if you restore the deficiency with electrolyte powder, for example, or nutritional yeast everything will pass in a jiffy what else can happen I do not want to go into details but for example the chance of developing kidney stones may increase Potassium citrate will completely cope with this, it will only be needed if you do not get enough potassium from vegetables, but this is clearly not about you. You eat vegetables, do I recommend the program while breastfeeding? Actually, no, during breastfeeding you should not go on diets and try to lose weight, you need to maximize your nutrition. They are worried about starvation, especially since so much comes out of fat cells. The same thing happens with pregnancy. Just eat healthy food and give up all attempts to lose weight or maintain weight. By the way, it is very important during pregnancy to have cod liver oil or grass-fed animal liver in your diet because if you consume the right amount of vitamins and not from pills but from food, you can prevent many problems with the dental arch and malocclusion. You want your child to have a good bone structure and not be forced to wear braces. He needs vitamins and microelements, so with these microelements and fat-soluble vitamins, cod liver oil, seaweed, natural microelements. Can children follow this program? If the child is really overweight, I would probably  He said yes, but if not, I would advise adapting the diet, maybe adding some fruits that aren't the sweetest, but I wouldn't worry too much about berries, maybe bananas, sweet potatoes, and yams would work too, but in general, their metabolism is so fast that they need some kind of starch, otherwise they'll become completely skinny. Is it possible to have proof coffee? This question is often asked. They drink a cup in the morning to avoid hunger, and it's not a problem. But if you add fat or coconut oil, that's already considered a meal, and it can slightly increase insulin. I mean, try it and see how it affects your weight loss. Drink it for a week, then do n't drink it for a week, and see how it affects your weight. Some people are doing well, some are n't. The only thing I would do is replace the butter with coconut oil, and you'll start losing weight right away. Experiment, but don't drink a lot of coffee. It stimulates the adrenal glands. A cup in the morning is just right. As for milk, a little organic milk won't hurt. Kombucha. If you drink kombucha, for most people, it's not a problem. Kombucha can contain from 2 to 10  Make sure the drink has no more than two grams of sugar per serving. This is one of the products that can potentially knock you out of ketosis, or it may not. Try it, but for those looking for an alcohol replacement, I would recommend this. Take a glass and drink it. It has gases, a texture like beer, and it relaxes, but don't drink too much. Know your limits. If you drink too much, it can increase acidity, lower your pH too much, disrupt your breathing, and cause insomnia. There's a lot of information out there. These are the main questions. Share your thoughts in the comments, and thanks for watching.