This video is for those who just learned about China and are wondering whether to start. Maybe your friends told you about it and you are not sure and are doing some research. This video is for you. There are a number of reasons why you should start the keto diet. One of these reasons is long-term effectiveness. When you go on a diet, you should think about its prospects. Many people quit diets because of cravings for red foods. One of the big advantages of the ketogenic diet is that it will rid you of these cravings. If you don't have any cravings, you can stay on the diet for a long time. We are surrounded by so many temptations in life: bread, pasta, cookies, cakes, and the like. If you are craving them, this diet is not for you, you won't last. Another important indicator is whether it gives results. Does it work? Yes, it works and gives noticeable results, because it corrects what initially causes you to be overweight. People have excess weight because they have excess insulin in their bodies. Doctors check not the level of this hormone, but blood sugar. If you take an insulin test on an empty stomach, then  It will be too high. The hormone insulin is responsible for the accumulation of fat. If there is insulin in the body, the body does not burn fat. So this diet corrects the insulin level so that the body begins to burn fat. The metabolism speeds up and the problem of getting stuck at a certain level below which everything does not drop no matter what you do is solved. Let's move on. Is this diet safe? Perhaps you have heard that children eat high-fat foods and it clogs blood vessels and leads to a heart attack. However, those are not high-fat diets. The reason it works is not because of the high fat content, but because of the reduction of carbohydrates. And I'm not talking about vegetables. Sugar is the so-called dirty chum salmon. This is when you eat anything. The main thing is that there are few carbohydrates. Let me explain this point. When you reduce the consumption of carbohydrates and sugars, you lower insulin, bringing its levels back to normal. The benefits of this alone are enormous. It will remove life from your liver, rid you of internal fat around the organs in the abdominal cavity, and your stomach will become flat. This will reduce various inflammations and increase oxygen levels. This is incredible. It will be easier for you to breathe by reducing carbohydrate levels, consuming fat and burning fat. You release less CO2 and the body is supplied with more oxygen. Those who consume carbohydrates have more CO2 in the body, that is, carbon dioxide and less oxygen. So, this diet is good at least for saturating the body with oxygen. Sports activities will be more effective. The level of free radicals will decrease. This is a kind of tissue oxidation. Oxidation can be compared to rust on a car, but in this case, the insides rust. High-carbohydrate diets literally cause rusting inside the arteries of the brain, eyes, and kidneys. Thanks to ketogenic diets, the level of these destructive free radicals decreases. The sixth reason is that brain cell function improves, as does mental abilities, attention, memory, concentration, and mood. As you can see, the benefits of the ketogenic diet are enormous. However, if we take the healthy version of the ketogenic diet, we move to a new level. What does this mean? The principle is this: become healthy to lose weight. They lose weight to become healthy. If you want to lose weight to then become healthy, but you do it unhealthily, you may end up looking unhealthy. You've probably seen that some people look bad after losing weight, but with the healthy version, ketogenic diets are thinner. you will look good healthy means getting all the nutrients and it also means using high-quality foods healthy and colors are very very important for longevity and also not to gain weight these nutrients are important for the regenerative processes in the body our body droid tissues from high-quality materials that is food and nutrients that allow these materials to become tissues the next question is whether it is tasty you understand such a thing any food that you are drawn to even if it is harmful there are options acceptable for heta this is pizza and pasta and cakes and cookies you can eat their adapted versions for theta carbohydrates channel and you can not cope with the taste of food without consuming added sugar and by the way if you don't know yet ki it means ketones and ketones are a by-product of burning fat so if you want to lose weight wouldn't it be wise to focus on burning fat what is this and the essence is this is the best way to lose weight if I have n't convinced you yet to start ketosis let me touch on the problems of other diets the reason other diets don't work is that they allow too many carbohydrates carbohydrates prevent you from starting  Burn fat if you take your blood sugar level, it should be 8085 when tested on an empty stomach, this amount is only one teaspoon of sugar in your entire body. Did you know that the average American consumes thirty-one teaspoons of sugar per day? That's why most people have prediabetes and diabetes. Too many carbohydrates. Another problem with diets is that the ingredients are very harmful. Soy protein isolate is not natural, it damages the liver. Soy is a gamma product, meaning it contains the chemical glyphosate. Dextrose is a synthetic sugar used in many diets. Dextrin is also smalt, which is even more harmful than sugar. Milk proteins, cows are fed GMO grains, soy and corn. Cows should graze in the meadow. There is also hidden sugar in technical shakes in all bars and the like. Another problem with diets is that they allow too many snacks between meals, but they miss one very important thing: we combine light and this intermittent fasting. The whole point of intermittent fasting is not to eat so often. It works not by reducing calories.  and by reducing the frequency, if you don't eat so often, real magic happens: the body is repaired, inflammation decreases, metabolism begins to recover, all sorts of miracles happen. That's why we try to combine intermittent fasting with healthy ones. The next point is proteins. Many diets are high in protein with added sugar, and this is simply destructive. Mixing added sugar with proteins leads to the formation of sticky blood. This is called glycation. This is a kind of combination of sugar and protein in one molecule. They accumulate in the cells in the lens, which leads to cataracts, leads to diabetes, and Alzheimer's causes a lot of problems in the body. The same thing happens when combining sugar and fat. A very big advantage of this diet is that you consume a lot of healthy fats, but without sugar, so there are no side effects. Okay, the last two points of a low-fat diet are not long-term, because you improve the body's fat-soluble vitamins. Yes, with intermittent fasting, nothing will come of it. You will constantly want to eat. Also, with low-calorie diets, you do not give the body the necessary nutrients, and intermittent fasting becomes almost impossible.  So, healthy theta plus intermittent fasting is the best choice. In the description, there's a link to a step-by-step description of what to eat, how, and when. Good luck, and if you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.