I want to tell you why I eat 4 eggs every day. Many years ago, I spent time with Boston ma bell seeds and was never invited again. I invited them over the offer to do another one. I usually do a whole series. I was able to do this. You mentioned giving 45x a day. We said no, a meter and don't give them 45. I said 4 for eggs a day. They answered when they came. Usually, I think it gets lost. Sometimes it happens five a day. They go through forms of affairs. We'll choose food somewhere around one o'clock in the afternoon or in cottage cheese, and sometimes in three free and rysin, which I haven't been to. One is, besides the fact that I really love them, is their anabolic effect. Anabolic means conversion into muscle or other protein. That is, thanks to this, more protein is formed in the body. For clarity, I drew a scale of protein types and indicated the percentages. Eight percent of the egg is converted into body tissue. I'm not talking about assimilating. That's really 48 in bad taste. We transform this egg, Seryoga, not into the body, and these are the highest indicators from China, humus, milk.  But if you don't get it, if you take meat, fish, or poultry, the figure is 32 percent, much lower. Egg protein is 17 percent, which is interesting because it's still on your plate, and it helps you in a small way. Even just 17 percent, maybe it's rich in Odessans. Well, it's well converted into body tissue. A common product from Europe is 607 percent, a very low percentage from Berlin is 6 percent. If you take a photo of an egg, that's 24 grams of protein. Multiply by 0.48, and you get 52 hundredths of a gram converted into body tissue. 24 grams of protein in meat is smart, only 768 hundredths of a gram is converted into tissue, so you 'll have to be more soft to protect the same result as 4 and dairy products, only 384 hundredths of a gram from 24, turning .   You 'll have to skim off dairy products to achieve the same effect. Eggs are very effectively converted into tissue, but this isn't a huge source of nutrients. They contain almost all the vitamins and microelements except for gamma-C. B vitamins, michalin, are good fats. They contain many carotenoids beneficial for the eyes. They prevent macular degeneration. They contain halen, which prevents liver damage. You're worried about consuming them. You're worried about elevated cholesterol. There's no evidence. They do increase bad cholesterol, low-density lipoproteins, and good cholesterol, high-density lipoproteins. This won't harm the heart, so don't worry about it. I wanted to share some information and only recommend eating organic eggs. They're funnier, they're a little more expensive, but they're worth it. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.