Hello, it's me again and today we will answer the question of whether physical exercise is necessary on a keto diet. First, we will talk about weight loss. Diet. In the case of a healthy diet, this diet is responsible for almost 85 percent of the weight lost, and exercise is responsible for only 15 percent, which is very little. However, physical exercise is very useful for achieving your goal, but it is useful not only for losing weight. Firstly, it improves the supply of oxygen to the brain, heart, and indeed throughout the body, and this is important. It reduces stress. It increases your fitness, agility, and mobility. Your performance if you are engaged in a certain type of exercise. 4. Without exercise, it is very difficult to increase and maintain tone. 5. And this is one of the most important points: overcoming atrophy in women going through menopause. So-called atrophy is likely to occur. It looks like fat, but in fact, it is a loss of muscle mass. Many women in menopause experience this due to the fact that the adrenal glands do not support the ovaries. If the adrenal glands are working at the limit and are already tired, then at the beginning of menopause there is a surge in cortisol, which has a strong effect.  A catabolic effect, in other words, breaks down protein in the muscles, especially in the thighs and buttocks, and turns it into fat on the stomach and lower back. Therefore, often what seems like cellulite is not actually cellulite. Lost muscle mass is a pie, and you will have to exercise for two years to get rid of it. This is important to know because if you think it is fat and are on a diet, you will be upset because there will be no visible results and you will have to constantly and for a long time train these muscles. Since the adrenal glands are involved here, recovery plays a big role when performing exercises. Duration, intensity, and recovery are taken into account. If you have problems with the adrenal glands or have started menopause, the main thing is that the duration is very short, the intensity is very high, and the recovery is very long. You should adhere to this principle. You do not need to exercise on a treadmill for a long time with a medium load and a short recovery. This change will not give. It is also very important not to overdo it with training. It would be very good to start with one workout a week, then twice a week, no need three times, unless you want to recover very quickly. I wanted to talk about this right here. It is impossible to build muscle mass without exercise. If you want to add  muscle mass exercises play an important role in improving blood sugar levels exercises help to cope with insulin resistance is also a plus 8 they help to sleep better and I know from personal experience that after exercise I sleep better 9 joint flexibility getting rid of stiffness is extremely important 25 to 43 years old I myself exercised little and my joints became very rigid middle I did not pay attention to exercises and now at 44 years old exercises have really helped to increase joint flexibility and this was sarcasm because I am 54 I have been doing physical exercises for a very long time and so on number 10 blood circulation exercises help the blood to place nutrients throughout the body in the kidneys and liver and brain the heart is also a plus and finally a plus for the cardiovascular system the heart and there is a plus to study if you give it a load of exercises it will work better I know it is hard to believe but many people resist exercises they do not like them you can even say hate them I recommend walking to these people maybe they like dancing and this will also suit hiking is an excellent exercise and many people simply need a personal trainer because with a personal trainer they will achieve much  As lively as you are, that's all, thanks for watching.