So you just watched my first grain and video and this is video number 2, let's dwell on some points in more detail, this is primarily for those who are new to the channel, having repeated I have two thousand 500 videos so that you do not get confused in all sorts of nuances, this is the second video that you should watch, we combine a healthy keto diet with intermittent fasting, well, let's get started in the morning, you need to hold out without food as long as possible, you do not need to eat if you do not feel hungry, this is the main point, in fact, many people eat without feeling hungry and they do not understand why it does not work and there is no result, but the body finally began to burn fat, you feed it again, the following happens, the insulin level rises, it grows, as a result, the blood sugar level drops and after an hour and a half you will be hungry again, so in fact, it is what you ate last night that determines whether you will be hungry in the morning if you follow this diet correctly, as I say with two meals a day, in the morning you will wake up without feeling hungry, so the goal is to hold out as long as possible, perhaps you will not hold out until lunch and you need eat at 11:01 have breakfast at this time, however, you should try to have breakfast as late as possible until your body adapts to burning fat, they are a zahara, the transition to a full did os can take from three to five days, sometimes longer, this is the first rule of thumb if you eat twice a day with a four-hour interval, that is, you eat, then wait 4 hours, then go again, this will be in the so-called window, as a result, your hunger will not last 20 hours, this is great, it will lead to significant results, intermittent fasting will not lead to weight loss only if a person has menopause, hypothyroidism, or he has already practiced diets because of a slow metabolism, he will have to eat not twice a day, but once a day, and then he will begin to lose weight. There are people who lose weight very slowly even with one meal a day, they need to increase this interval even more because their metabolism is completely dead, I have rarely seen this, but some people have a very slow metabolism from birth, the reasons for this can be different, they probably need to eat every other day, I will continue until their system recovers, and with everyone else we will talk about what to eat first  meal and what in the second I asked a lot of people and this is what we are with them and Dima eggs I eat 4 eggs a day you can eat from 2 to 4 eggs from chickens raised on natural feed they are more expensive but they are worth it it is very important that the eggs are organic and the eggs of poultry farms are just terrible quality then comes avocado it has a huge amount of potassium and very healthy fats so you will be full longer cheese and if you are a man and you have problems with the prostate and eat cheese but if the cheese is high-quality and organic from cows raised on grass feed and better cheese from goat's milk then this is not a problem then bacon some do not want to eat bacon there is nothing wrong with it I love bacon buying it at farmers markets if you buy bacon in a health food store choose organic and nitrate-free sugar should be less than 1 gram and by the way in bacon and in general in pork there is a lot of vitamin B1 and if someone says that bacon is harmful to the nose if chicken I will allow myself to disagree because Chicken if you don't get it from farmers is just disgusting. Next, nut butters. You can have almond butter, peanut butter. The main thing is without sugar, a couple of tablespoons. The purpose of nut butter is to give you enough fat, especially at the beginning, so you can last longer without feeling hungry. If you eat at 12, eat cutlets or just a piece of lamb or whatever you want. 85-170 grams. Let's say if you are young and have a fast metabolism, eat 220 grams, or if you are an athlete, eat 220 grams. If you have a large build and need more protein, eat 220 grams. I would not exceed this amount in one meal. I am not talking about the amount of protein, but the size of the piece of meat itself. 85-170 or 220 grams. There is no need to calculate the amount of protein in pieces of meat and this changes a lot. Next come vegetables. They can be steamed. Some can be eaten raw or salad. I eat a lot of salad. We need a lot of salad. Some people divide a portion of salad. This is a dream meal and this  They eat 5 and 5 glasses or 4 and 4 glasses. 4 glasses is not really that much, this is an average-sized portion. Personally, I eat my entire daily salad intake at once, about 10 glasses, sometimes even more. I'm used to it. If after you eat greens and you feel worse, this means that your bacteria are not living exactly where they should. Perhaps you have what is called Siber. The link is in the description. In this case, vegetable consumption should be reduced, otherwise the fiber in vegetables will retain fluid. You may start to bloat and you will not lose weight. It's not that you are not losing weight, you just retain fluid. After all, after the salad, you should feel good. You can eat a little salad and gradually increase the portion. Who, in your opinion, eats fiber from those same vegetables. Bacteria, but it is possible that there simply aren't enough of them for this. There may be many reasons in the description. There will be a link to a video about this. Olive oil, balsamic vinegar, excellent dressings. Perhaps a handful of nuts or seeds are additional fats. This is one of the menu options. This is the second one, just as an example. There is in the description.  A link to my site where there are examples of various dishes with recipes and also examples of typical dishes for anyone. Let's say you eat salmon. It's a wonderful fish. It's one of the best proteins. It also contains omega 3, and we need high-quality protein. You can also eat sardines, they contain healthy fats. I have a video on this topic. Seafood is a source of iodine. You can eat fish or seafood, and for dinner, salad and a fat bomb. What is a fat bomb? It's something like cookies with healthy fats. I have recipes for them. Many people see that they provide satiety to last until the next meal. When the body learns to burn fat, you can do without them, but you burn your own fat, but at first they will help you. Here are some more examples of dishes. You can eat chicken, preferably with the skin. Make it crispy, or wings. 85-170 grams of chicken meat or wings. Protein should be in moderation. Asparagus or any other vegetable you like, or salad, and olives as fat. Personally, I eat a lot of nuts, usually after meals, until completely  If you don't get full, it helps you not to eat for longer. The main thing is not to have an evening snack. You need to add enough fat to last from dinner until breakfast. I realized that the greatest human weakness is boredom. You have to keep yourself busy here so as not to get bored and not eat something bad. You can take vitamins, no problem, anytime when you drink water, add a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar, lemon juice. Limit your morning coffee to 1 cup. You can drink tea, you can add Bullet Circle, this is oil, M network, and coconut oil. You can mix it all in a blender and 5. If you want, especially at the beginning of the stage, you can do without the first meal, no problem, but if after a couple of weeks this slows down your weight loss, it is better to exclude these excess fats. The desire to snack means that you need more fats and more greens and vegetables. This will solve the problem. The craving for bread means a lack of B vitamins. I recommend electrolytes in powder and B vitamins, or nutritional yeast. They come in tablets. This is very important for To avoid the problem of sea salt, don't be afraid to add it. Because you need salt, you will lose fluids and need to compensate. It's best to exercise during fasting, that is, in the morning, so it will be more beneficial. Adaptation may take longer, but an indicator that you are truly in ketosis is that you are not craving anything and have no feeling of hunger. That's when the process is underway, this is the best criterion. Now you have a new layer of information and knowledge. See you in the third video. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.