Hi, I was asked how long I need to follow this diet and intermittent fasting. Personally, I think it's my whole life, but maybe some people do n't know about this. I had a patient about 10 years ago, he called me one day and said, "Dr. Burke, your program isn't working." I told him, "I mean, you can't." I followed it for 2 weeks to lose weight. He needed to lose a little weight and gained weight again. I asked, "What did you change?" Hey, I wasted the program, and the program won't work if you don't follow it. So, I'll have to follow it for the rest of my life. I say, "Well, if you want to be healthy," and that's what I realized. There's a lack of education in all of this, which is why I release so many videos. I want to tell you how it works. Why ketone and intermittent fasting are so effective. In my opinion, we're faced with a misunderstanding of why they're needed at all. It's not just for weight loss. We have a combination of ketones, the benefits of ketones themselves are enormous, more oxygen, less CO2 to make breathing easier. Ketones can serve as raw materials for the myelin sheath and help the nervous system and even the brain.  This is a higher quality fuel for the brain and heart. If these organs are damaged, ketones will be much better nutrition for them, they have less waste. There is also a healthy version of ketones, which I recommend. Thanks to it, the body receives all the necessary nutrients and is much better than the other version of ketones, the so-called dirty color, on which they can eat almost anything. The main thing is to have few carbohydrates. There are benefits of intermittent fasting. Thanks to ketones, insulin can also decrease, but intermittent fasting will help significantly reduce insulin. Lowering insulin through and on is important at least because today this is one of the most serious problems, this is cardiovascular diseases, this is fatty liver, and by reducing insulin, reducing glucose, you stop oxidative stress in the body and in the list of factors causing oxidation, this is like rusting of the body. Glucose ranks at the top of the list of factors causing oxidation. High blood sugar is a high- carbohydrate diet, so by reducing oxidation, we reduce inflammation as a result of inflammation in the liver and this helps to exclude cirrhosis, scarring stops rusting, the brain's condition improves, and especially intermittent fasting is able to restore nerve cells, it improves.  Memory increases, neuronal protection improves hormonal balance. Firstly, more fats will enter the active system thanks to the fat in food, which is what a number of hormones are made of. You also regulate insulin resistance, which improves the absorption of amino acids needed for the production of those hormones that are built from proteins, fats, or cholesterol. You also help the immune system, especially with intermittent fasting, you stimulate stem cells for the immune system, so this is an excellent way to cope with inflammation and poor immunity, especially with autoimmune diseases. Next comes the preservation of the nervous system. Why can high insulin and blood sugar lead to peripheral neuropathy, and so there are benefits for the nerves. Kidney condition will improve. The kidneys cause a lot of problems with diabetes. That is, if you lower your sugar, you protect your kidneys, especially if you maintain a healthy diet with plenty of vegetables and potassium. Almost all vision problems, including cataracts and glaucoma, damage to the eyes, rudiments of floaters before the eyes, and macular degeneration, are all associated with deductions due to high Sugar is a big part of diabetes, so diabetics have a lot of eye problems. And since intermittent fasting is so beneficial for healthy athletes, you shouldn't give it up after you've lost weight. Here's the answer to the original question: This is a long-term method for life. By improving your health, you increase your health reserves, and you can sometimes allow yourself to break the diet. But these are gene diets. There are no stages. It's not like you strictly follow it first and then add carbohydrates, as happens with many other children. Finally, if you've reached your weight loss goal and, let's say, don't plan to lose weight further, instead of increasing carbohydrates, you can increase calories and fats. At a minimum, this will help you stay at your comfortable level. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.