Ok, hello, in this video we will review the whale or intermittent fasting from A to Z, we will see what is happening and what obstacles may arise. First of all, I filmed this for beginners so that they can see the whole picture. It looks complicated, but let's figure it out. So, there is breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and of course, snacks, snacks, the average person eats throughout the day, class, belly fat, fatigue, memory problems, concentration, cravings for different foods, high blood pressure, anxiety, depression, and diabetes. And also, the common denominator of all this is high insulin levels, you have insulin resistance, and with it, insulin increases. Yes, that's where all these symptoms come from. These symptoms are just the tip of the iceberg. That's where the iceberg is. We all need to fix this, and we will do it. We will use ketones, because you will reduce carbohydrates, and this will lower insulin. Intermittent fasting works because you eat less often, not less, and less often than us, because every time you eat, you stimulate insulin production. This combination perfectly lowers insulin, and as you started on the first, third day, there may be a transition period during which  You don't have symptoms of low blood sugar such as dizziness, a year diagonal, impossible headache, you need to understand that this is temporary and if you give up now when you don't get all these benefits in the future, just be prepared for it and get through this period. You can increase potassium and B vitamins so that everything goes more smoothly. I recommend electrolyte powder, nutritional yeast tablets. We will only have three meals without snacks because we are switching from sugar to fat. When you make the transition, you will create new cellular mechanisms that work on fat, not on sugar. This is ketogenic adaptation. How to do this? You need to add fat to each meal to satisfy hunger. Adjust the amount of fat to get the right amount. Not too much so that there is no bloating, pain in the right shoulder and headaches. Office, but enough to last from this meal. Before that, experiment with the amount. I'm talking about a wider range of MRIs. Pecans, walnuts, eggs, avocados are suitable. Any of these fats are useful, and if you choose between, for example, a chopped cutlet, which has twice as much fat as There is a protein secret in which there is twice as much protein as fat. It is better to eat a candy because fat helps you last from one meal to the next. Be sure to eat a lot of greens, whether it is salad or vegetables, because we need to increase calories. It is important to need 4700 milligrams of potassium, which is 7 to 10 cups of salad. It is rich in nutrients, which allows you to get rid of hunger because the body will eventually be saturated with nutrients. You do not eat empty calories, but first of all, you will get a lot of potassium, which will help solve the problem of insulin resistance. You may have constipation, for example, in this case, you need to add even more potassium, or it could be from vegetables that you are not used to consuming. For example, too much of it can cause constipation, and if so, change the vegetables. But let's say you have a kid. Fatigue, you get tired. This is usually a sign of a lack of salt, so add a little sea salt. By the way, when you are on a diet, you need about one teaspoon of sea salt per day. Here you need about a quarter teaspoon. We need more sea salt. They are table salt to prevent fatigue and help.  The body with electrolytes and chlorides is something we do for some time, you get used to it and gradually switch to two meals a day. Let's do this: take breakfast and start eating it during the Fowler period. In other words, forgive yourself in the morning I'm hungry. No, great, wait. You push tomorrow further and further away. If you do everything right, it will turn out that you've been fasting all night and are n't hungry in the morning. You push it further and further away until victory. Now we don't have breakfast and only two meals a day. This is a gradual, slow transition. Don't eat if you're not hungry. At this stage, many are perplexed. What is going on? I was losing weight at this stage. Now I've stopped. What's happening? Don't dwell on everything and why. Because if you change many people who do this, it doesn't seem like they're loaded with fat and have low muscle density. They have low power. In fact, they have atrophy. They think it's just fat, but it's atrophy. So, your muscles start to grow. Now all this protein is retained in the body, it becomes heavier, so you don't lose weight. Because muscle weighs more than fat. Volume is the best indicator of success. Measure your waist, it should decrease if you do everything right. Sometimes you may have high uric acid levels, you may notice symptoms of gout. This may not happen, but if it happens at this stage of the transition, it's normal. If you have a predisposition to kidney stones, you may notice slight pain in the lower back. This is due to elevated uric acid. In this case, you need to consume enough lemon juice, water with lemon, or just lemon. Lemon is great for getting rid of this and counteracts the effects of gout stones and uric acid. I recommend apple cider vinegar. It also helps to cope with this. Add a tablespoon to water and drink with food. Add lemon and you're done. Here's what else can happen. You can convey that because you come to love for two meals and are afraid because you're used to more shure. Take it, I'll get hungry and you start to feel offended. You just need to learn a lesson from this and adjust your diet because you don't need to overeat. It's hard to believe, but perhaps you'll break down and the next day you 'll find that you're as if you were much hungrier than yesterday, you're craving carbohydrates because you just fought.  Without Tito, just stick to the program, get back in shape and continue, but if you eat prohibited foods, you will have a blood sugar imbalance and the next day you will notice it. I'm very hungry. Yes, that's what I'm talking about. If you have two meals, don't eat low-calorie foods and eat something that has a lot of nutrients so that you really get fat. If you need 85-170 grams of protein, a lot of vegetables and the rest is enduro fat. At this time, a friend calls you and says you're on a diet. You know that it destroys the thyroid gland, it will weaken it. Let me explain. Firstly, we don't have a high-calorie diet. We eat less, but the amount of calories is high. Secondly, your body becomes more efficient. Fuel becomes more efficient and the need for thyroid hormones decreases. You won't need so many thyroid hormones. If the level drops a little, this is completely normal. Hair will not fall out. Nothing bad will happen. This is completely normal, especially if the load on the thyroid gland is within normal limits. Less if you are on intermittent fasting. And then, upon examination by a doctor, it may turn out that  Your cholesterol is high, don't panic and take a statin. Understand that fat consists of triglycerides and cholesterol. When you break down cholesterol, it must be excreted through the blood. It may temporarily increase, but most of the cholesterol in the body is produced by the body itself, and only 10 percent comes from diet. Eat more, less is produced. Eat less, more is produced. Our body produces about 3,000 milligrams of cholesterol per day. It is needed for hormones, for vision, for the brain, for the nervous system, and serves as a band-aid to heal damage. The problem is high insulin, which produces inflammation and destroys arteries. If cholesterol is slightly elevated, this is temporary, it is not a problem. Be sure to eat a lot of vegetables. I recommend watching my video. The link is in the description below the video. Here we have 18 to 23 hours of intermittent fasting. Here we begin to burn fat. The process of autophagy really starts. Autophagy is a condition in which cells process old and damaged parts, and bacteria, candida fungi, and mold are cleansed. This is what happens.  Self-cleansing skin will look better, neuroprotective effect on the brain is demonstrated, memory is improved, mood is improved, cardiovascular function is improved, and you save a lot of money because you no longer eat 30 or six times a day. Now you have two meals or even one. Save from 300 to 600 dollars a month. Nail polish, no thanks. Now you see the general idea and the huge benefits that can be obtained. All these difficulties may not exist, but I want you to understand that if they arise, there is a solution. The point is, keep moving until you get here. Thanks for watching.