Let's discuss intermittent fasting, low-carb diets, and the thyroid gland. I often hear that low-carb diets and fasting are harmful to the thyroid gland, as if they destroy it. This is completely untrue. Let me first explain the basics. We have the pituitary gland, this small gland in the brain, the size of a pea, and it sends signals to the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland controls it, located at the base of the neck and is about 6 centimeters wide. It is so called because it has the shape of a shield, and this gland controls the main hormone. The pituitary gland controls it through thyroid- stimulating hormone, a hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland. Then the thyroid gland produces its main hormone called T4. T4 is the number of iodine atoms in the hormone molecule. T4 is an inactive thyroid hormone. For it to work, it must be made active by 80 percent. Activation occurs in the liver, the remaining 20 in the kidneys. When a certain enzyme activates it, it loses one iodine atom and turns into 33, this is the active form of thyroid hormone. So T3 does its job, it participates in metabolic processes, accelerating and facilitating them in almost all cells. Having done its job, it sends a feedback signal to the pituitary gland, indicating that it has obeyed the order, the task is completed, and you can connect. So, there is a whole feedback system here, and it depends on a lot of things, such as the environment, food, and so on. Some things can really affect these hormones. A low-carb diet and fasting can reduce T3 production to the lower limit of normal. This is an active form. This is not necessarily an abnormal decrease. It can be a decrease within the permissible range. Why does it drop to the lower limit of normal? Simply because T3 constantly receives feedback from the outside. If you eat a lot, you need more of it to adjust your metabolism. If you eat less or less often, it can slow down, while the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone remains normal. Based on this, a diagnosis of hypothyroidism is made. Thyroid-stimulating hormone is normal. T4 will also be normal. You will see only a slight drop in T3. This is only because you don’t eat as often as before and consume less sugar than before, and this is absolutely normal, because the body already  You don't need as much T3 as before, something else can also happen. Elevated reverse T3. What is it? When the body doesn't need a lot of T3, it can convert it into an inactive form. It's called reverse T3. Reverse D3 is similar to T4, it's just also an inactive form of T3. Why does it increase? Because the body adapts to new conditions. It doesn't need as much T3i, it converts it into an inactive form. After all, if you continue to produce T3, which is no longer needed, hyperthyroidism can develop. If it weren't for this mechanism, T3 would continue to be produced in excess. You could develop hyperthyroidism. When you eat a low-calorie diet without changing your carbohydrates, consume a lot of carbohydrates, as in most low-calorie diets. Or you have stress or an infection. Your thyroid-stimulating hormone production may change, and your T3 and even T4 levels may decrease. But if you do intermittent fasting and lose weight, eat few carbohydrates, you have a lot of energy, feel good, and  No hunger and no hair loss. Your AT3 is at the lower limit of normal with a normal TSH. You know, this is a completely normal situation that doesn't promise any problems. I also want to say something about iodine. Iodine deficiency can easily lead to hypothyroidism, but a high-quality diet. Laminaria can protect the thyroid gland. It is very useful for women; it helps to establish estrogen balance. It is useful for men for the prostate. This is a vital microelement. Well, thank you for listening to the end. See you later. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Enlarged thyroid glands and nodules. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid gland, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, a list of products, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.