Let's talk about how healthy pizza is. Is it possible to get any benefit from pizza at all? Perhaps, but it should be a healthy version of pizza, that is, this pizza. Now I'll share a recipe. Pizza has always been my favorite food. I ate an incredible amount of them. I remember how I got bloated in my youth after eating a whole pizza. I felt sluggish and tired, but I didn't care because it was so delicious. And when I switched to keto and a low-carb diet, I still didn't want to give up pizza. So, I dug up a very good recipe and recorded a video about it. There will be a link to it below. Today, in this video, I'll briefly summarize its contents. So, what health benefits can you get from pizza if you prepare my version? It will be low in carbohydrates. When there are few carbohydrates in food, you lower insulin. By lowering insulin, you will lose weight, get rid of fat in the liver, your cognitive function and mood will improve, you will have fewer problems with blood sugar, food cravings will decrease, and you will feel good, so it's possible.  Eat the fish and leave the water alone. As for pizza, there are many other dishes that you can continue to eat if you adjust their composition. To make pizza healthy, you need the right ingredients. The most harmful part of a regular pizza is its base because wheat flour is usually used to bake it. In our recipe, cauliflower is used instead. Cauliflower can imitate starch and is used in many tetta dishes. It is neutral and goes well with many things. Rice is made from cauliflower, a pizza base, mashed potatoes, and so on. There are a lot of recipes. If you choose the right ingredients, it turns out very similar to a regular pizza. Cauliflower is a cruciferous vegetable. It has a lot of phytonutrients. It has quite a lot of vitamin C. Salads, vitamins B12 and B6. Cauliflower has few carbohydrates. It has very little sugar and a lot of fiber. I will try to explain everything as simply as possible and tell you how to avoid the biggest mistake when preparing such a pizza. The most important thing is to make the base correctly. Take a bowl and put two cups of chopped cabbage in it. cauliflower, of course, I advise taking organic, then add 2 whole eggs, I of course advise organic pastured eggs, these are the eggs of chickens that graze and eat grass and worms themselves, and on top, two cups of mozzarella cheese, you can grate it, it’s also organic, of course, while you’re doing all this, preheat the oven to about 220 degrees, then mix it all well and take baking parchment, mold the pizza base on the parchment, I usually put it on a cutting board, then I take this entire cutting board together with the parchment and the pizza base on it, which needs to be placed in the preheated oven and very carefully move this piece of parchment with the blank, but without a cutting board, only the parchment with the pizza base into the oven, in other words, you don’t need to put pizza dressing on the base at the very first stage of cooking it in the oven, first the base bakes, then you take it out, season it and then put it back in the oven. In the past, we made this mistake of putting everything in at once. you need to put it on the base and put it in the oven, in the end it turned out no matter, everything is somehow underbaked, you can’t bake eos new dressing at the same time, the dressing burns, but the base, on the contrary, needs more time to bake with spices, there are options, you can add something directly to the base, this is a good idea, but you can do it later if you add spices, you can take half a teaspoon of garlic, half a teaspoon of oregano, half a teaspoon of basil and then add a little sea salt, pepper and other spices to taste, sometimes I add spices to the base and sometimes not, as for baking the base, this needs to be done for at least ten minutes, after ten minutes, look at the result, sometimes it may take from 12 to 15 minutes, bake until lightly browned again, then take it out, return it to the cutting board, let it cool a little, then put out the dressing, first I grease the base with low-carb tomato sauce, then put a layer of grated mozzarella, then pieces of sausage or perrone, sometimes I put slices of tomato on top and I can also add  olives or even mushrooms, in short, make any dressing you like on the resulting base, then put the pizza back in the oven for another 10-12 minutes until the base is fried, take it out, let it cool and your delicious pizza is ready. Since the whale diet has already gained great popularity, everyone and their dog now produces keto-compatible products, including a ready-made cauliflower base. There is one company that has products that I used and which I really like, this company is Caboche. I do not receive any compensation from them and am not affiliated with them in any way, but when I see a good product made from quality ingredients, I recommend it. Look at these ingredients: cauliflower, mozzarella cheese and cheese starter, egg, almond flour, and cashew flour, flaxseed meal, cream of tartar and baking soda. I really appreciate manufacturers who do not add all sorts of whale- incompatible ingredients. If you do not have time to make the base, you can take something like this. I also used this product for lasagna and it turned out well. Very tasty, and now let's compare this cauliflower base with similar products from other manufacturers. Here's Newmans, and the first ingredient is corn starch. They also added rice flour and tapioca starch. Another brand, Great Value, has rice flour, corn starch, and tapioca starch. Then we have x 1 tick. Here, wheat flour and potato starch. And finally, either Power, they included rice flour, corn starch, and tapioca starch twice. You don't need a base with ingredients that are supposedly keto-compatible and low-carb. Some of them have as many as 29 grams of carbohydrates, and that's just for one serving. The entire base from Caboche has only 3 grams of carbohydrates. The conclusion is that it's possible to cook something both tasty and healthy at the same time. But if you buy a ready-made base in the store, make sure it has the right ingredients. If you don't know what to cook for those, the book "Keto Menu for Two Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from affordable products. Keto Basics and Fasting. Follow the link below.