I was asked a question by a person who wants to know why the keto diet is harmful. Well, let's discuss what the keto diet is, essentially, it's fat burning. So I asked this person if burning fat is harmful. What if a person is skin and bones and has absolutely no fat in his body? Is this harmful for him? But how can burning fat be harmful? On the contrary, it's very useful. This diet is harmful for fast food owners because we recommend not eating simple carbohydrates and fast food. But I would like to distinguish this diet from a healthy keto diet. Because if someone is on that diet, it doesn't mean that they are 100 percent healthy. It becomes healthy when you reduce carbohydrates and insulin levels. This is extremely useful for improving health. It is necessary that your diet on that diet include completely healthy foods so that you get nutrients without eating all sorts of junk. A ketogenic diet is a low-carb, medium-protein, and high-fat diet. To enter ketosis, you only need to reduce carbohydrates. Usually, when they say "dressed"  Diet and food quality are not a subject of discussion. You can consume trans fats, genetically modified fats and oils, and processed foods obtained from grain-fed animals. We want you to adhere to a healthy, improved version of the keto diet. Reducing carbohydrates is already a huge step in the right direction; this alone will significantly improve your health. Next, we'll talk about a condition known as keto acidosis. This condition is dangerous, although very rare. If your body runs out of insulin and you burn so much fat that your blood pH becomes excessively acidic, this is very dangerous. It can only happen under certain conditions. For example, if you have type 1 diabetes and you don't monitor your blood sugar, simply ignore it. Or if you have a serious infection, injury, surgery, or serious illness. If you are generally healthy, follow a healthy keto diet. This does n't look good on you at all. You'll enter titos, but your page won't even come close to the danger zone. There's a link to a video in the description. I recommend watching it to understand this condition. Is the diet harmful? No, it's not harmful. Burning fat is beneficial. That's all. See you later, if you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.