Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. I want to answer the question of how long it takes to enter ketosis. This is fat burning. Good question. People often think that it will happen in two minutes, but it's not such a fast process. Understand one thing: you've lived off sugar all your life and now you need to switch to a completely different fuel. Cells must build new machines that would run on fat. They need to create new enzymes to break down a completely different fuel. This takes time. If you are completely healthy, this can happen in a week, but on average, the restructuring takes from one to a month and a half. The body will change, you will feel different. But how do you know that you are in ketosis? Firstly, you really get full. Then you can go without food for a long time and not be hungry. There is no longer a craving for sweets. The brain works better, you are more focused. There is no fogginess or consciousness. Blood sugar levels are better. Memory becomes sharper. You go to the toilet less at night. These signs indicate ketosis, but during the transition, these symptoms may occur, and this is good because the body is restructuring itself. This is how it should be. You cannot go through this adaptation only halfway. You cannot eat a little sugar every day and think.  The body adapts, you need to reduce sugar to zero so that the process goes all or nothing. If sugar comes in, the body will always burn it and not fat. We train the body to burn fat, and once you come back to this, you won't want to, because you will be much better off. You will lose weight. What to do with such symptoms: fatigue. If you are tired, this means that you have a deficiency of vitamin B5 pantothenic acid. Just start taking it. Your energy will increase. Why? Because B5 is a helper of fat-burning enzymes. If there is a B5 deficiency due to stress, why will you get tired? B5 should be normal. If your muscles cramp, this indicates a potassium deficiency. My diet plan involves eating 7 to 10 glasses of vegetables a day and this problem will not occur. But the ketogenic diet will not be complete if you do not eat vegetables or do not eat enough vegetables. Potassium is needed not only to remove fat from the liver, but also for the nervous system and muscles. It is an electrolyte. Because in ketosis, you lose a lot of water weight, so electrolytes are needed. Salts are another electrolyte. If there is muscle weakness, you need salt, and purified salts help with bloating. Bile acids are my formula. People make this mistake: as soon as they enter ketosis, they immediately start to over-consume fat, causing the gallbladder to swell, causing pain in the right shoulder. This is due to excess fat. Start with a small amount and gradually increase it so as not to overload the digestive system. Sleep problems with the adaptation brick are due to a lack of calcium and magnesium. If you don't sleep or are sleeping worse, take both calcium and magnesium, and you'll fall asleep. I want you to understand that everything takes time. Please be patient. It will work. It always works. You divide this process into more time. Don't expect it to take a day or two, otherwise, after two days, there will be no results, and you'll quit. See you soon. Thank you very much for watching. This is very important to me. Please click share and see you in the next video.