I was recently asked what desserts would help me lose weight and whether it was possible. It is definitely possible. I recommend chum options, a fat bomb made from peanut butter, strawberry cheesecake, brownies, chocolate chip cookies too. These desserts taste almost indistinguishable from their sugar-laden counterparts, only without sugar. Shortbread cookies are finger-licking good. Sponge cake muffins are not bad, and just berries, if you have any, anything, there are quite a lot of recipes on my site, there will be a link in the description, but the main thing to remember is the following two principles. 1. Of course, you need a low- carb dessert. We spend a long time tinkering with recipes to achieve an excellent taste so that you like them. They are all low-carb. 2. A very, very important point is that desserts should have a lot of fat. The problem is that if you eat something low in fat for dessert or between meals, you will remain hungry, you will not be satisfied, and if there is also a lot of sugar, there is little fat, a lot of sugar, you will be hungry within half an hour after this dessert. The dessert should be high in fat, this is the key to intermittent fasting, you will be able to last longer without food. I advise you to eat these desserts if you are not doing intermittent fasting. Why is it that every time you eat anything that has calories, insulin is produced and it is insulin that prevents you from losing weight? You need low-carb foods, this will lower insulin and you need intermittent fasting. Usually, a person has breakfast, then a snack and this is still in the morning, then lunch, then afternoon snack, then dinner and snacks again at night. It's crazy even on a low-carb diet. You understand that you need to gradually stop snacking, but the only way is to add fats. To consume enough fats, you can add dessert or a small fat bomb. This is a small chum salmon dessert. Ideally, you should give up snacks, lengthen the breaks, then give up breakfast and you will only have two meals left. You continue in this spirit and go longer and longer without food. Fasting will lower insulin. You can start losing weight. Then you begin to shorten the break between lunch and dinner to a four-hour window. If you have a lot of excess weight, a slow metabolism and you are no longer young, remove one of these meals and switch to one meal a day and  Don't be afraid to eat quite a lot of fat or even dessert at this meal, it will help you lose weight. The main thing is intermittent fasting, not frequent meals and few carbohydrates. Sometimes problems arise: a person eats these desserts and can't stop, especially in the evening, and just east-west & east. This problem is you must control the amount. Don't eat more than two or three cookies, small brownies, or say, a fat house. A maximum of 2-3 pieces per meal would kill you. And such a problem is snacks between meals, and this is the most important thing that prevents you from losing weight, even with those snacks between meals, including small ones. That's why you need some fat or dessert or something small and fat at the end of the meal, not between meals. If you are hungry between meals, just eat more fat at the end of the meal, so you will last longer without any snacks. Many people snack even when they are not hungry. You just need self-discipline to get rid of this habit. Another mistake is eating foods rich in nutrients. This is called dirty chum, so the healthy version is chum.  A person will get some benefit, but not all of it, because they eat little salad and vegetables and don't eat organic food. Nutrients are important for getting rid of insulin resistance, and they are great for weight loss, especially if you're at a plateau and the last moment of sugar substitutes. There are two substitutes: the first is "Boy" and the second is "Out of the Window." Tapioca, of all the sugar substitutes, these two tend to raise insulin especially strongly, so I don't recommend Boy or tapioca fiber, although I've used it in some recipes. In extreme cases, use just a little bit, almost too often, because they can increase insulin levels. Thanks for watching. Try it and let me know how it turned out. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.