Today we'll talk about the seasonings allowed in China. There seem to be no questions here, but there are so many different nuances and exceptions. Two labels can confuse you, so I'll go through quite a few examples to make it clearer to you. Here's what you should generally pay attention to: BBQ sauce is awful, there's so much hidden sugar in ketchup, and of course it's full of high fructose corn syrup and sugar, but ketchup can be sugar-free. Mustard is usually fine, but it contains sugar. I'll show you. Mayonnaise has a lot of soybean oil and it should be avoided, but I'll show you which one I recommend. Everything's fine with herbs. Pesto is usually fine, I have it, but we'll come back to it. Dressings are big problems, but I'll show you which ones I recommend. Hot sauces are usually fine, they don't add sugar, and salt, and it would seem that this could be different, especially if it's sea salt, but a week ago I was in the store, and whatever you think, they add dextrose and artificial sugar to the salt, and so on. Seasonings are sauces and dressings or herbs that improve the taste of food now.  Let's go through the list and since the font on the labels is very small, I'll put this first thing I'll show you. This yellow mustard is organic. Both products are organic. One is Trader Joe's, the other is 365. Let's look at the joint on both packages and this is what we see. This one doesn't have any sugar, it's organic, which is great, but this one has added sugar. The problem is that the label says there are 0 grams of sugar, but that only means there's less than one gram, and the number of servings here is 52. So, if there's less than one gram of sugar per serving, there won't be any on the label, and it seems like it's not enough, but add up all these teaspoons, and there are 5 grams in one teaspoon, and you'll get a pretty decent amount of hidden sugar, and you won't know, so you need to read the labels and get sugar-free mustard. Okay, let's move on. This is Italian hemp dressing, but I have organic salad dressing, organic hemp seed oil, organic apple cider vinegar, organic basil, organic onion, xanthan gum, organic garlic, organic Italian dressing. Everything's fine, no. I promise it's tasty but quite edible, but Primal Kitchin is an excellent brand. Most of their products are very good. Chipotle and lime mayonnaise, but real mayonnaise with avocado oil is fine. Let's look at the ingredients. Avocado oil, organic eggs, organic egg yolk, organic vinegar, water, sea salt, organic line, ground chipotle, lime zest, organic dried garlic, rosemary extract, no sugar, no soy, a very good product, and so on. Trader Joe's has Thai green coriander. Let's look at water, coconut milk, but that's bad. Corn starch, soybeans, anything soy or non-organic, that's gamova. There's also sugarcane here, so this product is no good. I'll put it over there. But organic green pesto sauce, basil, extra virgin olive oil, so far so good, sunflower oil, cashews, and then potato flakes. I don't really like it, it's not the end of the world, but it's not perfect. Imported olives of different varieties, pitted, green olives, black olives, water, sea salt, wine vinegar.  Oregano, olive oil is great, no problem, and this is probably the only dressing I've found in the store that doesn't have any harmful ingredients. It's semi-hard Parmesan with garlic. It has extra-virgin sunflower oil, Parmesan cheese, Dijon mustard, sea salt, garlic, and anchovy pâté. Then comes sugar, black pepper, unfortunately, there's hidden sugar. We almost found the perfect dressing, but we had to ruin it with sugar. Next, we have a swamp. It contains olives, olive oil, and capers. This dressing is a classic ranch dressing. The first ingredient is canola oil. Unfortunately, canola oil is most often GMO, corn oil, soybean oil, cottonseed oil, and canola oil. 95 times out of a hundred, it's usually Gamova's. Since oil is listed first, it's the most abundant ingredient, so I don't recommend it. Next, the classic ranch is Sir Kensington, with 100% sunflower oil. Here, sunflower oil, cucumber juice, and distilled vinegar are included.  water egg yolk salt garlic lemon juice celery seeds dill black pepper mustard extract a completely suitable product very good I would definitely eat this one and look kimchi sauerkraut organic product cabbage red bell pepper water onion sea salt garlic ginger root cayenne pepper mustard seeds chili lactic acid very good stuff I think I'll eat it later let's move on delicate salad dressing from roasted red pepper brand Sunbird in Plantation the first ingredient is soybean oil and corn syrup you see gamma this is highly not recommended next organic dressing from oil and vinegar from Newmans and it seems to be good stuff organic but still we'll see the composition first splashes organic extra virgin olive oil so far good then organic soybean oil here is a mismatch on one hand the product is organic that is GMO free and this is definitely much better but do I like a lot of my own in oil even though it is organic probably not but this is much better than regular if choosing between this and some of the previous ones I would choose this also here is vinegar mustard organic vinegar very  It's nothing even if you don't take soy into account and by the way, I don't recommend soybean oil at all, even organic, but if you came to a restaurant or if there's nothing else that's a little ok, let's continue Dijon mustard, mustard brands Saint-Germain Hood, like here, distilled vinegar, water, mustard seeds, salt, garlic, spices and turmeric, no problem at all, and finally, mayonnaise with French herbs from Victoria and More is handmade and imagine completely natural, and so we have here sunflower oil, personal yolk, lemon juice, extra virgin olive oil, egg white, water, white vinegar, salt, spices, chives, dill, dried onions, mixed tocopherols, this is vitamin E, a very good product, no problem at all, in general, I wanted to discuss a fairly large set of seasonings so that you understand how to read labels, and you will have to read a lot of labels everywhere and always because sugar is hidden and oils come in different varieties, but if you have time, I strongly advise you to cook all this yourself. In the description, and right here there will be essences for several excellent recipes, take a look.