Today we'll talk about how to follow some kind of gene diet without side effects. If you're thinking about switching to that diet but have heard from other people that it's dangerous. You'll have a lot of side effects. Then this video is for you. I'll show you how to avoid all of this. But when someone tries to dissuade you from the ketogenic diet because of certain side effects, it's better to ask this question: What are the side effects of a high-carb diet? After all, this diet is low-carb. What are the side effects of the standard American diet? We've been experimenting with a high-carb diet for decades and we know that it causes a lot of problems around the world and because of it, a large part of the population has prediabetes or diabetes. So it's just funny to hear someone say that this gene diet is dangerous and has a lot of side effects. The question is, compared to what, the ketogenic diet is one of the oldest forms of epilepsy treatment. Why? Because carbohydrates cause seizures and ketones do not. But I must say that I do not recommend the traditional version of the whale gene diet for ordinary people who want to improve their health or  To lose weight according to it, 90 percent of your diet should be fats. The problem with this version of the keto diet is that it doesn't attach importance to the quality of the products. It even recommends mayonnaise, synthetic vitamins, vegetable oils like soy, which is GMO, and that's 90 percent fat, so there will be a lot of these chemicals, and if you eat margarine, it will be really bad. Vegetables are allowed there, but only in small quantities. So, I advise you to follow a healthy diet. This is a healthy version of the ketogenic diet where we emphasize the importance of food quality. I'm talking about grass-fed pastured eggs, organic food. I recommend nutrient-rich foods and natural vitamins instead of synthetic ones. Most ketogenic diets include five percent carbohydrates, 20 percent protein, and 75 percent fat. If we combine here and make it 10 percent, this will allow us to include many more vegetables in this scheme. I recommend 7 to 10 glasses because vegetables have a lot of fiber and water and little sugar, and we don't take fiber into account in the amount of carbohydrates. Adding vegetables is also good because it significantly reduces  Let's go through the list of side effects. Side effect number one, and with the traditional ghetto diet, is a fence. I think the reason is that this diet has very few vegetables. It is vegetable fiber that feeds the microflora and keeps the intestines functioning normally, not to mention the amount of potassium in vegetables, which helps regulate intestinal activity. Number 2: kidney stones. Why do kidney stones occur? We all have the same diet and ketones. An acidic pH, and it happens that the pH in the body shifts too much toward acidity. This can provoke an excess of uric acid, and uric acid can potentially cause kidney stones. In addition, there are several common grandfather foods rich in ok. Salads can lead to kidney stones. If you are predisposed to them, in particular, spinach. I advise against eating a lot of spinach. It is better to take other vegetables. Almonds. Many people use almond flour for various recipes. If you have a tendency to form stones, you may not want to eat a lot of almonds or almond flour. I always recommend lemon juice or lemons on a ketogenic diet because  that they are rich in expenses that fight kidney stones, make sure that the body receives at least 2 liters of fluid per day and vegetables that are more alkaline will very successfully fight acidity from ketones diary, it can happen if you drink too much oil m network another side effect also if you consume sugar alcohols and use them in recipes found on the Internet, so they should probably be limited, like m-city oil, perhaps at first you will not be able to eat only vegetables how much I advise you to start small and gradually increase perhaps you do not have enough bacteria in the intestines to cope with such a volume of fiber, the bacteria will absorb and process this fiber into fuel, but if you do not have enough bacteria, you may have problems, however, this is rare insomnia, it usually occurs if you have a deficiency of macro and microelements due to a lack of vegetables, so be sure to increase the amount of vegetables consumed also insomnia can be overcome with electrolytes kita rash, it usually goes away if you increase the intake of vitamin B2 in a state of ketosis, the metabolism is rebuilt to burn fat and you  You need more B vitamins, that's why I recommend nutritional yeast on the diet. They come in tablets. They will help you overcome this rash very well. Also, fatigue is relieved by potassium in the right amount, which you get from vegetables, as well as vitamin B1. High cholesterol usually decreases when eating on the diet. But for some people, it can also increase. This is due to two reasons: first, you burn more fat, you eat more fat, and along with the fat, triglycerides and cholesterol are released. You simply release more fat into the bloodstream. Many people are concerned about the level of LDL, the so- called bad cholesterol. If you have high LDL, this is still not a reason to worry. I have a whole video, quite short, on this topic. I highly recommend you watch it. I explain why high UPNP is not bad if you are trying the ketogenic diet, but for most people, LDL levels will not increase, but on the contrary, bone destruction will decrease. Studies have been conducted on how the traditional Chinese diet affects  epilepsy and they showed some loss of calcium this was usually the result of a combination of acidity and too much protein for a healthy ketosis we advise a moderate amount of protein from 85 to 170 grams per meal also a large amount of vegetables counteracts acidity which in principle can create problems with bones problems with heart rhythm it is simply a deficiency of potassium or magnesium and as I already said you just need to increase your consumption of vegetables and or electrolytes as you can see consumption of vegetables can solve many different problems that can arise dry mouth is a deficiency of macro and microelements all that is needed here as I always say consume more vegetables or electrolytes and the problem will be solved if you are hungry or you are but something is pulling you or you have hypoglycemia this means that you are either consuming hidden sugar or you are eating too often and this activates insulin or you have not been on the diet for too long you should understand that if you do everything correctly the feeling of hunger goes away within three days you will not be drawn to anything and you will not have hypoglycemia because you are no longer trying to eat sugar you are eating fat  fuel, but you need to make sure there are very few carbohydrates. I highly recommend intermittent fasting. The following are cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and cancer. There are no such side effects. The ketogenic diet does not have any studies that would show any connection or relationship or correlation between diet and cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, or cancer. If you read the studies, they were conducted on mice and they did not even try to follow a diet that was anything like a whale gene. They ate a high-fat and high-carbohydrate diet. It was said that they were on diets. I am not so. So, you don’t need to worry about these three things. And the last thing is bad breath. This will not happen if you eat enough vegetables, which have a lot of chlorophyll, which is a natural odor destroyer. A healthy diet is also a lot of vegetables. 7 to 10 glasses gives you micro and macronutrients, vitamin C, fiber, and only high-quality products. You also need to add sea salt. You need to understand that one teaspoon of salt, which, by the way, is not the same as sodium because it is sodium chloride and not just sodium, contains about  6000 milligrams or 6 grams of which 40 percent is sodium, a little more than two thousand milligrams, so add 1 and on a diet you need to consume one and a half teaspoons of salt. This is not pure sodium, sodium chloride. Salt removes some side effects like muscle weakness and even leg cramps. Don't forget about nutritional yeast, it comes in powder or tablets. I recommend a good electrolyte powder simply because it is very difficult to consume enough vegetables to cover the recommended daily intake of potassium. Well, thanks for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.