Hello, first of all, thank you for sending answers to my questions about what videos you want to see on my channel. I will create a whole series of videos dedicated to your questions. Today's video is about how to not waste time on cooking. You often buy books and packages of gonorrhea and spend a lot of time preparing dishes. I don't spend a lot of time cooking and I want to tell you what I am and what you can cook yourself without spending too much time. Firstly, you can buy boiled eggs. I boil them myself, but you can buy ready-made ones. It's convenient. You can add butter, mayonnaise, or sour cream to get fat. Add salt and pepper. It's all very simple. When I prepare a salad, I just take lettuce leaves, add something, drizzle with olive oil and vinaigrette. I don't have any dressing for everything, and it's all so simple. It takes 2 seconds. I don't spend a lot of time on salad. You can simmer spinach and add canned tuna. It's better to take wild tuna or sardines. It's an excellent dish. You can also add cheese on top.  Parmesan and if you want by the way about sardines I recently found out that sardines ok have omega-3 I sent sardines to the lab and the results showed a high content of omega-3 fatty acids take note simple and convenient nuts and supposedly and pastes I eat a lot of pecans I love pistachios walnuts also pay attention to sugar snap peas I can eat a whole bag I love a mountain it has a lot of vitamin C I have a little celery with hummus or nut butter right after a meal and cheese I'm from Wisconsin I eat a lot of cheese I always add cheese to dishes try to choose those that are fattier than low- fat ones no need I also buy high-quality dry-smoked sausage at a health food store I combine and from cheese sometimes high-quality and vici is sold and I combine protein shakes for example here is a meal replacement that contains butter peaches and protein your mushrooms with cheese a very quick dish mountain mushrooms I grate cheese catch it and I add protein to a dish on the weekend when I have time to make these bombs. I store them in the freezer as a dessert, so you don't have to spend a lot of time cooking. You can choose simple and quick dishes. Thank you for viewing. If you don't have this brochure yet, please note that it's called not weight loss for health, but health for weight loss. A healthy keto diet and intermittent fasting. See the link in the description.