Hi, let's talk about the key foods of the ketogenic diet and the key nutrients we need. Let's start with vitamin C. Why is vitamin C needed on a ketogenic diet? To eliminate the damage caused by high sugar and high insulin levels, which affects vision, arteries, kidneys, and the nervous system. Vitamin C is needed for this. Also, to get rid of insulin resistance, vegetables contain a lot of vitamin C. People think that you can buy lemon juice in a bottle, whisk it with water, and get a dose of vitamin C. This is not true because all the vitamin C sold in the store is pasteurized, boiled, and heated. There is no vitamin C. But if you don't buy juice, but use it from fresh lemons, how much vitamin C will there be? Lemon juice is good because it prevents stones that can develop on a titrogenic diet. But there isn't much vitamin C in it. Bell peppers have a lot of vitamin C, especially green peppers. All peppers have a lot of vitamin C, but bell peppers are a real champion, a very useful thing, and also contain a lot of vitamin C. Sauerkraut, if you eat half a cup every day, that's more than enough. Some don't like sauerkraut, then eat pepper. Omega-3 fatty acids are essential for everyone. Commercial and other fatty fish have a lot of omega-3. Consume omega-3 in large quantities. Next, B1 and other B vitamins, but B1 is the most important. It's so important because the need for vitamin B increases when you enter ketosis. Sunflower seeds have a lot of vitamin B1 and other B vitamins. Do you see or not? Pork has a lot of vitamin B1. Some people don't like pork. It's not scary. I buy high-quality, unprocessed bacon without sugar. I eat it. Some don't like it. Well, don't force yourself. Nutritional yeast is another product rich in B vitamins. We also need potassium and magnesium, they are very important. Pays for the 1st diet. You can get them by eating 7 to 10 cups of vegetables. Many people don't like vegetables. What should you eat? I can't get enough tissue. It's needed to cope with insulin resistance and many other things are also important for the uterus. Prince or resistance is also important and it is contained in chlorophyll. Eat all green leafy greens, avocados, dark green leafy vegetables and get enough. Green vegetables, avocados, and beet tops contain the most potassium, about 1,000 300 milligrams in one glass. This is a lot of avocados, also a lot of potassium. You need a large amount of these vegetables to get nutrients. We also need iodine, this is another micronutrient that is difficult to get if you do not eat seafood and seaweed. It is very important for women for the glandular tissue of the uterus and the thyroid gland for estrogen balance, it is very, very important. Next, we need iron. Red meat or organ meats are very important for blood and increasing endurance. Next, phytonutrients, what are they? These are plant chemicals whose benefits go beyond vitamins, macro and microelements, amino acids, and fatty acids. Phytonutrients are anti-cancer, estrogen-normalizing substances that cleanse the body and protect it from external harm.  To get phytonutrients, eat sprouts. Some sprouts, like broccoli sprouts, contain 50 times more phytonutrients than the grown vegetable. Combine vegetables and sprouts in your diet, and everything will be fine. You just need to include phytonutrients in your healthy eating plan. Thanks for watching, friends. I wanted to personally invite you to a new Facebook group I recently created. It's called Doctor Berdsk, the end of years. I created it so we could share successes, what worked, what didn't, and results. The link is in the description. Join my group and see you there.