Hello, in this video I want to discuss the uniqueness of coconut oil. It has very interesting properties. Firstly, more than 50 percent of its composition is oil m network or SCT, which means on average qi renal triglycerides. What is this? It is a fat that does not necessarily turn into fat but is used as energy and greatly contributes to fat burning. It helps to lose weight. This is the fat that helps to lose weight. It is also very comfortable for the liver and gallbladder. In order to absorb this fat, the liver does not require so much bile. It immediately passes into the lymphatic system through the intestines and is used to obtain energy. Therefore, it is very useful for those who have problems with the liver and gallbladder. An excellent property in it is lauric acid. As far as I know, it is found in only three products: palm oil, coconut oil, and breast milk. Lauric acid has a very strong antiviral effect. It is a fat that fights germs and viruses and helps your immune system. It also copes well with Candida and other fungi, so it is very useful for immunity. Coconut oil is good for immunity, fat burning, energy, and  It helps you get into ketosis, that is, start burning fat. When you're in ketosis, you need some kind of fat to last between meals. This is one of the reasons why you should watch the video about the so-called Nikita Bombs or those with Raboom Bang. I posted a lot of recipes on the site to give you an idea of ​​how to disguise coconut oil and how else you're going to eat it. You can make small cookies out of it with a spoon. You can keep them in the refrigerator and finish your meal with them. This way, you can eat more fat and this will allow you to last between meals without severe hunger and burn more fat. This will help with ketosis, unlike something low-calorie or low- fat. This is really harmful. Coconut oil also improves cholesterol and lipid profiles, and it is also very beneficial for hair and skin. It is beneficial for many things. That's all I wanted to say. Start using coconut oil if you have n't started yet and follow the links in the description. There you will find recipes for those with Raboom Bang. Be sure to watch them, thank you for your attention.