I was asked for advice on a situation like this. I'm a student and want to follow the ketogenic diet. I don't have much money. I was a student myself. I wore T-shirts. Sometimes I had very little money. They didn't have to save for a long time. Of course, out of ignorance, I ate empty carbohydrates. I ate bread, cereal, pasta, noodles from bags. This food made me feel hungry and made me eat more and more. So, you need a low-carb diet and intermittent fasting. This alone is already a savings. If there are chain stores like Trader Joe's or Costco in your city, buy food there. They have cheaper first greens in bulk. Even in the Joint supermarket, you can buy greens very inexpensively. You'll get a whole bowl. It's not that expensive and you'll provide yourself with greens. Sardines are a very good source of protein and omega-3 fatty acids, both maidenhair and thyme. Drink these are two active forms of omega-3 fatty acids. Sardines are an excellent source of protein. If possible, take sardines with bones and skin. This is not necessary, but this way you'll get additional benefits. By adding butter to food, you  You will be more full now it is sold at Trader Joe's and Costco very, very inexpensive it is grass-fed beef if you can't afford grass-fed beef, at least get organic because even though these animals are fed grain, it is still organic grain Cost K and BJ stores are starting to sell very cheap organic meat products number 5 Rina has thighs and wings in stores they sell different parts of the chicken, but thighs and wings seem to be the cheapest 6 dry smoked sausage maybe from a health food store but it is not very expensive it is much cheaper than other meat products you can cut off as much as you need and store it in the refrigerator it is a good source of fat and protein in the sausage which I have there is no dextrose number seven my favorite product is eggs pastured organic eggs can be bought for less than five dollars a dozen for about 4 dollars 40 cents if you eat 30 a day it is about a dollar a day a little over a dollar for protein if you eat 3 faces at a time it is a little over a dollar for a source of protein and it is one of the best sources of protein healthy fat I highly recommend eating lots of eggs and other nutrients, and your cholesterol won't go up. Number eight: cabbage is very cheap and an excellent source of vitamin C and other nutrients. It's a cruciferous vegetable, so you can chop it, stew it, or add it to a salad. Pumpkin is an excellent product; it may not be organic, since you don't eat the skin, but it's a good source of protein and it's not that expensive. These are budget-friendly, China- compatible foods. If you liked this video, please share it with anyone who might find it useful.