Hello everyone, answering questions from viewers of Kane from Facebook, I'm 82, I'm a vegetarian, recently I developed foggy consciousness, forgetfulness, how much vitamin B12 should I take daily, what else can I do to eliminate these symptoms, well, so I would, I would just B12 is important, but I'm not sure if it's the problem. Here's an example from my life, I used to be a vegan, I took a lot of B12 from the pharmacy so that I had energy, I took zinc, I took other B vitamins, minerals and all that, but there was no sense at all until I started eating something that had high-quality amino acids, meat, amino acids from herbs and other plants, it's just not the same, so I'm not saying that you need to do this, but I highly recommend eating meat and assessing your well- being. You will feel the difference almost immediately. Perhaps you decide to switch from veganism to vegetarianism and eat eggs and achieve the goal this way, my brain works much better thanks to a couple of products. These are meat and cheese, high-quality cheese, eggs and other protein, but I cannot eat vegetarian food. But if you cannot eat at all, nothing  meat then you need to get more protein maybe from walnuts maybe from spirulina See if this helps but I think to solve the problem you need not vitamins amino acids are excellent But our viewers will have to solve this problem because this is a quiz question if moderate protein consumption stimulates insulin then why does this not affect blood sugar A good question viewers will undoubtedly find the answer and again a question from viewers Kelly from Facebook wants to know Is it possible to restore elasticity to blood vessels I hope so Yes I think it all depends on how rigid they are when healing soft plaques they can become hard and a hard plaque is a stable plaque And in fact it is not as dangerous as a soft one So despite the fact that you want to completely get rid of plaques And that's right Yes take enough only Triv vitamin E take vitamins K2D eat right and all that but maybe you shouldn't worry too much about this and evaluate the situation After some time to understand if there are improvements have improved blood counts biomarkers as in metabolomics sometimes you can restore elasticity to blood vessels but this  It's not that simple, I think vitamins alone won't help here. You need to change your diet and some key nutrients. For this you need K2, vitamin D, and don't forget about magnesium because magnesium is responsible for regulating calcium levels and prevents intracellular calcium accumulation. So, calcium is both good and bad. Because of its excess, a cell can commit suicide. However, we need it not only for bones but also for communication within the body. It is called a second messenger. It facilitates communication. It is used as a messenger and therefore the calcium level in the body is strictly controlled. But we have a few problems because of our diet and also because of the lack of the most important calcium regulator, namely magnesium. So, I will soon make a video about this. Excellent. Let's chat live with Lin. She has already reached us and is waiting to ask a question live. Ask one question. Try to keep it to half a minute. Hello, good morning. You can hear me. Yes, perfectly fine. Hello, my question and I apologize for the video. My question is related. Excuse me for a second. Does the ketogenic diet have a negative effect? ​​Do you experience any  adrenal glands stress due to limited glucose intake I think I know what you are asking about because there is data that when a person And it's not even about ketones, it's mainly about fasting Well, and cutting out carbohydrates After all, you are cutting them, that's what happens here, there is a so-called Contre hormone that essentially does not allow sugar in the blood does not allow it to drop too low and if you do not eat sugar, the body begins to burn fat But some tissues need Glucose, this causes a surge in adrenal hormones and stress, so this information is greatly exaggerated I know this because I have been seeing people doing this for many years, but they do not have a surge in cortisol So if you eat extremely few carbohydrates for several years, then perhaps the body needs a change, perhaps your metabolism has become flexible and you can eat more carbohydrates Maybe you need this and you should try I think the goal of a low-carb diet is insulin resistance and then see how many carbohydrates You can eat, but not empty carbohydrates Or maybe fruits and so on without harm to yourself This is a difficult question, because some people should start eating a little  more carbohydrates and they return to the past because they do not control it because carbohydrates are very addictive, but there are those who did not have problems with weight, their metabolism is faster, they can eat much more carbohydrates and with carbohydrates, things are going better for them and you I advise you to try and see what happens to your body. I don’t think that you will have a problem with elevated cortisol when switching to ketones, I did not have it and there is another factor, I think it is very important because and this is related to right before I am going to answer the quiz question, I always get asked a similar question, I will answer now, Steve. When you eat protein, it stimulates insulin to a moderate degree. So, carbohydrates and protein stimulate insulin. But shouldn’t you avoid VSP, but there is a hormone that smooths everything out and normalizes it, glucagon, it is the opposite of insulin, and glucagon rises when we eat meat. So you don’t have to worry about blood sugar. In addition, you need to know that the liver can produce sugar. Even if we don’t eat it, it needs a little cortisol and glucagon for this.  in this the liver takes protein from food and not only and turns it into sugar and all that I would advise everyone to switch to a healthy Keto Perhaps for a year or longer And then look at what you can eat now there is a lot of confusion some influential bloggers say you can eat 500 g of sugar and potatoes it does not work They just have a very flexible metabolism and they surf or train like crazy maybe they get away with it but if ordinary people eat like that they will go to the bottom great I apologize for the long answer It was a great answer Thank you I understand that we are all different and this is closely related to our diet and lifestyle and your answer is very useful because people can be completely unshakable in their views and in some materials that I read it is really said that we need to eat less fat that there is nothing wrong with sugar As you said and that there is nothing wrong with carbohydrates and then I have good results on a low-carb diet and I still lead a very active lifestyle But at the same time I did not want to harm myself So I will  continue And I will just look at how I feel and be guided by this And Yes, moderation is always useful Thank you very much Please please damn everything was great I rarely switched the picture to you don’t worry about your camera you understand The fact is that it is almost impossible to conduct a good reliable study of people’s diets this will never be possible because there are too many factors you would have to put people in a laboratory and feed everyone the same and how to take into account the differences in the biochemistry of all people in their past in their individual problems Unless they are all twins not even twins But quadruplets and so on This is impossible So it is very difficult to study the diet and the best we had were observational studies and theories But now there is metal research and it’s great to look into the mitochondria and see if your approach works I now very often go through this study and learn a lot and I think people People sometimes need to experiment a little to find out what does not harm them I think that a low-carb diet is needed for most people and see what does not harm you with your metabolic flexibility If you are full of energy, enduring during training and you do not have a feeling  hunger, then obviously everything is fine. What else is needed? In general, I have everything. Excellent. You have already answered the quiz question, but let's find out the opinion of the viewers. The question sounded like this: if moderate protein consumption stimulates insulin, then why does this not affect blood sugar? 9%, 10%, it's about insulin resistance. What do you say, doc? Yes, it's about the hormone glucagon, it's the opposite of insulin. If insulin stores fat, then glucagon releases energy from fat and also from sugar, it mobilizes them. So, you eat protein, it stimulates insulin, but glucagon also does not cause any problems. After all, we stimulate not just one thing, but glucagon increases the absorption of amino acids by tissues, and with it, we absorb. So, in general, some things are difficult to explain without overloading people with unnecessary information. So, I'll stop there.