Hi, I was asked if this diet is suitable for those who have had their gallbladder removed. You should know that sometimes the gallbladder grows back. In some situations, it can grow back, especially if it was not completely removed during surgery. You may have a residual gallbladder. Let's say you don't have a gallbladder. You need to understand what's wrong with the first diet. You get 75 percent of all calories from fats. You should also know that the purpose of the gallbladder is to accumulate and concentrate bile. Here, we need to clarify what bile is. Bile is a detergent that breaks down fats. For example, when you wash your hands of something greasy, the product you use to wash your hands acts similarly to bile. Bile breaks down fats in the digestive system. If you don't have a gallbladder, you only have a small duct leading from the liver to the intestines, and bile will be released drop by drop, but not necessarily at the right time, because when you eat, the gallbladder contracts and squeezes out a decent amount of concentrated bile. In it, bile is concentrated in twenty  Since all this concentrated bile is stronger, it goes here and dissolves fats. As a result, due to the fact that bile is secreted drop by drop, less bile enters the gastrointestinal tract. So, firstly, bile can periodically run out. Secondly, it may not be enough. Bile works together with pancreatic enzymes, especially base bile should break down fats into small particles, after which the enzyme lipase comes into play and breaks them down into even smaller particles for absorption. That is, a situation can arise when fats are not completely absorbed. A deficiency of fat- soluble vitamins may occur: vitamin A for the eyes and skin, vitamin D for bones, vitamin E, vitamin K2, which regulate calcium, and so on. These are some of the consequences of gallbladder removal. Here's what might be useful to you. People ask what supplement will help. A formula for the gallbladder is for those who do n't have one. Many who have one also take it. It gives you more purified bile salts, and then when you eat, you have enough bile for proper digestion. You don't have to take it every time, once a day is enough. Eating food to increase bile production will help, especially if you notice symptoms of a deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins, symptoms of a lack of vitamin A or vitamin D, and so on. If your skin has become dry, your hair has become dry, if your stool doesn't sink, then you need more bile. So, the answer is yes. You should follow this gene diet with intermittent fasting. Since most of your calories come from fat, you might want to take bile salts just to improve digestion. But be sure to check from time to time to see if you have a deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins. Thanks for watching. You've probably already subscribed, but if not, click the button below and stay up to date with the news.