Hello, today we will talk about the title, what is titos, this is a state of fat burning, a state of ketosis, it produces so -called ketones, what is a ketone and ketones are things that are a type of fuel for the body, an alternative to sugar and glucose. If you compare it to an energy source for a car, then sugar can be compared to diesel fuel, and ketones are like electricity, a much cleaner source. This source gives our body much more energy than glucose. Even professional athletes have much better results in ketosis than with carb loading. So, what is the essence of ketosis? The essence of this is to reduce insulin consumption, sugar, that is, empty carbohydrates, to almost zero. There should be as few as possible, 5 percent of daily calories. I will tell you what insulin is. It is a hormone that regulates blood sugar levels. Normally, the entire volume of human blood contains 2 teaspoons of sugar. That's all there is to it. All the sugar in the blood is our bodies are not designed to cope with the amount of sweets that we eat. The average person eats 65 kilograms of sugar per year. This is crazy. If in  There are more than two teaspoons of sugar in the body, and it acts like a poison. So the average person eats so many carbohydrates that the body instantly experiences a large release of insulin. Sugar is quickly removed from the blood and sent to the liver, from there it accumulates as fat, and the liver becomes fatty. All this is fatty liver, high cholesterol and excess fat in the blood. All this is due to sugar in food and not at all because of the fats that we eat. Our body produces a lot of cholesterol, 2000 milligrams a day, so it’s not about that. Here are a couple of interesting facts. Here are the benefits of ketosis. For ketosis, we reduce carbohydrates, increase fats, and eat a moderate amount of protein. So, bad cholesterol will decrease from this, and good cholesterol will increase, triglyceride levels will decrease, blood sugar will improve, and insulin resistance will also decrease. There is a study that claims that it will increase. Well, if you eat fat, this will increase diabetes. insulin resistance is the thing here is what kind of study they conducted. They gave rats corn oil. They did not use healthy fats. Corn oil is not only GHB, but also does not contain healthy fats.  It's not surprising that it made things worse with these studies. When you see negative conclusions, read what they used as fats and other foods, and it turns out that even vitamins will be synthetic, they are natural, so I doubt it until I read the study. Ketosis itself improves memory, fights dementia, lowers blood sugar, removes inflammation, and reduces the risk of cancer. Why is that because cancer feeds on sugar? There are even types of scans in which doctors look for cancer, trying to find areas in the body that absorb a lot of sugar. Cancer cells intensively absorb sugar, so why not eliminate sugar and reduce the risk of cancer? Polycystic ovary syndrome. What kind of syndrome is it? In a woman's body, many follicles grow in the ovaries, the larvae produce the wrong hormones. Male hormones, and the woman develops inflammation, hair loss, and many problems, but this can be combated. Follow this diet. Ketosis will help reduce inflammation. After all, many people have inflammation. Sugar increases inflammation and causes bloating, and ketosis is good for digestion. The healthy fats that I recommend consuming can be obtained from animal meat.  grass-fed beef and other things, don't eat lean beef, turkey bacon, and skinless chicken. Why? Because we need healthy fats. You shouldn't eat eggs without yolks either. We need these fats to get into ketosis. I know what worries people. My God, I don't want to clog our arteries. We've been brainwashed into thinking it's bad for our arteries. Here's what I'll tell you. Try Titos for a couple of weeks and then get your blood tested and check your cholesterol. Bad cholesterol is bad for your heart. It will be easier for you in a few months. You need to see for yourself. I'll give links to the research under the video, but I want you to see for yourself the benefits. Sugar is bad for your health in the long run. You can't survive on it for long. And if you combine sugar with protein, you'll have insulin problems, and it gets worse. I hear this from people. I eat mostly healthy food, everything in moderation, but they don't consume enough sugar to get out of ketosis. There are benefits to ketosis, and you shouldn't combine carbohydrates with too much protein. Under this video, I'll give a link to a description of the nutrition I recommend there.  The listed products that can be used to enter Titos will be discussed very soon in the news, by athletes and researchers, because this method has many advantages. There are also a couple of caveats. For example, if your body has been running on sugar for a very long time, it may take time to adapt to a new fuel source. During this transition, you need to proceed gradually because the body is not used to it. Because sugar retains a lot of fluid, some initially lose water weight and sodium. Therefore, on this diet, you may need more salt to maintain blood pressure. Sodium loss lowers blood pressure, and salt will solve this problem when all this fat and water starts to leave the body. You may feel dizzy. Just add a little more salt and endure. This only happens during the transition. Switching to ketones is more beneficial in the long term. Apply this new knowledge and share your results in the comments below this video.