awesome recipe from karen and eric hi everyone today I want to share an amazing recipe that we will make candies with peanut butter candies with peanut butter candies candies with peanut butter let's get started let's take one package of 250 280 grams of sugar-free chocolate drops place a double boiler inserted into another pan of boiling water 1 tablespoon coconut oil melt and stir constantly until smooth then turn off the heat add a pinch of salt 1 450 gram jar of sugar-free peanut butter with or without nut pieces add almond flour to obtain a mass of the desired consistency that does not stick to a spoon the amount of flour may vary depending on the fat content of the peanut butter pour a little melted chocolate into the mold add one full teaspoon of peanut butter to the mold press down on the peanut butter so that it does not protrude beyond the edges of the mold Add more chocolate on top to cover the peanut butter, tap the surface a few times to remove air, and put it in the freezer for 10-15 minutes. The candies were in the freezer for 15 minutes, maximum 20. I use these molds, they're very easy to get the candies out of, I just turn them over and take them out. We can take them all out at once, but now let's take one perfect candy, let's see what it's like on the inside, just like a real peanut butter candy. Let's try it. It's incredibly delicious, amazing, sugar-free. It's a great alternative to store-bought peanut butter candies. They're delicious, you get hooked on them. You need to hide them in the fridge. Prepare them and write in the comments. How do you like it? Check 1, 2, wait, check 1, 2, 3, 4. It turned out well. You can be more serious. We're filming a video here. This isn't a joke. Jokes only follow the script. No way. I understand. Okay, but okay, let's get started. Okay, seriously. Let's get ready. Where should I put my hands? Kids. Porn. Disco dancer. Come on. Come on.  Let's get started. I'm all fired up. Let's talk about this video. You'll calm down. I'm waiting for you to collect your thoughts. Thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe and see you in the next video.