What is the difference between sauerkraut and kimchi? Both contain fermented vegetables. Let's see which is better. Sauerkraut has a milder taste. Kimchi has a lot of spices and can be spicy. The ingredients for kimchi are the so- called Chinese cabbage, daikon radish, garlic, special red pepper, ginger, and salt. It is obvious that since kimchi has more vegetables, it also has more phytonutrients. In addition, it has a higher diversity of microorganisms. In sauerkraut, the dominant microorganism is the so-called lactobacillus. This bacterium in kimchi is able to survive in very harsh conditions, for example, stomach acid. Although other bacteria in it die in the presence of this bacterium, the number of good bacteria increases and bad bacteria decreases. It helps create a mucous barrier that prevents pathogens from damaging the intestines. It increases serotonin levels. 90% of serotonin in the body is produced in the intestines. Serotonin is also a precursor to another hormone. Melatonin is a powerful antioxidant inside cells. In addition, it improves sleep. Kimchi promotes the growth of a unique microorganism that is not found in sauerkraut. The benefit of this microorganism is that it suppresses pathogens, for example, listeria can be found in spoiled food, and the microorganism from kimchi suppresses these pathogens. Another unique ability of this microorganism is to suppress not only pathogenic bacteria, but also harmful fungi, yeast, and some types of mold. Some even take a few drops of kimchi liquid, dissolve it in water, and drop it into the nasal sinuses. But even if you just take raw kimchi and eat it, this can also help the sinuses. The beneficial substances will rise up the respiratory tract. Kimchi also keeps well in the cold, so it can be safely stored in the refrigerator, like sauerkraut. As for sauerkraut, it contains a little more lactobacilli breve, which are very beneficial for the intestines and even the immune system, and Kimchi and sauerkraut produce so-called bacteriocins, bacteriocins - natural antibiotics. And these are not broad-spectrum antibiotics that doctors prescribe and that destroy everything in a row. Such broad- spectrum antibiotics simply destroy the intestines. There are people for whom antibiotics no longer work. In their bodies, superbugs have survived the effects of many antibiotics and have become resistant to them. In this situation, sauerkraut and kimchi sometimes help. If you look at what sauerkraut and kimchi have in common, they are cabbage, and it belongs to the cruciferous family. They contain many different phytonutrients, a lot of glutathione, which is useful for detoxifying the body, anthocyanins, which prolong life, and also the so-called vitamin U. This name was given to it in the fifties by a researcher who isolated this substance from cabbage. U is the first letter of the Latin word meaning ulcer. This vitamin protects against ulcers by helping to restore internal tissues in the gastrointestinal tract and also reducing inflammation. That is why it is so useful for ulcers and gastritis; it directly affects cells.  which produce gastric juice. So, with ulcers, and especially with gastritis, eat more cabbage, as with any inflammation in the intestines. In addition to this vitamin, cabbage contains something else, and this is glutamine, which is very useful for leaky gut. It also serves as fuel for intestinal cells. Glutamine is also found in red meat, bone broth, and eggs. So, both sauerkraut and kimchi are very useful. In addition, kimchi contains something else. It not only has a higher diversity of microorganisms, but also fermented garlic. This is an amazing product. It has a lot of benefits: it suppresses cancer, kills microbes, reduces inflammation, is an antioxidant, and is good for the immune system. Ginger contains a compound that, when fermented, turns into several other more powerful anti-inflammatory compounds. It is also very useful for digestion. Another interesting property of ginger is that it helps with nausea, and fermented ginger has more digestive enzymes. So it is useful for things like bloating, indigestion, and flatulence.  Pepper also contains a substance whose properties improve during fermentation. It helps with inflammation, pain, improves blood circulation, metabolism, and helps burn fat. If you compare sauerkraut and kimchi in terms of weight loss, kimchi is much better in this sense, and we know why kimchi normalizes blood sugar and reduces insulin resistance. And anything that does this helps you lose weight. This is probably why Koreans. Although this is just my guess, the Koreans borrowed this idea somewhere in the 10th century from the Chinese. At that time, the Chinese fermented vegetables, and the Koreans invented kimchi. As you can see, both products are extremely healthy, but kimchi has slightly more benefits because it contains many different vegetables. Personally, it’s hard for me to eat kimchi; it’s too spicy for me. But I will eat it knowing about its benefits. Although I prefer sauerkraut, and the last advantage of kimchi compared to sauerkraut is that it contains even more vitamin C than sauerkraut; in one glass of kimchi, there is more than 700 mg.  Vitamin C is ten times the daily requirement. So, in this respect, kimchi is superior to sauerkraut. It's important to eat both kimchi and sauerkraut raw, then they will contain beneficial bacteria. When they are heated, pasteurized, and placed in jars, they should not be eaten because they lack beneficial bacteria. True, they do contain other useful things, phytonutrients and lactic acid, but you are missing out on a lot because these bacteria are very helpful. If you don't know what to cook for chum salmon, the book "Chum Salmon Menu for 2 Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from readily available products. The basics of chum salmon and fasting. Follow the link below.