Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. While I'm sitting in the massage chair, I'd like to talk to you about pH. Explain everything as it is. Dispel all the myths about the acid-base balance. There's so much misinformation out there, like everyone's biased toward acidity, or all illnesses are caused by too much acidity or alkalinity. Let's figure out what a page really is and understand how simple everything is. Let's simplify pH as much as possible. In chemistry classes, everyone explains it in words, like hydrogen peroxide and all that, but I don't want to overcomplicate things. I want to simplify. pH is an indicator of acidity and alkalinity. That's all you need to know. There's a scale from 1 to 14 and a neutral mark in the middle. Seven is distilled water. So, when pH decreases, acidity becomes higher. That's when pH is less than seven. When pH becomes more than seven, that means there's more alkalinity. You need to understand that when pH rises from 7 to 8, pH changes 10 times, that is, page rises only by one, but the concentration is 10 times higher. For example, we use pH as a guideline for you.  The body will try in every possible way to keep the blood pH constant. Blood slightly fluctuates in a very narrow range from 7.3 to 4 tenths, which is slightly alkaline, to 7.4.5. It should be in this range. If it drops by just one, say, to 6, a person will fall into a coma, into a diabetic coma, you won’t be able to live. And when people ask what it should be, I ask what fluid we’re talking about, blood and bile, because each fluid in the body has its own pH. For example, gastric juice should be at a level of one to three. At this level, you can digest almost metal. Next comes the internal part of the adrenal glands, the stress glands. It should be quite acidic there because there are different suprarenal hormones and all that jazz, and they need an acidic environment. Then comes the large intestine, where it should be 5.5, which is very acidic. Remember, we go from a neutral seven down to 6 to 5, and each time the concentration increases 10 times, that is, it multiplies by 10. Urine should be  acidic, the pit should be slightly acidic, and there are fluids that should be alkaline. The fluid inside and outside the cell should be slightly alkaline. Tears should be alkaline. The cerebrospinal fluid should be seven and a half, which is alkaline. Blood, of course, and pancreatic fluid. All fluid coming from the pancreas, as well as bile from the gallbladder, should be alkaline to neutralize the very acidic gastric juice. As a result, we get an interesting difference between one part of the body and another. The difference in pH creates movement and neutralizes one fluid with another. Because if acid gets into the small intestine, and a hole forms in it, it's called an ulcer. Therefore, when talking about p, we need to clarify which tissues exactly we are talking about. This was a simple demonstration of what p in different fluids is. In the next part, let's talk about what happens with excess acid or excess alkali. So, we have two categories: excess acid and excess alkali. Let's talk about excess. I will use blood as a guide. The fact is that everyone  An organ in the body works thanks to blood, for example, the body can change the pH level even in the brain. As long as the blood pH is normal, it will take a page from other fluids for the sake of balance because blood is constancy, this is an equilibrium reference point that we call homeostasis, this is the body's ability to adapt and maintain a constant internal state. So, excess acid causes a cough. A dry cough. There is an interesting remedy for it: calcium, it reduces coughing, but you need to understand that if there is excess alkali in the body, it cannot absorb calcium, because calcium is absorbed in an acidic environment. It is interesting that calcium helps well with coughs, but do not use calcium carbonate. It is limestone. You can gnaw on it. It will be cheaper to use stones. We already talked about them in the last part. In a diabetic coma, the sugar level jumps, the whole body becomes very acidic, the pH drops and you can fall into a coma. This is when the blood sugar level is too low or too high. By the way, arrhythmia is also due to excess acid. You know what I'm trying to wean you off.  Dealing only with the symptoms is why I don't recommend taking anything to increase alkalinity if you have excess acidity, especially for a long time once or twice. Okay, alkaline water has become fashionable lately. I've seen people take it for too long and they developed excess alkalinity in the body, and then they treated another symptom. Symptoms aren't mistakes, they're not blunders. This is the body's reaction to something wrong and it adapts to something. We need to understand what's happening. I'll get to the causes in the next part, but for now I'll go over the symptoms because symptoms can be treated with different medications. Rapid heartbeat, muscle weakness, nausea, drowsiness with anxiety. This is when you're tired but at the same time on edge, you can't calm down and fall asleep. Calcium will help with this, but you need to find the cause of the excess acid. Frequent sighs are when, especially in the evening, you feel like you can't get enough air. This happens because increased acidity makes the heart work faster. I know a lot of people who take calcium for this to breathe better and balance pH.  Frequent sighs are caused by excess acid, anxiety is also present, and you can't hold your breath. If you have excess acid, you won't be able to hold your breath for more than 20 seconds because you don't have oxygen. Because your body has excess acid, it will run out of oxygen very quickly. So now, there's excess alkali, a decrease in potassium levels. When there's excess alkali in the body, it can't absorb elements, especially potassium or calcium. Without potassium, you'll constantly crave sweets. The body won't store sugar. Hypoglycemia occurs. Low sugar will cause leg cramps. Arrhythmia may also occur, and since potassium is a physiological relaxant, you'll have difficulty relaxing and calming down. Your pulse may also increase, as with excess acid. This symptom manifests itself both here and there. Twitching of the left eyelid is also an excess of alkali because there's no more calcium in the bone. It leaves the bone and is deposited on it, on the tissues. They are internal, causing bursitis, tendonitis, arthritis, osteophytes, kidney stones, gallstones, tartar, and cataracts.  calcium in the eye or twitching of the left eyelid, this could be a symptom of hyperventilation, excessive breathing, arthritis, allergies, this is an alkaline state. I forgot to mention arthritis when you eat an orange or drink orange juice. It's a citrus fruit, which is an acid, but in the body it turns into an alkali and worsens the existing excess alkali. If you want to know if you have excess alkali, eat a bunch of oranges and check if everything hurts in an hour. If so, then there is an excess. Then we have allergies and even a weakened immune system. The immune system is stimulated by acid. Therefore, you may think that when you take vitamin C, it relieves you of colds and runny noses. It is not vitamin C that does this, but ascorbic acid. The problem is that people take a synthetic vitamin and not a natural one, thereby knocking down something else. It is much better to use apple cider vinegar. It works much better and without side effects. In case of allergies, osteophytes occur before calcium begins to accumulate because the arable land is in order. Hypothyroidism and calcium deposits, we have already talked about them, it begins. Accumulating on the tissues are various indicators of whether there is an imbalance towards acid or alkali in the next part we will discuss what causes these symptoms. Look, excess acid, what causes it? It can cause ketosis, which is one of the types of fat breakdown in the body. Protein can also be broken down. There can be two options. One is very few carbohydrates in the diet and a lot of protein, like in the Atkins diet, and the second is diabetes. If a patient comes to me with ketones in the urine and he ate sugar that day, then I know this is not healthy ketosis. Ketosis is normal; it can be healthy, but it can cause excess acid, which will need to be eliminated with alkaline substances. Therefore, I recommend eating more vegetables and I always recommend this to balance everything, not only because of the alkali but also nutrients and macronutrients. You need to strengthen and protect the organs that control pH. In other words, your page controls the kidneys and adrenal glands, but we need not just treat the adrenal glands, we need to understand the other mechanisms because often  Nappage can be affected by the medications you take. I want to tell you about everything that happens here. Next, we have hypoglycemia, which is low blood sugar. If you skipped a meal, you became irritable and you need food. You may have this with a diabetic condition, because you ate a lot of sugar, and hypoglycemia, as well as diabetes, can cause excess acid. Diabetes occurs from excessive sugar consumption and it destroys this regulatory mechanism. This can cause excess acid. That is, not only the kidneys and adrenal glands, but also the pancreas. The cause can be unhealthy food. Of course, if there are empty carbohydrates or grains, they greatly increase acidity. Sugar, of course, this goes without saying. Did you know that the average person eats about 70 kilograms of sugar per year? Every 13 years, he eats more than 900 kilograms of sugar. Almost a ton of sugar in 13 years is a lot to affect the body. It seems to me that this will affect the body if you treat the pancreas like this for a long time. Sooner or later, it will become a problem. I think the doctors are waiting until you get sick, but not really.  They are concerned about disease prevention. It was an excess of acid, now there is an excess of alkali. Stress due to worn-out adrenal glands will cause an excess of alkali. Many say that stress causes an excess of acid. No, it causes an excess of alkali. This is because when the adrenal glands are constantly on edge, various substances begin to be excreted in urine, useful acids begin to be excreted, and then the pH of the blood begins to rise towards the alkaline side. This is what happens there. Stress removes acid, but it also removes key elements like potassium, calcium, and even salts. Therefore, when you return home in the evening experiencing stress, you should take a little salt to balance the pH. Vomiting can cause an excess of alkali and because it removes acids from the body. There are bacteria in the intestines called lactobacilli that produce lactic acid. These acid-producing bacteria are very necessary for us, but when taking antibiotics, they die, so it is important to maintain the correct balance of low stomach acidity. Every 10 years after 40, your acidity decreases and an excess of alkali will appear. Dehydration can be  due to excessive drinking of water because water washes out all the electrolytes and causes dehydration it's not about lack of water diuretics remove key elements that keep pH in balance antacids this is about me at one time I took a bunch of such drugs for heartburn but they can also cause excess alkalinity I want to show you something because give me those three bottles I will show you three things in case you have them this is a fast-acting remedy that you can take but my point of view is that you need to eat right and not worry about treating excess alkalinity or these symptoms if you follow a diet then everything will fall into place here are a couple of products that are worth trying apple cider vinegar is a very good way to cut the acidity of the body because it contains a lot of potassium nutrients and electrolytes it was apple cider vinegar add a teaspoon to water I would recommend taking it once a day for a month then wait a couple of months and repeat mineral water is one of my favorites if you have a craving for mineral water or soda then maybe you  There is an excess of alkali and you are trying to return acidity to the body by taking carbonic acid. It quenches thirst very well when you drink it. And finally, one of my favorites is very high-quality lemon juice, Italian Valkein, and bought in a health food store. It is very sour, but it has wonderful properties. It enriches electrolytes, so you can also drink it to bring the pH back to normal. There is only one topic left that I want to talk about in the next part. I want to quickly explain something to you. Many people experience heartburn and there are several conditions that at first glance are quite paradoxical. For example, heartburn if you take antacids. You may not understand that the pH of the stomach should be from one to three. This is extremely high acidity. If the stomach's pH grows and becomes more alkaline, and this always happens. The fluids in the pancreas and gallbladder are very alkaline and they come out here to neutralize the acid, but the stomach controls this. If there is little acid there, then these fluids will not be produced in the required volume. The acid goes here and ruins everything here, which leads to indigestion, constipation, and bloating. Other similar symptoms, if you measure the acid burps that go down the esophagus, you will see that this acid is very weak, not very strong. If it were strong, it would eat a hole in the esophagus, but it does not eat it, it just leaves a sour taste. The acid burps that go up actually come from here, this is waste acid from the intestines, it is called lactic acid, and it rises all the way up here, it tries to compensate for the lack of acid in the stomach. What do people do? They take antacids that alkalize the stomach, and with the next meal it only gets worse and the condition does not go away. There is no point in treating this condition. Just treat the symptom. Supportive therapy is for you to take pills for the rest of your life. Just understand that the best remedy for acid burps is acid. Try taking betaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar and you will feel better. But if you take antacids, as I did for years, everything will get worse. For this valve to close, the stomach page should be from one to three very, very acidic. If this valve does not close, then this is already a disease called herpes.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease means that the valve doesn't close due to a lack of acid, and you're given pills that provide relief but don't solve the problem. In other words, acid reflux means a lack of acid, and this can lead to ulcers. All these diseases have various names, such as diverticulitis, Crohn's disease, pancreatitis, gallbladder syndrome, irritable bowel syndrome. They're all just pH problems. Again, instead of trying to treat something, first understand this, use these tips, sort out your diet, and the balance will be restored. I hope you enjoyed it, see you later.