So, the question is, which flour is better for the disease and is better for grandfather, coconut or almond. I think the answer will surprise you. We will compare the two flours, take a glass of each. It will be an interesting experiment. 1. The calorie content in coconut flour is 551 kilocalories, and in almond flour it is 648 kilocalories per 100 kilocalories more. But the question is, why is it because of the fats? A glass of coconut flour contains only 21.8 grams of fat, and in almond flour there are 56 grams of fat. So, for heta, almond is better in this regard. Further, carbohydrates are 65.3 grams in coconut flour, in almond flour there are only 24 grams. An impressive difference. Almond flour has more fiber, coconut has 11 grams, and mentally 14, so there are fewer digestible carbohydrates in almond flour. This is the decisive factor: coconut flour has 54.3 grams of digestible carbohydrates. This is only in one glass.  Almond flour has only 10 grams, which is almost five and a half times less than coconut flour. Impressive. Another important factor is that coconut flour contains 19 grams of sugar, while almond flour contains only 5 grams. The difference is four times greater than coconut flour, which contains 32 grams and 2 grams of protein, while almond flour contains 24 grams. Coconut flour contains literally negligible amounts of nutrients. Almond flour has a lot of vitamin E, magnesium, calcium, copper, and manganese. Coconut flour contains more m-city oil, which helps produce ketones, but it contains so many carbohydrates that it blocks the body's ability to produce its own ketones. Coconut flour has a mild, neutral taste, a crumbly and dry texture, and absorbs a lot of moisture. It's still more pleasant to consume almond flour products, especially if they're ketogenic bombs, which I eat a lot of. Coconut flour is cheaper, but almond flour is n't much more expensive. And the last point is oxalates.  Almond flour contains more of them than coconut flour, so if you're prone to kidney stones, be moderate. I think we have a winner, and it's almond flour. If you do n't know what to cook for those days, the Tetta menu book will help you. It's a two-week diet for three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from readily available ingredients, the basics of chum and fasting. Follow the link below.