teeth so what is the benefit of coca 10 the abbreviation coca 10 means coenzyme q10 what is coenzyme is something that helps the enzyme we have many enzymes digestive enzymes are only a small part of them there are enzymes that help perform many different functions there are proteins that participate in all biochemical processes from the production of energy and hormones to the neutralization of toxic substances so coca 10 is present in literally every cell of our body it is an extremely powerful antioxidant but its main job is stabilizing membranes membranes are the most important shells of various objects for example cell membranes have an outer fatty layer membranes are very important because they ensure the conservation of the cell's charge the cell is like a battery without a membrane the cell would not be able to maintain its charge so it is an extremely important part of all cells membranes surrounding mitochondria that is power plants in cells also need coca 10 it helps transfer electrons during the process of energy production in ATP universal source of energy in the body coenzyme q10 is necessary for the membranes of all proteins both HDL and LDL are simply proteins that carry cholesterol throughout the body and return it to The liver and so coenzyme q10 helps stabilize membranes, especially in those areas of the body that produce a lot of energy, these are areas such as the heart, brain, kidneys, liver and muscles, that's why we need coenzyme q10. Producing a lot of energy, we suffer greatly from free radicals and oxidation, and q10 helps to counteract this. So when a person takes statins, it completely blocks q10, and blocking this enzyme causes many side effects, especially muscle damage. So if you take statins, you should take q10. If you have a nutritional deficiency, you also have a q10 deficiency, because because of this, you can't even produce q10. If you have any inflammation or one of the many autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis or diabetes, then you need coenzyme q10. So coenzyme q10 can help with any heart problems. It is useful for athletes because they have high levels of oxidation. It is useful for those who have migraines and headaches. It is useful for chronic inflammation. If you take a lot of medications, it will be useful and it is useful for the prevention of cancer, because cancer is a consequence of a large  amount of DNA damage, so by taking Q10 you can prevent some of this damage.