Today we'll talk about the interaction of coronavirus with the lungs. Coronavirus is so called because it has small protrusions similar to small crowns. These small protrusions tend to be attracted to the lung tissue. In certain cases, especially critical or extremely serious ones, there is a high chance that a person will fall into a condition called ARTS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome). In this condition, severe hypoxia occurs, which means that the body does not have enough oxygen. Other symptoms include rapid breathing, dizziness, shortness of breath, sweating. I'll explain what happens, roughly speaking. At the ends of the bronchial tree, there are air sacs called alveoli. These are empty sacs with very thin walls and they come into contact with tiny capillaries. Oxygen enters them. It can easily pass through walls as thick as one cell (there are two walls) and attach to red blood cells. They become saturated with oxygen, hemoglobin is produced, and this is distributed throughout the body. Carbon dioxide is also excreted there. It comes out from there so that you can exhale it and inhale oxygen. This is oxygen exchange, but  This virus is drawn to the lung tissue and begins to damage these walls, as well as the capillaries on the other side. Inflammation develops, a plasma leak occurs, which begins to penetrate the lung, filling it with liquid. Try breathing in liquid in the lungs, this is unrealistic. Then this wall begins to thicken and there is less and less exchange of oxygen for carbon dioxide. This is why supportive therapy is so important. Patients need to restore oxygen exchange and minimize inflammation. But what is really lacking in this condition is two substances: vitamin D and zinc. It is a well-known fact that 90 percent of patients with RDS have very low levels of vitamin D in the body. What is vitamin D? Vitamin D is an immunomodulator. It is not even really a vitamin. It is a hormone that can significantly strengthen your immunity. It is a very powerful anti- inflammatory. If I had RDS, I would start absorbing vitamin D immediately. Let's move on to zinc. Zinc is probably one of the most important substances for the lungs, especially for fighting inflammation. If you have a zinc deficiency in the body, the infection lasts longer and you become more vulnerable to infections. viruses and microbes, and your white blood cell army isn't working at full capacity. I'll leave a link in the description to a very interesting study about these two inexpensive nutrients that should be taken in this condition. If you haven't seen my video about strengthening your immune system, watch it.