I want to talk about why fasting can significantly improve your vision. If you want to understand something, and I'm now talking about how you can improve your vision, here's what you can do. Consider what can damage your vision. One of the threats to vision is diabetes. In diabetes, four main tissues are damaged: the kidneys, the heart, the nervous system, and the eye. In diabetes, there is a condition called diabetic retinopathy. This is damage to the retina. In diabetes, there is also a huge risk of developing glaucoma. This is intraocular pressure, which is enormous pressure inside the eye, and this pressure blocks the opening through which fluid should be excreted, and it begins to accumulate, and the pressure destroys nerve cells. This is the most common cause of blindness. The retina is essentially an extension of the brain. This is the part of the brain that is located in the eye and collects information for it. When you have problems with blood sugar, excess sugar destroys the smallest blood vessels that go to the nerves, this deprives the nervous system of nutrition, which can lead to blindness. There are other eye conditions, such as macular degeneration, which is when the back of the eye has poor blood circulation. It is associated with many diseases and  Even aging can cause macular degeneration. There are also cataracts, which is when a cloudy white spot appears on the lens. This is also common in people with diabetes and pre- diabetes, as well as with insulin resistance. If a lot of sugar in the blood destroys the eyes and vision, then if you do something that lowers blood sugar, vision will improve in many ways. That's why fasting is so effective. You normalize blood sugar levels, force the body to work on titans, which improves the situation. Anything that improves blood sugar levels will indirectly help improve various aspects of vision. And when you fast, you trigger the process of autophagy in the body. Autophagy is a condition in which the body cleans out old damaged proteins. These spots before the eyes and scar tissue in the eyes will help process damaged tissue and replace them with new ones. In order to start out of a due, you need to fast for at least 18 hours. I want to tell you about what recently happened to my vision. About a month ago, I needed these glasses, and around the same time, I switched from an 18- hour fast to a 21-hour one.  It was just three hours, it was amazing because I noticed that not only my memory and concentration improved, but also my vision. There are not many studies about improving vision with fasting. However, if you google it, you will find that many people have noticed improved vision thanks to fasting. It's worth a try. If you yourself have noticed an improvement in vision, please leave a comment. If you eat foods high in lutein, this substance is found in cruciferous vegetables, you will reduce the risk of macular degeneration, so it is very important to eat foods rich in nutrients. Phytonutrients also protect against oxidation due to high sugar levels. I almost forgot I wanted to tell you one more thing. Give his rage. There is also a place here. If you started fasting and feel that your vision is deteriorating, this just means that you have not yet adapted to ketosis. This only takes time. When you enter ketosis, your goal will be to burn fat correctly and stop burning sugar, but a switch must occur. This may take longer if you have insulin resistance. Week 2, 3, or 4 if you are doing something like ketosis.  or only partially diet and you have not yet adapted there may not be an improvement in vision because blood sugar levels can jump one of the symptoms of blurred vision or vision loss is hypoglycemia low blood sugar this can be solved by switching to using fat as fuel so you no longer have to depend on sugar level spikes because you use fat but for this you will have to be in ketosis continuously and it is best to start fasting because it is the combination of fasting and a low-carb diet that will help vision when I was twenty I constantly had red eyes under the eyelids there was redness my eyes were dry and I had a lot of problems with my eyes I didn't know that it was all because of blood sugar then I didn't know about chum but now I know that because of blood sugar problems there will be dry eyes dehydration eyes will be sensitive as if there is sand in them and there will be other vision problems when I remember this I am amazed at how my vision has improved since I was twenty now I am 30 a little I am almost 55 my vision has become much better thanks to diet and interval training Thanks for watching fasting