Can snacking and overeating be a real disease? You'll learn the answer from this video. A new eating disorder, binge eating disorder, was recently proposed in the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. It's described in great detail. Let's see if you have this disorder. Do you eat too much at least once a week for three months? Do you eat every two hours? Have you recently started eating faster? Does it happen that you only eat until you feel uncomfortable? Do you walk alone? Do you feel guilty after eating something you shouldn't? Do you follow a high-fat diet, excluding certain foods, for example, excluding sugar, carbohydrates, or dairy? Do you ever fast and then overeat? I think we're talking about intermittent fasting. You know, even if you suffer from binge eating disorder, don't worry about the decision. There is a drug called Thebans. This is a new use for a drug that was used to treat other problems, but it is the only officially approved drug for this disorder. It was finalized in just 12 weeks and, interestingly, quickly during clinical trials.  People with heart problems were not allowed to participate in the studies. That is, it was given to people with relatively healthy hearts. But here is a list of possible side effects that are very serious: sudden cardiac arrest, stroke, very high blood pressure, psychosis, increased tendency toward violence, visual and auditory hallucinations. I'll explain for those who are not familiar with my channel. It's full of sarcasm. I'm being very sarcastic right now, Elena. I don't recommend this medicine for this disease. Personally, I don't consider snacking and overeating to be a disease. This is a common thing for many people. If a person switches to healthy intermittent fasting, the need for snacks will become much less. If you are new to my channel and you have such symptoms but you don't want to correct them with medication, watch the link under the video. There I will explain in detail how to completely overcome the desire to snack and overeat.