If you had a choice to eat cereal from the Kelok company or the box it comes in, which would be healthier? Write in the comments. At first, I thought the box was healthier, but it seems I was wrong. A few years ago, this company recalled four of its products from the market: corn pops, Hannismex, Fruit Loops. In English, the word fruit is spelled incorrectly, that is, there is no fruit in it, and Applejacks. In total, they recalled 28 million boxes of breakfast cereals, which is a lot. The first thing that caught my attention was that they recalled four types of breakfast cereals, but that is not all they sell. If you go to a supermarket, you can experience shock, this is, of course, sarcasm, from the huge display cases filled with breakfast cereals. It’s incredible what this means. This means that a huge number of children and adults eat these dry breakfasts, Survival, but what was surprising was that they recalled these breakfasts not because of the contents, but because of the box. There was something that they described as an unnatural smell, not typical for cereals.  metallic tint that can cause at least temporary nausea and diarrhea in some people is it true that when you eat food, part of the packaging in which they are sold gets into your body and here's what's also interesting in this whole story if you look at where the Kellogg company started, it turns out that at the dawn of their activity they sold healthy food They used dietary fiber extracts and did not add various sugars their original intention was to create a healthy product that really has benefits reading further and here's what I see They claim that they follow this principle to this day I was puzzled by this in my opinion everyone knows that breakfast cereals are not healthy food However, they are advertised as a healthy product I decided to find out what the matter is and look at how they promote it I became interested in how they can call ultra-processed food healthy because it is not just processed food it is ultra-processed food with added sugars in fact it is the second largest source of calories for children with added sugar I decided to find out their rationale they say that they removed trans fats you need to understand that trans fats This is partially Hydrogenated oils When you fry for a long time, exposing the oil to high heat, it is completely hydrogenated. In fully hydrogenated oil, there are no trans fats. Only in partially hydrogenated oil. But I think that if the oil is not partially but completely hydrogenated, this does not make it more useful. They also say that they reduced the amount of sugar and reduced the amount of sodium. After all, everyone knows that it is dangerous, but they added nutrients. Of course, synthetic ones, as well as dietary fiber in the form of whole grains, and they, with a straight face, declare that their breakfast cereals are rich in nutrients. I'm not kidding. Synthetic vitamins suddenly made their products rich in nutrients, but according to the information on the packaging, I can't understand where all this wealth is because the percentages are very low, and citing the findings of one study, they claim that their products can reduce the risk of obesity and weight gain, but how can they even claim that? One observational study was done. And you shouldn't trust such things too much. In that study, people recalled what they ate in the last 24 hours. Parents asked what their child ate in the last 24 hours. Based on this, they assumed  that he eats like this all the time, you can’t understand what the child eats based on the data of one day, so you won’t know his eating habits. In addition, the data was obtained from memory, many children go to school and get about 30 percent of their calories from school food. And parents don’t always know what they eat there. But it is precisely this type of research that they rely on memories of food over the past 24 hours. They also claim that their products can help develop healthy eating habits. This is completely unacceptable if you eat only breakfast cereals, this can lead to a decrease in the amount of nutritious food in the diet and various undesirable consequences. I’m still puzzled by how they can say such things. I’ve never seen so many lies in one paragraph in my life, because if you remove their products from the diet, the body will become much healthier, the child’s concentration and mood will improve, there will be no excess weight, there will be no metabolic syndrome and problems with sugar. If you look at the composition of corn pops, this is what is written there: corn, sugar, hydrogenated corn syrup, soybean or cottonseed oil, wheat starch and synthetic vitamins, and that’s what  It's interesting that one glass of this product has 27 grams of carbohydrates, but only 9 grams of sugar and 0 fiber, but wait, we have refined carbohydrates in the composition, a lot of carbohydrates. But not all of them are sugar, where do the rest of the carbohydrates come from? It's not fiber. Although they praise their products, claiming that they have a lot of fiber in the composition, 0 and only 1 gram of protein. What kind of carbohydrates are these? These are starches. Starch is a little different from sugar. Sugar has already been sort of disassembled. Small carbohydrates of starch are chains of sugars linked to each other, but loopholes in the rules allow you to add maltodextrin or even dry corn syrup, placing them in the category of carbohydrates, but not sugars. Although they behave like sugar and quickly turn into it, the law does not oblige them to indicate all the sugar if there is less than a gram. Let's look at Fruit Loops whole grain yellow corn flour, sugar, flour, Sunny whole grain oat flour, modified corn starch, hydrogenated oil, this is soybean oil, and also  Maltodextrin, which I mentioned, is another source of fiber. Soluble corn fiber is a new, highly processed, almost artificial product. They also added food colorings, red 40, yellow 5, and blue. One and a half cups, not even a whole cup. 24 grams of carbohydrates, 2 grams of fiber, and again, this product has very little fiber, as well as 10 grams of sugar and 1 gram of protein. Based on all this information, my conclusion is that a box of these breakfast cereals is much healthier than their contents. What do you think? Write in the comments under the video. I just want to add that the best food for a child during breakfast is eggs. Dr. Berg's new workshop course. A coach on intermittent fasting and the keto diet. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's 30 years of experience, which can be adopted in three months of training. Get a certificate. Become a keto coach. Help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule. Do what you like. Sign up for the course using the link below.