The question is: What is the best time to take vitamin D? You need to understand that vitamin D is fat-soluble. What does this mean? This means that it is better absorbed by about 30-50% if you take it with fat. There are supplements with vitamin D that already contain fat. Under the video, I will give a link to the one that I recommend, but if you take vitamin D in a supplement that does not contain fat, take this vitamin with food. But it must contain fat. Avocado, meat with saturated fats, olive oil, MCT oil, nuts, dairy products, eggs, any fats. This way, you will increase absorption by 30-50%. I want to say one more thing. If you have problems with sleep, you may want to take vitamin D before bed, and here's why vitamin D can help increase slow-wave sleep. Delta wave sleep occurs in the first half of the night. Vitamin D receptors are located in the internal clock that generates circadian rhythms. They are called subchiasma. The subchiasma nucleus is a very interesting organ. It contains receptors for vitamin D. So there is a direct connection between  Vitamin D deficiency and sleep problems also have receptors for vitamin D in the brainstem, which is also directly related to sleep cycles and, in addition, vitamin D is useful for reducing cortisol levels and stress levels. So, perhaps you should try taking vitamin D before bed and see if it helps. Most people will be fine when taking vitamin D before bed, their sleep will improve, but for a small percentage of people, it will, on the contrary, prevent them from falling asleep, so they should take it earlier in the day. But if you have sleep problems, it’s worth trying. There are a couple more vitamins that can be used for sleep problems: vitamin B5, which helps reduce cortisol levels. Folic acid or vitamin B9 is also useful for sleep cycles, and vitamin B1 is especially useful if you are very nervous, think a lot at night, and can’t cope with it. So, if you have sleep problems, try taking vitamin D right before bed and write below under the video how it worked. I invite you to my vitamin mi health course. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90% of the world’s population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of it with vitamin D.  These diseases and symptoms will improve your health and preserve your youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the 2019 Keto Summit. All of this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course.