Hi all.  Let's start with the quiz question. Please agree with me. If you had to name one root cause of all chronic diseases, what would it be ? Friends, we're waiting for your opinions on this matter, and in the meantime, we'll answer questions on social media. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. asks Luna from YouTube. Please explain what causes ketoacidosis and how to avoid it during prolonged fasting? Ketocytosis only happens if you have type 1 diabetes and forget to take your insulin. What does a low-carb diet do?  It lowers insulin.  But we can’t do without insulin at all . The problem with type 1 diabetes is that there is no insulin at all.  After all, the pancreas does not produce it at all And when you eat carbohydrates, there's nothing to regulate your blood sugar levels. So, if you have type 1 diabetes and you're on a low-carb diet and don't regulate your blood sugar, ketones can get out of control.  Their levels can rise much, much higher than normal. This can cause the body to become too acidic, which is dangerous.  I repeat, this happens very rarely.  If you don't have type 1 diabetes, you're not at risk. But if you do have it, just take your medicine, check your blood sugar, and you'll be fine. Excellent, writes Puji from YouTube.  I often lose my sense of smell and taste, but when I feed them potassium-rich foods, they return and my stress levels go down.  Why?  I think this is a good problem.  I'm not sure about potassium, but I think to really solve this problem you need more zinc.  After all, zinc has a strong effect on taste and smell receptors. You may have a subclinical zinc deficiency, but potassium is involved with zinc in many biochemical reactions, so it may also be related.  Take more zinc, I think the problem will go away.  Great.  And now Obida is on the line with us.  She is from the United Kingdom and she preferred to stick to voice communication. Abida, please ask Dr. Berg one question. Hello, Dr. Berg.  My daughter Zinap has a problem with her hair.  She had dandruff. To combat dandruff, I used apple cider vinegar.  I was told that apple cider vinegar should be mixed with henna powder, senna powder and fenugreek seed powder , dried fenugreek seeds. I used this product about 3 years ago, but after that her scalp started producing too much oil.  It might be a side effect, I don't know. Because of this, her hair became very weak.  Now her hair is falling out a lot , because of which her scalp has become visible .  I have been using this product for 3 years now but her scalp still produces too much oil. I'm very worried about this.  And my question is this: Can you suggest how to improve the condition of her hair or what to do about it? Thank you.  I made some videos about hair and I think you mentioned psoriasis.  This is due to a microbe that multiplies on the scalp due to an imbalance of bacteria. Now, there are many topical treatments, but I would focus on her diet.  I think she needs to strengthen her microflora.  I think she needs a low-carb diet.  I think she needs fermented foods. Sauerkraut, kimchi, something like that .  I think this will help in the end.  And you need good doses of vitamin D. One of the A's is also to be careful with drinking water and shower water.  It's full of chemicals, maybe chlorine and sulphur.  They sterilize the skin, kill germs and thus deprive it of protection.  I have a video about something like yogurt.  It should be applied to the scalp, left for a while, and then washed off several times a week.  This should help you.  You can also apply rosemary oil to your hair, but don't overdo it with these products, because you need something that has the desired effect.  acts selectively on the microbe that needs to be suppressed, but does not interfere with hair restoration.  If the skin is too oily, it is a problem with the sebaceous glands on the scalp. Here, perhaps, more zinc is also needed in the diet.  It will help normalize fat secretion.  In general, I repeat, this is what I would do.  I would provide her with a high quality diet and the excess fat would probably go away.  And do the rest and watch my videos.  I recently made a video and someone decided that it was crazy to recommend that.  I asked not to be mentioned.  Oddly enough , onion juice, when applied to hair, gives amazing results. And I didn't come up with this.  In the video I quoted the findings of randomized controlled trials about this.   It is quite interesting how this affects the quality of hair and even its growth. Take a look at it. Just don't mention me and stay away from people.  I think this will be interesting.  Well, Abeda, thank you for your question.  We hope this helps your daughter.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell.  to enable all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Find out what viewers answered to the quiz question, which was: "If you had to name one root cause of all chronic diseases, what would it be ?" So, 74% of respondents blamed the inflammation.  16% believed that ultra-processed foods were the cause, and 10% said it was insulin resistance.   Do we have any dog ​​winners?  Well, I really mean okay , all the answers are good, everyone is great. I studied this issue for a very long time, and then I came across one reason. which underlies all diseases. I find this extremely interesting.  There is very reliable research on this topic. I've never even heard of such a thing.  This is called evolutionary mismatch. Evolutionary inconsistency.  You ask: "What the hell are you talking about ?"  And this means, essentially, this . We live in a modern world, a modern environment, and the food, the nutrients, the environment, are simply not in line with our biology, the way our DNA and cells evolved. If you think about it, this mismatch is actually at the root of almost all diseases, and it makes perfect sense. For example, instead of sunlight we have artificial light.  Our food is ultra-processed food, artificial food.  This is not very good for our body , and also during meal times.  These are frequent meals with snacks.  Our genes, our biology, were not prepared for something like this. Even my father, who was in fifth grade in 1900, I do n't remember what year it was, I think it was 1948. There weren't grocery stores stocked with snacks like there are today. Your parents told you: "Don't ruin your appetite."  So we have artificial light everywhere.  And then we go to bed and ca n't sleep.  If we align our lifestyles with the environment for which evolution has prepared our genes, we will literally eliminate the root cause of many problems.  And this is also toxicity, because we are drowning in chemicals and plastic, and many other problems. I think it is very important to analyze your life and see what needs to be changed in your lifestyle. And changing your lifestyle is not difficult. I think the important factors are light, food, activity level, training or physical labor.  After all, people used to work much more.  And today, Steve, you don't have to make any effort to get food.  You can open the app in the middle of the night, order food, and have it delivered to you.  You don't have to kill an animal to eat. Now you know, Steve, what you need to do?  Every night, scour the forest for food.  Well, I'll leave for half an hour and go to the forest to do some shopping. Don't know what to drink on keto? Wondering if a drink will break your fast?  Diversify your diet with the book Healthy Drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar and harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes.  There is benefit in every ingredient. Order the book Healthy Drinks using the link below.