How much sugar do you think you consume on average per year? I already have a video on this topic, but I would like to highlight a couple more points. For example, a person aged one and a half to three years consumes about thirty- six grams of added sugar per day, that is, 9 teaspoons of sugar every day. A teenager consumes about 74 grams, that is, 18 and a half teaspoons per day of added sugar. Older people may consume a little less. The American Diabetes Association stated that people from 2 to 18 years old can consume less than 25 grams of sugar every day, that is, up to 6 teaspoons of sugar. That is, you should not exceed 6 teaspoons of added sugar per day. But you know that this is also a lot, a lot. Moreover, many do not understand that all carbohydrates in your body are converted into sugar, except for fiber, for example, in vegetables, which is not sweet, and so when you consume vegetables, blood sugar does not increase, but other foods increase it. I am talking about bread, pasta, cereal, where there are cookies, waffles, and so on. If you count all these carbohydrates as a total  The amount of sugar will be from 225 to 325 grams, on average 275 grams of sugar per day is a little more than half a pound six tenths of a pound of sugar every day or twenty seven hundredths of a kilogram and if you calculate the amount for a year, it comes out to 219 pounds of sugar this is insane ninety eight point nine kilograms all the lower insane what happens to the body when consuming such an amount of sugar every day excess sugar is toxic to the body this is called glucose toxicity this creates all sorts of problems which I will talk about soon I often hear this question I took a blood sugar test and it was normal I have a normal diet I eat a lot of sugar but blood sugar is normal what is the problem then you need to understand that all sugar is quickly removed from the blood with the help of the hormone insulin the purpose of insulin is to remove excess sugar from the blood and excess is how much anything that exceeds 1 teaspoon of sugar is quickly removed from the blood with the help of insulin why because it is poison but you know the more sugar you eat the more insulin is produced insulin is also toxic to the body. Look up what hyper insulinemia is and you will learn all the consequences. The symptoms of high insulin levels are almost identical to the symptoms of high sugar levels. Chronic exposure to sugar and insulin on body tissues creates many problems, and before diabetes develops, which, by the way, takes several years, because the body constantly produces insulin to keep sugar levels normal. People often ask where this sugar goes. It turns into fat in the liver, around the organs, and on the stomach. If you see someone with a big belly, know that they have an excess of insulin in their body and sugar in their diet. Let's talk about problems, minor trivial problems that arise due to excess glucose and insulin. These are heart problems, blood clots form, which is a stroke or a heart attack. Blood vessels harden, blood pressure rises, which can cause angina and many other heart problems. This can affect teeth and the need to wear braces. If a child consumes a lot of sugar from an early age, because this can cause defects in the development of teeth, in which case braces may be needed. Excess glucose affects the brain, it can cause  ADHD can cause brain fog, irritability, depression, anxiety, and can affect cognitive function, memory, and concentration. This can affect hormones. One of the consequences is high androgen levels. High insulin levels increase androgen levels. Women experience facial hair growth, hair loss, abdominal enlargement, and a deepening of the voice. This can provoke inflammatory processes on the skin. Cystic skin can develop. The skin will not be in the best condition. The microflora throughout the body also changes. Bacteria that cause bad breath can grow. This can also cause joint inflammation. Stiffness and pain will appear. Bursitis, no stands, and of course, arthritis. Endurance will decrease during exercise. Constant fatigue will occur during the day, especially after eating. With age, you will begin to wake up at night due to increased nocturnal activity of the bladder. Glasses may be needed because sugar destroys many eye tissues, damaging capillaries, causing cataracts, glaucoma, and ultimately diabetic neuropathy. And of course, belly fat is the result.  Excess sugar because the liver fills with fat that spreads throughout the organs of the mid- abdomen, causing neuralgia, tingling and burning in the soles of the feet or hands, and many other symptoms, but I think you get the idea. The amount of sugar in many people's diets is off the charts. They think that added sugar is all the sugar, but we mustn't forget about the rest of the carbohydrates. Forward this video to friends and family so they understand how they harm the body without even realizing it. For newcomers to the channel, I'll leave a link below to the diet you need to follow. We are pleased to present you with the online summit Healthy Chum Salmon 2000 2013. 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of health and intermittent fasting. Watch online at a convenient time exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of chum salmon fasting and how your body works to a new level. The 2020 edition is waiting for you in Russian. Sign up now.