I have a lot of videos about chum salmon and what you can and can't eat. But it seems that I have bypassed the topic of coconut milk and coconut water on chum salmon first. Let's talk about coconut milk. If you look at the composition of packaged coconut milk, you can see a large amount of fat: 58 g of fat, 13 g of carbohydrates, and 5 g of fiber. Which gives 8 g of digestible carbohydrates. It also contains a huge amount of potassium, namely 631 mg. This is in one glass, not in the entire package, but in one glass. This is approximately 240 ml. But there are other manufacturers of coconut milk, for example, the Silk company. Their milk contains 4 g of fat, since they remove the fat from there, dilute it with water, and there is less fat. So, 4 g of fat and only 1 g of carbohydrates for chum salmon is better, and 310 mg of potassium. Coconut milk from different companies can be Keto compatible to varying degrees, but 8 g of carbohydrates is not so bad. To enter Keto, you must not exceed 30 or even 20 g of carbohydrates. So, coconut milk on chum salmon. Can I like to use it? Coconut milk in different recipes or adding it to coffee, let's move on to coconut water. A glass of coconut water has more carbohydrates, namely 11 g of carbohydrates, and since it is water, it has almost no fat, only about half a degree, and it also contains 282 mg of sodium. The potassium and sodium ratio here is quite good. Many people drink coconut water for electrolytes, but for me, it has too many carbohydrates, and these carbohydrates are essentially sugar. When I drink coconut water, after half an hour, I feel how my blood sugar levels change. But if you don't eat so many carbohydrates, then most likely you can drink this water. Especially if you compare it with juice, which has 36 g of carbohydrates, or with sweet soda, which has 46 g of carbohydrates, then coconut water is much better. This was my opinion about coconut milk and coconut water from dairy products. And if you have lost your usual diet, the book "dairy-free menu" will help you: clear step-by-step recipes, grocery lists, a ready-made menu for 2 weeks with calculation of kbzhu, life hacks for replacing cheese, cream, and other dairy products.  Cook easily, quickly and deliciously. A book with a dairy-free menu is waiting for you. Follow the link below.