It's just a disaster, I'm sorry to say it, but coconut oil is poison. It's a very dangerous food. I understand it's been part of the cuisine of so many peoples for the last two thousand years and they had no problems, but now experts are one after another claiming that it's very dangerous. Okay, guys, coconut is really dangerous when it flies at your head and you don't dodge it. That's its only danger. Let me show you why. I do n't know who they are yet. They think coconut oil is toxic. I'll give you the answer because it's saturated fat. They haven't conducted any research on the connection between coconut oil and heart attacks. No, they just turned a blind eye to it and immediately moved on to saturated fats. After all, everyone knows saturated fats clog arteries and cause coronary heart disease. And that's also a fact. It's true. This is an example of false information. The American Heart Association persistently told doctors that saturated fats in foods should be replaced with vegetable oils. It's something of a new fad, but they ignored these three major studies: the experience of coronary observations in Minnesota, the Sydney study, and the Women's Health Initiative. I'll give you links to them so you can see for yourself because  These large studies have shown no connection between saturated fats and heart disease at all. They showed that there is no connection, and much more. Let's look at the truth. Well, coconut oil is 70 percent medium-chain renal triglycerides. M-City. These fats are completely different. They are converted into energy. They are converted into ketones and provide energy, and the gallbladder is not involved, so this puts very little strain on the liver and gallbladder. 50 percent of coconut oil is lauric acid, which has amazing antimicrobial properties. It is very beneficial for the immune system. By the way, some studies that the American Heart Association proves this connection used not only saturated fats. The subjects' diets were high in carbohydrates. The combination of a large amount of carbohydrates with a large amount of protein or fat leads to chemical heart disease. It's all about the carbohydrates in sugar. The truth is, coconut oil manufacturers don't give a bribe. Sorry, they don't sponsor the American Heart Association, like some food and drug manufacturers. The one who paid five hundred and twenty-one million dollars is not the figures for 11-12 years.  I know how much it is now, but they pay a lot to get permission. There is also a cardiological certification of products, during which the American Heart Association confirms the safety of various products for the heart. I think it costs about 700 thousand dollars a year for one such confirmation. In general, you should not worry about coconut oil being supposedly poisonous. In fact, it is very useful. It has been used for a very long time. There are many studies showing that it lowers cholesterol. The links will be below. Write in the comments what you think about this. We receive many success stories, but we do not have yours yet. Follow the link below. Download then after. I want to hear your success story and see your before and after. Every week we share success stories. Follow the link below and share your success.