Today we will discuss what women are not told about using makeup. Firstly, you need to understand that human skin is like a sponge. It absorbs everything that comes into contact with it, so everything we put on the skin immediately penetrates inside. Remember when you apply hand cream, after applying it, it disappears. Where does it go? It goes straight inside. The average woman's skin absorbs almost two kilograms of chemicals a year. Here, about two kilograms. Of course, there is much more sugar here than in those chemicals, but here you have almost two bodies. That's how much chemicals your body gets through your skin every year. Is that a lot? Or do women put more than 500 different chemicals on their skin every day? These are hairsprays, blush, foundation, shampoo, conditioner, and deodorants with aluminum, for example, body lotions, hand cream, eye shadow, lipstick, nail polish, and nail polish remover. They are very toxic, by the way, like self-tanners. There are a lot of things that get on the skin every day. The problem is that some of these chemicals are carcinogens. These substances can cause cancer and problems.  What makes it worse is that the effect does n't appear immediately. The chemicals accumulate, but we don't know exactly when this will lead to problems, so it's difficult to link cause and effect. Some of the chemicals are neurotoxins; they enter the brain and nervous system. There are also so- called hormonal disruptors; they are present in the environment and mimic estrogen. They affect different glands: the thyroid, pancreas, thymus, adrenal glands, ovaries. All these chemicals damage the body internally, which then affects the outside. Then you need more makeup to correct the defects, dryness, and unhealthy-looking skin. First, I want to talk about the role of the liver in this. Perhaps the liver bears the brunt of the impact, because it constantly removes from the body what poisons it. It breaks down these poisons during the detoxification process. In the first and second phases, the human liver takes the poisons that come to it, sometimes they are fat-soluble, and turns them into harmless particles that are already soluble. All this happens in the liver, so you are as healthy as your liver is. All these chemicals enter the body now.  How to remove them? Let's discuss what can be done here. Determine which of these products enter your body ( sprays, creams, shampoos, and so on) and replace them. Go to a health food store and buy more natural, less toxic cosmetics. Yes, it will be a little more expensive, but in the long run, it's better for your health. For example, replace the cream with another cream that is based on coconut oil and does not contain alcohols and other chemicals. Detoxify using cruciferous vegetables. This will also help the liver fight poisons that have already entered the body. Cruciferous vegetables include, for example, broccoli, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, Chinese cabbage, arugula, kale, radish, and watercress. These are simply unique vegetables. They help natural detoxification without the usual reaction to detoxification. In addition, they contain a lot of nutrients. They will make your skin beautiful and help the liver. Intermittent fasting is extremely important because, in essence, intermittent fasting is a vacation for the body, which continuously gives something.  Gives organs the opportunity to rest, heal, and recover. Intermittent fasting stimulates the so-called out- of-a-due process. What does this mean? The body with autophagy can be compared to a self-cleaning oven. It processes what it no longer needs: damaged protein, microbes, chemicals. It processes this and forms new tissue. So, intermittent fasting helps get rid of waste and repair damage done to the body by various chemicals. This is very healing, especially for the skin. In the fourth point, you must definitely eat enough fat. No low-fat diets. Our skin has a fat layer, so if we want to help the skin, we need to replace this fat with healthy fat from healthy fish, for example, from commercial salmon, from coconut oil, seafood, healthy nuts, seeds, olive oil, avocado. It is important to start eating more fat because if you eat little of it, it will slow down the elimination of chemicals from the body and complicate the formation of healthy skin. That's all. A plan for your next steps. Thank you for watching. I have a new idea. I will analyze what people eat. You can participate. I can't promise that I will choose you. Take a photo of what you eat. Indicate how often you eat per day, whether you practice intermittent fasting, go twice a day, indicate everything you drink and the supplements you take, don't forget your height, weight, age, and information about your main health problems. I will analyze all of this and determine what you are doing correctly and what needs to be changed. Everything is clear. Follow the link under the video and upload a photo. I repeat, I can't promise that I will choose you. I will choose several people, evaluate their diet, and post it as a video on YouTube. Okay, see you next time.