I will tell you about a natural remedy that can work against home Viagra, you only need to drink one glass of this remedy per day and I think you will be pleasantly surprised by what will happen in general. The topic today is erectile dysfunction. The main problem with erectile dysfunction, I see, is that men go to doctors, they are diagnosed and they are treated, there is no real understanding of what causes it. In fact, there is only one explanation: you are aging, this happens to everyone, you just need to learn to live with it. Erectile dysfunction is interesting because in many cases, if not all, hormone testing shows that everything is normal and among men with erectile dysfunction, there are many who have hypertension, obesity, diabetes, many smokers among them, and drugs like Viagra do not work in about 30% of cases. At the same time, they often cause side effects such as gangrene of the penis. Although not often, it happens, if because of this the penis has to be removed, then this is very severe. The side effect in this video I want to discuss the real cause of erectile dysfunction. The penis is a barometer.  The so-called endothelial endothelium is a layer of the inner surface of blood vessels such as arteries and veins, one cell thick, and even blood vessels. Erectile dysfunction is one of the early signs of peripheral vascular disease. Peripheral vessels are vessels on the periphery of the body. There are other signs of this problem in the legs and arms. But keep in mind that in half of the cases, there are essentially no symptoms, but as the problem develops, you may notice that you have cold feet, pain in the legs, the color of the shins and ankles may change. This often happens with diabetes. A bluish tint may even appear. A red rash or additional pigmentation may appear on the lower legs. You may notice that wounds do not heal as quickly. You may notice that hair is falling out on the shins. All these are symptoms of peripheral vascular disease or at least early signs of a problem. That is, erectile dysfunction is actually a problem. Not of the penis, this is a larger-scale problem. The penis is a very sensitive hydraulic organ. What does hydraulic mean? It means that high pressure, in this case, is blood pressure in a limited space.  something sets something in motion and during an erection, several things happen that affect these hydraulics. We inhibit the nervous system. This is the mechanism of the League. This part of the nervous system is activated under stress. So, under stress, an erection does not occur. The parasympathetic nervous system is activated at the same time. This system promotes relaxation and recovery. The parasympathetic nervous system is more active when we digest food and sleep. This is a possible explanation for why someone has an erection at night but not during the day. In addition, during an erection, blood flow increases and the level of nitric oxide also increases. Nitric oxide increases blood flow, dilates blood vessels and allows you to achieve an erection. The same factors that affect peripheral vascular disease also affect the level of nitric oxide. And this is age, hypertension, diabetes, excess weight, stress. There is one enzyme that is probably not so important to know. But this explains the mechanism of action of Viagra. This enzyme is called FD2 and Viagra blocks this enzyme. So, the endothelial layer, how to heal it so that this part of the vascular system functions and an erection can be restored. For this, you need to eliminate the real  the cause of this problem, and while it is not eliminated, you can take steps to at least improve the situation. Probably the main cause of the problem with sandate is insulin resistance caused by poor nutrition. If you want to eliminate this problem with insulin, which occurs in prediabetes, diabetes, and even before diabetes. And it also occurs with hypertension and obesity, then you definitely need a ketogenic diet. But in the meantime, you can take several things in the form of a drink that will help increase nitric oxide levels. There is an amino acid precursor to nitric oxide. It is called citrulline. Including the white part of the rind, and let someone else eat the sweet part of the watermelon. Although I advise drinking only one glass of this juice. So there will not be so much sugar. So, citrulline beet powder. I recommend organic. You need to add two teaspoons of this powder to this drink. You will probably have to add a glass of water. But if you have a juicer, you can take a medium-sized beet and squeeze the juice out of it. Add a glass of watermelon juice. Squeeze the juice from the rind and pulp of the watermelon, but  I repeat, if you are on a strict diet, do not use red watermelon pulp. Have you ever read on the labels of sausages or bacon that they contain nitrates and sometimes these nitrates are obtained from a natural source from celery root? In other words, celery has a lot of nitrates. That is, you can squeeze about a glass of celery juice and add it to this drink. You can add something else or something instead. It is any Dark leafy greens, for example, arugula, kale, and even spinach. I do not recommend spinach to those who are prone to kidney stones because it contains a lot of oxalates, but for some, spinach is not a problem. All dark leafy greens have a lot of nitrates. Drink one glass of this drink every morning for 4-6 weeks. Then you should completely stop watching porn. If you watch it, there is so-called porn-induced erectile dysfunction. Of all the causes of erectile dysfunction, porn is probably the main one because the entire biochemical process is artificially disrupted when you look at pictures and this is very Overstimulation occurs unnaturally, dopamine reserves are depleted, a strong addiction and many other health problems can develop. Another method is to breathe through the nose. I made a video about this when we breathe through the nose, say, during training, although not all the time. But if you try to breathe through the nose, the level of nitric oxide increases and, in fact, the level of oxygen and, of course, the last factor is that you need to train, because training also increases nitric oxide. Now that you know all this, I think the most important thing is to learn more about the technique of breathing through the nose, and you will learn about it from this video.