Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Let's talk about how to determine a nutrient deficiency by the eyes. You can tell everything by the eyes. The first thing is yellowing of the whites of the eyes or skin, or simply jaundice. There is a byproduct of jelcz, bilirubin, which goes back to the liver and into the blood, so the whites of the skin turn yellow. This happens because something blocks the bile duct connected to the gallbladder. Usually, this is a problem with the gallbladder, and this tells us that the diet needs to be changed so that bile flows normally through the ducts. In general, yellow eyes are the liver or gallbladder. Then, red eyes. Yes, this can happen from alcohol, but it also indicates a deficiency of vitamin B2 riboflavin. This usually happens when you eat too many refined grains, bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes. In this case, you need to stop eating them and switch to healthy foods. This was a B2 deficiency. Next, there is a small plaque on the eye. It looks like a piece of something got into the eye, or is it permanent? It's cholesterol, and the plaque is a genetic problem.  It happens when there is a lot of cholesterol in the body that it can't get rid of. In this case, you need to lower the cholesterol level in your diet, unfortunately, and take more lecithin. Alina, these two B vitamins help lower cholesterol. I would also recommend taking niacin. It also helps lower cholesterol to minimize damage. Next, let's look at cataracts. This is when an opaque whiteness appears on the eye that interferes with vision, and this is a deficiency of vitamin B1. You can get a vitamin B1 deficiency by eating too much sugar or more. Diabetes, or experiencing too much stress, or eating refined grains. Vitamin B1 deficiency leads to cataracts. Then there is redness and irritation of the inner eyelid. It is under the usual one, as if sand was poured there. This is a problem with blood sugar, usually hypoglycemia or another problem. In this case, I will leave links to a video about what to do with blood sugar. It is very easy to fix. Many diabetics have vision problems when everything there is sensitive, irritated and inflamed. The last thing is a kind of pimple right on the eyelid. This is a stye. This is also  The problem is with blood sugar because white blood cells and neutrophils, instead of hunting microbes, first eat sugar. They ignore the microbes, eat sugar, and become inactive. Normally, neutrophils should eat and destroy microbes, but they can't because the sugar level is high. That is, people with barley usually either eat too much sugar or have problems with blood sugar. You can watch my video about blood sugar. Thank you very much for watching. Leave your comments and see you soon.