Let's discuss what causes red eyes. This is a deficiency of vitamin B2. With a deficiency of vitamin B2, not only red eyes can occur, but also itching, tearfulness, and sensitivity to light. There may be other causes, for example, problems with blood sugar. When you eat sweets, its level begins to jump, this can increase irritation, and this can also cause a deficiency of Vita. Another sign of vitamin B2 deficiency can be chapped lips. Another sign of vitamin B2 deficiency is chapped skin in the corners of the mouth. I had all this. I had no idea that the cause was my diet. I smeared my lips with lip balm. This lipstick contained chemicals that pulled fats from the lips, and as a result, the lips became more oily. Oily skin on the nose occurs due to a deficiency of B2. Many children and adolescents have excessively oily skin. Another symptom is an unnaturally red tongue. The tongue becomes bright red. A migraine can occur due to a deficiency of vitamin B2, and here's what you need to know. Vitamin B2 deficiency usually occurs not because  It appears when you have problems absorbing it from food, that is, with some intestinal problems, this could be irritable bowel syndrome or inflammatory bowel disease or another problem that prevents the body from absorbing this vitamin, or you eat too many foods made from refined flour, for example, bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies or waffles. That is, you should not take vitamin B2 supplements but first get rid of intestinal problems. Below are links to a video where I talk about this in more detail. And finally, if you take birth control pills or drink excessive alcohol, this can also cause a vitamin B2 deficiency. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to immunity. How to safely fix this, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course of nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons.  Notes and lists are everything you need to fully understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.