Do not under any circumstances eat chicken until you watch this video. Did you know that over 9 billion chickens and turkeys are sold annually? This means that 99.9 percent of them are factory-farmed and very cheap. The other day we were at the grocery store looking at the products they sell and saw grilled chicken for $4. I thought, can they really afford that? The store needs a profit. The wholesale base needs a profit. How much money is invested in feeding these animals and caring for them? In 1925, chickens were raised for 125 days. Now, chickens reach maturity in 47 days. In a month and a half, it's incredible. There is such a process: feeding animals in a confined space. This is part of factory production. I'll give links on this topic under the video. Now I'll say that when tests were taken for the content of various substances in the chicken's body, antibiotics were found in the feathers, beak, and claws, the use of which was prohibited. What's interesting is how these antibiotics got there. They also found arsenic there. Arsenic is a poison. Because of the man, the chicken looks very, very pink and he also  It acts as an antibiotic, arsenic accumulates in high concentrations in feathers, the problem is that feathers add to the feed so it returns to the birds' bodies, traces of ben found in birds, Prozac is an answer to phena, these are drugs for anxiety disorders, because these poor chickens literally sit on top of each other, so they don't fall asleep at all, they are given caffeine, they need to be constantly fed so they grow, and they are also given vegetarian food, sometimes on the packaging with chicken you can see all these wonderful inscriptions about natural feeds, natural, without processing, raised on vegetarian food, but in fact, this is gamma grain chicken for from o I will explain the difference between cage-free or floor housing and free range, many are confused, floor housing means the bird does not sit in a cage, by the way, the size of the cage itself is usually no larger than a sheet of paper, that's all its living space, floor housing means that the bird can leave the cage and walk around the poultry house with hundreds of thousands of other chickens in a small space, so there is not much space added, and free range also means that the chickens are not in a cage, they are still in  in the poultry house, but it has an exit so they can get outside, we are not told how often they leave the poultry house, but they do have an exit. This is what free range is. Pasture-raised means that the chickens graze outside the poultry house, so when you buy chicken or eggs, you see pastured and organic. From 1940 to 1971, millions of women took the so- called diethyl ether. Still be stroll. This is a very, very strong estrogen. In 1971, it was banned because it turned out that it was not only ineffective, but also very harmful. It causes miscarriages not only in the first, but also in the second and third generation. But many do not know that the drug was widely used in animal husbandry. It was banned only in 1979. So, if you were born earlier, there is a chance that it got into your body. This drug affects the endocrine system, the thyroid gland, the ovaries, the testicles, the pancreas, and I have to mention something that is not appropriate for the table. We will talk about chicken droppings. This is just chicken excrement, poop, they add them to feed for  On many livestock farms, this droppings can't be fed to chickens, but it's perfectly fine for horned cattle. Sorry, I probably ruined your appetite. Understand that you have two options: continue buying regular chickens from poultry farms, or you can switch to conical chickens. Yes, they're more expensive, but believe me, it's worth it. It's much safer to go to farmers and spend a little more, but buy a chicken that was raised in the field, a pasture-raised chicken, and be sure that they cared for it. Yes, it costs $20 a pound, but it's much healthier, and in the long run, it will pay for itself. I want to know what you think of this video, please write your opinion in the comments.