Let's talk about how to defeat hepatitis, this silent killer, for just a thousand dollars per pill. The catch is that you have to take the pills for about three months, and three months have 90 days, so you'll have to shell out 90 thousand dollars for the entire course. Before we move on to the remedy itself, let's talk about what hepatitis is. It's an inflammation of the liver. We'll mainly talk about viral hepatitis, but there can be other causes, for example, autoimmune diseases, which can be caused by various things, a virus, a vaccine, some drug, and so on. There are a lot of people with hepatitis, about 325 million people worldwide, and the problem is that it doesn't have any obvious symptoms, which is why hepatitis is called a silent killer because it's unclear what's going on. What happens is that the virus secretly penetrates the immune system. It hijacks the immune system and hides in it, and the body can't detect it. At the same time, it takes control of the immune system so that the body can't activate its antiviral defenses. It paralyzes the immune system so that it can't respond, and in the process, it wreaks havoc. Over time, this destruction turns into inflammation and potentially  fibrosis and so the medication is a drug called valdi, other drugs can be used with it, valdi has shown a very high percentage of successful cures for hepatitis C, simply put, this means that owl ice can cure hepatitis C, valdi managed to cure hepatitis C in 80-86 percent of cases, the number one problem with this drug is its price of $1,000 per tablet and in the end you can spend from $80,000 to $160,000 for 1 course, I wondered why it is so expensive, the answer lies in the cost of its development, its development required a lot of money, but there is a very interesting article, I will leave the link below, which talks about the funding for its development, it turns out that 600 million dollars in grants were allocated for the development of this drug, both direct and indirect grants, where the state takes this money from taxpayers like you and me, and it turns out that you pay for it both directly and indirectly, it's as if I opened a McDonald's franchise and made you pay for its opening, and then you came to this McDonald's and would pay full price for food there, this is directly and indirectly, many people don't know about this, and the state pays big pharma for the development of many drugs, I think there should be a law by which they would return our money. In general, I dug into all this and found some interesting data on patents on methods of using herbal remedies for the treatment of hepatitis, which I would like to share. The first three use wormwood root extract and o in left tears and red sage root, high cure rates are claimed - 95 percent for hepatitis A and 90 percent for hepatitis B. Apparently, this herbal mixture was a secret remedy that was passed down in some families from generation to generation, but when you apply for a patent, the composition of the recipes must be disclosed, the information will be below. The next patent for the treatment of hepatitis uses round sedge and a plant called nagar moto. Nagar moto is the worst weed in the world, it is an extremely resistant grass that crawls out everywhere and what is interesting about these weeds like milk thistle or nettle is that they contain so many natural substances that are extremely  Nagar mod is beneficial for health. It has properties that help with hepatitis. Again, I'll leave all the links to these patents below. The next patent features milk thistle, my favorite herb for the liver. It can effectively protect the liver from all sorts of things, including poisoning during chemotherapy, alcohol poisoning, and Tylenol AM poisoning. Milk thistle helps reduce the transition from inflammation to fibrosis. This is a mixture of herbs for the treatment of hepatitis that includes milk thistle, artichoke, licorice, turmeric, ginseng, nettle, and ginger. It is recommended to take it 3 times a day, an hour and a half before meals. I can't talk about inflammation without mentioning vitamin D, or more precisely, D3. There is an interesting study. The link will be below. Vitamin D deficiency is associated with the pathogenesis of the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses. What does this mean in pod 1c? This means the creation of these diseases. It turns out that with a deficiency of vitamin D, which many people have, the body becomes more predisposed to hepatitis. This is very important to know because sufficient amounts of vitamin D can protect you from this virus.  And if you already have this virus, it can minimize the damage. Just think about it. The virus has entered the body and taken over your immunity. Vitamin D is the most important vitamin for regulating immunity. Vitamin D is involved in everything related to immunity, including innate and acquired immunity. If you have hepatitis, be it viral or autoimmune, you most likely have a vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D also reduces the rate of viral reproduction. Remember this and do not allow vitamin D deficiency. There is another remedy that I would take if I had hepatitis. It is N-acetyl cysteine. It is for glutathione levels. It can help with oxidation and inflammation, and it can also help with damage caused by hepatitis. The link to this will be below in this video. I wanted to give you more information so that you can find even more data and learn something. If you have hepatitis, the next video that you should definitely watch is a very important video about immunity. Here it is.