chum salmon recipes from Erica Karen Berg your favorite food everything as you like a combo of all my favorite products I think it's just recently last week recently let 's not quibble over words let it be recently but I really love arugula and bright arugula every single day she eats a huge bowl at a time I'm serious she cuts it even has scissors and she likes to add red seeds on top and I love seeds and no dressing at all no dressing just a little olive oil salt and pepper seeds and arugula but that's another story here's an arugula based salad here yellow beets feta and ara how to dig it up but look how beautiful yellow beets are A for the presentation you know that even if you don't like beets be sure to try yellow beets and even children like it it has a milder taste it's probably also healthy like red tell us they have different pigments different colors means they have different Beets are good for the gallbladder and liver. Some people think they're too sweet, but if you eat them sparingly, you don't even have to worry about it. They say no, as they say, it's not fried, cut it out. If you overeat sweets in China, you need to steam yourself now. And you say, "Who are you with?" Okay, no need to cut out a little beetroot in a salad. No one has ever died from beets, and unless it's a huge transvestite, what about launching it from the floor of the twentieth floor? This is no joke, but we're not at risk. We have a delicious beet salad here, and the dressing is very light, just the way I love it. I love it. Everything is correct, and the combination is excellent. If you like it with your hands, even if you haven't tried it yet. You know that arugula comes in varying degrees of bitterness. We bought arugula at the farmer's market, and it's very bitter, and it's good. I love it. The more bitter the greens, the healthier the liver. We'll save it with a stove. It rhymed. No, there wasn't much, but I said, "Okay, okay, overall, it's good for the liver." Good for the liver, but the arugula in supermarkets is usually not bitter. Well, why are we talking so much? Go make a salad. Look, look, chop a small bunch of parsley. 1 chopped stalk of green onion. 80 grams of steamed yellow beetroot [music]. Salt and pepper. 110-140 grams of arugula. Combine the ingredients in a bowl. 85 grams of crumbly feta cheese. Mix. Drizzle with olive oil and balsamic vinegar. Bon appétit.