Let's talk about the interesting connection between vitiligo and copper. What is vitiligo? It's an autoimmune disease where the body attacks its own melanin-producing cells. Without melanin, there is no pigment and white spots appear. This is a loss of melanocyte function. This happens because you have a melanocyte that produces melanin, which gives the skin pigmentation. This is accomplished by converting an amino acid into a specific enzyme, tyrosinase. Tyrosinase indicates that this enzyme is needed to produce melanin. For this enzyme to work, copper is needed for the structure of this protein enzyme. Many enzymes in the body require trace elements as a cofactor for auxiliary nutrients. When there is too much of this enzyme, you may develop hyperpigmentation of the skin. Dark, so-called age spots will appear. This is where they come from. All kinds of copper-based products are available that remove copper. But vitiligo is an autoimmune disease. The body forces antibodies to attack itself, hence the mass of inflammation, hence the strong oxidation. This is a defect in the antioxidant system. The body produces too much hydrogen peroxide, which is a very strong oxidizer. You can try dropping hydrogen peroxide on your hair and see, although you shouldn't.  This is exactly what happens in the body from the skin, and the main antioxidant that neutralizes hydrogen peroxide uses copper and zinc, so excess hydrogen peroxide can reduce tyrosinase levels, and if you have enough tyrosinase, you can fight hydrogen peroxide, but with vitiligo, we have defective cells and we cannot produce melanin in the required quantities. There is something that can be done: you can buy a cream with copper and apply it directly to the skin to give the body what it needs to produce tyrosinase. Second, you can take zinc, which is needed for this powerful antioxidant to build defense against oxidation. Third, vitamin D3. Why is vitamin D3 so good for vitiligo? It is useful for autoimmune diseases. But if you think about it, what medicine treats vitiligo with besides ultraviolet light or phototherapy is corticosteroids such as prednisone, and prednisone is used against autoimmune diseases. Guess what vitamin D3 is. It is also a steroid. Vitamin D3 will help the body produce its own natural steroids, and it is also very strong.  An immunoregulator that helps the immune system and reduces inflammation associated with this disease, as well as a cream with copper, zinc, and vitamin D3. Thank you for watching. If you want to receive notifications about new videos, click the bell next to the "I'm subscribed" button.