Let's talk about the mind-blowing benefits of lemon. I think most people know that lemon has a lot of vitamin C. But if you buy lemon juice in a bottle, it's pasteurized and there is little vitamin C. I'm talking about freshly squeezed lemon juice. So, it contains vitamin C. In addition, it contains citrates, which reduce the risk of kidney stones. Lemons are good for the skin and for digestion, but today I want to talk about another group of nutrients in lemons, and these are flavonoids. There are more than 6,000 different flavonoids. I will not talk about each one today, but I will tell you about just one. And this flavonoid is called erion, it is found in lemons, and it is in lemons that it is found in the largest quantities, and here's what it does: removes fat from the liver, helps balance lipids in the liver, and this is your cholesterol, and reverses diabetes. Judging by a double-blind, randomized study, the effect of riociguat is lemon, and not only for the sake of vitamin C, but also for flavonoids, you will get a lot of benefits for Peripheral circulation is blood circulation in the extremities, in the feet, in the ankles, in the hands, the color of which may be disturbed or in which there is poor blood circulation or with spider veins. Some of these other phytonutrients can help with this. An excellent remedy for hyperglycemia, high blood glucose levels, that is, diabetes. Let's say you are diabetic and ate sugar or simply ate a lot of sugar and then ate a lemon. Flavonoids from this lemon will resist oxidative stress. They also improve HDL and reduce LDL and triglyceride levels. There is also important data. I will leave links below about how they reduce the risk of chronic venous insufficiency. This is a problem with the venous system with veins. The compounds are powerful anti-inflammatory, for example, in rheumatoid arthritis. Yes, and in other types of arthritis. These substances reduce the process of glycation. Glycation is the binding of sugar to protein or sugar to fat. Such proteins become dysfunctional and  clog blood vessels and flavonoids directly prevent this process and since flavonoids reduce inflammation, fibrosis and blood clots are also reduced. Flavonoids are a powerful remedy for insulin resistance, which most people have but don't know about it. This includes metabolic syndrome, high blood pressure, and so on. Flavonoids also have a profound effect on diabetic cardiomyopathy. This is a problem not only with the heart and blood vessels, but also with the heart muscle itself. Flavonoids support health, which can be damaged by plaque formation, as well as the heart muscle itself. There is also a lot of data on how they help the brain as neuroprotectors, and what all this means is that you need to eat more lemons. I recommend taking a whole lemon, pouring about 350 ml of water, you can add a few drops of stevia or electrolytes where there is already stevia, mix in a blender and drink in the morning, especially if you have high blood sugar, diabetes, prediabetes, or insulin resistance. I also add a little apple cider vinegar for Stimulating effect. In general, I wanted to give you more information about lemons, they are even more useful than I thought. Perhaps you know that my content is harder to find. If you need a doctor's note, go to our other resources. The link is below. We'll meet on the other side. Don't know what to drink for chum. Are you unsure whether a drink will make you vomit? Fasting is varied. With the help of a book, healthy drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar and harmful additives are available, as well as recipe designers for creating original recipes. Benefits in each ingredient. Drinks are available at the link below.