One of my favorite drinks for the liver is a mixture of apple cider vinegar and lemon. Today we will talk about the benefits of combining these wonderful ingredients. We will consider apple cider vinegar itself. Some people think that it has a lot of nutrients, and the vinegar mother brings great health benefits. In fact, there are not many nutrients in apple cider vinegar. As for the mother, there may be enzymes and probiotics, but all this is mostly sediment. So, apple cider vinegar is far from a Magic Panacea. It is mainly acetic acid, and acetic acid is a very amazing thing. Firstly, this acid is produced by bacteria that have a positive effect on the body. They can help with problems that many people have, especially with insulin resistance. They help make the body more sensitive to insulin. If you have diabetes, prediabetes, or insulin resistance, apple cider vinegar can help solve these problems. If the body is more sensitive to insulin, then blood sugar will decrease, the brain will function better, less fat will be deposited in the liver and there will be less inflammation. Apple cider vinegar can stop these processes and, in some ways,  I mean, to reverse them, apple cider vinegar helps with oxidative stress. It can slow down the damage from free radicals. Apple cider vinegar also helps store glycogen in the liver. This will help with training and improve the ability to use fuel stored in muscles. At the same time, the brain will receive fuel from the liver. I also noticed a decrease in appetite when drinking apple cider vinegar, as well as improved digestion and less bloating. I will say right away that most of the studies about apple cider vinegar (links to which will be below) were conducted on mice. So if you have a pet hamster or mouse, give them apple cider vinegar. As for the type of apple cider vinegar, take organic Fairchild vinegar. I like BCS better. Because it does not dilute. Does the presence of vinegar mother matter? High-quality acetic acid is not particularly important. As for store-bought inorganic apple cider vinegar, it may contain pesticides and all that. So, take organic. Let's move on to lemon. You can just drink lemon juice. You can squeeze the juice out of a lemon or chop a whole lemon in a blender. But it takes more time.  Of course, if you chop a whole lemon, you will get more benefits in the form of phytonutrients, essential oils from the peel, lemons contain a lot of flavonoids, these are natural compounds that have different effects. Anti-adhesive lemon juice from the store together with apple cider vinegar has a hepatoprotective effect, that is, they protect the liver. A study was conducted on mice, they forced them to drink alcohol and it was found that lemon helps reduce liver enzymes. So if your mice like to drink cognac, let them snack on lemon. There was also a study in which lemons were used against problems with various lipids and cholesterol imbalances. In one study, garlic was used together with lemon. This was a new blind placebo-controlled randomized trial on humans and can be trusted. I also found a study where it turned out that lemons can help reduce fat in the liver, which helps reduce damage from free radicals and oxidative stress. I like the fact that with lemons everything is simple: take a glass of water, 350 ml, sometimes half a liter, dilute a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar, add the same amount of lemon juice or squeeze.  Lemon there or add lemon crushed in a blender I recommend drinking it through a straw because it is an acidic drink and over time it can damage tooth enamel with a straw it will not work that way I need to clarify one more thing there have been cases when after my recommendations people drank vinegar and lemon juice without adding water They are too acidic you should not drink this drink only in one case When you feel a strong burning sensation in the stomach it could be an ulcer in this case it is better to abstain from apple cider vinegar However, people with heartburn and acid reflux often have ulcers No today I just reminded about this drink because many already knew about it but it is a very simple drink that can bring a lot of benefits and also give energy if you haven't watched my video about apple cider vinegar Watch it it's very interesting here it is N