Today we'll talk about one of the best remedies for the lungs, I mean the lower respiratory system for lung infections, asthma, and even chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This can be very useful. What do these three ailments have in common? They are inflammation, an immune response, and narrowing of the bronchi when the lungs are compressed and do not allow you to inhale enough air. Corticosteroids are usually used to treat the lungs. The problem is that with prolonged use, resistance develops, that is, the steroid helps less and less and less. My problem is not due to a lung infection, but because of poison ivy. I took steroids every year after age 20 and noticed that they help less and less and less until one year they didn't help at all. The more you take steroids, the less they help. I want to say a little about the effect of vitamin D on the lungs. Vitamin D is a very powerful remedy for many problems, including inflammation in the lungs. There are studies with positive results and with lesser results in terms of asthma and lung infections, but in general, vitamin D has an antimicrobial effect. It helps modulate and regulate  the immune system and it is a powerful anti-inflammatory, vitamin D also strengthens the smooth muscles of the lungs, which makes breathing easier, but I have a question: why does vitamin D help some people and not others? What do you need to know about one interesting condition called polymorphism? More and more people are learning about this condition, which is associated with vitamin D receptors. This problem can be identified using genetic analysis. Essentially, if you simplify it, vitamin D receptors do not accept vitamin D properly, and although you take a certain amount of vitamin D, be it 4,000 or 6,000 international units, you may not benefit from vitamin D because these receptors do not accept it. This may explain why vitamin D helps some people and not others. If such a person takes a test, he will find out that he needs to greatly increase the dose of vitamin D, even up to 50 thousand mf a day, to get results. There is a study you can look at many studies at the links below, in which they used 50,000 families of vitamin D every day for several months and got excellent results in the fight against asthma. The point is that due to problems with Vitamin D receptors, its normal doses do not work, and there is something else. Infrared light therapy. Infrared light is used in many situations. It can suppress bronchospasm and make breathing easier. It is a powerful anti-inflammatory. It can even reduce fibrosis due to hubble, and infrared light can reduce air pollution. There is something else. Ultraviolet light provides sterilization, kills germs with ultraviolet light, even purifies tap water, kills germs in it. Ultraviolet light reduces the number of pathogens in the air, saving the immune system from overload. Now the question is how to combine all these factors to create the ideal remedy for the lungs. What is the sun? The sun emits ultraviolet light. It also emits ultraviolet B, and this is a natural way to get more vitamin D, and it is very cheap, even free. In the sun, we receive infrared light therapy, which is part of sunlight and directly affects the lungs, restoring and not the immune system, and also stimulates the production of melatonin. I am talking about melatonin and in the mitochondria, not in  the pineal gland is a completely different topic I'm talking about another beneficial property of infrared light it increases the level of melatonin in all cells and this is something new that you may not have heard of melatonin has another function besides improving night sleep it has a powerful antioxidant effect in all cells and in the mitochondria it is very useful and in particular for the immune system there is evidence that it helps reduce coughing and so being in the sun more you get all these benefits and by the way vitamin D helps reduce the resistance to steroids if you took steroids and they stopped working vitamin D will help fix this you need to know something about the sun obviously you can't be in the sun for a long time to avoid getting burned you need to get a certain dose of sunlight of the solar spectrum so that a light tan can possibly form but do not overdo it and here's something else very interesting when you go into the forest you see a lot of green plants under the canopy of trees you see that they grow well in the shade and you might think I thought that sunlight is needed for a plant to form chlorophyll green  The substance, what are the waves of this length? Infrared waves can penetrate tree canopies and reach other plants underneath them. They also penetrate clothing, penetrate the skull by five centimeters, and penetrate the brain. They penetrate the body. Therefore, it is not always necessary for sunlight to hit the skin. When you are simply in the sun, even in a hat, sunglasses, and clothing, infrared light occurs through clothing and enters the body and improves the condition of the lungs. So, what is the point? The point is, be in the sun more often if your lungs are weakened, and being outdoors is also beneficial. Because there is a lot of pollution indoors, and it can also negatively affect the lungs. If you haven't watched my video about melatonin, you will be very interested to watch it. Here it is.