Let's talk today about a really good remedy for tartar. In fact, what we will discuss is called biofilm. My biofilms are a combination of peculiar calcium houses in which bacteria live. This is one of their survival mechanisms. They hide under small caps of calcium, so they manage to hide from both the immune system and antibiotics. In fact, 95 percent of bacteria in nature live in biofilms. For example, if you look at a cobblestone in a stream and take it in your hands, you will notice that it is slippery and has mucus on it. This is biofilm. So, biofilms can be found everywhere. This is a very ancient survival mechanism and in any environment where there is water. For example, in the mouth, where there is saliva, there are also biofilms. If there are too many of these biofilms, there will be bad breath, various inflammations, gum recession. For many people, this gets to the point where they have to go to the dentist and have tartar removed. But I want to say that if you constantly have tartar forming, I will show you how to get rid of the problem or reduce it. There are a couple of important points that will inspire  Sugar alcohol, which is found in xylitol chewing gums and sweeteners based on it, counteracts biofilm; it prevents it from sticking to your teeth. So, if you use gum, take one with xylitol. There are also natural substances that counteract biofilm: various herbs, rosemary, cloves, thyme, oregano oil, garlic, curcumin, which is found in turmeric, cinnamon, and the compound n-acetyl cysteine. All of this can help reduce biofilms. Note: The remedy I want to tell you about consists of only three simple ingredients. I will explain why it is worth it for users. The first ingredient is baking soda. Why baking soda is sodium bicarbonate? Biofilms, especially those that build up on teeth and turn into tartar, can produce too many acids. When the pH reaches a value of somewhere between three and a half and five and a half, the body begins to leach calcium from the bones. This is called calcification. Therefore, it is very, very important to ensure that the pH in your mouth does not become so acidic and it should be neutral or slightly acidic, and I talk about the main reason for increased acidity in another video. Sugar is your diet. If you eat too much sugar or if you are diabetic, you feed these bacteria exactly what they adore. Sugar is also loved by yeast. A type of yeast called candida also lives in films. They eat all this sugar. Their byproduct is lactic acid. This causes the pH to drop, and the environment becomes ideal for extracting calcium from teeth, and you get cavities. Microbes use the extracted calcium as a shelter. Therefore, using baking soda or sodium bicarbonate is an excellent way to increase the pH to make the environment a little more alkaline. This compensates for the drop in pH and eliminates acid, followed by the leaching of calcium. In addition, baking soda can help destroy these biofilms. Another interesting point associated with sodium bicarbonate is baking soda. It is secreted by the salivary glands to neutralize acids. So, you use a substance that the body already produces, and there are practically no side effects. So, you dissolve a quarter teaspoon of baking soda in half a glass of water, then add another ingredient called hydrogen peroxide. hydrogen we need a three percent hydrogen peroxide solution, you can buy it at the pharmacy, hydrogen peroxide is a very useful compound that helps inhibit the development of biofilms and also kills bacteria, yeast, Candida and all these microorganisms, and what else is interesting can be said again, and Cassie hydrogen, do you think your body produces it? It is in your saliva, hydrogen peroxide is an important compound with which your cells kill microbes, so we give your body what it already produces, but in larger quantities, and so you take a quarter teaspoon of baking soda and the same amount of 5% hydrogen, three percent, dissolve all this in half a glass of water, and then take a toothbrush and brush your teeth after brushing them with toothpaste, what will this do? It will prevent the constant appearance of biofilms, and everything will be fine with your teeth, and lastly, there is one interesting study, although not entirely ideal, but it seems that there is a direct relationship between vitamin CO2 and the inhibition of tartar formation, so some of those who begin to take CO2, which usually comes with vitamin  D3 notice that the inside of the teeth is becoming smoother and smoother. You can try this remedy, but basically, vitamin K2 serves to transport calcium to the bones and also extract it from soft tissues. In short, I wanted to give you a simple way to protect your teeth from tartar. I think you might also be interested in a more detailed video about vitamin K2. Here it is, take a look.