Today I'll show you a homemade antiparasitic potion. I must say that I hate parasites. You know why? Because they take but give nothing in return. Beneficial bacteria at least give us vitamins and immune protection. But a parasite, like a criminal, takes something but gives nothing in return. That's how worms work. The most common parasitic worm in Western Europe and the United States is the pinworm. It's about a centimeter long. Its eggs can survive in the body of an infected person for about 3 weeks. Then pinworms hatch from them and can continue to multiply. They're pretty nasty. I'll show you an excellent natural remedy. You can make it yourself. I recently made it myself. I don't have any, but I wish I had this remedy. 20% of children become infected with pinworms at some point. Perhaps because they bite their nails or suck their fingers. 30% of those infected have no symptoms at all. But those who do have symptoms still have the main symptom - anal itching at night, number two, teeth grinding, three, insomnia, four. anxiety 5 abdominal pain and nausea six enuresis and number seven - this is not actually a symptom I just wanted to draw attention to this a third of people with a urinary tract infection become infected with these worms this is interesting because this means that their internal environment is very favorable for the development of parasites if you had such an infection I have a video about this I will leave a link below So here is this remedy black walnut shell where I live these trees can be found on the street they can be found in the park they can be found in the yard They are everywhere here the shell is such a greenish shell around the nut it is very, very bitter very rich and it contains some substances that perfectly kill pinworms causative agents of ringworm tapeworms excellently kill germs be sure to work with gloves otherwise your hands will be stained for several weeks So take several black walnuts with soft shells that have not yet turned dark brown cut the shell in half and remove the nut from it nuts can be dried for a couple of weeks and eat them but we need the shell this is the outer  The green shell will need to be placed in a liter jar with a wide mouth and pour there a strong alcoholic drink half diluted with water. I advise using vodka, although some other strong alcohol will do. We infused this peel in vodka, as a misfortune, every time I buy something in the store for research, for example, vodka, someone who watches my videos will definitely see me. And so I'm standing in this store, looking around so as not to be seen, then I go up to the cashier and she's like, "Oh, you're just Torberg. I watch all your videos and I'm like, well, this is not what you think. We make parasite remedies for experiments, and she looks as if she's saying parasite remedies from vodka." Well, yes, of course. In general, she didn't believe me, but I hope she's watching this video. So, you need to dilute the alcoholic drink with water one to one and pour this mixture into this jar where you've already put several black walnuts, which are actually green. The peel is green. And the nut itself is black, but we don't use the nut. You need to cover the peel so that it is completely immersed in this solution and the role of alcohol is that it helps to extract phenols about 14 powerful phytonutrients these are very, very powerful really powerful antioxidants with antimicrobial action insist all this in a jar with a closed lid for about 4 weeks in a warm place do not leave it in the cold otherwise the result will be worse insist all this for a month and then strain the liquid pour the tincture into jars with pipettes then just fill a full pipette of tincture pour it into a glass of water and drink take a glass a day if children have pinworms tapeworms or ringworm you can use half a pipette on the rack the solution will not be so strong you can do something else you can use wormwood garlic and cloves they also work great you can just buy them If you don't want to mess around yourself but I really like to make not too complicated natural remedies as for the black walnut peel there is a very interesting study that is now being conducted by pharmaceutical companies to create drugs obviously they have a lot of ideas for use certain natural substances, then they extract them, synthesize them, patent them to create certain medicines. The products that I just used were given to us by Mother Nature, and now you can prepare your own remedy for parasites with minimal costs. By the way, if you haven't seen my other video, watch it here.