I would like to share with you one of the best remedies for UTIs, urinary tract infections. Let's go through the symptoms: burning when urinating, frequent urination, the urge to urinate when the bladder is empty. You may also experience abdominal pain at the very bottom, lower back pain, blood in the urine, cloudy urine or a foul-smelling urine. About 80 percent of cases are caused by E. coli. UTIs are five times more common in women than in men. This is due to the location of the urethra, its proximity to the anus. Anatomically, we have two kidneys that are connected to the ureters. Urine flows through them into the bladder, from there out through the urethra. Urinary tract infections can be in the urethra, in the bladder, ureters, or in the kidneys. E. coli really wants to survive, so it usually forms a biofilm in the bladder. And after that, it is very difficult to destroy it because it hides, and therefore, in many people, especially in women, UTIs manifest themselves again and again, especially with  taking antibiotics because bacteria become resistant to it. That is, they become more difficult to destroy and antibiotics stop working. The more antibiotics you take, the worse everything will stop. You need natural remedies. I will tell you about them. One way to detect EMP is a general urine test. For a UTI, the urine will contain a high content of nitrites or leukocytes (white blood cells). There are other ways to detect MP. When people find out that they have MP, they immediately reach for cranberry juice or cranberry supplements. This basically works, but not very effectively, because cranberry interferes with the ability of bacteria to adhere to the walls of the bladder. Cranberry, in my opinion, is good for prevention. I mean cranberry supplements in tablets, not juice, because the juice contains sugar, but when you already have an infection, cranberry juice does not really help. I will recommend you something that helps much better. This is a combination of capsules with oregano oil and capsules with thyme. Both of these remedies are very effective herbal natural antibiotics. They both contain a natural chemical compound.  under the name carvokrol when you take oregano oil Make sure that there is at least 60 percent carvokrol I recommend taking it at least 200 mg, this is at least You can take more 4 times a day This is regano oil, what about thyme, you need 500 mg and take it once a day This substance contained in both plants slows the formation of biofilm, it also kills E. coli, the main bacteria responsible for infection I also recommend apple cider vinegar 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar diluted in half a liter of water this is necessary to make you more mature if it is acidic, then you will have fewer pathogenic bacteria acid slows the formation of such bacteria I also recommend drinking at least 2.5 liters of liquid per day of course you need to add apple cider vinegar, oregano oil, thyme, apple cider vinegar will kill bacteria and the liquid will remove them from the body there is also an additional remedy natural diuretics with their help you will increase the flow of urine to help the excretory ducts asparagus is a good natural diuretic greens  Dandelion is also a good diuretic, or potassium citrate, which is found in many electrolytes. This will help remove bacteria from the body. Since we're talking about natural antibiotics, there's some additional information that might be of interest to you. Watch this video.