Hello, in this video I will talk about a new product. Actually, it is not new. I already had it a year or two ago, then it was gone, and finally I found a way to get it back. Many people asked about it. It contains probiotics, beneficial bacteria, a liquid product without lactose, it is not destroyed in the stomach, like many probiotics, this one is resistant to gastric juice. Let's start with the beneficial properties. It helps normalize intestinal motility in case of constipation, diarrhea, let's say you took antibiotics and your intestines are not in order. You can take this thing. It is a kind of odor eliminator. It promotes cleansing. There are three groups of microorganisms in our intestines: lactic acid bacteria, beneficial yeast, and photosynthetic bacteria. Lactic acid bacteria significantly limit and suppress methane-producing bacteria, that is, those bacteria that produce odorous gases. This product will help deal with them. Beneficial yeast performs several functions, for example, it produces B vitamins. People are suspicious of yeast, believing that if you take it, you will get a yeast infection. No, there are beneficial ones in the body by nature. Yeast, if you don't have enough beneficial yeast, you'll have an overgrowth of bad yeast and candida. They can grow anywhere on your body, even in your toenails and on your head, under your hair. Beneficial yeast essentially protects you from the overgrowth of harmful yeast. There are photosynthetic bacteria, they're amazing. These microorganisms can adapt to any environment, with or without oxygen, with or without light, to extreme temperatures. They allow other microorganisms to coexist and don't help your immune system. As for getting rid of odors, you can take a little of these probiotics, dilute them in water, and spray them on mold, for example, in a basement, and it will help. Or even in a septic tank. I did this, and the smell went away in a matter of hours. It's amazing. Farmers use them in agriculture, in livestock farming, for plant growth. The main thing is that these microorganisms increase the absorption of nutrients and also help build a defense system. After all, the largest part of the immune system is in the gastrointestinal tract. This is the development of a Japanese professor, Dr. Tragedy, of what he developed.  The Mike Rape Effective Complex, I once made a video about this, it was an accidental discovery. He was conducting agronomic research, then using various strains of microorganisms, took one strain, placed it in the soil and watched what would happen next. When he finished the research, he collected all the cultures together. He was going to throw them away, but when he walked past an island of grass, he got the idea to simply pour everything into the grass. A couple of days later, he returned and noticed that this patch of grass began to grow lush and wildly, and then it dawned on him. He resumed the research and developed this very product. Well, what does it taste like? Firstly, you don’t have to drink it undiluted, although in general you can. It’s similar to foot syrup, bitter, something like a combination of vinegar and molasses. You need to start with half a cap (half a tablespoon), dilute it in water (about 3 glasses) and drink it before bed. If your immunity is very unreliable and fragile, then you need to take smaller doses, about a couple of drops, and slowly increase the dose. So, start with half a cap with water before bed for a couple of days, then  Increase to a full cap. In rare cases, detoxification symptoms may appear, fatigue will appear, although in sleep you will still hardly not notice. If you take a full cap, it is equal to a tablespoon, then the package will last you about 32 days, that is, a bottle is designed for a month. Lastly, if detoxification symptoms appear, stop taking it for a while, then take it little by little smoothly and very gradually increasing the dose. If you have an imbalance of intestinal microflora, then you need it, but in very small quantities. If detoxification symptoms still appear, stop taking it until the reaction completely disappears. This is an immune reaction. This does not mean that you do not need it, you are simply taking too much too abruptly. Take it very little by little and only when the reaction completely passes, slowly increase the dosage, for example, half a teaspoon for some time, then gradually increase the microflora until the reaction stops recurring. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don’t miss new videos.