Let's discuss the best way to restore hormonal balance. True, this method is quite expensive. I don't even know if you can afford it. In fact, it's free because it's fasting, and so you save money. Believe it or not, fasting is one of the best gifts for your endocrine system for all its hormones, as well as for many other things, including the autonomic nervous system. But I talked about this in another video. When conducting fasting studies, they sometimes used alternate-day fasting, when one day you eat practically whatever you want, and the next day you don't eat. I'm not a supporter of this because there is no real adaptation and that's probably why it's very hard to fast like this because your appetite doesn't disappear. There's also the 5-2 scheme, and I don't like eating whatever you want five days a week, and then eating 500 kilocalories on Saturday and Sunday. Again, you won't be able to adapt to burning fat, and you'll most likely have to suffer on these two days. There's also time-limited eating, which is intermittent fasting. There's a window, a period of time when you can eat, and a period when you can't. This could be, for example, 18 hours of fasting and a 6-hour window for eating, or  20 hours of fasting and a four-hour window for eating, I will go over all the main hormones, but specifically for this hormone, you will get the most benefit: insulin, decreased insulin, insulin sensitivity. All of this improves during fasting. And if you look at the significance of the consequences of lowering insulin for the whole body in terms of health, the benefits of this exceed all expectations. Inflammation is weakened. Imagine what will happen to the thyroid gland. In a word, 90 percent of all thyroid problems are autoimmune problems, this is a disease, and Hashimoto's, and this is a lot of inflammation, and just reducing inflammation automatically gives up. Treatment of the thyroid gland. Diabetes. With this disease, the pancreas, part of the endocrine system, is affected. Also, insulin resistance causes a lot of problems. This, among other things, is fatty liver, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, which includes high cholesterol and high blood pressure, and problems with the autonomic nervous system when you have high insulin and high glucose. The autonomic nervous system is responsible for the fight-or-flight mechanism, for the digestive system, for the cardiovascular system. All these systems benefit greatly from normalizing insulin.  Side effects of diabetes include dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system, especially the digestive and other systems, since the autonomic nervous system is connected to many other systems in the body. So where do we begin? Let's start with leptin. Leptin decreases during fasting. Leptin is directly responsible for appetite, meaning appetite will decrease and loss of appetite will be noticeably alleviated by fasting. There are rumors that fasting negatively affects the thyroid gland. What's true, though? How is hypothyroidism or even hyperthyroidism diagnosed? Loss of a large hormone is a pituitary hormone. A diagnosis is not made based on the T4 hormone. That's why it's a pituitary hormone. By the way, during fasting, the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone does not change in any way. T3, the active thyroid hormone, decreases. This happens because you lose weight and your ability to burn fat increases, reducing your energy needs. Before fasting, your metabolism was slow because you were burning only glucose without using up fat reserves. The entire energy system was decomposed. Much more T3 was needed for the body to function, but now it's not. and it decreases, adapts so that the thyroid does not suffer during healthy fasting. I am talking about fasting with nutrients because of all the complications that occur during fasting, the main problem is the loss of electrolytes, aggravated by a deficiency of B vitamins. If you take sea salt, electrolytes and B vitamins, you will definitely avoid many problems. The next thing I want to discuss is androgens in women. If you are a woman, you should not have a lot of androgens because this disease is called PCOS. An excess of androgens causes a mustache and beard to grow, alopecia occurs, hair falls out, the voice gets deeper, weight increases. This disease recedes during fasting. In fact, the cause of this surge in androgens is insulin, and during fasting, insulin decreases and androgens return to normal and everything returns to balance. In women, during fasting, no noticeable changes were noted in the palette of pin or fierce tropin, those two hormones that are produced in the pituitary gland and control predators. Estrogen does not affect these hormones now. Fasting does not affect estrogen. No noticeable change in estrogen was noted during fasting time and what about studies on mice, they noted infertility, in fact, there is no evidence of their infertility, their menstrual cycle stopped for some time, but what is interesting in these studies on rodents is that the total number of menstrual cycles during the life of a rat does not decrease, they are only interrupted during fasting, that is, it seems that their cycle lasts until a later age. There is no evidence that fasting leads to infertility in the human body. What about testosterone in men? Some studies show it decreases, but strength is not lost, and other studies show that fasting increases lude atropine by 67 percent, and testosterone increases by 2 and 8 tenths of a time. In my experience working with tens or even hundreds of thousands of people around the world, I have never encountered any deterioration in testosterone in men during fasting. Now let's move on to the card room with it, there is also a misunderstanding. There are articles discussing the negative effects of fasting, saying that it increases cortisol, which means you will be stressed first  What you need to know is that if cortisol increases, this in itself does not lead to stress because cortisol is a hormone produced in response to stress, and not by causing it, it only makes the body adapt to stress. Cortisol is a regulatory hormone circuit, that is, when you do not eat sugar and blood sugar drops, cortisol is mobilized to raise sugar to a certain level. But if cortisol increases temporarily due to fasting, they are from chronic stress. It is interesting that we have two different types of receptors to the cardinal direction. Some of them are activated by stress, while others work with other factors that can activate cortisol. Apparently, when fasting, when cortisol increases, there is no negative effect. The effect is not the same as in response to stress. This is directly related to how cortisol interacts with receptors and the effects that these receptors then produce. If you want more details, there is a very interesting conversation with Dr. Mark Edison. I will give a link below where he spoke about this. He is a researcher in this field on the topic of fasting. And what about growth hormone? Imagine it will increase and This is good because growth hormone is responsible for tissue repair, as well as for muscles, for increasing endurance, for healing. It is an anti-aging hormone, and it is also a fat-burning hormone; it helps mobilize fat as fuel. What about prolactin? Am similar, prolactin does not change at all. I would like to mention a couple more points. The first fast significantly improves circadian rhythms. It improves some time waves in the body, and along with this, various hormonal waves tuned to time cycling improve. The very fact of improving circadian rhythms will improve all hormones in general, or at least balance those that were thrown off balance, possibly due to excess insulin. The last thing I want to mention is the intestinal microbiome. It greatly improves during fasting, and thanks to this, other hormones also improve. I will make a separate video about this, but since we touched on the topic of women's health, I have a whole course on this topic. I would like to invite you to take it. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is  This is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore your women's health. My unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.