If you have arthritis, whether it's rheumatoid arthritis (O. Stewart Reed) or gout, you need to watch this video. I'll show you the best plant that's growing in your yard right now, and which can greatly help with arthritis, aching muscles, and joint pain. I'll show you this plant up close, I hope you can see it. I hope you can see it. This is stinging nettle. I just brought it from the forest, planted it in a pot, and it's growing like crazy. You don't even need to water it. The English name for nettle comes from the Anglo-Saxon word meaning needle and the Latin word meaning to burn. The thing is, nettles have millions of tiny needles that penetrate the skin. They are located under the leaves and on the stems. If you touch them, these tube-like needles pierce the skin and secrete a whole range of substances. One of them is formic acid. It is released when an ant bites and causes the same burning sensation. Stings also secrete this same acid. Bees formic acid causes a slight burning pain, it is not very strong, but still this pain. There are also histamine compounds, serotonin, acetylcholine and probably many other things, we do not know exactly which of them causes the anti-inflammatory effect, perhaps even the reaction of the immune system itself to these substances reduces inflammation, we do not know, we only know that if you apply a drop of beer to an inflamed joint, be it fingers, big toe, shoulder or knee, the inflammation and pain can significantly decrease. Nettle is quite safe, it is extremely easily available, grows everywhere like a weed, it is very cheap, you can even eat it. In fact, this plant has many nutrients, it contains calcium, vitamins B, vitamin C and vitamin E. Nettle is added to soup, pesto sauce is made from it, there is tea, it is added to salads. But for arthritis, I recommend using it externally. I recommend not buying nettles as a supplement, but simply finding them in your yard or in the forest, or perhaps even growing them. And if you have arthritis, after all, with its regular use, you will not have arthritis and that's what  It's interesting, I once spoke with a farmer who had very severe arthritis. He was essentially disabled. One day, he got on a lawn mower and started cutting the lawn and ran over a bee's nest. Then the bees flew out of the nest and started stinging him on the knee. Don't ask why they attacked his knees, but that's where he had arthritis. They could have killed him if it were a pity, or everywhere, but they stung only one place, which was most affected by arthritis. In general, he tried to escape and ran very fast and suddenly realized that he had no pain, no arthritis, but he was practically crippled, barely able to walk, and now he's running as fast as he can thanks to the action of bee venom. There is interesting data on the treatment of arthritis with bee venom, and it's unlikely that it's just formic acid. Bee venom and some plants contain some kind of anti-inflammatory substance. Stinging nettle is remarkable in that it has been used for a very long time and was used by the Romans and Egyptians to treat arthritis, and nettle root can be Use for prostate enlargement and the leaves can be used for allergic rhinitis and various allergies. They reduce histamine levels and have antihistamine properties. It is also interesting that nettle blocks an enzyme called aromatase. Aromatase converts testosterone into estrogen. In fact, nettle is a bitter aromatase, so it is very useful for people with excess estrogen, both men and women. And as the world becomes more and more estrogen due to plastic and various chemicals that imitate estrogen, such remedies will become increasingly popular in the fight against the widespread dominance of estrogen, which affects both men and women. I recommend putting on a glove like this, tear off a few leaves from the top and apply them to the area affected by arthritis, be it your hands or knees. Despite the unpleasant burning sensation when you apply the leaf to the area affected by arthritis, say, your hands, and you feel some burning, continue rubbing the leaf so that its green chlorophyll gets on your hand, because the leaf also contains other anti-inflammatory substances that  They will quickly eliminate any pain from the injections of these small needles. The inflammation will decrease very quickly and you will begin to notice that the stiffness is going away. The pain goes away, whether it is in your hands, shoulder, knee, or even thumb. I recommend doing this several times a day until the pain goes away. I just wanted to tell you about a very simple remedy that you might have in your yard. If you haven't watched my other video about inflammation and pain, here's the link. Take a look.