Let's discuss a diet for peripheral neuropathy. What is peripheral neuropathy? This is a condition that is accompanied by tingling, numbness, or burning pain in the soles of the feet or in the fingertips. Peripheral neuropathy most often occurs with diabetes. Peripheral neuropathy first affects the longer nerves of the body, and the very tips of these nerves are destroyed, the tiny vessels through which blood flows to the nerves. This destruction is not necessarily caused directly by high sugar or high glucose in the blood. High blood glucose causes a lot of inflammation, free radical damage, and also the destruction of proteins on the inner surface of the vessels. The vessels become clogged and the blood flow to the nerves becomes insufficient. Why do nerves need blood flow from the blood? The nerves receive oxygen in this way. Peripheral neuropathy essentially kills nerves, especially newcomers to my channel who have peripheral neuropathy. In fact, it is very, very easy to eliminate and get relief if you just look here. It says high sugar, cut back on carbohydrates. This is called healthy ketone. Reduce carbohydrates immediately.  I'm amazed how many people with peripheral neuropathy don't know about this. They eat a lot of carbohydrates, take medications, and suffer so much. There's no need for this. This can be reversed. Start a carbohydrate diet, especially if you eat a lot of carbohydrates with proteins, like most people, or a lot of carbohydrates with fats, like in ice cream, etc. More damage occurs than if you ate only carbohydrates. When carbohydrates combine with proteins, this is what happens. Glycation is essentially the destruction of certain proteins in the body, which becomes irreversible. It is very difficult to eliminate, and these proteins clog everything, for example, blood vessels. You also need to consume very little oils containing omega-6. For example, corn soybean oil, which is found in salad dressings and in many foods, especially if you often eat in restaurants, because everything is cooked with it there. It is also found in soups, bread, and so on. You also need intermittent fasting. These two measures will get you in great shape. Below is a link to information on how to do this exactly, but there are three more remedies that can help you achieve immediate relief. They are available at health food stores. Benfatiamine.  This is fat-soluble B1. I would take 4 capsules a day, not all at once. Benfathiamine helps reduce inflammation and damage due to high sugar levels. Because high blood sugar greatly increases the need for B1, the body begins to use up B1 reserves. They become depleted, and then the myelin sheath around the nerves cannot be created. This is an insulating sheath made of fat, and it cannot be created without B1. And when you begin to replenish B1 reserves, healing begins. Alpha-lipoic acid is another very important remedy. It even improves the condition of peripheral neuropathy by itself. You can take it. It is sold everywhere. Also, only three inols are a form of vitamin E that is 50 times more powerful than tocopherols. This is a powerful antioxidant. These three remedies, combined with diet and intermittent fasting, are a very powerful weapon against peripheral neuropathy. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. This course has already been completed.  Hundreds of people have achieved very stable results, join us too.