As you know, I am a supporter of natural remedies. No side effects. Therefore, if you have a stuffy nose and you want to clear it, I want to recommend several natural effective remedies. I often used Spanish black radish in my practice. It is an excellent remedy that can be taken as a supplement. You can also sometimes find it in a health food store. Add this radish to salads and other dishes. And if you bought it in tablet form, I recommend taking three tablets an hour or more, depending on how serious it is, every hour, 8 times a day. Spanish black radish is unique in that it can help draw mucus from deeper areas of the sinuses that are usually inaccessible. I was always interested in experimenting on myself after this remedy helped me so much. I decided to go further, but I do not recommend this to anyone. I squeezed out the juice from the Daikon radish. It is such a white radish that it really takes your eyes off me. I survived. I don’t remember exactly 350 milliliters. I pinched my nose and drank it in one gulp. At first, I did not understand what was happening. It burned through me from one end to the other. It was a big mistake, simply too much, but at the same time, weeks I had two or three really clear sinuses. Another good remedy is black cumin oil, it has antimicrobial properties. Most sinus infections are viral, not bacterial. There is a microbial component, but it is either a virus or a fungus. Especially if it is a chronic disease. If your nose is stuffy all year round, then black cumin oil will help. It is not only an antimicrobial but also an antifungal antiviral agent and you need to take it regularly. I would only advise tripling the indicated dosage. Once this oil enters the body, the microbes have no choice but to die. These two remedies act on the entire body. Now, kimchi is an external remedy. This is a unique fermented product that is very useful for sinus infections. Most often, with such infections, a certain microbe is missing from the body, which turns out to be in kimchi. Therefore, when antibiotics are taken for these infections, no changes occur or even get worse. This is all because the antibiotic kills beneficial bacteria. There are not only pathogens in the sinuses, but also many beneficial bacteria that need to be restored. Don't forget about them because this is our defense. The overgrowth of yeast or fungi can occur because  that there is a lack of beneficial bacteria. So, how to use kimchi: buy kimchi, squeeze out a little juice and then apply it inside the nose with your fingertip. I would say about half a centimeter deep into each nostril. You do n’t need to go too deep. Just inside the nostril, good bacteria will eventually begin to rise into the sinuses. Improvement will occur. In a few days, this is how it works. This is a really good remedy. You can buy it in powder form or find it as a supplement, but you can just buy good quality kimchi. Just keep it in the refrigerator under a closed lid. Because if air gets in, beneficial microbes will not survive for long. In general, kimchi is a good remedy. Next, number four is rinsing the nose with saline. You can buy a set with saline at the pharmacy, but there is a nuance: you need to add colloidal silver to the solution. I recommend draining some saline, adding a mixture of colloidal silver to half a glass of water. A quarter teaspoon of colloidal silver, not half a glass. See. Don’t smear it, measure it out and mix it with saline. Why colloidal silver? Colloidal silver is one of the best antiviral and antifungal agents I know. It helps a lot with ear problems, particularly with blocked and ectopic tubes. It is a multifunctional remedy. Especially for children, and it is really effective for sinus problems, especially in combination with kimchi. These remedies only kill pathogens, not beneficial bacteria, and this is great. The solution should be at room temperature, not too hot and not cold. Tilt your head down and to the side. Like this, spray into one nostril, and it will flow out of the other, which is lower. If you don’t lower your head low enough, the solution can go down the throat. The goal is to pour this special solution of salt water with colloidal silver into one sinus so that it comes out through the other. This way, the substance that removes mucus gets into the sinuses. I advise doing this a couple of times a day for several days until the problem is solved. The last thing I want to say about sinus problems, especially about fungus. Most likely, there is an excess of carbohydrates in the diet. These microbes and fungus live off high carbohydrates. Therefore, if  If you don't change your diet, relief may occur, but the problem will return. If you haven't watched the video about the connection between Candida, a type of fungus, and sugar, watch this video.