If you follow my recommendations from this video, your attention will noticeably improve. It is obvious that people have serious problems with attention, as well as associated hyperactivity. Today I want to discuss this topic with you and have no doubt there is a very simple solution with minimal or no side effects. I think there may be one problem here. How to stop medications in agreement with a doctor. Of course, how to do this? It must be done gradually and under the supervision of a specialist. Here is the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, not the latest edition, but the diagnoses have hardly changed and they become a problem. They label you. And you are prescribed treatment and then you stop taking these drugs. Does addiction occur? Withdrawal syndrome? No one has worked on these questions. We live in a world of sensory overload, mainly because of this thing. Every 5 seconds a new message. Our society teaches us to decrease attention by bombarding us with stimuli from all sides. How can we improve attention and increase productivity? We will discuss this, but first, just for fun, I will show how arbitrarily they make this diagnosis. No blood tests. Everything is subjective. So, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is here.  Two sections, one for inattention, the other for hyperactivity. Let's look at both. If you have 6 symptoms, you are diagnosed with: Often they are unable to pay careful attention to details or make careless mistakes. I think I usually have this. Has difficulty maintaining attention when completing tasks or during games. Often gives the impression of not hearing speech addressed to them. Often does not fully follow instructions and does not complete schoolwork, household chores, or duties at work. This is, of course, rare. Often has difficulty organizing tasks and other activities. Personally, I hire people to do this work because I myself am very disorganized. Usually tends to avoid tasks that require prolonged mental effort. For example, school homework. Often loses things needed at school and at home, toys, school materials, pencils, books. But if your dog ate a notebook, this is forgivable. Then, often easily distracted by extraneous stimuli. Often shows forgetfulness in everyday activities. Those who do not have almost all of these symptoms now have symptoms of hyperactivity: Often restlessly moves or beats a rhythm with their hands or feet, or sits writhing. This is about me. Often leaves their seat in class or in other situations. Often rushes around  or climbs somewhere in inappropriate situations And if there is a lot of energy, he usually cannot play or do something quietly and calmly. It turns out that we should always play quietly. Just some nonsense. The following symptom is often fussing like crazy, too energetic. It’s very interesting. Often shows excessive talkativeness. In short, you need to play quietly, don’t talk a lot, don’t seem too energetic, and don’t climb anywhere. I want to show you a couple more places from this book. As they say, take a walk. Page 736. Side effects of drugs without further clarification. Code 995.2. This category can be used by clinicians to indicate such side effects that have become the focus of attention. If I understood this correctly, in the case when the patient focuses on side effects, this designation is used and admire this. Diagnosis vi-15-81 not. Agreement with treatment. Reasons for disagreement may include discomfort from treatment, for example, side effects, high cost, treatment decision, decision based on personal beliefs and values, religious or cultural views regarding the benefits and harms of the proposed treatment. It doesn’t matter whether you have been diagnosed. If you want your attention, keep in mind  I mean, SDD and ADHD are not related to a person's intelligence. We're talking about attention, a lack of attention, and sometimes hyperactivity. Intelligence is something else. This diagnosis can also occur in people with low intelligence. In fact, it's hard to find a good definition of the word intelligence. I think doctors haven't come to an agreement on what it is. Some associate intelligence with grades in school, others with the ability to remember, but this doesn't always indicate intelligence. An intelligent person can have a good memory, but among those who have poor memory, there are also intelligent people. I think to understand what intelligence is, you need to look at the opposite of stupidity. What is the inability to reason, a lack of knowledge, a lack of understanding, a lack of judgment, and intelligence includes logic, rationality, common sense, the ability to think, the ability to solve problems, and the ability to quickly learn and understand things. But a person's ability to learn can also be affected by the lack of a good teacher who taught him the basics in school. I had a wonderful chemistry teacher in high school who really taught me the basics. Knowing the basics allowed me to move on to the next level in chemistry, but there were subjects where I didn't learn the basics. And I  It was very difficult to study without this foundation, for example, now I am studying genetics. I am interested in DNA and very often in courses it is assumed that you already know and remember all the basics. I literally had to find videos where genetics is explained to children in order to finally understand the very essence of this subject. A very important conclusion follows from this. If a child has not learned the Basics at school but is trying to study more advanced things, he will have confusion and problems with attention simply because of the lack of basics. Unfortunately, I think that many children are given a similar diagnosis, although in fact they just need learning skills, they need to learn how to learn. There is also a physical component to the problem in the human brain. It is believed that there is a connection between the prefrontal cortex of the brain and the ability to concentrate. There is also a connection between another part of the brain, the hippocampus, the ability to concentrate. Attention, this applies to cognitive functions. It is interesting that the mass of the brain is only 2 percent of the total body weight, but at the same time, percent of all the energy and calories of the body are spent on its work. The brain is a real glutton in terms of energy. It consumes more energy than any other organ and among all the organs, its tissues contain the most fat, 60% of the brain consists  from fat, it's interesting, one important thing you need to know about attention is that the brain requires a lot of energy to maintain attention on something, because it's not just maintaining attention. It's filtering out everything that distracts sensory stimuli and the like, so a tired brain is not able to filter everything that comes into it well, and concentration suffers. So a significant part of this problem is the amount of energy in the brain. You were most likely taught that the brain runs on glucose. But this is a lie because the body can run on ketones, 75 percent, and ketones, and 25 percent on glucose, and even these 25 percent can be obtained from fats, proteins, and the same ketones, so you don't need to eat carbohydrates or glucose to get this part of the energy. If you feed the brain ketones, this will immediately give you a lot of energy. In addition, ketones are more efficient, and to start feeding the brain ketones, you just need to reduce carbohydrate intake. Then the body begins to oxidize fats and ketones are formed. At the same time, ketones in the brain are left with less waste, this is a cleaner and more efficient fuel. Speaking of attention and  Cognitive functions cannot be ignored, and this is the consumption of gluten, for example, it affects both the intestines and the brain. You cannot think, your consciousness is clouded. This happened to me for decades until I gave up grains and switched to this diet. It was like taking off a heavy helmet from my head. I was finally able to concentrate, think, and hold attention. So, eliminating grains can be important. Another factor is allergies, for example, nacasein, which can affect the brain. Another factor is lack of sleep. Excess caffeine can also be harmful. There are several nutrients. Important nutrients for supplying the brain with energy. To solve the problem of attention deficit, the most important is vitamin B1. If you lack B1, you will be in a state of anxiety all the time. You will be deprived of peace. You may have restless leg syndrome. You will have hyperactivity, especially if you are a child. Your thinking will not be very good, and this will mainly be related to brain energy. So, one of the most important vitamins for eliminating attention deficit. I recommend nutritional yeast or another natural B1. The next most important nutrient is magnesium. Magnesium is necessary for the production of energy in the brain for the synthesis of ATP.  It also calms the brain well when a person is hyperactive. Leafy greens are a source of magnesium. But how many children eat them? Very few can be counted on the fingers of one hand. According to one study, more than 58 percent of children with ADHD actually had a magnesium deficiency. It's interesting if a magnesium deficiency is visible even in a blood test. This is a big problem. Most magnesium is in the cells. If there is little of it in the blood, this means that there is already a serious deficiency in the cells. The next most important nutrient, the lack of which affects you, is if you have a potassium deficiency due to the fact that you eat few vegetables, because vegetables also supply you with potassium. It will be difficult for you to filter out sensory information that distracts you. This will greatly interfere with maintaining attention on something else. Omega-3 fatty acids are important. Omega-3 fatty acids, DHA, EPA are necessary for the transmission of electrical signals in the nervous system. Unfortunately, many, including children, consume too much omega-6 fatty acids, soy, corn, canola oil, and not enough fish oil or cod liver oil. And this is very important when a person begins to consume liver oil.  cod or fish oil, he will not feel the change the next day, it takes weeks. This is a slow process. There is another excellent remedy that I recommend as a replacement for Adderall or Ritalin. I am not saying that you should stop taking your medications. But if you want to switch to an alternative remedy, discuss this option with your doctor. It has almost no side effects and it is called dimethyl-aminoethanol. This substance is found in sardines, but I recommend taking it as a supplement. Among other things, it helps remove waste from the brain that interferes with concentration. It has neuroprotective properties, that is, it protects the brain from inflammation, oxidative stress, and free radicals. At the same time, it increases the ability of receptors to absorb acetylcholine, which is the main neurotransmitter necessary for the nervous system. Dementyl aminoethanol significantly increases concentration and the ability to focus on something. So I recommend dimethylamine Ethanol as an alternative remedy if you have ADHD or. You may also notice that you began to sleep better. And that your vision has slightly improved because the waste that is removed from the brain can interfere with the work of the retina. The second piece of advice is to switch to Theta diet with intermittent fasting, if you haven't already, and finally get magnesium, potassium, and omega-3 fatty acids. Magnesium and potassium can be obtained from leafy greens if you eat them in large quantities. I mentioned the ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting. For those who have decided to start, I recommend this course. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.