This video is mainly for beginners for those who are just starting intermittent fasting. I was recently asked a question about the 5 for 2 diet, which in my opinion is the worst intermittent fasting scheme. In this video, I will tell you about several working intermittent fasting schemes. The goal is to get significant benefits from fasting without such negative consequences as muscle loss and nutrient deficiencies. So, let's start with the worst intermittent fasting scheme called the 5 for 2 diet. It is also called fast food. What is its essence? For five days, you can eat regular food, whatever that means, and then for two days we are on a low-calorie diet of 500 kilocalories per day. As for me, this is not even fasting. It is just five days of eating junk food and restricting calories for two days. If you consume 500 kilocalories on these two days and eat exactly ketogenic food, there will be some benefit, but there is a big problem. It takes three days to enter ketosis, so after two days, the process will barely begin, and if you do not  In ketosis it will be very difficult, there will be a craving for carbohydrates, constant hunger will be very difficult, but in principle, the water weight will go away and you think, hurray, it worked, I'm losing weight and then you will return to normal food for 5 days, so from my point of view, the 5 on 2 diet is the worst you can think of, so the next unsuccessful scheme, which is perhaps a little better than 5 on 2, is the alternative fasting day diet, in which one day you can eat anything and the next day you consume five hundred to six hundred kilocalories and so we alternate back and forth, but remember, to enter ketosis you need three days, so to get to ketosis here is like crawling, give it to me, maybe there will be some benefit, but it will not be stable and you will not even come close to achieving the benefits that you could achieve, let's move on to better schemes, and so 18 on 6 you fast for 18 hours and then go for a six- hour window, for example, the first meal at noon and the second at six in the evening, this is an excellent option for the 18 on scheme  6 want to get more benefits the 20 to 4 scheme is a great option, so the first meal is at two o'clock and the second at 6, which leaves 20 hours to benefit from fasting. If you want to go even further, then choose one meal a day. Many people practice this, especially if you are over 50, you will see an amazing effect and I will leave links below so you can see how to do it correctly because when practicing omate, you must definitely get certain nutrients, because if there is any asymptomatic deficiency with a single meal, some problems may arise. So what is happening in these eighteen or twenty hours? Firstly, the level of anti-aging growth hormone increases; secondly, the process of autophagy is enhanced and, in fact, your body begins to fight aging, begins to process old damaged proteins and prolongs its life. Thirdly, inflammatory processes are sharply reduced, so if you have arthritis or autoimmune diseases, this will be very useful. Next, the immune system begins to improve and strengthen, excess weight goes away and, as I said, life expectancy increases and the last two benefits are very significant: first, cognitive functions, attention, memory. Concentration improves and your mood will also improve, and if your mood isn't so good with the 5/2 diet or fasting days, you'll be calm and serene with the 18/6/20/4 or oh mat, you 'll feel good. So I encourage you to try fasting. Start with the 18/6/20/4 diet and see how it goes. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.