I invite you to my mini-course on skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you later today. I will tell you about the best remedy for dry and wrinkled skin of the hands, as well as skin in general. I recently discovered new information on this topic. I think you will be interested. People apply moisturizers to the skin of the face and hands. Of course, the next day the effect disappears. They have to do it again and again. If you read the composition of most of these moisturizers, you can see that almost all of them contain alcohol, and alcohol dries and dehydrates the skin. I think people do not understand that when they apply cream to their hands and face, it gets inside, it gets into the bloodstream and ends up in the liver. There are many natural remedies. You can take vitamin E, you can take coconut oil, beef fat, but what I will talk about today is something else. Hyaluronic acid. Many, if not all, of your cells produce this very specific compound. Hyaluronic acid is found not only in the skin but also in  and in the joints it holds a thousand times its weight in water as for the skin, imagine a kind of wetsuit the size of the entire body, so it looks like a thin layer that is deep inside the skin, thanks to it the skin looks young, it also participates in wound healing and healing after sunburn, it increases when there is enough vitamin A, perhaps therefore, due to a deficiency of vitamin A, for example, dry eyes occur or the skin becomes dry, even in the fluid inside the eyes there is a lot of hyaluronic acid, people do not realize that with age, especially when they are already 40 45 50 years old, its amount decreases significantly by the age of 80, a person loses 80% of hyaluronic acid there is such a rare disease progeria children with griits have 20 times more hyaluronic acid than someone who does not have such a disease. If you look at a person with young skin and then compare it with someone whose skin is old, you will see wrinkles as if something is missing there. hyaluronic acid in some clinics can inject this substance through an injection, someone applies it to the skin, someone takes it  We'll talk about it in the form of a dietary supplement today. Some people claim that this substance is not absorbed when taken orally, but this is not true. It is absorbed, although to a small extent, about 2.5%, but this may be just enough to compensate for age-related losses. The actress Koni Chunk did a whole show about hyaluronic acid. She spoke with residents of Japan. In some villages there are centenarians who are still working. Their longevity is attributed to the root of a plant that they eat and which contains a lot of hyaluronic acid. Let's say you are 45 years old, then you will have about 14-15 grams of hyaluronic acid in your body, but when you turn 80, you may only have 3.6 grams left. Based on this, taking it as a supplement may be a sound idea, but I want to warn you not to do this, as one of my friends took this supplement in large doses and he took from 3 to 4,000 mg of hyaluronic acid per day. You don't need to do this because it will swell the body.  Because it retains water, his doses were greatly exaggerated. And this led to serious problems. He discovered that the only way out was to drink brandy to dissolve a kind of gel that clogged everything in the body. In the end, he survived. And there are other details in this story, I will leave them for another video. It can be taken, but not so much. On average, the usual dose is 200 mg per day. In addition, I also recommend applying it to the skin. Find a product that does not contain alcohol. Do this: moisten your hands. Drop a couple of drops on your hands and rub over the entire surface of the skin of your hands. Do this once or twice a day. I also advise slightly moistening your hand, drop a couple more drops, rub and rub into the skin of your face. This will help moisturize it. Another important point that I always emphasize is to take care of your internal health, starting with proper nutrition. Food should be high-quality and rich in nutrients. I recommend a healthy Keto diet, then the situation will be completely under your control. There is a separate video on this topic. Be sure to watch it.