Here's the question. How to achieve satiety? You just need to eat more fat. You need to eat food richer in nutrients. Or you need to improve digestion so that there is enough bile to extract fat-soluble nutrients. I talked about all this in other videos, but I didn't talk about the main factor that allows you to satisfy hunger. This is based on a recently published book with new amazing information. I'll leave a link below in this book. It's about the so- called protein lever hypothesis. The authors studied insects and found that some insects continue to eat until their protein needs are satisfied. If these insects are on a low-protein diet, they overeat to get the necessary protein. This is very interesting, because one of my recommendations is to eat greens first and then protein. After all, if you eat protein first, the chances that you will eat greens will greatly decrease. Thus, protein causes a feeling of satiety. But it's not about the protein itself. But about the amino acids in it. Let's see what benefits protein brings to the body. Number one, protein restores muscles, ligaments, tendons, collagen, skin, bones. But that's not all. All our enzymes and not  Not only digestive but all biochemical substances consist of protein. Our cells are made of protein. Our blood is protein. Most of our hormones are protein. Therefore, protein is essential for survival. Moreover, the body does not store protein. If you don't eat protein, where does it come from? It comes from our muscles. But this does not happen immediately. Where does a lot of protein come from during prolonged fasting? It comes from damaged proteins. The body has an amazing mechanism that processes damaged proteins. This condition is called autophagy. So, during prolonged fasting, since protein is so important, damaged protein is broken down into amino acids from which new proteins are created. A very healing process. If you are fasting for a long time and feel unwell, this may mean that nutrients such as B vitamins, electrolytes, salt. But this may also mean that you need amino acids. I do not recommend taking proteins, but I advise. If you feel unwell during prolonged fasting, take Bado not during the day, but once or twice a day, a good amino acid complex. If you take the right amount of amino acids, they will not turn into sugar.  problems associated with excessive protein consumption excess protein is not stored but converted into sugar if there is exactly as much protein as the body needs, it restores tissues and gives the body what it needs but does not turn into sugar or fat a person requires the following amount of protein If we are talking about pounds, multiply 0.64 by your weight in pounds - this is how many grams of protein you need per day if we are talking about kilograms, multiply 1.6 by your weight in kilograms - this is how many grams of protein you need per day this average value may be slightly more if you are a young athlete or slightly less And here's what's curious about all this I recently bought two horses Since I live on a farm and am trying to understand What to feed horses because If we talk about my horses there are a couple of things Everyone says you need to be careful not to overfeed them because there are things like hay belly this is when the belly becomes large due to excess grain so-called laminitis is also possible - this is an inflammation of the hoof this is like an inflammation of the tissue directly under the nail in a person that connects the nail to the finger Imagine what it's like to walk with such inflammation a very severe form of laminitis It's called a sale, and a horse with an inflamed hoof suddenly finds itself unable to walk, the horse becomes lame, and this is absolutely terrible, and so I decided to find out more about what underlies all this. I was amazed that the veterinarian advises not to feed horses grain, and it seems like I see the logic in this. After all, I deal with health, arthritis, which happens to horses, ulcers, which also happen to horses, because horses eat either too much grain or young spring grass, such grass contains a lot of fructose, and excess fructose can cause inflammation, and all these problems always happen with people who eat a lot of fructose, and people eat too much of it, the same thing with horses. In nature, horses are not limited to a stable or one pasture, they can move from place to place, they eat not only grass but also legumes, and of course they move a lot and burn it all off, so horses continue to eat until their protein needs are met. And unfortunately, in the spring, grass contains a lot of carbohydrates and little protein, so horses eat and eat until they get enough protein, and this veterinarian gave me excellent advice to feed horses legumes.  alfalfa is one of these crops and another soybean soy is a legume which has twice as much protein as grasses I am strongly against people eating soy it seems that when they make soy flour from soybeans they extract oils which oxidize and they contain a lot of omega-6 fatty acids which cause inflammation and this product has a lot of amino acids of course I recommend buying organic amino acids but the point is that if you feed horses legumes they get protein and do not transmit exactly So this veterinarian has been solving these problems with many horses for years so well So the same thing happens to animals as with people for some reason we think that you need to feed horses grain keep them in a stable and do this and that but look at nature What do horses do in nature how do people go on a diet They search on Google how to go on a diet and read drink more water so you don't want to eat Eat more fiber to be full and snack often Little by little throughout the day so as not to overeat I remember that when I ate carbohydrates for breakfast God already after an hour and a half  I was hungry for an hour, I was hungry in the evening. And when I started eating protein for breakfast, now I don’t have breakfast. I don’t eat until lunch, but the point is that when I ate eggs or meat for breakfast, be it a steak or a steak, I was no longer hungry, I was full, I felt great, and this is simply because I got as much protein as I needed. I don’t overeat, I ate exactly as much as I needed, and things were going great for me. Now, to better understand what to cook for breakfast or another meal, you can use the recipes from my book. If you do n’t know what to cook for chum salmon, the book will help you. The chum salmon menu for 2 weeks is a diet for three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from available products, the basics of chum salmon and fasting, follow the link below.