Hello again, I'm going to talk about the best natural remedy for an ear infection. Here are some symptoms of vertigo: dizziness, blocked sinuses, headache, ear pain, crackling or ringing in the ears. You may have an ear infection, but they are more common in children. Now I'll explain why. Our ear is the auricle, and here we have a cavity leading inside the opening, it leads to the inner ear. This is where infections happen. Here, there is a small duct here, and insert it into the tube. It leads to the back of the throat. The purpose and insert it into the tube is to drain mucus and equalize pressure. If you've flown on an airplane, when it takes off and descends, your ears hurt, a severe headache occurs, and when this happens, here's what you need to do: pull your ears outward, like this, straight to the sides. Open your mouth and drainage will occur. Or chew gum or something like that. Children have more problems with their ears because this tube is not as vertical, drainage is difficult because it is horizontal, and it stagnates in it, especially if the child eats sugar or milk. The combination is a real paradise for germs, especially on Halloween, but here's the situation when mucus accumulates, the ear fills with pus and the infection causes pain. Normally, this tube is compressed; it opens when swallowing; mucus drainage is impaired; it accumulates in the inner ear and creates a lot of problems. So, the best natural remedy is garlic oil. Take a drop of oil, drop it in the ear and let it flow inside, or dilute one drop of garlic oil in a teaspoon of olive oil. Then, take a drop of this mixture and drop it in the ear of a baby. If the child is, say, seven, eight, nine, ten years old, you can simply drop garlic oil into the ear and it will naturally kill almost all the germs. This is very safe for the beneficial germs in your body, but very dangerous for pathogenic germs, yeast, fungus, and so on. If your dog scratches its ear, this could also be an ear infection. The same thing applies: a drop of garlic oil in the ear will very quickly solve the problem. Try it and report the results.