I was shocked when I found out about the everlasting chemicals. I dug into this topic and I want to tell you about them. These chemicals are called F surfactants. They are called everlasting because they remain in the environment for thousands of years. They slowly poison us. 97% of Americans have F surfactant chemicals in their bodies. They are found in fat cells and they have also been found in breast milk and drinking water. They can cause cancer, hormonal problems, especially in the thyroid gland, problems with the liver and sexual function. But despite how sad all this is, I have a good solution. These F surfactant chemicals are everywhere. They are on Teflon pans and in food packaging. Firefighters get them from fire safety equipment. They are also found in canned food. Unfortunately, they are everywhere. These chemicals first entered the environment in the early fifties or even the late forties. It would seem that these chemicals should have been tested for safety in order for the Ministry of Health and the US to approve them, but government agencies only recently began to do something about it. I am interested in something else. Why were these chemicals considered in general? Many manufacturing companies used a loophole in the law to promote their chemicals. They tested them themselves and declared them safe. Even with current U.S. Environmental Protection Agency analysis methods, they can only identify six compounds. Of course, the Environmental Protection Agency only analyzes a subset of the chemicals in the total number. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began phasing out voluntary agreements with manufacturing companies to stop using FPF in packaging only in 2020. They have yet to implement this ban, but they... Of course, they prefer to nag farmers about raw milk, which is much more dangerous than evergreen chemicals. I'll recommend two strategies. The first is to limit your exposure to these chemicals. Most chemicals enter the body through water. Let's talk about this. The second strategy, in my opinion, is very good: building up your body's resistance to these chemicals. But first, let's talk about water. The Environmental Working Group has a good study on evergreen chemicals. They evaluated 25 F-surfactant chemicals to check what percentage of these chemicals are filtered out by water filters. They tested many filters.  but only three of them completely filter these chemicals, I recommend them. The first is called the L Becky Gravity, it costs $327, quite expensive. The second costs $90, less than the third is called the Zer, and it costs $19 before you buy anything. Let's look at them first because I want you to know how long they will last. First, let's look at the Zer, which costs $19. It filters only 75 liters, so you'll have to buy 37 filters per year, and you'll spend $646 per year. The next one is the Clear Fil, which costs $90. It filters 378 liters of water, so you'll need about seven filters per year, which is $436, a little cheaper than the Zer Water filters. Let's move on to the most expensive filter, the Travel Bir Gravity, which costs $327. How much water does it filter? 22,700 liters. It will last more than 8 years. If you do the math, that 's about $0.000 per year. Most chemicals come to us through water. Buying a water filter is a good idea. Because these chemicals tend to accumulate.  and they are very difficult to remove from the body, but there are still ways to remove these toxins from the body. And I want to talk about them: sweating or going to a sauna. Some chemicals can be removed by sweating. Another interesting way to get rid of chemicals is autophagy. Autophagy is a state in which the body, during intermittent and prolonged fasting, processes old damaged cells and proteins and gets rid of pathogens. It also helps get rid of chemicals and strengthen the body, because fasting has a positive effect on cells. Another way to detoxify is infrared radiation. You can get it if you go out in the sun in the morning and during the hours between. There are also infrared saunas and lamps. This is one way to remove chemicals from the body. Another way is Spirulina and chlorella. These are algae that have the property of removing chemicals. Now let's talk about strengthening the body, about its biochemistry. The body has amazing compounds that allow you to get rid of poisons. These are detoxifying enzymes. Strengthening the body to remove toxins is very, very important. They will help you with this. Sulfur-containing foods, such as eggs, garlic, and especially onions, are very helpful in removing toxins from the body. You should also eat cruciferous vegetables, such as cabbage, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts. They contain not only sulfur but also antioxidants that can help remove toxins. Of course, the most important amino acid for strengthening is glutamine. Guess what contains the most glutamine in red meat. What are you being urged to give up? Glycine is also very important. It can be found in cabbage, which is also found in red meat. A good detox dish that I eat very often is steak or some beef cutlets. Among cruciferous vegetables, I love cabbage. By the way, it can and should be fermented. Why? Because probiotics also help remove eternal chemicals, but only if sauerkraut is not pasteurized. Pasteurization destroys all bacteria. If you have a choice between green and red cabbage, choose red cabbage. Because it has more antioxidants.  You can, of course, try to avoid these chemicals, but in the toxic environment in which we live, it is very difficult. It is better to strengthen the pathways in this. Important nutrients that I will now list will help you. Selenium, iodine, copper, trace elements are very important. Where can they be obtained from seafood, shellfish, and of course, red meat from grass-fed food, since eternal chemicals affect the thyroid gland, it is necessary that the body always has enough iodine and Selenium. Selenium is found in Brazil nuts in shellfish. For example, oysters. I gave you some advice on what you should do, but in general, I wanted to share this with you because you are slowly being poisoned. Now you know what to do with it. See you in the next video. I invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic diets and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down. This program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available. There are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you try Lose weight. Do you often face barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom? I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition, an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also about nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge about how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.