I get asked this question very often. What diet is needed in case of a hereditary cholesterol problem? We are talking about familial hypercholesterolemia. It is logical to assume that if a person has a cholesterol problem, and in this case, he has half as many LDL receptors as compared to the normal value. What does excess LDL mean? So, it is logical to assume that he needs to reduce his cholesterol intake, especially saturated fats. This is completely reasonable and people have been given this recommendation for 80 years. This is the standard recommendation of most doctors. But one amazing study was done, which I will briefly describe. Its findings amazed me. I will recount them briefly, and you will find the full data by clicking on the link below. Of course, consult a doctor. Do not increase just because I said so. There is very little evidence that reducing the consumption of cholesterol and saturated fats gives any improvement if you have such a hereditary problem. And even with a low intake of saturated fats and cholesterol, people with this hereditary problem still have a significantly increased risk of dying from a heart attack. The publication is called dietary recommendations for familial hypercholesterolemia, and under  By unproven zone is meant a serious lack of evidence 85 percent of people who have a hereditary problem with cholesterol don't even know about it I'm not saying that high LDL cholesterol doesn't have a negative effect I'm just sharing with you a new point of view on this issue and it's worth taking into account asking questions about whether reducing cholesterol and saturated fat in the diet is really the best strategy they also cite another study comparing a group with a low-fat diet and a group with a low-carb diet both groups had this hereditary problem And in the low-carb diet group the risk of dying from a heart attack was significantly lower this Despite the fact that they consumed three times more saturated fat that is in the carbohydrate group consumed three times more fat than in the second group simply amazing But if someone starts to reduce the consumption of fats and cholesterol, they are most often replaced In the end, it turns out like this firstly, standard nutritional recommendations for coronary heart disease and familial hypercholesterolemia are based on outdated and  unconfirmed information, secondly, there is no evidence that justifies such recommendations for people who have a problem with cholesterol, namely, reducing cholesterol and saturated fats in the diet, and thirdly, it was found that a low-carbohydrate diet significantly improves the indicators of cardiovascular disease biomarkers, these are indicators such as obesity, hypertension, the coronary calcium index is an excellent indicator of what is happening inside the vessels, insulin levels or insulin resistance, inflammation or its biomarkers, as well as elevated triglyceride and glucose levels, as in diabetes, these factors are much more important than the places where cholesterol is lowered. Another factor that is worth checking with an extended lipid profile is your LDL. Check what size these particles are. There are two different types of LDL. The first type is the so-called small and dense particles, and the second type is large and buoyant particles. You need large and buoyant LDL particles because small dense particles can get stuck inside the vessels and create problems. And it just so happens that a high-carbohydrate diet increases the number of small dense LDL particles. And these are precisely the pathogenic particles. You also need to pay attention to Increased blood clotting. Unfortunately, the importance of this indicator is often downplayed. Although it is much more important than elevated PNP, and here are some other findings from this study. There is every reason for clinical trials in the UK to evaluate the impact of a low-carb diet on people with familial hypercholesterolemia and insulin resistance. I believe that this is a very, very important point. If you have a hereditary cholesterol problem, but you control the risk factors for obesity, insulin resistance and high blood pressure, following a low-carb diet will give you much better results, but for official medicine to recognize this, clinical trials are needed. So, this is just my opinion. Instead of reducing saturated fat intake, reducing cholesterol intake is better to reduce carbohydrate intake. This directly contradicts medical guidelines. Medicine does not agree with this, this is definitely an alternative view. I just ask you to pay attention to this yourself, read the research findings and test them on yourself. First, switch to the theta diet and get tested, and then to another diet that everyone else recommends and compare the results. We believe that if a study has been conducted, then adjustments have already been made to science.  but this is not the case if you have such a hereditary problem you need to do several things 1 switch to a healthy version of this diet because the main risk factor for such a situation is heart problems a healthy version of the whale diet contains nutrients that support the internal tissues of the heart intermittent fasting reduces insulin levels and a high-carbohydrate diet increases inflammation in the vessels we are trying to prevent a heart attack there are several nutrients that I will recommend based on very reliable research red yeast rice extract and poly casanol which are made from sugar cane but there is no sugar in it as it turns out the combination of these two substances effectively helps control cholesterol niacin not to be confused take a break on midam is another good remedy for normalizing cholesterol physical exercise is also important garlic helps thin the blood and prevents platelet adhesion and the last piece of advice only trinols a type of vitamin E excellent support for the inner surface of blood vessels they protect against oxidation injury and plaque formation only trinols are probably one of the best antioxidants for the heart do not take them in combination with tocopherols only separately to this it is worth adding that steroids and stress can increase cholesterol I have  In view of its bad type, birth control pills and estrogen therapy can also raise cholesterol, sugar of any kind. Of course, smoking will have the same effect, worsening the situation, and of course, alcohol, diuretics can also harm, as well as beta-blockers, I repeat, 85 percent of people don’t even know that they have such a problem, but it can be recognized by certain symptoms, not only with the help of tests. 1. Fat accumulation in the area of ​​​​the Achilles tendons, they can also form on the wrists and also on the legs, they are called santomies, this is an accumulation of cholesterol in the tissues, there is also a so-called corneal arc. This is a white stripe around the iris and, I repeat, do not forget to consult a doctor before following my advice. This is just food for thought, information for thought and for evaluation. If you haven’t watched my video yet, they are from my son, it’s worth watching for the full picture, here it is.