Today we will talk about the best probiotics for autoimmune diseases. What is an autoimmune disease? This is a disease when the immune system attacks its own tissues. In autoimmune diseases, an imbalance occurs in parts of the immune system. That is, the level of regulatory T cells drops very sharply. They are also track cells, and at the same time, the level of two other immune cells increases. I will explain as simply as possible. RE cells prevent autoimmune diseases. That is, they weaken inflammation. When the immune system finishes its work, Terek cells turn it off. Terek cells are responsible for an adequate response. But the problem is that sometimes the immune system can get out of control and attack the wrong tissues. This will be easier to understand using the example of a thermostat. Autoimmune diseases - This is heat, too much inflammation. The question is how to reduce an autoimmune disease to a comfortable level. It just so happens. What is a natural remedy for this? But I think first it is important to understand the true cause of all autoimmune diseases. You need to know that sometimes, with inflammation in the intestines, you may not feel it at first, but the inflammation blocks the work of vitamin D3. Vitamin D3 cannot work if there is inflammation. Vitamin D affects more than  2500 genes, it is associated with every part of the immune system, if Terek cells do not receive enough vitamin D, they will not work, they will not be able to grow, they will not be able to work, they will be inactive, and many, including a huge number of doctors, do not understand that we have a widespread deficiency of vitamin D, there is resistance to vitamin D and this resistance is at the cellular level, the receptor level, you can do a blood test for vitamin D and it will show the norm, but with resistance, despite the normal level in the blood, there will still be a deficiency, and many do not understand that most people have resistance to vitamin D, a blood test checks for an inactive form of vitamin D, they do not check it at the cellular level only to maintain immunity, you need 81 international units of vitamin, moreover, you need so much every day, rarely does anyone get so much, unless a person is not in the sun for a long time or does not take supplements, and if you combine inflammation in the intestines and vitamin D deficiency, then you get ideal conditions for an autoimmune disease, and on top of that, doctors or on the news or on the Internet say that you need to be careful with vitamin D, it can be toxic, it happens very rarely, it will be toxic if it is taken in hundreds of thousands of international units every day for several months. So, 10,000 international units is not even remotely close to toxicity. I touched on this because in order for there to be a therapeutic effect, you need to break through resistance to vitamin D. For this, you need to take much more than 10,000 IU. You need to take 20, 30, 40 and even 50,000 international units every day for vitamin D to break through resistance and have an effect on the cells of three. This is the first. Second, the absence of bacteria in the intestines are home to thousands of different bacteria that do much more than it seems. There are two specific bacteria that help prevent autoimmune diseases. They affect the cells and suppress other immune cells that cause inflammation. The first is called b infantilism. In the development of the nervous system, this bacterium is very sensitive to antibiotics, steroids, junk food and many other things in the environment. About 70% of the population does not have this bacterium in the intestines. This bacterium is very important. It helps the body maintain cells. El rote is another very important bacterium and unfortunately it is also very sensitive to broad- spectrum antibiotics. 97% of people also do not have this bacterium. What is interesting about this bacterium El rote is that it increases the level of the hormone oxytocin, one of the most effective anti-stress hormones. Why is this important? We can support the immune system. We need to understand that under stress, cortisol levels increase. Cortisol suppresses the immune system. There should be 35 billion white blood cells in the body. This is the soldiers who do all the work when the immune system is exposed to cortisol. It is suppressed. How do they treat autoimmune diseases with Prison? What is this steroid? A synthetic version of cortisol. It disables the entire immune system, including the part that heals tissue. Therefore, people who often inject steroids have practically destroyed joints. It acts as an antibiotic, and vitamin D does not suppress the immune system and does not disable it entirely. Only excess active parts. This bacterium helps to cool the immune system, and the second has a greater effect on the immune system as a whole. I recommend taking them not just in tablets, I recommend culturing them in dairy products. products to increase them. This will help to strengthen the intestines with bacteria, heal it and increase the level of cells. So, first, take vitamin D. Second, you need to restore the bacteria that are lacking. And third, selenium. What does selenium do? It is a trace element. It is essential in small doses. I recommend taking 200 micrograms, not milligrams. It is strong and unique for immunity. With a deficiency of selenium, the level of these two inflammatory cells will begin to rise, and with autoimmune diseases, it is already high. So, it needs to be reduced. Selenium will help reduce the number of these cells. Selenium will help reduce the level of antibodies. I mean autoantibodies that attack their own cells when the immune system attacks itself. Selenium can help reduce it; it can be taken in supplements. And the last thing I want to talk about is long-term fasting. Long-term fasting can significantly increase the level of cells. Many people get rid of inflammation with the help of intermittent long-term fasting. You need to fast for about 3 days in a row, you can’t eat anything. You can drink water. But you can’t eat anything. This can strengthen the immune system so much that the body will begin to produce new stem cells to build immunity. These three things are the most important.  Factors To solve the problem with hot immunity, they will help return it to a comfortable temperature so that autoimmune diseases go into remission. Since we are talking about vitamin D. If you haven’t watched this video, you should watch it; it will appear here.