I was recently asked a question about which intermittent fasting regimen is best. I'll share my opinion. There are many different regimens. You can fast daily so that there are eight hours between meals, plus a 16-hour fast, a 6-hour interval, plus an 18-hour fast, or a 4-hour interval. Let's say you eat at 1 and 4 p.m., and then you have 20 hours of fasting. There is also fasting every other day, and also fasting on weekends or fasting once or twice a week. It's possible that fasting lasts a whole day, so there are many options, but with these two regimens, not everything is so smooth. I'm talking about fasting every other day and once or twice a week. I received a lot of feedback from those who practice fasting every other day or a couple of times a week, and almost all of them had severe hunger, brain fog, sleep problems, all because they never gave the body a chance to adapt. I recommend consistency. Are there any reasons not to practice a certain fasting regimen regularly? I mean daily. So, let's discuss what regimen should be followed daily.  There are many advantages to intermittent fasting, but the goals are to cope with insulin resistance, lower insulin levels, and help the body reboot. I would build a fasting regimen depending on your physiological characteristics. If you have a fast metabolism and are young, then you should choose a 16-hour fast and 8 hours between meals. The older the person, the slower the metabolism and the longer you need to fast. You should gradually move to a 20- hour fast with 4 hours between meals and eventually switch to one meal a day. This is the best option, especially for those over 50. So, if you follow the fasting regimen regularly and constantly, the body will adapt to this regimen. This will make it possible to maintain insulin very mist and allow the body to gradually become healthy. But I believe that a gradual approach is very important here, so I recommend starting with this regimen and then slowly switching to these and just monitoring your well-being. Also, look at the advantages. If you are stuck on a board, if the advantages become fewer, move on to the next regimen. It increases the duration of fasting. That's all, thanks for watching.