One of the best nutrients for improving thought processes is Choline. Choline was previously considered one of the B vitamins, now it is considered a separate vitamin. Choline. By the way, it tastes like lemon, and a supplement with choline can be sucked like a lemon drop. This is an essential nutrient for the body because it produces acetylcholine. This is a neurotransmitter for the brain. Neurotransmitters work like hormones, but they travel not through the bloodstream, but through the nervous system. The action of acetylcholine is similar to the work of a signalman. It improves the creation of new memories. It is involved in certain processes that affect judgment, concentration, focus, consciousness, understanding of something, sleep, the growth of synapses in brain cells, as well as coordination of movements. Especially those movements that require speed and accuracy. There is a very interesting study, the link to which I will leave below. In it, people took Choline and they had a significant improvement in all these parameters. A lack of Choline can cause mental fog, problems with attention and focus. Even brain fatigue can occur, decreased learning ability, memory loss, inability to remember something, you will be more often distracted, which is associated  with ADHD and irritability. And otherwise, everything is fine with you. The question arises from which foods you can get Haline. The best source of Haline is beef liver. 100 grams of liver contains approximately 415 mg of Choline. Shrimp is another good source of Haline. 100 grams contain approximately 136 mg of Choline. And just one egg contains 146 mg of Choline. Personally, I eat a lot of eggs, scallops, even leafy greens, but the foods I mentioned are the best source of Haline. So, if you have any of these symptoms and you want to get rid of them, you should start eating these foods or take Choline as a supplement. And if it doesn’t help, then you need to do something else to help. For example, correct your diet, avoid foods that deprive the body of Choline. To find out which diet is suitable, follow the link below. Thank you for watching. If you don’t know what to cook for chum, the book “ Chum Nu” will help you. A two-week diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of chum and fasting. Follow the link below.