I'll show you the best stretch for the psoas muscle. What is this muscle? It's the only muscle that connects the upper body to the lower body. If this muscle is tight, you may have lower back pain. You may have poor posture. Your hip joints may not work properly. Without the psoas muscle, it would be difficult to get out of bed, in fact, it would even be practically impossible. It would be difficult to get up from a sitting position, and walking or running would become completely impossible. If the psoas muscle is tense, then keeping the body upright and keeping the upper body over the lower body without leaning forward will be difficult because this muscle. I'll show you what it looks like. This muscle attaches to the lumbar region and also to the last one in the thoracic region. It passes through the pelvis to the upper part of the leg. This muscle lifts the leg up towards the chest. Let's see if you can see what this muscle does. It's a hip flexor. The hip muscles are also hip flexors, but the psoas muscle is the most powerful. It's very large, and without this movement, we would not be able to walk, run, or climb stairs. So this can  It can become a very big problem if this muscle doesn't work properly. I had a tense muscle, I didn't know about it, and it manifested itself as lower back pain because I was riding a bike uphill for many kilometers, or maybe 10. I didn't do any other sports, and as you understand, I really strengthened my hip flexors, but I didn't train the opposing muscles. Besides that, I sat a lot during that period, in fact, I sat all day long if I didn't go to my office, and this is simply deadly for the lumbar muscle, because at the same time, it is always shortened. I'm just curious. How many hours a day do you sit? Write in the comments. Personally, I sat, I think at least ten hours a day. That's too much sitting. What happens when this muscle is too tense? It disrupts the work of many other muscles, including the gluteal muscles. They all begin to compensate. People with a tense lumbar muscle usually lean forward. Usually, the lumbar muscle is more tense on one side. It is very important to correct this and ensure the symmetry of both lumbar muscles. This will bring great relief to the lower back. I will show you a very simple exercise that I came up with after trying a lot of things that didn't work in  In three simple steps, I'll show you how to not only stretch this muscle, but also how to strengthen it and stabilize it. This exercise involves several other muscles and the upper body. Let's get down to business. I'll show you how to perform this exercise. So, what we're going to do is we're going to strongly stretch one side at a time. I'll start with the left side and we're not only going to stretch the psoas but also stabilize and strengthen it at the same time. First, place your hand on a chair. Do this at a pace that's comfortable for you. Move one leg back and bend the other at the knee. Keep your upper body as straight as possible and straighten your left knee as much as possible. Now I'm squatting on my right leg. At first, it's not that easy, but you do n't need to overdo it. Hold on to the chair and stretch your muscles. Just count to 10. Do this for 10 seconds and then the other side. While doing this, pay attention to which leg or which muscle is more tense, the left or the right. Spend more time on the area that is tense. We strive to achieve symmetry between the left and right sides. and also strengthen this whole dynamic because these muscles don't work separately they work together done this side and do it until it feels comfortable and now we move on to the second step just raise your hand now we stretch all the muscles and ligaments and fascia that are connected to the opposite side do this for 10 seconds and then the other side over time when it becomes easier add another element just raise both hands without leaning on the chair at all focus on the form and balance and hold it like this for 10 to 20 seconds try to do this until it feels comfortable so within about two or three weeks you will notice that while walking your pelvis your hips your gait have become free and open pain in the lower back will completely go away tension in the hips will be much reduced and at the same time the bend in the lower back will become correct and the lower back will perfectly cushion all this is perfectly stabilized watch my other videos about exercises if you haven't watched them yet in fact there is a whole playlist with videos on this topic on the channel here watch them