Hello, it's me again and today we'll talk about my fasting tea. I'll answer frequently asked questions. First of all, you need to know that there are two types of tea. Both teas are created according to the same recipe, but one tea is sweetened and the other is not. This tea is sweetened and there is no sugar here. Both teas are very tasty. Your choice depends on whether you like a sweet taste. We recently started packaging this tea with the herbs themselves in these bags for greater convenience. They can be used several times and won't run out so quickly. But I want to tell you about the ingredients of this tea and their effect. The main goal of this tea is to help you fast longer, make fasting more comfortable, especially during long fasts. Let's start with the ingredients. There are organic bidets here. Ginger is great for any stress in the digestive system, normalizes blood sugar, has an anti-inflammatory effect, and does much more. But first of all, I added ginger here because of its effect on blood sugar levels. Cinnamon is another very powerful ingredient that normalizes blood sugar levels. There is also an ingredient called garcinia cambogia. You may have heard of garcinia. Cambodian in the show Dr. O for or met and in weight loss supplements we added and and not for weight loss and do not claim that it will help you lose weight, but it affects blood sugar levels, which indirectly can help you lose weight because it reduces appetite, reduces food cravings and helps you go longer without food. Another ingredient is called hydroxide costs. I recommended it in other videos for breaking down kidney stones. There is excellent data there, especially for those who are prone to kidney stones and when fasting, uric acid levels can increase, and this can lead to the formation of uric acid stones. Also, RC does not improve mood and cognitive function. Further, red Asian ginseng is usually used to stimulate mental activity and energy, but it also helps with blood sugar, and this affects many other aspects, for example, lipids, inflammation, and so on. But one of the key ingredients of this tea, and perhaps more important, is rooibos. Rooibos is a very special plant and it is grown only in the northwestern province of South Africa. It is a shrub called red bush. The uniqueness of this plant is that It contains a special flavonoid, a flavonoid is a phytonutrient. More than 9,000 different flavonoids are known, and rooibos contains a very special flavonoid called palatin. There is no other plant in the world that contains this special phytonutrient. There is amazing research on its effect on blood sugar levels, and so it helps normalize blood sugar levels. This, of course, reduces appetite, reduces food cravings, and allows you to go longer without food. It also relieves nervous tension and stress of the digestive system and cramps and has an anti-inflammatory effect, apparently due to the reduction of sugar in this tea. There is no caffeine, so it will not deprive you of sleep. It does not contain oxalates, don't worry about this. Regular tea can increase oxalate, which is bad for kidney stones. There are 20 tea bags in the package, and each can be used twice. So, the main thing you need to know about this tea is that it can help normalize sugar levels so you can go longer without eating. Get more benefits from fasting, especially with intermittent long-term fasting. Thanks for watching. If you want to try, there are links under the video and you don't know what to cook. The book Tetta Menu for two weeks will help you with this: a diet for three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from readily available products, the basics of ketogenic diets and fasting, follow the link below.