There is a very powerful anti-inflammatory product that will surprise you I wish I had known about this earlier when my intestines were very inflamed but this can be applied to any inflammation people with autoimmune diseases and with Any disease whose name ends in id is some kind of inflammation so there is a very close connection between joint inflammation and intestinal inflammation inflammatory processes in the joints including many autoimmune diseases originate in the intestines and first I will list the foods that should be avoided and then I will tell you what you need to eat the greatest inflammation is caused by those foods that contain gluten and it is found in grains most grains cause inflammation in the intestines most people with arthritis do not know that the grains they eat cause severe inflammation then there are obvious things like alcohol sugar junk food junk food is something that has undergone deep technological processing 83 about products in the store have undergone deep technological processing And we are surprised by problems with the digestive system the next product is corn corn causes severe inflammation usually refined products are made from it process 96 whole  Corn is genetically modified. This means it may contain traces of glyphosate, which is considered an antibiotic. But it can harm intestinal flora and create other problems. Then soy is the same thing. Most soy is genetically modified. Soy and corn also contain lectins, which also irritate the intestines, which can cause inflammation. By the way, corn is not a vegetable, it is a grain. Corn is found in many products, in tortilla chips, there are many products with it, especially in stores, and it is not in the form of whole grains. But in some purified form, there is even a new type of GMO corn that has not yet passed safety tests. It is very interesting to see how this will turn out. And of course, there are also, as is obvious, oils from seeds such as rapeseed, soybean, corn oil, all highly refined oils cause inflammation. Omega-6 then milk proteins A1 always consume A2. A very reliable way to avoid A1 is to take dairy products from the milk of goats or sheep, for example, sheep or goat cheese or Sheep or goat kefir. Cheese and kefir are fermented products and  The benefits of them are even greater and products from sheep and cow milk contain A2 protein. It must be said that many people are allergic to Kazin and this is a problem. There is lactose intolerance to milk sugar, which creates another problem and there is simply gluten intolerance and not an allergy to it. Then there is just fiber in general. Not to mention new functional fibers such as soluble corn fiber, tapioca fiber. All these products containing fiber should, in theory, be beneficial. But they only increase bloating and inflammation. With any inflammation, especially in the intestines, you should avoid fiber, any fiber and fiber, and especially the so -called healthy plant proteins of beans and other legumes and even vegetables. All this irritates the colon. Try the Kornevo diet and you will feel much better. I have now listed all the products that greatly increase inflammation. Now let's talk about the most important product that allows you to get rid of inflammation. This product has a very high level of glutamine. This product is among the products with the highest level of glutamine. I will explain what glutamine is.  The amino acid that the colon cells need is a layer of cells one cell thick inside the colon. They form a barrier to the immune system within us. The intestinal cells love glutamine very much, they consume 30 percent of all our glutamine. Glutamine is very important for the production of energy from ATP. Glutamine is the fuel for the layer of intestinal cells, as well as for the mucous membrane. Where all the beneficial bacteria live, and glutamine ensures the impermeability of the partitions. I said that inflammation begins in the intestines, but I did not describe its exact cause. And the reason is leaky gut, that is, increased intestinal permeability. In fact, in this layer of cells one cell thick, there are through holes, and large, undigested food particles pass through these holes, and then the immune system marks them as foreign bodies that must be destroyed. This is how antibodies to food appear and food allergies begin to develop. So, the problem is actually in bypassing normal emigration procedures. The particle does not have an entry stamp from the immune system, but it enters and  It creates a lot of problems. All these harmful products that I talked about create a hole in the intestines, and glutamine is the solution to this problem. The next question is this: What product has the most glutamine, and the answer is in meat, in particular in beef, which they are now trying to get rid of cows for some ridiculous reason, but beef contains the protein glutamine, which greatly improves the condition of the intestines and reduces any inflammation, whether it is an autoimmune disease or an autoimmune problem with joints or anything else. Glutamine can be taken. But beef is the best anti-inflammatory product that there is, even before the Tetou diet, when I ate carbohydrates and then switched to beef. Oh my God, how much better I felt. It was incredible. The bloating went away. It was strange. After all, I thought that fiber was needed to push everything through, but I did not expect that beef would actually extinguish the flames in my intestines, and a lot of inflammation disappeared. I had severe arthritis in my arms and back, and I didn’t know that. It was mainly my diet. in the carbohydrates and grains that I ate, you just need to try, let's say you're a vegan and you want to know which vegan food has the most glutamine, you're ready in cabbage. Absolutely right, especially in red cabbage, but any cabbage has a lot of glutamine, so the most glutamine is in beef and cabbage if you take the whole spectrum of products from meat to vegetables. I talked about this in other videos about the need to eat cabbage for gastritis, ulcers, and any inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. You won't be able to eat a lot of other vegetables, fiber, but most people tolerate cabbage, especially fermented sauerkraut, because sauerkraut not only has a lot of glutamine, but also contains beneficial microorganisms. There's a lot of glutamine in other products too, such as sheep or goat cheese, and also kefir, as I already said, eggs and fish. There's especially a lot of glutamine in bone broth. So, I described in simple terms how to eliminate inflammation. And what You need to avoid them to really change the situation for the better. Believe me, if you have inflammation, it doesn't matter. Which of these foods should you eat? I would just start eating beef and cabbage and see what happens to your inflammation. I think you'll be very surprised. There are many other special foods, each with unique properties. You'll learn about them in my new course. You know what superfoods are. These are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these foods and their benefits. Short, concise videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.