Heart disease ranks first among all causes of death. I've talked a lot about what to avoid with heart and vascular problems. But today we'll discuss what you need to eat to cleanse your blood vessels. If you already have heart problems or want to prevent them, I'll tell you what you need to eat, but I think it's also important to tell you what you shouldn't eat, so I'll start with that, and then I'll tell you what you need to eat, and then you'll understand why you need to eat it. So, where does a heart problem arise? It arises inside the vessels. There's a very thin layer of cells in the vessels, this is a layer just one cell thick, and it's inside the vessel, it's called the endothelium. It's where blood enters for filtration. This thin layer helps remove unnecessary things from the blood and leave the necessary things in it. And in this layer of cells, there are many different receptors, for example, for regulating blood pressure. Hormones interact there. A huge part of these cells perform immune functions, and everything in the blood affects this layer. An obvious example is when someone smokes or drinks alcohol, these toxins enter the blood and affect this layer of cells. I want to emphasize the word chronically, because someone  He does something harmful sometimes, and someone does it chronically. He chronically exposes his blood vessels to the effects of alcohol, what smoke contains, his food, and this is a serious problem. In addition, the layer of these cells is affected by stress and, of course, sugar, refined sugars, especially refined carbohydrates, they sometimes exist. Even worse than sugar, even gluten from varnishes can irritate this layer. Seed oils are also very harmful: rapeseed oil, soybean oil, corn cottonseed oil, and when these substances affect the inner layer of blood vessels, they cause inflammation, and this begins a series of events. The body triggers a healing response and a patch appears. It consists of proteins such as fibrin, which forms fibrous tissue, as well as Rin and calcium. This is what blood clots are made of. There are excellent analysis methods, especially coronary calcium analysis. I did it. I highly recommend it to you. An ideal result of zero is an accurate mortality prognosis. Another excellent analysis is based on heart rate variability. There are many studies on this topic. A special device is attached to the fingers on the chest or on the hand with a strap, and it tracks the contraction and relaxation of not only the heart but also all its vessels. You can evaluate what is happening with the heart and blood vessels. This is especially important for long-distance runners. They look healthy, but some of them are unhealthy. Perhaps they are overtrained or something else and their blood vessels are inflamed. This can cause problems. Even a heart attack after the finish. So, appearances can be deceiving, but there are methods for identifying problems inside. Another excellent analysis is measuring the level of small dense LDL particles. This is an excellent indicator of so- called oxidized LDL. In fact, it is a protein that carries a certain fat, but after certain exposures it becomes harmful because it can invade this layer and penetrate deeper into this area. It causes inflammation and remains in the tissues longer than large floating LDL particles. But I do n’t want to go into all this too much. You just know. There are two types of LDL. One type is more harmful, the other is not so harmful. There is a biomarker that indicates a deficiency of B vitamins, this is homocysteine. There is a test to determine its level. Too high homocysteine ​​is a sign of a deficiency of certain B vitamins that protect blood vessels from the inside, and with a high level of cysteine, there is a risk of heart attack and stroke.  This situation requires natural forms of vitamins such as folates, as well as B6 and B12, because here's the thing: there's a genetic problem that many people have with this gene. People with this problem cannot convert synthetic forms of these vitamins into their active form, but there is a deficiency, and an increase in homocysteine ​​creates the risk of many problems. A simple solution is to consume more folates, not folic acid, which is found in many fortified flour products in fortified cereals; it is added to energy drinks in dietary supplements. Avoid folic acid. There is also the question of how calcium gets into the vessels. There is a protein in the body that prevents calcium deposits in soft tissues and blood vessels, and this protein is controlled by vitamin K2. So, some of the foods we need are rich in vitamin K2, because we don't need calcium deposits in the vessels. Another very common deficiency that creates many problems in the vessels is vitamin E deficiency, because it provides powerful protection for the vessels from the inside. So, our list will also include vitamin E. And one of the products that really deprives us of vitamin E -  These are refined grains. Another bad thing about grains is that they contain a lot of gluten. But if the grain is gluten-free, then it is refined, which means more sugar. This product turns into sugar faster; we don't need sugar to get into our blood vessels. Another very important nutrient is niacin, and it will be on our list of products. Of course, it will contain vitamin C, because it is a very important antioxidant. It can reduce the harm caused to you by the environment, food, and other factors. So, let's go straight to list number one. What is high in omega-3 fatty acids is, of course, salmon, another fatty fish, sardines. A very important product is another product that I eat regularly. You have heard of cod liver oil, but you might not have heard of cod liver. Yes, cod liver, for example, is cod liver. I don't know if you can see cod liver in fat. Sometimes I want it. I eat it once or twice a week as a source of protein. There are a lot of omega-3 fatty acids here. I don't drink all this fat. I only eat liver, and I can give the fat to animals, say, dogs, they eat it.  They love a lot of fat here, you can't eat that much. Sometimes I even eat sardines. Of course, I take sardines in olive oil, and that would be number two. Olive oil has many excellent properties that are beneficial for the heart and blood vessels. It helps avoid hypertension. This is an excellent fat. It has many substances that are beneficial for the heart and strengthen the endothelium. You need extra virgin olive oil from a place or from a farm where this oil is made with love and conscientiously, and not the kind of olive oil that is completely tasteless and not real. There is a lot of fake olive oil. Get good oil. I like it from Italy. But there is good oil from Greece, Spain, France, and everywhere. Number three: Dark leafy greens can be drizzled with olive oil. Dark leafy greens can be drizzled with olive oil to extract phytonutrients from them, because many phytonutrients in plants, especially in greens, are fat-soluble. Dark leafy greens have a lot of vitamin C, they also have a lot of phalate, which is a natural vitamin B9. Dark leafy greens also contain magnesium and potassium, which I recommend. This is a certain cheese for salad, many people use it.  the American version of this Parmesan cheese. To me, it's utter disgusting. It does n't even come close to the real cheese that is produced in the only place on the planet, in Italy. It has a lot of vitamin K2, which is very important to prevent calcium from getting into the blood vessels. Forgive me if I pronounce it incorrectly, but this cheese is called Parmigiano. It's usually available in any cheese, but you need to buy the right kind of cheese, because regular Parmesan in American stores often has an added ingredient, cellulose from wood pulp, as a filler. Let me ask why they put filler in cheese. I guarantee that real cheese from Italy doesn't have wood pulp in the form of cellulose. I saw how they make this cheese there. They make this traditional cheese with great care, and the salad with it is simply amazing. In general, NM has a lot of vitamin K2, plus extra virgin olive oil. I also add nutritional yeast to the salad. You need unenriched nutritional yeast, without any synthetics. You can enrich it with natural vitamins, but not with synthetic ones, and that's what they do more often. The fact is that in  Nutritional yeast contains a good natural form of B9. And in those that I recommend, I'll give a link below, there is also the correct form of B12, which is methylcobalamin. They have a lot of natural B vitamins, including B1 for stress, and they have a pleasant cheesy taste. I love it. I'll add another product to this list that has a lot of vitamin K2 and a lot of vitamin C. In fact, as far as I know, this product has more vitamin C than any other. Unpasteurized sauerkraut is very important not to buy sauerkraut in a jar. Pasteurized ones are needed. Unpasteurized sauerkraut contains a lot of vitamin K2. It also contains probiotics, prebiotics, and a little vitamin C, about 700 mg per glass. Another heart-healthy product is almonds. Imagine that they have a lot of magnesium, like spinach, and also vitamin E, but both have a lot of oxalates. But if you eat cheese, almost at the same time as eating, the calcium from the cheese will bind with oxalates and prevent possible irritation of the kidneys and even the formation of stones if there is a predisposition, the next product that I recommend is liver. Yes, liver is suitable, beef liver, even cod liver is the same liver and chicken liver, but high-quality I know that you may not agree with me on this matter, but Think about it all in high-quality beef or any other liver, what you will get, you will get almost all possible nutrients, because the liver has a lot of almost all the vitamins in the liver, there is phala, which is abundant in vegetables and it contains vitamin K2. Now I will name you the last product, but first I will explain why I am telling you this. Firstly, if you enter Healthy food for the heart into the search, you will get results like vegetables, fruits, whole grains, which, as we know, are not very healthy, in my opinion. And they will tell you, Don't eat sugar, junk food, and then processed red meat, and they talk about this everywhere. That is, they tell you that red meat is very dangerous for the heart, while they kind of lump all types of meat together. But haven't people been eating red meat for a very long time? Have n't we eaten red meat throughout our history? That is, all our  Are red meat really a serious cause of heart problems? Of course, I'm talking about grass-fed meat, not grain-fed meat. I know, but many farmers in these parts feed their cattle grain to make the meat marbled. The same thing happens with pigs and horses; horses and pigs will get fat and overweight from too much grain. What about people? Why are we told to eat 65% of carbohydrates in the form of grains? Why are they encouraging this? 100% grass-fed beef has less fat and is healthier. I have my own beef and it is extremely good for the heart. It has all the B vitamins mentioned, including vitamin B12. It has B6 and B12 iron. It doesn't cause allergies, it causes intestinal irritation, and it has a little glutamine. It reduces inflammation. I'll say a few more words about red meat because an extensive, large- scale, and trustworthy study was recently conducted. I'll tell you about it. I found it in Time magazine in an article called "Eat Less Meat." Scientists said today that some people think this is bad advice. It says here, as shown. New research shows there is no compelling reason to recommend eating less beef and pork. These findings undermine public trust, critics said. Let's get to the point. If eating less beef and pork is healthier, it's not by much, scientists concluded. The benefits are so small that they can only be seen when studying large populations, scientists noted. And this is not a reason to tell people to change their meat-eating habits. It's incredible, after all, because those who are against red meat want to get rid of cows mainly for the sake of the environment, but also say that meat is harmful to health. Although there is no real evidence at all for this, health researchers have already unleashed a barrage of criticism on them. The American Heart Association, the American Cancer Society, the Harvard School of Public Health, and other groups have called the journal's editors to delay publication. A Harvard scientist said these findings undermine authority in nutrition and public trust in scientific research. Let me ask you a question: If we have learned something that is based on science and closer to the truth, some new knowledge  Do you think this is a lie? Trust because it contradicts what we were told before. This will increase Trust in those who told us this. Or should we ignore this new data just to avoid confusing the public? I want to know the truth. This is what strengthens Trust. Hiding facts from people or distorting them undermines Trust even more. This is just ridiculous. They undermine the authority of nutrition science if it were based on good research. The authority would not be. After all, they wouldn't lie. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocate for a plant-based diet, filed a petition against the Federal Trade Commission on Wednesday. Wow, you're attacking a scientific article because of your disagreements and involving the Federal Trade Commission. This is ridiculous. This is not science. In science, we should welcome opposing opinions. We should not silence opponents who are essentially competitors. A study in the World Health Organization. The International Agency for Research on Cancer notes that red meat is probably carcinogenic. While technologically processed meat is carcinogenic, these recommendations are based on observational studies, and they are very susceptible to influence. confounding factors that limit the ability to identify causal relationships, while the absolute values ​​of any possible effects are not indicated, moreover, the organizations issuing the recommendations did not carefully review the data systematically and did not evaluate them, are limited in resolving conflicts of interest and did not explicitly study the values ​​and preferences of the population, which raises questions about compliance with fundamental standards for ensuring reliability, in other words, the idea that red meat probably causes cancer is based on information that contains a conflict of interest, and I have already investigated this aspect myself. I will leave links to information about this and look, our analysis has a number of strengths. We performed five separate rigorous systematic evaluations by examining data from randomized and observational studies on the effects of technologically unprocessed red meat and processed meat on cardiovascular disease and cancer, as well as the values ​​​​of people's preferences in consuming red meat and processed meat, but our conclusions from the analysis of studies of food intake and dietary patterns, they concluded that unprocessed red meat and processed meat are unlikely to cause adverse health effects. I spoke about this because the tobacco industry has such a trick that Ultra-food manufacturers have adopted this, casting doubt on us about what's healthy and what's harmful, to maintain confusion. They're clearly sowing doubt that red meat might not be harmful. As a result, you don't eat it, when in fact, it's not based on science at all. In the future, I predict they won't back down, and there will be a lot of negativity about the harm of red meat to health. It's very important to look at the source of the data being disseminated, who's disseminating it, and who benefits from it. People don't eat beef. High-quality red meat is very good for the heart, especially if you don't eat it with sugar and junk food. If you liked this video, there's another video about the best foods for blood vessels to keep them very clean. If you haven't seen it, it's a very popular video, so watch it.