Hi all.  Let's start with a quiz question, and then answer questions from social media.  Please, Dog. How someone with normal vitamin D levels can be severely deficient.   Well , it's interesting what doesn't happen in life.   Yes. Now we answer questions on social networks.  It's amazing, but only on the Rambla can you see such incredible nicknames.  asks BRLP 110 Trumble.  What do you think about using classic sourdough starter for homemade bread?  Will this help reduce bloating?  After all, the flour is already partially fermented. This is definitely better than any other bread.  This is clearly a step forward. I love sourdough bread.  If they gave it to me with butter, I would eat it with pleasure .  But it still contains gluten.  I can feel it, even though there is less of it there.  And I still have a reaction to it. Sugar surge, bloating.  But sourdough bread is clearly better than yeast bread.  Well, and Izekiel bread is even better.  I think there are different levels. The quality is not always the same, but it can be improved.  Some people tolerate this bread better than others.  So there are other factors. If you used to eat a lot of junk food and it inflamed your intestines, now you can’t eat anything like that. Or maybe you haven’t eaten it, and your body doesn’t care about all this.  You have to try to understand what suits you.  Great.  Question from Lou 1 2 3 4 from Rambla.  I add a lot of olive oil to salads.  Will this increase belly fat? No. Fine.  Well, here's your answer.  Written by MG Wolf from YouTube.  My mother had a bladder tissue sample taken for analysis.  What would you advise her if the result is positive?  I think it's about cancer or something else terrible.  I would immediately take the most important action if it turns out to be cancer.  And the worse the cancer, the more I would use this remedy.  I'll talk about it in one of the videos next month.  Kidding.  So, you need a pretty strict, long-term fast.  Let's say we're talking about a fourth-stage rocket. What would I do in this case?  Tomorrow? No, right now I would stop eating and probably not eat for 20 days, try not eating for 30 days.  In this way we kill cancer.  by hunger, we deprive him of all resources.  He has nothing left.  He ca n't survive.  But the organism can survive.  The organism can survive at the expense of other resources through autophagy and so on better than cancer.  In fact, cancer is very painful.  The tumor is completely dead from the inside . It is dead, dying tissue, deprived of oxygen.  She is sick.  And since we know this, which sledgehammer is best to kill her with? Chemotherapy, which kills your cells, or perhaps starvation, or more precisely, intermittent fasting. If you can fast for that long, your condition will improve.  Then you can eat once a day, and then move on to the correct diet.  There is a video about this on Rambla.  You can look at them.   Believe it or not, viewers have already answered the quiz question.   The question was: How can someone with normal vitamin D levels be severely deficient?  66% said it was due to a problem with vitamin D absorption. 24% said it was due to an excess of junk food, and 10% believed it was due to liver problems. Yes, a couple of points.  First, experts disagree on what levels are considered normal. This is the first thing.  Second. Vitamin D receptor resistance. This is when the receptor for vitamin D in the cell to which it should attach is blocked.  This receptor is resistant in most people, 60% or more. This means that most people do not absorb and convert inactive vitamin D into active vitamin D properly. So, you have a normal level, but you don’t know that doctors test for the inactive form of vitamin D in your blood.  They don't check cells, they check blood. Whether it gets into cells is unknown. So, there can be a problem with genes too. Number one is changes in genes.  This problem affects many people, including myself and many whose tests I have seen. One more factor.  If you had the Epstein-Barr virus, and many people had it, including me , or Lyme disease, and I had that .  If you have had these infections, they have already worsened the condition of your receptors. It's a double whammy. Not to mention insulin resistance and lack of sunlight, a host of factors prevent us from getting the vitamin D we need. That's why I believe it's better to err on the side of higher doses of vitamin D. We need at least 60 mg per milliliter, or nanograms per milliliter, and maybe even a little more. I keep my level above 100 because I have seen research on this topic.  What about toxic effects? There is only one effect.  Excess calcium in the blood, which threatens kidney stones.  What about the toxic effects of vitamin D deficiency?  It threatens autoimmune diseases, and today this is the main problem on Earth.  But there is a way out.  How to reduce the risk of kidney stones?  Drink 2.5 liters of fluid per day, take more magnesium, check the calcium level in the blood and urine to ensure it is not elevated.  If you're taking high doses of vitamin D3 to help with something , you may want to consider switching to a calcium-free diet.  This makes sense.  You will reduce this risk but still receive the benefits of therapeutic doses.  Yes, it's a long answer, but it's important. Many problems can be solved by taking enough vitamin D to get it into your cells.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Wonderful.  Revin wants to know about iodine. How much of it do we need per day?  I see conflicting data about how much iodine we actually need per day.  I know that there is aodal, and iodine is added to table salt.  Oh well. Many people also have a deficiency of the trace element iodine, because it is not found in the soil or in food.  And those who don't eat shellfish and seafood don't get much iodine. Compare the American diet with the Japanese diet.  The Japanese have a very low incidence of thyroid problems and other problems caused by iodine deficiency, such as estrogen dominance, fibrocystic breast disease, and ovarian cysts.  It seems that their diet contains 100 times more iodine.  So the microelement iodine is involved in many processes, and it is especially important for children. During pregnancy, it is important to get enough iodine, as a deficiency can cause cognitive impairment in the child .  The IQ decreases simply because there was a lack of iodine. So, that's the first thing.  Second. Iodine is also needed for the functioning of testosterone receptors in men.   The easiest way to get more iodine is from seaweed, shellfish, or dietary supplements. And see if you feel better and your symptoms subside. I think micronutrients are the main thing we are lacking.  After all, there are fewer of them in our food than there once were.  This is one of the supplements that I take every day.  I just feel better with him. I can't prove it with tests, but I just feel like I need it.  I take it and I feel good. I just know it's hard to get.  Although no, it is not difficult, but people do not get it. You know, Dr. Berg, there are 16 ingredients in McDonald's fries.  How is this possible?  Oh, absolutely.  It must contain a preservative, a chemical flavoring agent, and in this flavoring agent there may be hundreds of other chemicals to make the potato so tasty that you won’t be able to get by with just one serving.  So, okay.  Tracy from Facebook asks what is the best way to lower cortisol. There are a couple of ways.  Cortisol is a stress hormone, walks in nature.  A wonderful product, just like the Elroyteri yogurt I made a video about.  After all, it increases oxytocin, which is a powerful tool for reducing cortisol.  It makes people sleep better and feel better.  In general, also find the source of your stress.   Do you associate with toxic people who don't support you?  Do you watch too much news or are those YouTube videos that scare the living daylights giving you a big problem? The world will end tomorrow, but they don’t give a solution? You go to bed thinking about it all the time.   What you need to understand is this . There is a huge group of people who are trying to convince you that the world around you is more dangerous than it really is. After all, they get a lot of money when you are in a state of white run.