This is an updated video about the best remedies for and MP. I already made a video about this, but I want to add new information. MP is a urinary tract infection. It can be either a bladder infection or a kidney infection located higher up. Most often, the causative agent of such an infection is E. coli. Normally, E. coli does not cause harm, it is neutral, it lives in our body without creating problems. So what makes it unfriendly? The answer is simple: the environment in which it lives. Let's list what can change its habitat. By the way, there are other microbes, mainly bacteria, that can become pathogenic and create problems. 1. High glucose levels. Therefore, diabetics have a higher risk of this disease. A large amount of sugar changes the environment. Sugar feeds various pathogens, especially fungi, yeast, and Candida. They can also cause a UTI. So if you have MP, eliminate sugar from your diet. The next point is high estrogen. This can occur during pregnancy or during ovulation. Estrogen levels increase during pregnancy and ovulation. Therefore, with these conditions, the risk of a UTI is higher. An increase in estrogen levels can definitely affect  The opposite situation can also affect your immunity. If estrogen is low, this can affect the protective barrier of the vaginal flora of beneficial bacteria that protect you. This is why the risk of MP also increases in women after menopause. So, too high or low estrogen can be a problem. Another thing is antibiotics, especially quinoline, which kills both good and bad bacteria. Because of this, pathogenic bacteria begin to rage, causing inflammation and infections. Fungi and Candida are also activated because antibiotics do not kill them. They remain and since we have killed all the bacteria, they begin to grow, especially if you take antibiotics. Often, you develop resistance to antibiotics and they no longer work, now you also have MP. Very, very often, it is not the best solution in the long term. Sexual intercourse can be a problem due to cross- infection. Using a catheter also increases the risk of MP. Now, let's list really good remedies for this infection. The first is called Borosma. Perhaps this is one of the best herbal remedies for MP. It has been used for a very, very long time and it has been tested over time. It has a strong antimicrobial effect. Anti-adhesive properties, it prevents bacteria from attaching to surfaces, it has been proven to reduce the risk of bladder, prostate, and urethral infections, and it is also a natural diuretic. The next remedy is cranberry. I also like the anti-adhesive effect, it prevents bacteria from accumulating inside the bladder and various ducts and prevents the formation of biofilms that often occur in the bladder, kidneys, and tubules. The next remedy is common bearberry, it is a natural diuretic. Another thing is juniper is very useful for both the bladder and kidneys. The last two points are not a plant, but I highly recommend them. The first of them is fasting, this is probably the greatest help for the immune system, and very quickly, just do n't eat for a while, maybe a day or two, you will probably see a noticeable improvement in immunity. The second, as I said before, reduce carbohydrate consumption, remove sugar from your diet, pathogens feed on it, and they need to be prayed for by fasting, especially if this is a live infection, Candida or a fungal infection. Thank you for watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, you need to click the button below to find out about new videos.