Let's talk about the best protein for recovery not only after training but also after stress after illness. There are two things: protein that is absorbed by the body. And there is protein that is actually used by the body. These are two different things. Most of the protein is absorbed. But only a small part of it is actually used. When I say used, I mean that it goes to tissue repair and also serves as raw material for the creation of new proteins. Our body creates approximately 50 thousand proteins a day. Here we are talking about the fact that protein is a combination of different amino acids. Perhaps you think that protein is only muscles, but there is also hair, nails, tendons, ligaments, there is fascia, which is connective tissue around muscles, organs, and so on. There is cartilage, there is skin, DNA, RNA. All the mechanisms inside cells are created using proteins. Enzymes are created using proteins, both digestive enzymes and all other hormones are created from proteins. What about lipoproteins such as HDL and LDL? These are proteins that carry cholesterol through the bloodstream. Blood is a protein. The immune system is also a protein. That is, most of our body is protein, and when we eat protein foods, the body uses only a portion of this protein.  for tissue repair and as raw material, the remaining protein is either excreted through the kidneys or converted into glucose is used as fuel, the amount of protein that is not used but is lost or goes to fuel is measured by the amount of nitrogen in the urine. This allows you to determine what percentage of protein is used. Milk, yes, it is available only to infants, but its percentage of utilization is 49.6 and we move on to eggs, they are in second place, with a higher percentage of utilization than most proteins, 49 percent. So, eggs are a very good protein for recovery, but look, let's say you are doing bodybuilding and go for whey protein. To recover or build muscle, look, only 17 percent. And eggs have 49 percent, you use only 17 percent and the rest is lost or burned. And here is soy protein, 16 percent. Soy is found in many protein bars and diet shakes. A lot of glucose is formed from this soy and look at this. Branched-chain amino acids, one percent is used and the rest is lost or goes to fuel. Perhaps you think I need branched-chain amino acids for muscle repair, what will they bring?  You may only benefit from branched-chain acid as a vitamin fuel, an incomplete protein. For muscle repair or growth, you need complete protein. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.