What is the best remedy for getting rid of cellulite on the thighs and buttocks?  Let's discuss this today.  In fact, this is a very specific exercise. The unique thing about cellulite is that it appears only in the area 10 cm above the knees on the thighs and buttocks.  It does not occur on the stomach, arms or chest.  But it’s even more interesting to figure out what it actually is. If you look inside and see what's underneath the skin, you can see a layer of muscle, a layer of fat, and also a connective tissue called fascia.  And cellulite is the destruction of this connective tissue, the fascia.  As a result, fat rises to the surface in a disorderly manner.  But why?  What happens to this connective tissue?  Many people mistakenly believed that cellulite was a fat problem, but this is not true.  There is one enzyme that dissolves collagen, and there is too much of it.  The main stimulator of this enzyme is the menstrual cycle.  In this cycle, this enzyme is released to cause the endometrium to be shed.  So, every month this enzyme is released, the uterine layer is shed, the colon dissolves, and then a new layer grows.  This is all interesting, but what to do?  Is there more collagen to restore connective tissue?  No, this will not remove cellulite.  Your task is to restore this layer of connective tissue so that the skin becomes beautiful and elastic. If you focus only on losing weight and don’t add collagen, cellulite won’t go away.  If there is more collagen, it will provide material for connective tissue, but this is not enough.  And also, how to inhibit the production of the enzyme that dissolves the connective tissue membrane. You can find natural green coffee oil .  It is often sold with retinol, vitamin A, and sometimes collagen.  This cream will bring some benefit by slowing down the production of this enzyme. Sometimes green tea extract is also added .  There are many means, but the main question is this.  which most powerfully stimulates the formation and growth of this connective tissue.  It reacts very actively to mechanical stress.  When you mechanically load your skin, muscles and ligaments in your legs and buttocks, this actively stimulates the creation of new collagen.  But there is no need to increase the load abruptly.  Do everything gradually.  I will show you an intensive method, it is very effective, but first I will tell you about the exercises.  which are worth starting with in order to prepare for the main thing.  We want to grow new layers of connective tissue around the muscles and fat to give better shape and tone to the legs and buttocks. To start, I recommend two simple exercises.  The first one is slow squats.  4 seconds down, 2 seconds up.  Three sets of 10 squats daily.  The second exercise is called forward lunges.  One leg, then the other.  It acts directly on the thighs and buttocks.  You can start with three sets of 10 repetitions of each of these exercises twice a week.  If you are very sore after the exercise, take a break for 3-5 days to a week until you recover.  There is no need to do this through pain.  We need restoration to produce collagen.  If you have almost none left, enter this process slowly and gradually over the course of a week or even months.  If you are in good shape, you can use pleometrics, box jumps, or jumping rope.  This stimulates the cells that create collagen.  But there is one exercise that surpasses all the others.  It hits the very heart of the cells, not to mention that it is one of the most effective methods of burning subcutaneous fat.  So, here's the exercise.  Find a hill that is not too gentle.  First, climb the hill on foot.  Ultimately it will be a sprint.  What does this give?  A truly explosive stimulus for connective tissue growth.  The intensity here is maximum. We push and pull our body upward.  And not just on some flat surface.  You are thrown from side to side, and your body needs to stabilize itself so that you do not fall.  You try not to stumble as you push yourself upward.  This exercise will seriously warm up your thighs and buttocks.  You can only hold out for about 10 seconds, because you are spending all your energy on an extremely intense exercise.  Run as long as you can until your legs start to give out.  Then stop and rest.  Yes, everything inside will be burning, but you rest for 3 hours 5 minutes before running for another 10 seconds.  So three times. Then you go down the hill, which also requires stabilization in movement and stimulates other muscles, which is also very beneficial.  The funny thing is, you only actually work for 30 seconds once or twice a week.  Most people can run up a hill for about 10 seconds. Some can do 15-20, but that's probably the limit. Move at your own pace, do not push yourself too hard.  There is a risk of falling. Be careful.  This is the best exercise, but it does not necessarily mean that you can do it. For example, if you have weak knees, approach it gradually.  But if you can do this exercise, it will give you the most powerful effect compared to anything else.  Because it is mechanical stress that best stimulates the restoration of lost collagen.  You have to understand that this is a long-term training program because you do it slowly, giving your body a chance to rebuild connective tissue, maybe six months, a year, or longer.  But of all the exercises, this one is the best at removing cellulite from the buttocks and thigh muscles.  By the way, I also do this exercise regularly, not because of cellute, but to stay in shape.  Thanks for watching and see you soon.  I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed.  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail.  When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy ket.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.