Let's talk about six exercises that help remove the life preserver on the waist. This has a scientific term, "maman" or " belly." In fact, this life preserver doesn't save anyone. For some reason, people don't like their life preserver and want to get rid of it. I'll show you how to do it. This is what happens here: fat accumulates in the liver, then it overflows and the fat spills around and inside the organs in the area. Next, this is visceral fat, and on top of it, subcutaneous fat is formed, which is located directly under the skin. So, the life preserver is essentially spilled fat. There is no more room for this fat, and the body simply dumps it into the waist on the sides. So, there is one main reason and two secondary ones. The main reason is that you eat too much sugar, empty carbohydrates, glucose, which causes insulin to rise. In the presence of insulin, fat cannot be burned, it accumulates and is deposited. This is the number one reason. But if you are stressed, a hormone called cortisol activates even more insulin. Under stress, glucose is released, and the body runs on glucose. Under stress, glucose is produced. This is Gluconeogenesis is because the body is stuck in stress mode for survival, and glucose is quick energy, and the body converts fats and proteins into glucose. Stress increases glucose levels, the body increases insulin levels. Another factor is lack of sleep, which activates cortisol, which activates insulin. Therefore, with poor sleep, cravings for carbohydrates appear. Usually, you want carbohydrates anyway. A high-carbohydrate diet is stress and lack of sleep. The solution to the problem is to start a low-carb diet to reduce stress and improve sleep. But that's not all. You need to add exercise to speed up progress. Here are some intense exercises for the core muscles that connect the lower body with the upper body. The first exercise we'll talk about is the side plank. There are several ways to perform the side plank, which allows you to complicate or make the exercise easier. Here's how to do it: Lie on your side and raise your torso, leaning on one arm. Your elbow should be in line with your shoulder, and your forearm should lie on the floor at a right angle to your torso. Connect your legs, one on top of the other. The body should form a straight line from head to hip. When your knees are still touching the floor, lift your hips and tense them.  gluteal muscles and freeze for 30 seconds in this exercise concentrate on holding the body with the abdominal press turn on the other side and repeat this is an excellent exercise for working the muscles of the torso and the italy you can add other exercises to this and do all this regularly I recommend doing this every other day to start number two twisting on a bicycle this exercise you want to do quickly but the main thing here is to do it slowly and control the movement so that every muscle in the waist area is worked out first lie on your back put your hands behind your head bend your knees and lift your shoulders and head off the floor straining the abdominal press at the same time lift your feet off the floor without straightening your knees pain is not parallel to the floor slowly twist the body bringing the left elbow to the right knee twisting the body straighten the left leg stretching it forward in front of you now slowly twist the body in the other direction bending the left leg and bringing the right elbow to the left knee twisting the body stretch the right leg in front of you do from  15 to 30 repetitions, or as many as you can, because this is a very difficult exercise for beginners. Don't rush, because the next day the body will be thread number three. The Russian twist is another excellent exercise in a sitting position to remove the life preserver. You can even add weight when your strength allows, but if you are just starting out, don't use weights. Sit on the floor with your buttocks pressed to the floor, knees bent, feet on the floor. Tighten your abdominal muscles. Lean your torso back at about 45 degrees in praise. If you are not using weights, clasp your hands together. If you are using them, keep your hands slightly above your stomach without straightening your knees. Raise your feet above the floor, balancing on your buttocks for stability. You can cross your ankles. Twist your torso to the right. Move your clasped hands or weight to the right side. Now twist your torso to the left and touch the weight or hands to the floor on the left. Continue for 30 seconds to a minute. This is also a difficult exercise, so do it at your own pace. The next exercise is running in  The push-up position really increases your heart rate, speeds up your metabolism, and really strengthens your abdominal muscles. You can move slowly at first, then speed up as much as you can to do a push-up position. Lie face down on the floor, place your hands under your shoulders, press your toes into the floor, and push yourself up. Raise your right foot and pull your right knee to your left elbow, tensing your abdominal muscles. Pause for a moment, then return your foot to the starting position. Do the same with the other leg. Perform this exercise for 30 seconds to a minute every other day. Number five is the woodcutter. This exercise is also great for removing the waist buoy. For this exercise, you need a small medicine ball. This is a weighted ball. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Raise both arms above your head to the left, lower your arms to the floor to the right of you, squatting and turning your waist and hips at the same time. Repeat several times, then in the other direction. I recommend doing this three to four times in one direction, then in the other. Here, you need to pay attention to your technique. The weight should be such that it is easy for you.  You may need to start doing the exercise with a 2-kilogram ball, and over time, take a three- or even four and a half-kilogram ball. This is an excellent exercise for getting your torso into very good shape. The last exercise is performed with a Bulgarian bag. You will need to swing this bag over your head. This is a more advanced exercise. I am doing this exercise myself now. It is an intense load. How it increases your heart rate. It really strengthens your waist, not to mention your shoulders. This exercise is a little more complicated, it is very difficult to explain. Just watch the video and slowly repeat these movements until you catch the rhythm. Essentially, you are using a bag filled with stones or sand to make the weight comfortable. I am currently using about nine bodyweights, but I will tell you that nine bodyweights are not very easy. So, first, you need to grab both ends of the bag. One of the features of this exercise is that you need a lot of wrist strength because you need to swing this bag over your head, so your forearms will become very strong. But if your forearms are not strong enough, the bag can easily slip out. The main thing is to start with the right weight. The detail is that you swing the bag in one direction and the other, and your body serves as a counterweight because when you swing it  to the left you shift all your weight to the right here the oblique abdominal muscles and many other muscles are involved first swing the bag back and forth to get the hang of it firmly planting your heels when you feel comfortable start swinging the bag around your shoulders do not lift the bag too high do not try to swing it vertically you bring it over your shoulders and turn transferring to the other side you rotate your torso and lean back to balance the load bringing the bag over your head you turn it to carry it behind your head this is an amazing exercise for developing shoulders I can already do 20 swings in one direction and 20 in the other don't forget to breathe because at first you will hold your breath you need to catch the rhythm performing circular movements and throwing the bag from left to right this is a super exercise not only for a life preserver on the waist but also for strengthening the shoulders and so this combination of diet change and these powerful exercises be sure to start a healthy whale gene diet with intermittent fasting and do these exercises during Fasting for even better results, you'll see. I also have a large package course and intermittent fasting, there's more about everything. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.