I want to share with you the best remedies for the cardiovascular system, we will consider all the various heart problems and alternative solutions. I note that none of this is intended to replace medical care, consult a doctor before using any of this. First, I want to talk about fuel for the heart. Nutrition for the heart is mainly glucose, fatty acids, a few ketones, lactic acid, and a few amino acids. The more damaged the heart is, the more difficult it will be for it to extract energy from glucose and fatty acids, and ketones are able to bypass this damaged mechanism and feed the heart directly. Therefore, I recommend the ketogenic diet, it will greatly help the heart. One of the main symptoms of heart disease is fatigue, especially after physical exertion, training, or simply climbing stairs. On a ketogenic diet, you will find that fatigue quickly passes. Let's start with thrombosis. Medical treatment for thrombosis includes drugs such as warfarin, which blocks vitamin K1, then clots do not form as actively, but there are also natural remedies that are worth learning more about. The first is a substance called nad taki na za, it is contained in nato-fermented soybeans.  It's an enzyme that helps dissolve blood clots. It prevents thrombosis, that is, it is an antiplatelet agent. So, it's one remedy, but garlic is another. Garlic contains anticoagulants. There are other natural remedies, but these are my favorites. Next, if there are plaques, the first thing that happens is some damage to the heart vessels. Usually, this is due to excessive oxidation or inflammation. This causes a chain reaction that leads to the formation of a patch of cholesterol, protein, and calcium. It's best to use something against plaques that will prevent the original problem, namely, a powerful antioxidant. Tocotrienols are a type of vitamin E that I like more than cafe rolls because they only have three actions, and they're 50 times stronger than tocopherols. This is a very good antioxidant, especially for the heart. It can also help with angina because it allows the heart muscle to receive more oxygen. Angina is chest pain, and during heart cramps, the heart needs more oxygen. So, tocotrienols are good for plaques. There is evidence that tocotrienols help cope with fibrosis. I'm not saying that this is the case.  will help you in your situation, but there is information about this. Vitamin K2 will help against calcium deposits because it helps transport calcium to the bones if calcium accumulates in the wrong places in the joints, in the arteries. Vitamin K2 is very important for you; it works together with vitamin D3. Vitamin C. I'm not talking about its artificial version, I'm talking about eating foods with vitamin C. Vitamin C from foods is an excellent antioxidant for protecting the inner lining of arteries. Let's talk about cholesterol. I don't mean just cholesterol, but a bad lipid profile with high triglycerides or with a high level of the wrong type of LDL and bad proportions. An excellent remedy for all cholesterol problems. Niacin. Don't take the one that doesn't cause redness. Take regular niacin. Niacin is vitamin B3. It can help balance the cholesterol ratio, improve the proportion of HDL and LDL, and so on. Niacin also helps convert cholesterol. Bile salts are the next remedy here. K is a bile salt, an acid that also helps remove cholesterol from the body. Chest angina can be caused by a clogged artery, or if the arteries are clear, it can be due to problems with the heart itself.  For muscle, I recommend only 3-enol and there is also coenzyme Q10, a very strong antioxidant for mitochondria, especially those in the heart. When a person takes statins, for example, Lipitor, they reduce coenzyme Q10, which is exactly what the heart muscle needs. People take articles about high cholesterol, but what about the heart muscle? It needs to be supported. Coenzyme Q10 is very good for people with heart disease, and also with aging, it gives additional energy to the heart muscle itself, helping its mitochondria. Hypertension is the two main things that are advised against, and this is more potassium, since potassium maintains the elasticity of arteries, preventing them from becoming stiff. It also acts as a diuretic for fluid retention from a high-carbohydrate diet. By the way, some theorists remove potassium instead of reducing sodium intake. If you increase potassium intake, you can lower blood pressure and protect the heart. There is very interesting data regarding sodium that you need to know. The link to them is below. If sodium is too low, it can create new problems not only with the heart but also with other organs. Vitamin D deficiency leads to high blood pressure. Potassium and vitamin D are very important for normalizing blood pressure. Homocysteine ​​is an indicator that damage is already present in the heart or will soon occur. One of these problems is an enlarged heart. If you have high homocysteine, you need more B vitamins. Nutritional yeast is a good source. For reference, the main cause of B vitamin deficiency is excessive consumption of refined grains and sugar. Nutritional yeast is very important for controlling homocysteine ​​levels in cardiomegaly, that is, an enlarged heart. Vitamin B12 is a very good remedy. You also need to avoid excess iron. And again, here to here to k, this is a type of bile salt that helps fight an enlarged heart, as well as any heart muscle disorders in general. Murmurs can occur for various reasons, but if the heart is enlarged, the valve can no longer cope and this causes a murmur. So, again, B vitamins are a good remedy for heart murmurs. Further, a high pulse rate. If the pulse is too rapid, this is usually a lack of potassium due to a high-carbohydrate diet, which depletes potassium reserves. Potassium consumption can lower the pulse rate. By the way, if you have low blood pressure, you may need more sodium, more sea salt, or your  The adrenal glands need support. Arrhythmias can be very different, from atrial fibrillation to various rhythm disturbances and the sensation of heartbeat. This is an electrolyte problem. You need more potassium and magnesium, and the already mentioned here unique bile salt also helps with arrhythmias. Regarding arrhythmia, you need to know something about electromagnetic fields from a phone. Let's say you carry your phone in your pocket near your heart, or if you sit at the computer all day, or like me, I had wires running through the entire wall in the bedroom where I slept that somehow intertwined. I had a bunch of strong electromagnetic fields there, and every night in my sleep I literally bathed in them. This negatively affected the rhythm of my heart. I asked an electrician to fix all this and the arrhythmia stopped. There is an interesting point regarding arrhythmias. Let's say you are an athlete, a cyclist, and you train a lot and practice long-term exercise, less at the limit of your strength, for a long time. Your heart becomes so strong that this can disrupt its electrical activity. So, this is not a pathological cause of arrhythmia, but this cause.  It can cause arrhythmia, and I have a video about it, a link to it will also be below. Here's some interesting information about the heart, and I think you need to watch a video about sodium and the dangers of its deficiency, here it is, watch it.