According to the latest data, there are more people with autoimmune diseases than people with cancer and heart attacks combined. This is a huge problem, and its solution causes many side effects. As in the case of prednisone, there is actually no good medical solution to this problem today. But I will tell you about the absolutely best method for fighting all autoimmune diseases. If you haven't heard of this method, you should know about it because it can seriously improve your life. What's great is that this method has virtually no side effects, while other methods of treating autoimmune diseases have a lot of side effects. This is simply terrible because over time, resistance to the drug develops and it no longer helps. And what to do then? This is problem number two, this treatment method is fully accessible to everyone, it is very cheap. So this is good news. Number three, this is very important. This method can stop the immune attack. What happens in an autoimmune disease? The immune system attacks the tissues of the body itself. This is crazy. And this method can stop this process. Number four, it has been scientifically proven that it can reduce the severity of symptoms. I am talking first of all about inflammation, because this is an important symptom. How can the thyroid gland, spleen, or other tissues work under conditions of constant inflammation?  inflammation increases the risk of developing insulin resistance increases the risk of developing cancer with inflammation You have to constantly take medications And they have side effects There is reliable data that this method reduces the level of interleukin 17 So this is part of the immune system that causes inflammation and the treatment method that I will talk about reduces its level And thereby reduces inflammation It can even reprogram immune cells This method does not just relieve symptoms, it reprograms the entire immune system Inspires number five, it can increase the number of hematopoietic stem cells What does demo poetic mean? This term refers to the bone marrow and blood in the bone marrow where stem cells are produced. Stem cells are undifferentiated basic cells that can turn into any cells you need. We have a supply of stem cells, which is very important for tissue repair and today stem cells are even used to treat a variety of diseases. This is an amazing treatment, but the method that I will talk about increases the body's ability to create stem cells, allowing you to repair the immune system. So, the solution to the problem should improve and strengthen the immune system, and conventional treatment simply suppresses the immune system and does not  restores it number six this method reduces the need for medication number seven is similar to others this method has a powerful immunoregulatory effect especially if you have rheumatoid arthritis lupus multiple sclerosis various autoimmune skin diseases like psoriasis autoimmune thyroid diseases such as Graves' disease or Hashimoto's and adrenal disease Addison's disease In general, this method will greatly restore the regulation of the immune system number eight this method can increase the amount and diversity of microflora and microflora is essentially 80 percent of the immune system So this can immediately have a huge impact and help you and number nine this method has a regenerative effect on tissues but in addition to all this, this method helps kill cancer cells such a small bonus this method will help make you smarter improve your cognitive function this method can improve your mood and it can also normalize metabolism Well, this method does not bring any benefit it was sarcasm and this method fasting Wow Who would have thought this is what seemed funny to me in some works It said  Wow, fasting has so many benefits. And when you start eating, some of the benefits of fasting disappear. But what if you start doing intermittent fasting regularly? It might work. Because your immune system will benefit during those hours. When you fast, 18 hours of fasting can be beneficial for your immune system, but I advise you, if I were you, if I had an autoimmune disease. I advise you to eat one meal a day regularly, even if the portion is huge, then you will be fasting for 23 hours, and that's amazing, at least. I would fast for 20 hours. I would eat within a 4-hour window, say, the first meal at noon and the second meal at 4 pm, or the first meal at 2 pm and the second at 6 pm, at least. Follow the 20/4 pattern, but mat is better if you can, and do it constantly. This alone will have a huge impact on your immune system. And number two, do long fasts regularly. OK, I mean from 48 to 120 hours. This is fasting for two to five days regularly, and I recommend doing two-day fasts once a week or every two weeks.  weeks, most people can do this, there is a huge benefit to the immune system, reading intermittent and long-term fasting, depending on your discipline and the severity of symptoms, you can add a five-day fast. When you get used to it, when it becomes easier, perhaps once a month, this will really help you recover. The beauty of fasting is that your appetite disappears. So, fasting is very easy, because a constant strong feeling of hunger is just torture, and that's why we have another section here, what I'm talking about is called time-limited eating, you don't eat for a certain time and then eat. So, there are other fasting schemes every day, for example, fasting every other day, but I don't recommend this. This is when you fast one day, eat the next day, fast one day, then eat money. The problem here is that this way you don't fully adapt to the state of ketosis, so you are constantly hungry, you have cravings for food on the days allotted for fasting. It's very difficult to eat. There is also a 5/2 diet, and this is even worse. At the same time, you eat whatever you want for 5 days, then two days. You fast or go, say, 500 kilocalories, and you do this. Don't really adapt to the 5x2 diet. I don't like it either. It's hard. You still have cravings for food, you still feel hungry. There's also calorie restriction, which kind of imitates fasting by reducing calories to about 500 a day. To be honest, I don't like it either. It's not real fasting, but an imitation of it. Yes, it's beneficial. There's undoubtedly scientific evidence that it works. But again, if you start eating a little, it in itself stimulates hunger. And you'll want to eat even more. Only when you completely stop eating does your body enter a state in which hunger completely disappears. So, I recommend time-limited nutrition. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.