I recently found something on the topic of autophagy and I want to share some interesting data.  One of the most important benefits of fasting is autophagy.  There are other benefits too: anti-inflammatory effect, weight loss, fat burning, anti- aging.  The list is very long.  It is true that the dictionary definition of fasting is the absence of food.  The man doesn't eat anything, he drinks water.  But that's all .  Let me first explain what autophady is.  Autophadia is garbage collection.  The body destroys what should not be in it, what poisons it, and uses all this as material for the creation of new tissues.  This is important in the fight against aging.  It also helps with many diseases, especially inflammation, neurodegenerative diseases, heart problems, Alzheimer's, Partinson's, and any inflammation. Autophagy has a very powerful therapeutic effect.  One of the best ways to trigger it is to fast for a sufficient amount of time.  If a person eats plant foods rich in phytochemicals, it will promote autophagy rather than hinder it.  One such substance is curcumin, obtained from the spice turmeric.  Another substance is risveratrol.  Yes, it is in red wine, but wine will definitely stop autopharia because it is alcohol.  It can also be obtained from the extract of Japanese rhiitry.  This is a very powerful tool.  There is also sulforaphane, a very powerful phytonutrient. It is found in cruciferous vegetables.  It belongs to a broader category, glucosinolates. Glucosinolates have been researched more than any other phytonutrient, perhaps. By eating raw cruciferous vegetables, you trigger autophagy.  So, autophagy is promoted by fasting and phytonutrients in cruciferous vegetables. Autophadia also fights cancer cells and helps eliminate damaged proteins from the body.  One of the proteins that poisons the body is improperly folded protein, glycated protein.  It is obtained by combining protein with sugar. And now I'm not talking about muscle protein or protein in ligaments.  We are talking about tiny biological machines that do all the work in the body. Most of them are enzymes.  They are made of protein and are subject to glylation and misfolding.  They accumulate and form blockages in the brain.   They are associated with many neurodegenerative diseases. Cancer is definitely linked to them.  Autophagy cleans all this out.  It increases stress resistance.  The body can withstand more stress, especially if a person is undergoing chemotherapy. Let's say you decide to do chemotherapy and at the same time fast and eat cruciferous vegetables. Autophadia will increase the body's resistance to chemotherapy. Even chemotherapy and radiation will have less effect on the cells. Autophagy will help stabilize genes. Once you get rid of the damaged cells, only the good ones remain, which also reduces the risk of developing cancer.  In general, autophagy prolongs life.  I recommend giving it a try.  You can eat, for example, broccoli sprouts, cauliflower or kale during your fast and evaluate the results.  You can simply eat them or get them as a concentrate in the form of a dietary supplement.  There's something else I want to say.  In studies on fasting, you'll typically find fasting or calorie-restricted diets .  Well, cruciferous vegetables are very low in calories, but they are rich in nutrients, especially phytonutrients. I encourage you to experiment and share your results in the comments.