Hello everyone, I want to give you an excellent recipe for respiratory health, whether you have mucus or you are trying to overcome some kind of immune response. I consider these actions to be the ideal recipe for helping your lungs. Of course, talk to your doctor before following any of my advice. This video is not intended to replace treatment, but only to give you a good potential solution to help you cope with some long-standing situation and help you breathe. Because breathing is a good thing these days. So, you will need an inhaler. What is an inhaler? This is a device for turning liquid into an aerosol. This allows you to inhale a composition that helps solve the problem with the lungs. You will use this inhaler twice a day. Here's what you need to fill it with. All doses are given based on 1 glass of water. So, the first component is about a quarter teaspoon of sea salt. I like Himalayan salt, but any high-quality sea salt will do. So, first, dissolve the salt in water. This is step number one. Salt water is great for relieving congestion and making breathing easier, just like at sea. Breathing naturally improves. Sea salt has many beneficial properties. You know, to some extent, it acts as a probiotic because the salt contains beneficial  Microbes, not many pathogens can live and thrive in sea salt, it is an antimicrobial agent, the next component of this potion is one drop of garlic oil, why garlic oil? Garlic oil is perhaps one of the strongest antimicrobial antipathogenic agents that I know of, so if something harmful lives in your sinuses or lungs, garlic will seriously complicate the life of this pathogen, especially if it is a virus. The next remedy that I recommend is 1 drop of black cumin oil. The medicinal properties of black cumin have been known for a very, very long time, thousands of years. I like it in particular because it is very useful for the lungs, this is the bronchial deeds of Tatars, that is, it expands the bronchi, makes breathing easier. It is also a very, very powerful antimicrobial agent, a very, very powerful anti-inflammatory, the next component of this composition is povidone-iodine, also called betadine, you need to use two drops of this iodine, and so add 2 drops j, a well-known remedy for strengthening the health of the respiratory system in general, and also an antimicrobial agent, that is, iodine makes life very difficult for pathogens j, an excellent remedy for strengthening the health of the lungs. Below is  A link to an interesting study, be sure to read it so I don't sound unfounded. The last thing I'll recommend is this component, which is optional, but I recommend it. It's colloidal silver. It's been used for at least one hundred and twenty-five years. I think it was even used as a natural antibiotic in 1938. Colloidal silver is silver particles suspended in a solution. It's an excellent remedy in many situations. I gave it to my children and took it myself. You can use it to rinse your nose. You can put it in your mouth. You can even put it in your eyes for infections. So, it's a very safe and very effective remedy. I would use 5 drops of colloidal silver. Just mix it all together and inhale this mixture twice a day. Start breathing better, so you can sleep better and function better, and get rid of mucus that accumulates in your respiratory tract. If you haven't seen my video about sea salt and the lungs, here it is. Take a look.