Hello.  Today we'll talk about the vegetable that's best for gastritis. Guess which one? Cabbage.  And we’ll discuss why right after I explain what gastritis is. This is an inflammation of the stomach.  This is not a small thing, this is a very serious problem.  It takes years for the stomach to become inflamed, sometimes faster.  But usually it's a chronic problem caused by years of taking aspirin for some other problem, or using steroids, or having a crap diet, or chronically taking anticocids, which eventually leads to stomach inflammation.  There may or may not be an ulcer, but the stomach lining is inflamed and this is very painful.  And if a large amount of acid enters the stomach , it can cause severe pain.  The main symptom of gastritis is pain in the upper, middle part of the abdomen.   It hurts here.  The pain can be sharp, aching, or burning.  I had this happen to me in college.  Of course, I had chronic severe stress, lack of sleep, weight, empty carbohydrates and unhealthy food, not to mention seafood.  There may also be bloating.  Gastritis has other causes.  One of them is Helicobacter pylori.  This bacterium destroys the mucous membrane of the stomach walls.  This mucous membrane plays an extremely important role.  It prevents acid from corroding and irritating the stomach from the inside. Helicobacter pylori also destroys the cells that produce gastric juice.  And the pH in your stomach will increase, that is, become more alkaline.  This will greatly hinder the absorption of proteins and the fight against microbes, and you will become an easy victim of other infections, such as food poisoning.  Let's say you ate undercooked chicken and got this bacteria. There is also a protein in the stomach called intrinsic factor, which allows B12 to be absorbed without stomach acid.  You will lack this protein and develop anemia, not to mention the whole list of consequences of B12 deficiency.  So, it just so happens that the remedy for gastritis is the same as the one for Helicobacter pylori. You need to eat foods rich in sulforaphane.  It's either cabbage or broccoli sprouts, or both.  But cabbage also contains other phytonutrients that are very helpful in reducing inflammation because they have anti-inflammatory effects, not to mention that it's a source of vitamin C, which counteracts free radical damage that occurs with inflammation. Cabbage can be in the form of juice or cabbage salad. You can also eat sauerkraut. It is interesting that other vegetables cause spasms, but people with gastritis usually tolerate cabbage quite well.  In general, with gastritis, diet is extremely important. You can't eat whatever you want.  You have to be very picky.  The products must be of high quality.  You can't eat anything harmful.  And intermittent fasting must be followed very meticulously. You need to give your gastrointestinal tract a rest from food in order to heal.  So I highly recommend this too.  There are other things you can take to help suppress this bacteria if you have it.  This is mastic resin.  It is sold as a dietary supplement and is quite effective. Most people usually have this bacteria in their bodies and it doesn't cause any problems.  Flare-ups and problems only begin when the environment in the stomach becomes unhealthy.  If you eat healthy foods and avoid severe stress, this bacteria should not manifest itself .  But my advice, and this is my personal opinion, is don't try to destroy it completely.  After all, no matter what you use to destroy it, I’m talking about antibiotics.  This will lead to many side effects. Resistance to antibiotics may develop.  And here you have a whole bunch of new problems.  All we need to do is put this bacteria into remission so that it doesn't bother you. Consult your doctor before following my advice.  This is just my personal opinion.  But let's get back to our topic.  First, probiotics. Probiotics suppress Helicobacter pylori and also reduce inflammation.  Choose a quality probiotic.  A liquid probiotic that is not destroyed by stomach acid works well. You can also chew raw black cumin seeds to reduce pain, say, an hour before eating.  Finally, zinc carnassine.  One of the best remedies not only for gastritis, but also for any ulcers in the body. This is definitely a very important thing. You may also suspect that you have SIB and it is possible that you already have it. Bacterial overgrowth syndrome. This is when bacteria that should live in the large intestine live in the small intestine, where they should not be.  And if you eat cabbage or any other vegetables, even probiotics, it will feed the microflora that lives in the wrong places, and the bloating will increase.  In other videos, I advise people to switch to the root diet if they have SIB.  The problem is that if you have Helicobacter pylori and low stomach acidity, and you eat a lot of meat and protein with a lack of hydrochloric acid needed to break it down, then this will not work.  There are several pieces to this puzzle, and they all need to be considered.  I would start with kale and broccoli sprouts.  And don't forget, treating gastritis will take months because it is a very serious problem.  Once you put all this into practice, Helicobacter pylori will go into remission, and gastritis will gradually subside until it goes away completely.  Then you can increase acidity with apple cider vinegar, bitein hydrochloride, but if you take them at the beginning, you will only increase the inflammation in the stomach.  This is the approach needed to the problem of gastritis. Thanks for watching.