Today I'm going to show you something interesting about how to make small changes to the way you breathe to lower cortisol and pull yourself out of a state of stress, anxiety, and even a panic attack. This can also be used for asthma or if you can't sleep. I use this technique every night, go to bed, and fall into a deep sleep pretty quickly. Okay, let's go. This whole topic revolves around one muscle called the diaphragm. This is an amazing muscle. The diaphragm is the only skeletal muscle that can work both voluntarily and involuntarily. That is, it can work automatically and you don't have to think about it. That is, involuntarily. You can also control your breathing bypassing its automatism. So, the diaphragm is located directly under the lungs. If you look at how the diaphragm works, it works like a parachute. When it contracts, the parachute descends, it draws air into the lungs, and they expand. And when it relaxes, you can relax it passively and intentionally. Then, when oxygen has already arrived, the diaphragm exerts pressure on the lungs due to passive lifting, which allows  carbon dioxide to get out. People often think that under stress you need more oxygen. But in fact, under stress you don't need more oxygen. You need a balance between carbon dioxide and oxygen. For oxygen to enter the cells, carbon dioxide is needed. Let's say someone has a panic attack. What does he do? He breathes frequently and gets a lot of oxygen and very little CO2. What should you do to get out of this state? Breathe into a paper bag to get CO2. What will help absorb oxygen? You don't just need more oxygen; you need to restore the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide. The diaphragm is located directly under the lungs. This muscle gets very little attention. But it is very important because it works constantly and continuously. It cannot take a break. It constantly pumps oxygen into the body and removes carbon dioxide for balance. It works both during training and during sleep. It works continuously. By the way, when you tense up during training, you may feel pain in the side of the chest. This is a spasm of the diaphragm. If you are not used to this level of stress, this can be a problem. You will have to stop exercising due to a spasm of the diaphragm. Hiccups, by the way, are also associated with this problem.  diaphragm That's why For example, hiccups happen with stress. Stress can affect nerve signals, which can give an incorrect signal to the diaphragm, which begins to hiccup irregularly. The diaphragm is completely controlled by nerves. These are the phrenic nerves, we have two of them, the one on the right side also irritates the gallbladder and the lining of the liver, the liver capsule. There are different opinions on the question of whether it irritates the gallbladder and liver or not. I think so. Because if you have tension in the bile ducts. If you have tension in the gallbladder or in the liver, then the reflected pain from the phrenic nerve will rise along the right side to the neck, it will reach the right trapezius and cover the area of ​​the rhomboid muscle. Any pain here is usually transmitted through the phrenic nerve. Alcohol in the gallbladder. From the point of view of treatment for pain in the right shoulder. If you treat this area but it does not help, this is because the pain is transmitted here from the gallbladder. You probably ate something you shouldn't have or overate something permitted, just too much. And now you have bloating on this  The nerve can be affected by other factors besides stress. These could be problems with the gallbladder, say, stones in it, or bile sediment, a companion of diabetes. Diabetic neuropathy can affect the phrenic nerve. The remedy needed in this case is benfathiamine. If you are diabetic and you have this problem, and something is wrong with the gallbladder, then the simplest antidote would be to take the so-called duck to thin the bile. This will remove the referred pain quite quickly. Another disease that affects this nerve is a hernia. The collagen septum develops a weak spot. Through which the protrusion occurs, the hernia can also press on the phrenic nerve. I think of all the things that can affect breathing, and this nerve is the most important factor in bloating. There is also such a thing as gastric bypass surgery; it can affect the phrenic nerve. Every fifth person who has had such an operation has problems with the phrenic nerve and pain on the right side. Considering all this, how can you lower cortisol by changing the breathing pattern? To do this, you need to consciously overcome the automatism of breathing and take control over it yourself by starting to regulate the rhythm of breathing. Everyone  Once you are in the sympathetic mode Bailey Run usually the breathing will not be balanced between inhalation and exhalation usually it will be like this it is a short exhalation and the inhalation will last longer than the exhalation this is done you just need to balance your breathing The first thing I advise you can do this during the day you can do this 5 minutes before bed 5 minutes during the day if you are stressed breathing through your nose inhale for 4 seconds then exhale for 4 seconds just even out your breathing I advise breathing with the diaphragm for this put your hand on your stomach the stomach should rise When you allow the diaphragm to draw in air you can breathe with your chest but I advise breathing with your stomach the body is less tense this way Let me show you haven't seen this but I recited 4 seconds inhale 4 seconds exhale if you do this for one to five minutes you will feel relaxed I advise you to do this when you are driving I advise you to do this when you take a day walk in nature for just five minutes this will perfectly pull you out of stress and lower your cortisol levels there is also  Something to enhance the effect obtained. This is very useful. If you are in a state of severe stress, for this inhalation, leave a constant length of 4 seconds. But the time for exhalation needs to be increased. So, inhale for 4 seconds and exhale for 7 or 8 seconds. What will this do? It stimulates a part of the nervous system called the parasympathetic nervous system. This system, which reduces adrenaline, helps reduce cortisol. This system helps to plunge into deep Delta sleep. You overcome the automatism of the phrenic nerve and now you control your breathing by switching from sympathetic to parasympathetic mode. One study noted a significant decrease in cortisol levels 45 minutes after such a breathing exercise. It says that cortisol is a hormone that can be easily influenced through breathing. Below, I cited other studies that showed that when performing these breathing exercises, cortisol decreases. There is another study considering deep slow breathing techniques to reduce anxiety and improve the functioning of the vagus nerve. The vagus nerve is responsible for the parasympathetic activity of the body. This system helps to relax, helps with sleep and digestion. There is another study on the effect of diaphragmatic breathing.  Diaphragmatic breathing improves attention and negative emotions and stress in healthy adults. This study compared people who did breathing exercises with those who did not. After these breathing exercises, cortisol levels significantly decreased, while in the other group, cortisol levels did not change at all. The conclusion was made that diaphragmatic breathing improves focus and reduces cortisol levels. Do this breathing exercise for a couple of minutes and then write in the comments. If you have experienced this, if you have not done this before, you will notice that your stress levels have changed significantly. Try it. If you have not watched my video about panic attacks, watch it right now because there I give more details about why it is so important to increase carbon dioxide to absorb oxygen. Here it is, watch it.