Let's talk about the undoubtedly best way to lower cholesterol. There's nothing wrong with cholesterol, but let's say your cholesterol has increased and you're worried about it. You need to know something. First, our body creates cholesterol. Three-quarters of all cholesterol in the body is created by the body itself, and only one-quarter of all cholesterol comes from food. Our body needs cholesterol. Also, when we burn fat, part of this fat is cholesterol. When we lose weight, cholesterol must be released. Therefore, cholesterol levels may increase for a while on a low-carb diet. There's nothing to be afraid of. Those who are still afraid need to get tested for an extended lipid profile. This test will reveal the type and size of your LDL particles. There are different types of LDL. There's a link below if you're not aware. This is a whole separate topic so you know. Cholesterol itself is not a good sign of cardiovascular disease. A test for coronary artery calcification is much better suited. This is a very good test for predicting mortality. But I want to share some very interesting data about cholesterol. There is a liver, there are bile ducts, there is a so-called gallbladder, and bile, which is produced.  It is produced by the liver and stored in the gallbladder, which is the main means by which the body removes cholesterol. I don't know if you know this, but bile is a very, very important fluid in the body that is necessary for regulating cholesterol levels. In fact, bile is even produced from cholesterol. Bile, like a detergent, breaks down fats and extracts fat-soluble vitamins. It prevents microorganisms from accumulating in the small intestine, preventing small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. Bile is also necessary for extracting omega-3 fats from food. In fact, no soluble vitamins can be absorbed without bile. Bile is very, very important. There are two types of bile. There is primary bile, which is produced by the liver, but there are also so- called secondary bile salts, which are produced by the intestinal flora, friendly bacteria in the colon. If there is some problem with the intestinal flora, this can be the cause of a lack of bile and even the cause of increased cholesterol levels. We need a very diverse intestinal flora so that there is enough bile to regulate cholesterol levels in fact.  In fact, there are interesting studies that show that taking probiotics significantly lowers cholesterol. If you don't know, fiber also lowers cholesterol. I wonder why? Because it serves as food for bacteria that produce bile salts. Fiber should be obtained not from dietary supplements, but from vegetables, and even better from a combination of fermented vegetables that contain not only prebiotics and probiotics. For example, kimchi or sauerkraut. Another proven remedy that lowers LDL and increases HDL is niacin. Vitamin B3, by the way, niacin also increases the conversion of cholesterol into bile. So, niacin is another interesting ingredient that directly lowers cholesterol and also increases the amount of bile, which then allows you to remove excess cholesterol. Here's another interesting point: when the gallbladder is removed, LDL levels increase. These are very low- density lipoproteins. That is, if your gallbladder is removed, you may not have enough primary bile salts to remove cholesterol, and certain lipids can rise. So, one of the best remedies for normalizing cholesterol is probiotics. I strongly advise getting probiotics from food if possible. Sauerkraut is excellent, kimchi is delicious, but probiotic supplements are also suitable. But let's say you have a genetic problem with cholesterol or you are a little concerned about your lipid profile and you really want to lower your cholesterol. Then you can take taura ursodeoxycholic acid, this is a type of bile salt, it will help lower cholesterol, and you can also add niacin, but not niacinamide, but vitamin B3 in the form of niacin, and this will significantly lower cholesterol. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? If you have it, come to me, do you need to remove it? And if your gallbladder was removed, how do you eat right to avoid complications? How do you deal with constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea? I will talk about this in my course about the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.