If you have muscle stiffness and insufficient range of motion, then this video is for you. In the past, when I was wrestling, I did stretching very often. It was static stretching, where you pull the muscle and hold it like that for half a minute. This is the worst way to stretch muscles. What I will tell you is based on the book, the link is below, the authors are Jim and Phil Warthan. I'm not sure about Jim, but Phil is a physical therapist and fitness trainer. He has worked with the world's top runners, including Olympians. So he definitely knows his stuff. But his information about stretching is very interesting and very logical. I want to share it with you. The first thing I want to talk about is that tight muscles are of no use. They do not protect joints. They are weaker, more susceptible to injury, and usually there is inflammation. What happens when you stretch? After 3 seconds, a reflex is activated in response to stretching. It is called the myototic reflex. Its task is to counteract the stretching of the muscle and cause it to contract. So when you stretch a muscle, you force it to resist stretching. and contract and it turns out that you apply force against force. So you can injure yourself and it happened to me very often, even before the fight, I could do the stretching incorrectly and end up pulling a muscle. I'll explain in simple terms. Each muscle always has a pair. When the muscles on one side contract, the muscle on the other side relaxes. They do not contract at the same time. And when you have one healthy muscle contracting and the other relaxing, movement occurs. The whole point of movement is this. This is the process of contraction and relaxation. The type of stretching developed by the authors of the book is called active selective stretching. There are only three simple steps. First, decide what you want to stretch. For example, you have tight hamstrings. To do this, you need to contract the muscles opposite to those you are stretching. In our example, the opposite will be the quadriceps femoris. You contract the quadriceps and this automatically leads to relaxation of the hamstrings. If you want to stretch a muscle, it makes no sense to contract it at the same time. You need to relax the muscle you are stretching, this is obvious. But if you contract the opposite muscle, you send a signal to the desired muscles so that it relaxes.  and then you can stretch it painlessly first, choose the muscle you want to stretch second, while stretching it, contract or tense the opposite muscle and third, bring the muscle to the limit of its range of motion, that is, to the point where you can no longer go on, I do not recommend bringing it to pain Remember I talked about the reflex that is activated when stretching this stretch reflex is triggered after 3 seconds and here's what you do stretch to the limit for 2 seconds and then relax this way you avoid the reflex contraction of the muscle that counteracts the stretch and the author recommends doing 8-10 repetitions with each muscle by the way, this is an excellent warm-up before training and he even recommends this or a variation of this in case of injury often When you injure a knee or other part of the body, you are told that you need to immobilize it, this is necessary in case of a fracture or serious injury But if the injury is not severe, it is very important to get this joint moving as quickly as possible, you can start with small movements and eventually move on to stretching This will help to recover But this is a separate topic back to stretching the first example bending the leg in  knee, then we pull the muscles of the back of the thigh with the help of a rope. As you can see, he contracts the quadriceps muscle of the thigh, while raising the leg for about 2 seconds to the limit and then relaxes these muscles, and so on 8-10 times. And here we pull the same muscles with a straight leg, contract the quadriceps muscle of the thigh and hold for 2 seconds in the extreme position. This is the best way to relax the muscles of the back of the thigh and increase their flexibility. Of course, we do it with both legs. More details. Follow the links below if you haven’t watched my video about physical exercises yet, I recommend here it is.