Let's discuss the best way to remove toxins from the lungs. We are talking about removing pollutants from tobacco smoke. By the way, you may already know this, but tobacco smoke contains 7,000 chemicals, 250 of which are harmful and 69 are carcinogenic. There is even a radioactive element in tobacco smoke. It contains ammonia, formaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide, and even cadmium. This is a heavy metal. Some people smoke themselves, some smoke passively, but there is also third-party smoking. This is when a person comes into contact with chemicals that have settled on furniture, that have settled on clothes. You are probably watching this video to learn how to reduce the risk of cancer and similar things, but there is another big problem associated with smoking. And this is COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 12 million people in the United States suffer from COPD. I will talk about the prevention of this disease and how to improve your condition if you are sick but smoking does not. The only problem in this regard is also air pollution, chemicals from cleaning products, there is mold and mildew in houses, there is even gas.  which is called radon and which can affect the lungs if this is added to an infection that is already in the lungs, serious problems are possible and you need to know that lung cancer is not always caused by smoking, it can enter or spread to the lungs from other organs if there is inflammation in the lung, it becomes the target of cancer because cancer usually spreads in areas of inflammation So the main topic of this video is inflammation in the lungs and ways to reduce it because inflammation always leads to the formation of scar tissue fibrosis and there comes a time when this becomes irreversible So when a toxin affects the lung tissue, it irritates it, it causes inflammation and over time, with chronic exposure to this toxin, fibrosis begins to develop, while the number of its own antioxidants that should protect the lungs decreases So free radicals cause damage, while the body's defense mechanisms deteriorate, there are fewer antioxidants But here's what many do not understand Chemicals that enter the lungs penetrate all parts of the body, they do not stop in the lungs and Many of them enter the liver and the liver is the central organ of the detoxification system, that is, the liver destroys, as We hope I do from tobacco smoke and pollution, it does this with  with the help of a series of reactions involving enzymes, they are called enzymes of the first, second, third phase of detoxification, but at some point the liver becomes overloaded and does not have time to break down poisons, especially with chronic exposure to chemicals, inflammation begins in the liver, due to inflammation, fat can even accumulate, chemicals and pollution enter the blood vessels from the lungs and create many problems with the heart, but I think the main thing here is chronic exposure, not episodic exposure with which the liver can easily cope, but regular chronic exposure over a long period of time, that's the problem, let's move straight to what to do, there is very interesting data on what is probably one of the best means for protecting the lungs and liver, and this is completely different from what you can find on the Internet on the topic of lung detoxification, because usually they talk about herbs for coughs that can reduce swelling, but the herb that I will tell you about is probably the most powerful remedy due to the benefits it brings not only to the lungs but also to the liver, and this herb is milk thistle, milk thistle is one of the best remedies for poisoning. If you are poisoned by something, be it snake venom, a poisonous mushroom, or  toxins or taking medications protect your liver Taking milk thistle and the fact is that milk thistle also protects the lungs So if you have COPD or you smoke or want to restore your lungs, then you need to take milk thistle because milk thistle is one of the best remedies for inflammation, it is the best remedy for protecting against toxins and this is an excellent remedy if you have COPD or any liver problems. Number two, only trinols are a type of vitamin E that is 50 times more powerful than regular vitamin E, that is, tocopherol, only trinols eliminate damage caused by free radicals, this is a very powerful antioxidant. This is a very powerful remedy for inflammation and only three new ones are especially good at preventing fibrosis, that is, the phase when inflammation leads to the formation of scar tissue. There is a lot of data that only trinols prevent the formation of scar tissue in blood vessels and in the liver, as well as in the lungs, that is, only trinols are remedy number two. Especially to reduce inflammation and number three, vitamin D should be taken, probably 20,000 IU of vitamin D is powerful Anti-inflammatory and it is especially good for COPD, any inflammation in the lungs, as well as any autoimmune diseases. There is an interesting connection between COPD and autoimmune diseases. You may have antibodies to your own lung tissue. If you have COPD, you need to be examined to find out, but I wanted to talk about this problem. If you have antibodies that cause inflammation in the lungs, then the body is not just exposed to toxins. Your immune system has confused your lungs with a pathogen. In this case, vitamin D is very important. Also, another remedy if you have antibodies to lung tissue, I recommend a product from Standard Process. I am not associated with it. The product is called Pneumoentropin PMG. Take one tablet before bed. This remedy acts as a decoy. Thanks to this remedy, antibodies attack it and not your lungs, and the lungs get the opportunity to recover. Since we are talking about good herbs that prevent inflammation, I think it would be appropriate to learn about a plant whose properties you don’t even know about, and to find out about it, watch this video.