Let's talk about how to remove cellulite, that cottage cheese-like mass on your body that you want to get rid of. I had a video about this, but I decided to update it because I received new amazing data. Just realize that there are ways to significantly reduce cellulite. Sometimes people tell you that nothing can be done about it. Accept it, don't buy into it. But to solve the problem, you need to truly understand the problem. The better we understand it, the easier it is to solve it. When it comes to cellulite, there are so many different theories of treatment methods, so many different points of view, but I found amazing data in one patent. I'll leave a link to it below. The beauty of a patent is that it already organizes all the research on cellulite, and this gives us a head start. We have source material to work with. I'll give you some basic knowledge before moving on to what needs to be done. Cellulite only forms on the buttocks and thighs, and in the pelvic area. It doesn't form on the chest, arms, or stomach. And here's what's interesting here: in this area of ​​the body, the buttocks, thighs, and pelvic area are twice as large.  alpha-2 receptors what is the alpha-2 receptor this receptor is located in the fat cell and it tells the body to store fat for use in the future one of the main purposes of the fat around this lower body is to serve as a reserve during pregnancy in difficult times that is, this fat can serve as fuel for the fetus during pregnancy what else do we know we know that cellulite increases during pregnancy with hormone replacement therapy when taking contraceptives it worsens during menopause and so normally right under the skin there is a very structured ordered connective tissue like a fishing net it keeps all the tissues in an elastic state holds everything very firmly thanks to this we have a very smooth layer of skin on the outside and under it a layer of fat and under it muscles this is in a normal state and with cellulite ligaments collagen ligaments are partially or completely dissolved this is new information that I recently learned and so what happens a person loses this fibrous network that should maintain the ordered structure of fat cells and now all these cells are located chaotically now they press on the skin because nothing holds them back and because of  This causes the skin to become loose like cottage cheese. In addition, the fat cells of the skin are usually enlarged. The circulation has stopped, sometimes there is fluid retention, the lymphatic system is sometimes blocked, and as a rule, the muscles are atrophied due to cellulite. That is, it is a combination of many factors. But here is the question: why is this collagen lost? This problem is not related to fat; it is a violation of collagen metabolism caused by excess estrogen. Just a minute, how can estrogen be in excess during menopause? What happens during menopause? The function of the ovaries is lost. But many people don't know that there are other organs that also produce estrogen, for example, fat cells. Skin cells actually produce estrogen, and they produce it with the help of an enzyme called aromatase. What aromatase does is right under the skin, and in fat cells, it converts testosterone into estrogen, and that is, it produces these excess estrogens from testosterone. This is probably just a compensatory or compensatory mechanism that, when estrogen levels are low, provides them. Production in different places and so two things happen: excess estrogen destroys collagen fibers and elastin. If estrogen is in excess, if estrogen levels are normal, they do not destroy anything, but their excess is a problem. With excess aromatase, fibroblasts that create collagen under the skin are destroyed. As a result, there is practically nothing left to hold this fat in place. This is the same jiggly fat that people want to get rid of, so they go on a diet, the fat decreases, but cellulite remains. Because the problem here is not fat and the problem is not even necessarily directly related to diet, although indirectly, diet also affects. In fact, this is a problem of hormones, mainly estrogen, but other hormones also affect. For example, cortisol because it causes muscle atrophy or a decrease in growth hormone levels with age, which is the main fat-burning hormone. Or insulin. Its excess blocks any possibility of fat reduction, and this large fat cell cannot decrease at all, so it is necessary to reduce insulin. Also, melatonin is important not only for sleep but also for antioxidant protection. There are many new, very interesting ones.  data, but cuteness, no, in my other video, it's very interesting. A decrease in melatonin levels can create many problems associated with cellulite, fat burning in general, lack of quality sleep and protection from many diseases. Further, dehydroepiandrosterone is a kind of harmful hormone that helps produce other hormones and usually with age, a deficiency of this precursor occurs, this can also be a problem. Now you have basic knowledge, so let's move on to the action plan. So, the first plan is to solve the problem of atrophy. How to do this, you need to stimulate the muscles. Which muscles are the gluteal muscles, the thighs, and the pelvic muscles? There is a very good exercise for these muscles: lunges, squats, and also reverse walking. What is it? Walking backwards is an excellent exercise for stimulating those areas where cellulite occurs. It can even be done on a treadmill, but very slowly so as not to get injured. There are links below so you can learn how to do each of these exercises with the correct technique. Do them correctly. They just jump up and start doing. I found excellent videos about these three exercises. You can do reverse walking in the park, just watch where you're going. Treadmill settings.  about one and a half kilometers per hour and gradually speed up there is a link below to another video it shows this exercise at a more advanced level you need to do it when you are already in good shape and I found a simply gorgeous video it works this area perfectly because we need to stimulate these muscles so that the growth hormone is activated and increases the tone of the muscles located under all these tissues this will help a lot and the fourth exercise is not for all people because it is quite intense and I recently made a video and the most powerful high-intensity interval training I am talking about sprint it burns more fat than anything else the problem is that it is impossible to run like this if your knees or back are in bad shape you need to be in pretty good shape and the load should be very, very short if you overdo it you will hurt for a very long time because this is a very intense load with maximum stress you can only withstand it for a short time I advise you to run like this no more than ten seconds no more than two or three runs at a time maybe 2 because the next day you will have such pain to get out of bed I had this happen to me I ran much longer thinking that I was 18 again I  only 29 why not and so your muscles may be very sore after a sprint but you will load muscles that have never been loaded at all and this is very useful maybe you will not run at the limit but only at half strength and so you will watch these videos and begin to regularly stimulate your muscles good number two you need to solve the problem with circulation with cellulite a person loses the circulatory system right under the skin so there is a lot of stagnation there is little circulation a lot of damage from free radicals there is chaos there you can do something to increase blood flow to this area there are several ways you can do an exercise with a rebound I have a video about this link to it below you can also use in red light therapy there are such small sticks that you can rub the skin at first you will think some kind of nonsense but there is simply amazing research on the use of infrared light this light is extremely useful for increasing melatonin levels for those who have not watched my video about this link below melatonin is one of the most powerful antioxidants in the entire body it protects mitochondria from all this damage due to free  radicals, so it helps us stay healthy and prevents skin aging and improves sleep. Apparently, the pineal gland contains only a reserve supply, and the bulk of melatonin is contained in the rest of the body's cells, and in the cells, it is stimulated by infrared radiation from the sun and other sources. Red light therapy will help increase melatonin levels. Some people go to an infrared sauna for this. You can do a lot of things, so this is one way to increase melatonin antioxidants and improve sleep, and this will lower cortisol levels and greatly improve recovery after workouts. Dry brushing massage. I'll leave a link below. You need to brush the surface of the skin to stimulate a reaction in it. You create a little stress, a response occurs, and circulation improves. There is a lot of excellent data on this. I highly recommend stimulating the skin with a dry brush. This affects the skin tissue directly under its surface. In addition, you can regularly massage this area. We are trying to increase blood flow and increase the flow of lymph in the body. The lymphatic system communicates with the circulatory system. The circulatory system branches into capillaries, and  then it goes into the lymphatic and this is a whole separate circulatory system and exercises with rebound, red light therapy, dry brush massage, all this perfectly stimulates circulation and also lymphatic drainage, then you need to solve the problem with collagen, how to do this, there is a condition called autophagy, it occurs during fasting, autophagy is a condition that allows you to process old damaged proteins, for example, collagen, scar tissue, fibrous tissue, and these tissues are not only destroyed but also replaced by new tissues, so autophagy is a very rejuvenating process, it prevents aging and you need to start fasting regularly, moreover, fasting stimulates growth hormone, allows you to burn ketones, all this is very useful for the skin and also helps directly get rid of fat, and so I recommend regular intermittent fasting, as well as long-term fasting at certain intervals, I have a lot of videos about this below, a link on how to start, and I also recommend using a cream with an aromatase inhibitor, I will not name the brands of creams because I don’t want if I name the brand of cream and then its composition changes, you will blame me  Here you will have to look for it yourself. You need a cream with an aromatase inhibitor. You can buy it online or in various health food stores. One such cream is called dim. It is a version with cruciferous extract. You do not need tablets, but products for external use. Rub this cream into the skin every night before bed. What will it do? It will help reduce the level of aromatase, which destroys all this. So we will stop the destruction and reverse the process. This is only part of the amazing data from the patent in which all this is substantiated. Now about common mistakes: too fast movement during training can easily be overdone, so the body will then be very sore and for a very long time, so you need to start gradually, especially if you have atrophy. The second mistake is to train despite the pain. When something hurts, do not train, because the benefit of training is to achieve pain and then recover. And by training despite the pain, you damage already damaged muscles. The next mistake is not creating sufficient stimulus for the muscles. Low load and insufficient training is also a problem. You need optimal stimulation of the muscles so that they begin to ache and then We don't need too light and infrequent training. One more thing is sleep. If you don't sleep well, it will be difficult for you to train because cortisol will be very high and insulin will be very high because of cortisol, so sleep is important. But data on infrared light will help increase melatonin levels and improve sleep. And the last point is a big mistake: don't be patient and think that the result will be in a couple of weeks. Unfortunately, your collagen has probably been destroyed for years. That same fibrous network similar to a fishing net has been destroyed. It will take some time, it will take a month and it may even take a year or maybe a year and a half. Just realize that the more you do this, the better the result will be. Just keep going to see the changes. But if you compare yourself today and yesterday, you won't see anything. The changes happen so slowly that you think it's not working. So, I advise you to take before and after photos, maybe once a month, so you can see with your own eyes that it's working. If you haven't watched my video yet, it's cute. No, I don't think this is the most suitable. The next video is here.