Let's talk about the best products for strengthening the liver, whether you have fatty liver, cirrhosis, inflammation, or some kind of liver damage, or your liver is normal and you just want to strengthen it. All this can be applied to the body as a whole. The important question is how food makes us healthy. It's the absence of carbohydrates, like in the keto diet. This makes us healthy in part, but this diet switches the body to another fuel, and this can greatly improve the condition of the liver and other tissues. And will all this make us healthy for the long term? A low-carb diet alone, which I think can be very helpful, is why I came up with the term healthy keto. Because in a regular keto diet, it doesn't matter whether you eat foods with pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, GMOs, and in a keto diet, it doesn't matter how many calories are in the products, whether there are a lot of them or none at all. We're only talking about life safety, protein, moderate carbohydrates, few fats, and more. I think it's a combination of two factors: a low-carb diet and eating healthy food. So the question really is: What food is healthy? There are a lot of things on this topic. opinions It's all about the products being organic The term organic doesn't talk about nutrients It just means there are no synthetic chemicals or antibiotics in the food Which is good But what about the amount of nutrients Yes, the presence of pesticides, insecticides and other chemicals in food that are sprayed on GMO plants is very harmful to health This is one factor But there is another and we will discuss it here There is something you have never heard of I think you will be very interested to know this It has to do with nutrient-rich food What makes food rich in nutrients You can look up the information Take for example kale Kale has a lot of nutrients it has a lot of vitamin C a lot of beta-carotene Someone could have sampled Kale years ago and said it was healthy food But what today, given our soil, is shrouded in the darkness of the unknown I am talking about the amount of nutrients in certain products It depends on many factors That is the difficulty the soil itself the methods of processing it agricultural methods and much more is a very important factor affecting the health of this plant and  animals we eat I'm talking about how many nutrients they have If we talk about animals, let's say about a cow, what she needs to be healthy and needs to feed naturally on healthy grass rich in nutrients and this is logical But what about a cow that is fed or supplemented with grain in feedlots, she is not really healthy because of the inflammatory processes that occur in the cow's stomach and also because of the large amount of acid and pH in her body, because it is not normal for cows to eat grain For any amount of time, nature intended for cows to eat grass, but then the question arises how to make healthy grass And this depends on the soil is true Perhaps you think that this requires very, very rich soil that minerals are needed for healthy plants, in fact, no, it is difficult for plants to absorb minerals if they are not helped by microorganisms So today you will learn about amazing new discoveries about how microorganisms help plants and animals to really enrich themselves with ents Usually people know that if minerals are available to a plant, then the plant will have more  nutrients, perhaps people also know that microorganisms in the soil. Both bacteria and fungi help extract these nutrients and deliver them to the surface of the roots, after which these nutrients are absorbed by the roots, but perhaps you did not know about something very, very interesting, namely, that the root itself is able to absorb these microorganisms directly into itself and direct it further into the stem and leaves. That is, the plant has its own microbiome and it extracts nutrients directly from microorganisms and often the plant does not kill microorganisms but releases them so that they can recover and this whole cycle is repeated. So, a significant amount of nutrients in plants depends on microorganisms. I am talking about the diversity of microorganisms and the number of microorganisms in the soil. This is how nutrient- rich plants and nutrient-rich meat appear on our table. So, I will conduct a very interesting interview with one expert who studies this topic. I am talking about this because it will completely change your point of view on food and your choice of nutrient-rich foods. And after  In a short interview, I'll tell you about the best products. Eric, you talked about something that people don't understand and don't appreciate, namely, that plants absorb microorganisms from the soil with their roots, and they extract nutrients from these microorganisms. These are bacteria and, in some cases, fungi. The plant absorbs them at the root. In fact, it detects microorganisms in the cells of the plant's roots and secretes superoxide, a very strong form of reactive oxygen. Superoxide extracts nutrients from microorganisms and completely destroys some of them. This is all part of the process of the so-called eating process. That is, in essence, this means the process of eating through the root, and there is nothing complicated about it. That is, in essence, the plant grows microorganisms in the soil using its exudates. Sugars and other secretions from the roots. Plants grow microorganisms, attract them to the roots, absorb them, and destroy some of the microorganisms, and some of them are forced to extract nutrients from others. That is, they force them to release nutrients. There is nothing complicated in this process. You do n't need  delve into all this biology, the plant essentially absorbs microorganisms, absorbs them into its tissues and destroys them, forcing them to release nutrients that plants can absorb and on the surface of the skin, and plants have them in the stems, leaves, and on the surface of the plant, an excellent question, Eric, I'm glad, an excellent question, yes, yes, plants absorb these microorganisms and fill their tissues with them, build their cells, plants take bacteria from the soil and transport them in a flow through the vascular tissues up into the plant itself, so microorganisms populate the leaves, understanding the relationship between microorganisms and nutrients in food, I even seem to have read in one of your works that the manganese content increases, according to one work, eight times when all this happens compared to when it does not happen, and you also mentioned seeds, when seeds grow, microorganisms are not only on the surface of the seeds but also inside them, and then these microorganisms contribute to germination or serve as colostrum, so to speak, or somehow else start the process, and if they are not there, if you buy, say, sterile grain, then it will not This reduces the effect of various factors, we discussed this, the seed is a kind of miniature Noah's Ark, it contains the plant itself and it contains some food and it contains microorganisms that the plant needs and if these microorganisms, if you sterilize the microorganisms, the plant will develop poorly, the seedlings simply will not grow correctly, there will be no root hairs, there will be abnormal development, the roots will be short, there will probably be poor branching, there will be short ones, slightly shorter plants here, as they need these microorganisms inside them to grow correctly without microorganisms, they do not grow, they do not grow well, they are susceptible to diseases, they can be forced to grow if you spray them with chemical fertilizer, it will make them grow, but they will not be as resistant as in the presence of microorganisms, if the plant has microorganisms, it receives plant nutrition, you have to work for this using the same superoxide reactive oxygen, releasing it on these microorganisms, thanks to this, the plant becomes very resistant to reactive oxygen, namely, reactive oxygen, this is what causes stress and earlier you mentioned stress phyto harmony because  These microorganisms release ethylene, which also causes developmental stress. Ethylene makes the plant develop, but also causes slight stress. This forces the plant to strengthen its defenses against stress, and it becomes more resistant to any oxidative stress. And this is any stress, and the plant becomes more resilient and strong. They can survive dry periods. They can resist some diseases. They can resist heavy metals in the soil. They become more salt-tolerant. And what about that story? Just tell us briefly the story about the Indians who, not understanding what they were doing, began to take seeds and do something with them. Yes, we know that the Indians did not have microscopes, but still, it was a long time ago. Even in primitive cultures, people were extremely capable. They were able to figure out what was going on in this case. The Iroquois Indians developed something for corn, which was called the Iroquois medicine for corn. As for the Iroquois medicine for corn, the Indians did this: they took biostimulating microorganisms and placed them on corn and gave it a little prehistory, this is how Native Americans used to grow corn. The indigenous peoples of America collected corn in the fields and hung it up to dry. The formed ears of corn were immediately hung up for the seeds, they ate some of the seeds, and the rest were hung up. They usually collected corn early, a little before ripening, and dried it, and this early harvest actually affected the plant's microflora. The microflora does not develop fully if the plant seeds are not left in natural conditions for a long time, then there will be a lot of moisture on the seeds. Microorganisms will grow, that is, it takes time for microflora to develop, and people usually harvested the crop early and put the seeds in the driest place, only after that do the plants grow worse. And here's what the Iroquois medicine for corn was. The Indians collected wild herbs in the forest, put their roots in water, crushed these roots so that microorganisms from them got into the water, and before sowing the corn fields, they allowed it to germinate a little in this water so that bacteria populated the roots, and then  This is the corn they planted. The fields are the medicine for corn. They used biostimulating microorganisms before we even knew about the existence of microorganisms. How the hell did they come up with that? It's brilliant when I find a good product. I always talk about it. I don't get paid for it. I just want to ask you to briefly tell people what it is. Of course, yes. Thank you for inviting me. This is a microbiometer, like a toy experiment kit. We used to think of soil as a substance. Now we think of it as a biological entity. And I think it's great that now we think of nutrients not as substances, but as biological entities. So I think this is a very interesting idea. It's like asking if you can live by taking only multivitamins. No, you don't need food. Why? Because I absorb microorganisms. The intestines need microorganisms to digest food, just like plants, so the microbiometer was created so that people could conduct comparative soil analysis, whether on a lawn or in a garden. On a farm, it's intended for agriculture. You get a digital indicator of the condition of the soil. When you stopped using both haliphat and  FC and chemical fertilizers and trying to start biological processes to release nutrients and in general create nutrients, we think the roots extract something from the soil and microorganisms extract something from there. But in fact, they create something. If you have moved away from some methods, say, from zero tillage from glyphosate or switched to crops, then you can measure everything yourself using an app on your phone wherever you are. Even small old farms who cannot afford chemical analysis can begin to receive this information. Thank you very much for taking the time to talk about this, it's incredible. I put links to the book and the microbiometer below. Thank you for the information, it was wonderful. We will return and discuss the best products based on this information and in relation to our lives. What foods are the healthiest are those grown in soil with the largest number of microorganisms and with the greatest diversity of microorganisms, and the worst foods are those grown in dirt without microorganisms. This is the definition of dirt in the soil, there are microorganisms in the dirt, no. If you grow  something by massively using typical fertilizers with nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, the AFC in plants will not have all the nutrients, yes, they are ugly. But how many nutrients do they have? In other words, the missing link in all this is microorganisms. Microorganisms help absorb nutrients not only by the body but also by plants so that food is ultimately rich in nutrients. I will name some points. Yes, you need to eat organic foods, ideally, organic means without pesticides. As you know, there is a very popular chemical or poison that affects many products on the soil. In fact, all over the world, it is called so that products containing glyphosate. And these are products grown using Roundup, that is, the seeds from which these plants grew are resistant to this herbicide, which kills everything except the plant itself. So, this corn, soybeans, beets, rapeseed, cotton, this chemical is sprayed on other non-GMO plants such as wheat, oats, and many others, beans and other legumes, and so on. Here is another big problem. 95 percent of animals  We eat and receive feed that contains glyphosate, but I want to draw attention to the fact that glyphosate is also an antibiotic. Yes, yes. If you read the patents for glyphosate, you will see that a patent application has been filed and it seems to have been approved, stating that glyphosate is an antibiotic. Why is it so important to understand? This is because if an antibiotic is introduced into the soil, it greatly reduces the absorption of nutrients by plants, because microorganisms decrease, and the same thing happens with our bodies. That is why organic food is important. Further, grass-fed animals, and completely grass-fed is the key point, that is, from cows that were fed exclusively grass. After all, when a cow eats grain, it absorbs fewer nutrients itself, and the cow gets more microorganisms when it eats grass, not only because it gets fiber, but also because it gets microorganisms directly from the grass. Therefore, we can also get beneficial microorganisms from raw vegetables grown in good soil. Number two, raw vegetables. Raw vegetables grown in soil in hydroponics do not have the required quantity and variety. microorganisms Unfortunately, plants are not designed to grow hydroponically, I tell you not to eat them, you simply will not get as many nutrients as from plants grown in soil. Of course, you can find many herbs, vegetables, and other nutrient-rich plants, ideally, which is not easy, but I am trying to find a way to make it more accessible, to buy products. Some local farmer has a local agricultural enterprise program, this is when a local farmer and someone from the local residents agree that the consumer pays a fee and regularly receives products from this farmer. I think that this should be done at the local level due to problems with transportation and spoilage of products in the winter in America. 80 percent of tomatoes are brought from Florida, where they are picked completely unripe and brought to ripeness with the help of special gases, but these tomatoes have no nutrients at all. So, if you can work with a local farmer and the farmer is guaranteed to be able to sell his products, and you are guaranteed to receive them, this will really be optimal. After all, you will save on transportation. Perhaps you can test the soil of this farmer to make sure that it is healthy, and it is also important to eat seasonal products, which will ensure  A local farmer with his own produce is the next best option at a farmers market. And it's best to have your own garden to control everything, but not everyone has land. The next point I already mentioned. Try to buy plants grown in soil. Most of them are grown hydroponically. Most of the greens from the store are grown hydroponically, there are no microorganisms in them. I sometimes eat greens that are grown hydroponically, but try to find greens grown in soil. When you buy greens that are already washed, chopped, packaged in plastic, it is incredible that they are grown hydroponically. Other vegetables are sold in another part of the store and usually. They are grown in soil, there is more fuss with them. After all, they need to be washed and chopped, but they have more nutrients. The next point is commercial fish, as opposed to farm-raised fish and seafood, this is very important. European cheese made from whole milk is much better than cheese from pasteurized milk because it has more microorganisms. Fermented dairy products such as cheese, cottage cheese, and kefir are very good for the intestines. Of course, there is an allergy to dairy products.  Unfortunately, milk is pasteurized, and whole milk is hard to find. I have a video on how to find whole milk and make your own kefir. This would be great, but it takes time. Remember that pasteurizing milk kills all life in it, including pathogens and beneficial bacteria. So, find European raw milk cheese. Is this possible? If I'm not mistaken, it's illegal to sell raw milk cheese in America. And if you send it from Europe, it's also illegal, but you just get a fine. That's why it's so expensive. I eat raw milk cheese. It's healthy food, and it's food that's enriched with microorganisms. I even buy local farmer-made whole milk butter, it's much better. As for vegetables, cruciferous vegetables are the most beneficial for the liver, including cabbage, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts. It's not just about the inside. Oh, I haven't even mentioned the phytonutrients. They are also greatly enriched with microorganisms, so buy cruciferous vegetables from a very good farmer who uses good growing methods. This is very important, and fermented vegetables such as sauerkraut and kimchi are even healthier because they contain more microorganisms. I constantly repeat this important point so that you really understand that it is the microorganisms that make our food healthy, and of course, pastured organic eggs, that is, chickens roam. They eat all sorts of bugs here and there, they eat microorganisms indirectly, because there are a lot of them in insects, and all this helps the chickens, especially if the farmer feeds them fermented grain, like I do. Soak the organic grain in water for three days and then give it to the chickens, they love it, and it is extremely beneficial, because during the fermentation process, microorganisms increase in number. And in conclusion, a couple more points, number one, avoid products with glyphosate, I already talked about this, avoid irradiated products. Yes, products are sterilized with radiation, this small symbol means that the products have been irradiated, avoid them. If you do not buy such products, then manufacturers will produce less of them. So you can influence this with your money, do not buy all of them, pasteurized products such as milk, juice, even Canned foods like canned soups are devoid of beneficial bacteria, so they don't promote healthy liver function. I've already mentioned growing hydroponically and in soil, if you have a choice. Eat soil-grown foods. Three more things are very harmful to the liver. You may be aware of them: refined sugar and other empty carbohydrates, any grains, seed oils, all of which are very high in omega-6, which causes liver inflammation, and other refined foods, especially soy protein isolate, even whey protein for the liver. Have you learned anything new? What will help you choose foods for a healthy keto diet? We touched on the topic of the liver. You can learn how to help your liver. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you.  It will help you restore your liver health. My unique videos, a special diet and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.