I'll tell you what's best to do if there's pain, inflammation, and if you're taking a COX-2 inhibitor or other more relieving medications, but first I'll explain what COX-2 means. It's an enzyme that's activated in response to inflammation, injury, or healing. It occurs as an attack on a microbe in order to kill it. COX-2 inhibitors were created to stop inflammation. Many people take them for pain, often people take too many of them, causing a number of side effects. In principle, at the very beginning, inflammation is actually good, but bad. When the need for inflammation has passed and it has become chronic, then you need to get rid of the inflammation because it can literally dissolve bones, destroy joints, and cause extensive degenerative processes. In addition, cancer usually spreads in areas of inflammation as COX-2 inhibitors. People usually take Elinol, aspirin, and even Vioxx, sales of which have been discontinued. Before I talk about one of the best natural COX-2 inhibitors, I want to briefly touch on one topic: genetics. Genetic weaknesses that contribute to inflammation and pain have been discovered not long ago. Here is a list of a number of genes. If you have  There is a problem with these genes, then in the presence of provoking factors, inflammation and pain in you may be stronger than in someone who does not have problems with these genes. I generally started talking about this because I did a DNA test myself and I have this weakness. I have many problems with genes that you can now see on the screen, for example, after excessive or inappropriate training, my inflammation does not go away for a long time. If I have dental treatment, the inflammation does not go away for much longer if my diet is wrong, now it is correct. But this was not the case before. And everything became inflamed for me. This explains all my inflammation in my back and arms after 20 and after 30. You need to know about these problems with genes, because then you can do something about it. I will give you a whole list of what you can do to keep these genes turned off and not cause too much inflammation. You do not need to do a gene test now. I will just show you what to do. Different factors turn on these genes. We will discuss this, but let's first discuss the main topic that I promised to discuss. The best natural debtor juice 2, which I think will help you relieve pain and inflammation, and this topic is related to  Aspirin was discovered thanks to the bark of a natural plant called willow. In Korea, you found a substance that is a very powerful TOP-2 inhibitor, an anti-inflammatory analgesic, and an antipyretic. This is the so- called salicylic acid. But here's what's curious. You might think that if you just take a little willow bark, the pain will go away, and it can go away. But here's the question: If aspirin was obtained from willow bark, why don't doctors prescribe willow bark? This won't bring in much money, and of course, it can't be researched, because you can't patent the bark. Doctors don't recommend it. But if you have a synthetic substance produced in a factory, you can control the dose and sell it at a high price. The trouble with aspirin is that it has side effects. It destroys the gastrointestinal tract mucosa, causes ulcers, bleeding, and thins the blood, but willow doesn't lead to any of this. It doesn't change the intestinal mucosa, it doesn't thin the blood, it has very mild side effects, if any at all. It doesn't have many.  salicylic acid, it contains accompanying substances and it is possible that the inflammation goes away not even thanks to these substances, it is amazing phytonutrients, these are flavonoids and polyphenols that have analgesic properties. According to the studies that I will share links to below, you need from 120 to 240 mg for this to work. Sometimes you need to take the extract for several days to a week to get the result, but I will just remind you that it does not thin the blood, does not affect its clotting, does not change the intestinal mucosa and these other substances. And this is a complex of many substances and not a single factor. They perfectly inhibit tsok-1 egg 2 and also cause many other effects. They also inhibit the so-called 5 locks, apparently. These substances in willow bark also modulate or regulate other cytokines such as interleukin 1, 6, 8, and 10, and also reduce the levels of other substances that cause inflammation such as tumor necrosis factor, nuclear factor kapo-bi. This is simply what increases inflammation. Karaiwa can inhibit or  modulate all these factors. According to one study, caraive is also effective in reducing inflammation as aspirin. I am very surprised that this information is not widely disseminated. I know why, but you need to know about it. Caraive has a different effect: it reduces the reactions of white blood cells. And this is a powerful tool for reducing the level of cytokines that start inflammation. Sometimes you need to increase the dose and take it a little longer. It has fewer side effects, but it can cause allergies. You can also take it for gout. And this is a big problem for many people. Let's discuss what you can do if you potentially have some kind of problem with your genes, but I repeat, changes in genes do not mean that you will have more inflammation or pain, especially if there are no provoking factors, you have never had injuries, no stress, you have never lost loved ones, your diet is perfect, you have no nutrient deficiencies, and you have never taken antibiotics. But you know, I don't think such people exist. Personally, I have had so many injuries in the past that I simply cannot count them. I was extremely stressed. My diet was terrible, I took many, many antibiotics for most of my life. Here are some things that I recommend doing in general. Be sure to get  enough omega-3 fatty acids and at the same time you should avoid omega-6 fatty acids and I have a lot of videos about this cod liver oil is an excellent source of omega-3 and it also contains vitamins A and D sometimes you need to take omega-3 for quite a long time if you have a severe deficiency it may take months maybe even several years if you have a very severe deficiency to replenish the lack of omega and fatty acids and balance omega-3 and omega-6 the second most important factor is vitamin D I have a video small doses of vitamin D especially if there is a problem with genes will not help you need at least 10 thousand 20 thousand 30 thousand international units and some even more After all, of all the natural nutrients, type D has the most powerful anti-inflammatory and more soothing effect especially if you have lower back pain any chronic pain and chronic inflammation due to an autoimmune disease a low-carbohydrate diet is also very important because the more carbohydrates, the stronger the inflammation moderate training without overtraining gymnastics melts z Yoga is good, any low-intensity workouts are excellent, water exercises are also very good, magnesium is another very important tool, you can get it by eating a lot of vegetables, vegetables alone contain a lot of different anti-inflammatory phytonutrients, another problem with long methylation, I will not go into detail now, just know that if you have a problem with methylation, you will have more inflammation, toxins will not be eliminated, possibly depression, this is easily prevented Taking phalates and methylcobalamin is vitamin B12, also take Choline, take vitamin B1, natural, not synthetic, it can greatly help genes ensure their proper functioning, relieve inflammation, pain and many other problems, regular intermittent fasting and periodically long-term is a powerful remedy for inflammation and pain, this alone can completely relieve pain because all the genetic enzymes that promote survival are turned on when we stop eating, this is amazing, the immune system becomes very strong, infrared therapy is a great thing, you can buy different mats, lasers for infrared therapy, they have a powerful effect on pain and also increase  Melatonin levels, which can solve many problems throughout the body, including sleep problems, probiotics are very important, especially in the presence of pain, many have inflammation because the intestines are not in order. I'm talking about microflora. By increasing the diversity of microflora, you can greatly reduce inflammation, often completely, of course, you need to avoid what irritates the colon. For example, gluten in cereals, but a probiotic can help greatly. Cold therapy, be it a cold shower, ice water, or cryotherapy. I made a video on this topic and there I said that if you apply cold to an acute injury, this may not be the best method, because it negates the entire healing process. But if the inflammation has become chronic and it is no longer needed, then cold therapy is useful. A cold shower can be very unpleasant, but if you have a vitamin B1 deficiency, then your tolerance for cold is greatly reduced. You may need B1 to gather your courage and get under a cold shower; it greatly reduces inflammation, and of course, other obvious factors. Do not drink alcohol. Do not smoke. By the way, there are many, many natural inhibitors of Coke-2, for example. Turmeric, however, has many other beneficial properties. It can act like cortisol, but without side effects. One study showed that the active ingredient in turmeric, curcumin, is also effective as another anti-inflammatory drug called phenylbutazone. If I'm not mistaken, sales of this drug have been discontinued in the US and UK. Bromelain, an enzyme in pineapple, is also an excellent natural anti-inflammatory. It also helps with sinus congestion very well. Boswellia is another excellent COX-2 inhibitor. It also acts similarly to steroids, but without side effects. I made a video about other amazing ways to relieve pain with acupressure. If you haven't seen my video about this, be sure to check it out.