Many people want to know what foods to eat more of to burn fat or lose weight as much as possible, but instead of discussing the diet in detail, I decided to focus on key foods that have the least effect on insulin. insulin is a hormone that even in very small quantities blocks weight loss. insulin is a hormone that converts the carbohydrates you eat into fat, that is, it is a fat- producing hormone. If you make a list of foods that have the least effect on insulin, this will be the best list for maximum weight loss. In connection with this list, I just want to say about the amount of protein. A large amount of protein can slow down weight loss because it can stimulate insulin. But with a moderate amount of protein in this diet, everything will be fine. If you eat 7 grams of protein, perhaps 8 grams per meal, you will lose weight very well. Of course, for best results, you need to eat only twice a day or even once a day. So, let 's start with proteins. In all these protein products, the carbohydrate content is less than one gram or even zero. So, eggs, beef, lamb, chicken, pork, veal, duck, sausages.  Sausage, cold meats, offal, dried meat and pork rinds, which are collagen. But don't forget to read the ingredients because some of them, even cold meats, sausages, and hot dogs, may contain hidden sugars like dextrose, even high-fructose corn syrup, and even dried meat may contain beet sugar, so avoid meats that contain sugar. These are protein products. Of course, tea, coffee, and water have no carbohydrates, so don't worry about that. Next, apple cider vinegar has 0 carbohydrates. Mustard seasonings go great with meat. There are no carbohydrates or less than half a gram. Next, monk fruit, Steve, and Retreat. All of them have no carbohydrates. Lemon, lime, very few carbohydrates, less than a gram. This is insignificant. I want to say about two more products related to insulin: pure fat has no effect on insulin. If carbohydrates are added, this will have a big effect on insulin, but pure fat has no effect on insulin. So, butter, cafe butter, pork fat, beef fat, coconut oil, olive oil, M-City butter, heavy cream. All of this is essentially pure.  fat, so these foods do not affect insulin despite the fact that they have a lot of calories, so these fats are converted into energy, of course, there is a limit on the amount if there is fat and in huge quantities, then yes, they can turn into fat, but if at the same time you do not eat any carbohydrates and eat a lot of fat, then this fat will turn into energy because you have prepared your body for this, brought it into a state of ketosis, so now it does not work on glucose and when you feed it fat, it converts it into ketones from if you continue to eat carbohydrates along with fat, you will not enter titos and will not burn this fat effectively, then a lot of this fat will be deposited as fat. I want to say something about this. Sometimes in some scientific articles you can read the following. My research showed that mice on a high-fat diet increase weight gain and develop diabetes and insulin resistance, and then you read the article yourself and discover that the high-fat diet of these mice was not just a high-fat diet. You notice that the article does not say a word about a ketogenic diet, but a low-carb diet. These only talk about a high  high-fat diet, but this diet was also high-carbohydrate, so this is a high-fat diet of mice, more than a third of which consisted of carbohydrates, that is, it is a high- carbohydrate and high-fat diet and such a study is worth a penny. Well, mayonnaise obviously does not have carbohydrates, but it often contains soybean oil, canola oil, or cottonseed oil. These oils should be avoided because they cause severe inflammation. Avocados have quite a lot of fat, quite a lot of fiber, there are some carbohydrates, but this is a very good product with a high fat content and it has very good oil in which to cook, and avocado does not lead to weight gain. Oil is pure fat, it does not activate insulin, in fact, it turns into ketones very effectively. Let's move on to the next section. There are carbohydrates that do not have any effect on insulin, this is fiber. If you subtract fiber from the total amount of carbohydrates, we get digestible carbohydrates. This is what we strive for in this diet: a minimum of digestible carbohydrates. In the next section, we list carbohydrates that have very few carbohydrates and quite a lot of fiber, so if you subtract one from the other, we get very, very few carbohydrates, and so on.  olives less than one gram of carbohydrates negligible spinach 1 and 4 grams of digestible carbohydrates this is per 1 cup in the whole list mushrooms 1 gram of digestible carbohydrates sprouts 1 cup 1 gram celery 1 stalk not a cup 0.9 grams of digestible carbohydrates cucumbers 1 cup 2.5 arugula 1 cup 36 hundredths of a gram about a third of a gram arugula is an excellent vegetable it is a cruciferous vegetable quite a lot of carbohydrates it will help you lose weight lettuce 1 cup 1 and 6 tenths grams of digestible carbohydrates that's why I advise eating from 7 to 10 cups of vegetables because they have so few carbohydrates and you don't need to count these vegetables in carbohydrates when calculating on that diet and they have a lot of fiber and a lot of potassium bok choy 1 cup 2.4 grams of digestible carbohydrates very little watercress 1 cup three tenths of a gram of all leafy greens I think in water  Cress has the least digestible carbohydrates Asparagus 1 cup 2.3 grams of digestible carbohydrates Large pickle 5.0 grams of digestible carbohydrates About half a gram is negligible [ __ ] not a single cup 2.3 grams Cauliflower 1 cup 3.1 grams So on a ketogenic diet you can eat up to 50 grams of carbohydrates a day and here we are talking about one or two maybe 3 grams of carbohydrates is negligible Let's move on to cheese 30 grams of Gouda cheese less than a gram of digestible carbohydrates Blue cheese 7.0 grams Cream cheese 1.0 gram negligible Parmesan 7.0 grams of digestible carbohydrates Brie cheese carbohydrates negligible Here are some more ideas You can make a cheese roll You can make a sandwich with sweet meat and just wrap it in cheese Cheese  Store-bought rolls contain about a gram of digestible carbohydrates, which is negligible. Konjac noodles contain 1 gram in one package. You can cook with them like with regular noodles. These noodles are not so bad, but they have negligible carbohydrates, unlike regular noodles, which have a lot of them. Then there is thin rice, it looks like rice, but it is obtained from the konjac plant. You can add vegetables to it, it is very tasty. And I want to say something about bread. Many people simply cannot give up bread, so there is an excellent recipe, it is simple, it is called cloud bread, it has no carbohydrates at all, you just need to mix eggs, cream cheese, cream of tartar. The link to the recipe is below. The bread looks and tastes like bread. You can put anything on it. It is surprising that there is also Jell-O jelly, it is great for children, you can add stevia in different flavors. It comes with lemon, raspberry, strawberry flavors. You can take a look at it, and there are no carbohydrates in this jelly at all. So here is a list for you. If you want to lose weight and simplify the process as much as possible, use this list and you will lose a lot of weight, but sooner or later you will want to know everything about  I invite you to my Healthy Keto Diet and Intermittent Fasting course. I invite you to learn about healthy keto and intermittent fasting. It's for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join me too.