Hello everyone I want to tell you about the best vitamin for arthritis And it's not vitamin D Vitamin D is good but there is another amazing remedy I came across it by accident I took this vitamin Although I had never done this before I went to bed woke up and was surprised Where is all my usual stiffness from past spinal injuries as if someone lubricated my joints and they began to move freely and then I remembered that the day before I took this vitamin for arthritis there is inflammation pain cartilage is destroyed joints wear out people take NSAIDs to get rid of inflammation but they have side effects gastrointestinal bleeding ulcers kidney problems and side effects of steroids destruction of joints and weakened immunity but is there something without side effects that can be taken instead of this Yes there is it is a precursor of the so-called nicotinamide adenine denucleotide especially in mitochondria this is a kind of assistant molecule it helps convert food into energy ATP refers to certain biochemical processes over helps move electrons from which of little use until they are  They pack the energy form, this is the useful function over. It is involved in the work of more than 400 genes. So, this is a very important molecule. First, I'll tell you what a deficiency over leads to. First, collagen is poorly restored. Second, inflammation occurs. Third, you get tired because you cannot produce energy. Fourth, muscle pain or even loss of muscle mass. Fifth, metabolic diseases, this includes, among other things, diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and even cancer. Sixth, aging occurs faster than normal. After all, if you cannot repair DNA, you age faster. And lastly, a weakened immune system. It's interesting that aspirin acts on something inside cells that helps produce proteins. Eden G vitamin, which I will name soon, acts similarly, but without side effects, it helps reduce oxidative stress in the endoplasmic reticulum. Very interesting. This is probably why my neck now moves so freely, which I am very happy about. And what kind of vitamin is vitamin B3 niacinamide? There are two forms of vitamin B3. Niacin and niacinamide are useful in terms of lipids, cholesterol, and everything like that. Niacinamide helps with inflammation and arthritis.  and in many other situations and here's how to take cinatropil from TX to STI once a day depending on how severe your arthritis is When you add necid to the body during the day, it helps the biochemical process proceed better despite genetic characteristics, the so-called polymorphism, a couple more important points and it is imperative to consume enough protein to restore joints, you need building material protein and exclude alcohol consumption I don't know Did you know, but tryptophan can also be converted into B3 However, this process is not very effective, you need somewhere around 60 units of tryptophan to get one unit of vitamin B3 often even this does not happen due to various nutritional problems, especially if there is a lot of corn, which can block tryptophan If you eat a lot of junk food and so on, you can easily develop a B3 deficiency I just wanted to show you how niacinamide works I really like it, I think that of everything I've taken I'm not saying that you shouldn't take vitamin D and other things at prices - this is something amazing I don't recommend taking it right away at night first you need to get used to it  Drink it earlier in the day. But for some, it helps them sleep. It also adds energy, which is great for workouts. I wanted to give you a natural remedy. If you have arthritis, it's highly recommended that you have something non-toxic, effective, and very inexpensive on hand. If you're interested in learning about the best food for inflammation, I recommend watching this video.