Let's talk about the best food for cleansing blood vessels I'm talking about abbotterrasclerotic plaques This is new information and I think you are a parasite This can be used to solve many problems with the body and since a heart attack is the main killer I think you will be glad that you watched this I studied one study of sterile mice Many experiments are carried out with sterile animals What does sterile mean I thought there is a way to grow an animal so that there are no microbes in it Such an animal is kind of sterile On such animals you can conduct different experiments excluding the influence of microflora The question is, can animals live if they are sterile Yes, they cannot survive, but I don't think that they survive very well Firstly, they need more food rich in nutrients to survive because microbes do not help them They have a growth retardation, an underdeveloped heart, lungs, their liver is smaller, even cardiac output is less That is, their heart works worse, the mucous membrane of their intestines is thinner They have a lot of problems with the gastrointestinal tract Their immune system is not fully developed They have a lot of inflammation They even The lymph nodes are atrophied, but otherwise everything is fine. So how is this connected with your vessels? Well, I started studying how the sterility of mice affects their vessels. I wanted to understand whether the lack of microflora, that is, dysbiosis, is connected with the vessels. I discovered a lot of amazing amazing data when they kill microbes in the intestines of experimental mice, that is, they create sterile mice, they have a lot of inflammation throughout the body, including the vessels. And this seems to trigger a whole avalanche of effects that cause the formation of plaques in the vessels. Some people still think that our blood is sterile, that there are no microbes in the blood and it is completely sterile. This is not true. Microorganisms live in our blood. In fact, there are pathogens that live inside the plaques in the vessels. Yes, pathogens, I'm talking about chlamydia, Helicobacter pylori, staphylococci. These pathogenic microbes live inside the plaques inside the vessels. There are many other microbes. Think about how many microbes we have in our intestines and on the skin. Why shouldn't they be in all organs? They are there, and apparently because of An imbalance of microorganisms in our body can cause a variety of problems in the vessels. There is another factor that I want to talk about. There is one very important nutrient, a vitamin that is responsible for preventing calcium from being deposited in the vessels. A plaque is a deposition of calcium and cholesterol due to inflammation. This vitamin, as you may already know, is called K2. Its job is to remove calcium from the vessels. It sends calcium back to the bones, and with a deficiency of vitamin K2, calcium can be deposited in the vessels. That's why I'm talking about vitamin K2. Guess who creates vitamin K2? The microbes in our intestines create vitamin K2. They convert vitamin K1 coming from leafy greens. Vitamin K2 is found in fermented foods, because microbes and bacteria in fermented foods can create vitamin K2, especially in fatty fermented foods such as fatty cheese, and this is fermented. The fatter the cheese, the more vitamin K2 it contains. And in other fatty foods such as fatty meat, K2 is found in salmon and salami. It is a fermented product found in certain sausages, especially in fatty pork sausages.  Vitamin K2 is there up to five times more than in other sausages, even in some sausages and even in bacon there can be K2, of course, there is a lot of K2 in sauerkraut and also in yogurt, this is interesting, because what official medicine tells us to do to avoid plaques is to avoid saturated fats, avoid all these foods with cholesterol. And they contain K2, which serves as an antidote to calcium deposits. There is an excellent test for determining the degree of calcification of the coronary arteries, one of the best indicators that can predict a heart attack. The amount of calcium in the vessels is a relatively inexpensive test. You can do it, it will give you a good understanding of how things are with you. If you take K2 in the form of a dietary supplement, it works better with vitamin D3. Take them together in this ratio: for every 100 micrograms of vitamin K2, you need 10 thousand e of vitamin D3. But you need to know that probiotics have an atheroprotective effect; they protect against the hardening of blood vessels, calcium deposits and the formation of plaques. They are friendly.  microbes are our natural probiotics, the microbes in the gut eat fiber from vegetables and release certain byproducts, one of them is short-chain fatty acids, and this is essentially a type of fat that helps lower insulin levels and normalize blood sugar levels, which also reduces inflammation in the vessels. So the whole point of this video is this: Look at your diet from this point of view: Do you eat sterile food that doesn't have microbes? I'm talking about pasteurized foods, this is pasteurized milk, juices, everything is prepared so that it lasts a long time. We eat food from boxes on the shelves, canned food is also irradiated with radiation, and they even irradiate it with radiation to kill microbes and increase shelf life. Just go to the store and look at the shelves, you will see a lot of sterilized products. This is madness. We terribly overcook and overcook food and essentially kill all the microbes in it. We began to eat little raw foods, and at the same time we eat meat from animals that were given antibiotics. Realize that one of the main side effects of antibiotics is dysbiosis, when you kill microbes in  You kill good microbes along with the bad ones. And those microbes that survive become resistant and a lot of new side effects arise, including inflammation if you eat meat from animals that have received antibiotics. Does this affect you? I think it partly affects when you eat raw food. I'm talking about plants such as microgreens that are grown in soil and healthy plants from your garden. These raw plants have a lot of microbes and they also contain them, which can be considered practically probiotics. Those who truly understand this principle will eat more fermented foods. There are many such foods. Fermented vegetables are an excellent source of friendly microbes. You not only add more microbes to the microflora that you already have, but this food is also easier to digest because it is already partially digested. The worse the digestive system, the more such food you need. So, let's get back to our topic and see what food really helps blood vessels well and it would be difficult to guess. What food I will now talk about based on the recommendations of mainstream medicine in connection with this problem, because it is the fattiest cheese. I am talking about silver in combination with fatty pork sausage and of course Sauerkraut, which I'm sure is acceptable to mainstream medicine, unlike the other two products, but think about what you get by eating these three products together. Firstly, all three contain a lot of vitamin K2. Secondly, you get something else. They are all fermented, which means that bacteria have already acted on these products and increased the bioavailability of nutrients. They are much easier to digest. After all, they are fermented and none of them are sterile. They contain microbes that will be useful in your body. When you go to the store, look at products from this point of view. Which products are sterile, pasteurized, or over- heated? Buy more lively products, more fermented and improved by the fermentation process. Since we are talking about plaques, you can learn more about them from this video.