Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll talk about the best time to eat to lose weight. This method is called intermittent fasting. The point is that you don't eat for a long time, and this is designed to resolve a condition known as insulin resistance. This is when insulin levels are excessive, but it doesn't perform its function. Then, even if you have insulin in your body, you won't lose weight. If you have a big belly, it's because your insulin is too high, and intermittent fasting is what deals with this. So, if you practice intermittent fasting and eat twice or three times or once a day, don't worry about muscle mass, and you won't lose it. Intermittent fasting protects proteins and muscle mass. In fact, it's a good way to increase testosterone and growth hormone levels. Both of these hormones help burn fat, and both help build muscle mass. Muscle mass won't go away. Most people can't eat twice a day, so at first they'll have to eat three times a day. The goal is to switch to two meals a day if you want to lose weight seriously. However, if you have insulin resistance, you  It will be hard to go without food because of high blood sugar levels, but you need to strive for what I'm going to tell you now, but it can take a couple of weeks, even a whole month, and so you'll have to start with three meals a day. Ideally, the first meal will be at 11:30 in the morning, that is, you eat at 11:30 and the next meal will be at five in the evening. If 5 doesn't work out, then eat at half past four. That is, the goal is to really eat your fill at 11:30. They're just snacks, they should be good portions of protein, greens, and healthy fats. You don't need low-fat foods, this will only do harm. You need enough fat to fill you up and last between these meals. If you can't stand this time, it means you haven't eaten enough. It's not scary if by five o'clock you have a slight feeling of hunger, but if the hunger is unbearable, if you have problems with your sugar levels, you need to go back to three meals a day. It's too early to switch. Eventually, you'll feel that the bloating in your stomach has significantly decreased. You'll feel that your stomach is getting smaller because You burn fat, this is the best way to get rid of your belly. This happens essentially due to the fact that we restore insulin levels, and in the evening you eat the same protein, greens, and fats at five in the evening, and you should feel full and hold out from that moment until the morning all night, you understand, and the thing is that you might be worried that you'll get hungry, this won't happen. The average body has large reserves. I'm talking about fat reserves as food, that is, essentially, you use the accumulated fat as food during this period, and so on until the morning. The task is to learn to switch. When you eat, you burn the calories you get with food, and when you don't eat, you use the fat that is already in your body for this switch, and insulin is responsible. As soon as you correct this, doing this will become easier and easier, but for this to return to normal, it will take some time. But in my opinion, the hardest thing in all this is that intermittent fasting is that people are used to quick snacks, for example, when they come home, so the hardest thing is to give up the habit of eating so often. I know many large bodybuilders.  Those who eat 1 or 2 times a day do not eat all day, so there are thin people who eat five times a day and in fact, in the future, they are waiting for problems. The point is to stop eating often, it will also save you a lot of money because you will not need so much food, this is also a plus, you will also feel an improvement in well-being and mental activity, you will cope with problems caused by insulin resistance, that is, you should start with three meals a day without snacks, then switch to two meals a day, and having reached the goal, either stay on two meals a day or return to three meals a day, this depends on various factors, for example, if you are young, you probably need to eat three times in the case of grueling workouts, too, but many train by going twice a day and feel great, and having started the fat burning process, you are unlikely to return to using sugar as fuel because you will switch to your own fuel for the body and, by the way, fat burning or ketosis is the original source of energy fuel on which the body has worked since time immemorial and only recently people switched to sugar as the main fuel for the body, only about a hundred years ago Back in this way, the body burns fat naturally. The body likes to burn fat. Intermittent fasting is designed to teach our body this, and so 11:35 pm try it and leave your comments.