Let's talk about the best herbs for parasites. What is a parasite? A parasite is a microorganism, a worm or bacteria, that lives off your body but gives nothing in return. Beneficial bacteria exchange with you, they give you immune protection, help produce vitamins, vitamins K, CO2, B vitamins, they produce antioxidants and even eat what you don't eat. Fiber, they convert it to a substance called butyric acid, which gives colon cells energy and even helps regulate blood sugar. I'll give you another example of a parasite. Recently, I was given a flyer advertising a lawn mower, and I called, they sent a man to mow the lawn. I needed to go somewhere. When I returned, I discovered that he had broken into my house and robbed me. Not only that, he didn't even mow the lawn. This is an example of parasites who took something and gave nothing in return. Now about the symptoms that can occur with parasites. 1. Fatigue is a very important symptom. Weight loss. Itching in intimate places. Bloating. Nausea. Diarrhea. What is the best remedy for parasites? Wormwood extract. You can buy it in the store.  or in the pharmacy wormwood is very destructive to parasites because it makes the environment toxic for them and they are forced to leave the body secondly black walnut shells are very toxic to parasites to garlic it even kills parasites and cloves I recommend this combination when you are trying to get rid of parasites you need to avoid certain foods especially sugar empty carbohydrates and definitely milk before taking these herbs I recommend drinking purified bile salts you need to take them say three times a day on an empty stomach take one in the morning one before lunch and one somewhere before bed just one day and on the second day start taking these herbs why because when you take bile salts you start the flow of bile opening the bile ducts and when you take these herbs they will kill germs and can even tear them apart and this will release endotoxins and block the bile ducts that's why you feel bad when you are trying to detox or kill parasites or fungus I always recommend taking bile salts first first drive the bile through the bile ducts and then do this I learned this from my own experience I  I've cleansed my body of parasites so many times and ended up feeling sick because I didn't know about it. Let the bile flow through the ducts, unblock them, and you won't have reactions to the detox with these products. Don't rush, start with small doses, see how you react, and then gradually increase the dose until you reach the recommended dose indicated in the instructions. I recommend doing this cleanse for at least a month, maybe even a month and a half, then stop taking it and see what happens. In principle, it is possible and even beneficial to do this every six months. I also think it is very important to take apple cider vinegar regularly. It can even be given to animals to rid them of parasites, and it works well on people too. Thank you for watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, click the button below to see new videos. I spoke in verse.