Let's talk about the best morning exercises for beginners.  You need to watch this video every morning until you start doing these exercises yourself every day. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. The first exercise to warm up and strengthen the lower back muscles.  You'll need something to lean on .  Find something like this and repeat after the girl. Now get on all fours and arch your back into a cat pose.  Cows.  This maneuver will stretch your thoracic spine.  This exercise will help you maintain good posture throughout the day so you don't end up hunched over like this as you age .   The next exercise can be done while sitting on a chair or something similar.  You will lean forward.  This will relieve tension from your upper back and lower back.  Since we are already warming up the lower back and parts of the hips, let's warm up the entire hips using this method.   The next exercise is called the wall puppy pose.  This is one of my favorite stretches because it warms up not only the front of my body, but my shoulders as well. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.   The next exercise builds on the past.  It's called downward facing dog.  Iodine also contains this.  You will like it.  It will relieve tension in your shoulders and upper back. Now we will do the opposite and stretch our limbs.  This exercise will warm up the front of your body, specifically your lower thighs.  For example, the calf muscles, which are flexor muscles, and the lumbar muscle.  I also love this exercise .  Let's get started.   Let 's go back to the hips and do the so- called figure four stretch.   The next stretch is the standing quadriceps stretch.  I included it here mainly for radio purposes.  Many people have tense flexor muscles.  This exercise will relieve tension and add freedom to the lower pelvis.  It will also help your gait. The last warm-up, my favorite, is the lumbar twist exercise. Many people underestimate the twisting action in the lower back, and this should help many with lower back pain.  Find yourself a spot on the floor and get started. And finally, do this.  I made a list called My Daily Actions.  He makes me feel like I'm eighteen even though I'm 60. This list only takes up one page.  I'm giving it away for free.  The link to it will be in the description.  You can download it, print it, stick it on your refrigerator and follow it every day.