Hello everyone, we are answering questions again so that I don’t give diagnoses. I don’t make any. Ask a doctor before doing what I’m talking about. That’s right, let’s start right away with questions from our friends on social networks. Good morning everyone, it’s Steve with you. I’ll be taking your calls and so on. So, Anna Saint Rambla writes, please tell me what you think about the effect of lectins on microflora. I excluded tomatoes, red, yellow, and orange peppers from my diet, but I’m afraid that I don’t have enough of their nutrients. What do you say if the problem with lectins is usually something wrong with the intestines, they’re kind of leaky. I would first figure this out. And for this, you need to take glutamine, zinc, and also, oddly enough, it’s better to switch to Corner Diet, at least temporarily. So that the intestines begin to heal, and then gradually add lectins if the intestines can handle them. I would do this and not complicate things. Excellent. Kim from Yutu asks what you think about long-term use of berberine. I think this is wise.  Berberine not only normalizes blood sugar by increasing insulin sensitivity, but without side effects. It is also an amazing anti-inflammatory, it reduces the risk of cancer, it is good for the heart, in general, it brings many benefits, it will be very wise to take it for a long time. To avoid many problems, excellent Nazim from YouTube writes, please tell us about m, you learned at the conference in Sandiego. So, to our viewers, I always take out my earphone because there is an echo in it, so I will speak without an earphone. Yes, it was wonderful in San Diego. I spoke at a conference on low-carb nutrition, there were a lot of doctors there, it was simply amazing to see how much the method has changed, the main method of treatment, doctors use nutrition as medicine. If a doctor even thinks about this, this is already a huge change, because this has always been lacking. None of the doctors who spoke use medicine as a first-line therapy in solving problems, this is wonderful, I met many of my followers there. We had a great time and I think you should attend one of these conferences if you can, because the information at all these seminars is simply amazing, we are all very grateful to you, doc, for your influence on all this, I am sure in many ways it is your merit that doctors have revised  the idea of ​​prescribing metformin for everything and thinking about the causes of the disease, a question from Kim from yuba What do you think about this has already been Andre from yutu How to alleviate the condition associated with an enlarged spleen and low platelet levels Can osteoporosis contribute to the problem with platelets I don’t know if osteoporosis contributes to this, but I would arrange several long fasts In addition, I would take more zinc and a product that is actually called an extract of the thymus gland and this is the main immune gland if there is something wrong with the immune system She needs help this can restore the balance yes I think I haven’t read this question yet Kim from yutu What do you think about long-term use of berbena or I read yes we read well Kim Today our thoughts are busy with you I can repeat the answer Yes easily Cheryl from yuba asks What dietary supplements are best for maintaining a healthy nervous system If we are talking about nerves, B1 always comes to mind it is very important then the brain especially the frontal lobe is 25% made up of che This is a type of fat it is  Omega-3 fatty acid, so you need to eat more fish. B1 is found in large quantities in the liver, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, and a lot of it in nutritional yeast. Add them to greens. These two nutrients come to mind. For the health of the brain and nervous system, you must, of course, exclude oils from seeds, sugar, and starches. These foods should be avoided. Well, I don't like liver, but that's not what we're talking about now. We continue answering questions. Libin 817 Rambla. I'm taking TCU on your recommendation and the pain in the rhomboid muscle has become much less. How long should I take TCU? Tutka is a special bile salt. It liquefies the contents of the bile ducts, and gallstones are the result of a lack of bile and excess cholesterol. The formation of a gallstone is preceded by the formation of bile sediment, which is a sign of a lack of bile. This means you need to take bile salts or TCU. Tutka is excellent. It has many other beneficial properties. This is a special bile salt, bear bile salt, but it's synthesized, but that's not important. It works great and cleanses the bile ducts, opens them, thanks to which bile  is drained from the liver if the bile ducts are clogged in the liver and irritate it like a detergent, it causes severe referred pain in the shoulder, prominent and trapezius muscles on the right, ideally, bile should flow down and combine with protein so as not to corrode the small intestine, but I think you need to find out why you needed this at all, because of what product in your diet, you have a sluggish gallbladder, perhaps you need to change your diet so that the bile ducts are open and without duck, but for this I need you to watch a lot of videos about natural ways to thin bile, about what to eat, what diet to follow, so our good friend Anton Ramble seems to have a chronic problem, he was diagnosed with heavy metal poisoning, ate, like, minerals or metal, Steve, it's definitely about heavy metal and not about khat, not a bad joke, not khat I also like heavy metals, there are excellent natural methods, chelation, there are many others, but I would recommend these two remedies for heavy metals and find out what exactly you are taking, consuming, what it comes into contact with, and with  What you get are heavy metals and heavy metals also interfere with minerals a lot. So they cause a lot of harm. We hope this will help you cope with this.