Many people add lemon to their tea to get more vitamin C, and it would seem that's how it should be, but the problem here is that there are about 23 million grams of vitamin C in a lemon, which is pretty good, but the fact is that the vitamin C in lemon is very sensitive to heat. This vitamin C begins to break down at a temperature of 86 degrees Fahrenheit, which is 30 degrees Celsius, and the structure of this vitamin C is severely damaged at 140 degrees Fahrenheit, which is 60 degrees Celsius. Therefore, it will be much better if you let the tea cool slightly before adding lemon. In addition, if it is canned lemon juice bought in a store, you know that it is pasteurized, it has already undergone heat treatment, and this product has little natural vitamin C. Vitamin C can be added to it after processing, but ascorbic acid is usually added, and it is not a complete vitamin C complex. In fact, it was the pasteurization of milk in the early 20th century that was recognized as the cause of the increase in cases of childhood scurvy, a severe deficiency of vitamin C, since pasteurization destroys vitamin C in  Milk is another great fact about preserving vitamin C. It's vitamin C and the citric acid in lemon that preserve these phytonutrients in tea, which results in five times more of them. These phytonutrients are plant chemicals called catechins. They are extremely beneficial for health. You may have heard of these substances in connection with green tea. Sometimes, children find almost green tea with an abbreviation, and Jessie G is just one type. This substance provides very significant health benefits. When you try to get these phytonutrients from tea, your digestive system destroys about 80 percent of these substances, but the citric acid and vitamin C in lemon help you preserve these phytonutrients by preventing their destruction. In addition, vitamins B1 and B5 are also very sensitive to heat. This is another comment encouraging you to also consume raw foods. Thank you for watching.