Did you know that ninety-three percent of a burger patty comes from corn? 93 percent of these patties are made from corn. If you eat burgers from a fast food joint, of course, I'm not talking about grass-fed meat, but about corn-fed beef. There's an interesting study linked below, a review of 480 fast food burger joints in New York. They looked for carbon-13 in their products. Of all the feeds, corn has the most carbon-13. It turns out that ninety- three percent of a hamburger patty is made from corn. It was also discovered that chicken has a similar composition. If you haven't seen the documentary Queen of the Fields, check out the link below. It's a fascinating story about the relationship between corn and the cells of our own bodies. The authors talk about the curious connections between the food we eat and how corn penetrates our DNA, among other things, and how corn becomes the basis for the structure of the building blocks of the body of animals and humans, not to mention the fact that soy and wheat are added to it, the lion's share of what is consumed.  Our food comes from corn, soy, and wheat. Even the so-called healthy plant proteins that are added to meat are taken from soy, wheat, gluten, and potato starch. The addition of corn in the form of zinin is also being discussed. This is a waste product of ethyl alcohol production. And of course, this zen is heavily processed. Plant proteins sound like something healthy, but they use gamova plants that undergo serious processing. They always contain residues of solvents and chemicals that our bodies don't need. I remember how in college I lived for about three months on fast food alone because I was broke. I bought two burgers for $1. $1 for two burgers. A promotion of unheard-of generosity, right? But what was actually in them? I do n't even want to think about what those cows ate. Of course, back then, I ate the hamburger with the whole BUN. Now, I also often eat burgers, but of course, without buns. I eat them with a lettuce or cabbage leaf, or just the patty itself, and only grass-fed, so what's in the patty itself?  There is nothing wrong, but there is a lot wrong with what the cows were fed and how they were treated during life, but in connection with fast food burgers, there are some interesting points. First, and links to all points will be in the description. It was discovered that only 12 percent of a burger patty is made from muscle meat as such. Everything else is sugar, sorbitol, meat glue, which is an enzyme, and hydrolyzed corn protein, and here again is corn, and of course, muscle meat contains tendons, ligaments, cartilage, blood vessels, nerves, and even bones. I am not against all of this, but I am against everything else that is added to it. When cows are fed grain, the balance of omega-6 and omega-3 is seriously disrupted. There is an imbalance towards omega-6, which provokes inflammation. I feed my cows grass, and in the winter we give them hay, it is fermented, and also a new product that I am experimenting with is sprouted barley seeds, they pounce on them like piranhas. Sprouted barley is such a  The type of food they can feed animals with it is super healthy to grow it is very inexpensive it takes 7 days this is a good replacement for grain feed for cattle in the products of a regular burger contain a lot of sodium over 1000 milligrams in one burger I am not against sodium but I prefer it in the form of sea salt they are just sodium and many people have a potassium deficiency if you consume a lot of sodium with a lack of potassium it is very hard on the kidneys so if you eat a lot of sodium balance it with potassium and sodium should be in the form of sea salt there are also other factors for example glyphosate it is in the range of corn and soybeans that animals are fed glyphosate is a herbicide that destroys soil and is also very harmful to the body it can make the soil infertile since we are talking about soil let's talk about antibiotics more than 80 percent of all antibiotic sales come from livestock probably because animals are fed grain and it causes a lot of problems with their digestive and immune systems in 2018 there was a study of burger establishment products in  23 of the 25 establishments reviewed had traces of antibiotics found in meat. The use of antibiotics on animals is bad because it increases antibiotic resistance. That is, the longer chronic exposure to an antibiotic lasts, the higher the animal or person's resistance to it, and then it no longer works on them, and we have a population of super pathogens that now have nothing to kill. There is some rather unpleasant data from the onion below showing that antibiotic resistance in animals can be transmitted to humans. These antibiotics are called non-therapeutic. In general, most antibiotics come from microorganisms in the soil, namely bacteria or fungi. These microorganisms are very smart, because they created this antibiotic to kill the most dangerous pathogens in the soil. This is their way of survival and maintaining control. When we interfere and destroy the soil, we sterilize this environment, destroying all antibiotics, and now pathogenic microbes and fungi can flourish. The real strength of the immunity of plants and our body depends on the immunity of the soil and the microorganisms living in it. The idea of ​​​​steaming the soil is really done; the soil is sterilized with boiling water. kills microorganisms and it takes four years for the soil to recover. These microorganisms are necessary to prepare minerals in the soil so that plants can absorb them and to grow food in soil that does not have these microorganisms, you will have to add fertilizer and a lot of minerals to it so that it becomes fertile again. Of course, no one adds all the minerals. They usually only add 3A EFCO nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Our food comes from these soils. Animals are fed from them and we eat this. We lack many necessary things in our food because the soil is so infertile. Now let's go back to burgers. They also put another chemical in burger meat to kill pathogens. It's called sodium deacetate. That's the icing on the cake. And of course, there's also sauce and mayonnaise and ketchup. They contain a lot of soy and corn syrup in the form of high-fructose corn syrup. And of course, French fries are fried in corn oil and the soda you get with your burger is also corn, that is, high-fructose corn syrup.  The syrup, not to mention the buns, is refined wheat flour and corn, because that's where the syrup comes from. They also add soy and beet sugar, which is gamma, and a little bit of synthetic vitamins. All of this is mixed with a dough improver to give the buns a nice texture, but otherwise, it's a treasure trove of health. In short, it's better to make your own beefsteak and only use grass-fed meat. If you need a BUN, it should be some kind of compatible one. But I want to show you another video I made about food you can make yourself, which will be pretty great. Here it is, take a look.