If pasta is so unhealthy, why do Italians live so long? Even if it's not all over Italy. In the north of Italy there's a region called Liguria, people there live longer than anywhere else in Europe. And in Sardinia, the second largest island off the coast of Italy, it's in the blue zone, people live the longest, equaling the Japanese in longevity. Note that I'm not saying that people live longer in all of Italy than in other countries, but these two regions have the most centenarians. And here's another interesting point: out of more than a thousand residents over 105 years old, 951 are women, that's 87 and two tenths of a percent. The reason for this is estrogen. Estrogen can serve as an antioxidant, reducing the effects of free radicals and DNA damage in the mitochondria. I recently went to Italy and talked to a woman from Sardinia. It's often said in books and the news that Sardinia is in the blue zone. Everyone has their own opinion about what the locals eat. Soon you'll know for sure what they eat in Sardinia. There will be no more secrets. I think it's time to tell you things.  You might be surprised, but before I show you the recording of the conversation, I want to talk about pasta. What's the difference between pasta in Europe and specifically in Italy? There's no glyphosate in it. Wheat in the US, however, contains glyphosate. It's part of the weed killer Roundup. In the US, this type of wheat isn't considered glyphosate. At home, I only pollinate organic wheat, but in Italy, glyphosate is n't used. The controversy surrounding glyphosate claims that it doesn't affect our genes. Okay, but it definitely doesn't spare our bacteria. Many bacteria live in our intestines and throughout our entire body. In my opinion, more than a hundred trillion different bacteria live inside our body, which is more than two heifers of microorganisms. So, glyphosate definitely affects the genetics of these bacteria. We depend on them just as they depend on us. They're part of our internal environment. Using glyphosate can undoubtedly create many problems for the intestines. Also, the wheat from which pasta is made in Italy isn't enriched with iron and synthetic vitamins. The iron in our bodies easily oxidizes, causing harm. Our bodies are not able to remove iron from the body. Excess iron leads to many problems, especially in men because men do not menstruate. But women who have already passed menopause are at risk of accumulating a lot of iron in the body if they eat wheat produced in the USA. Unlike bread, pasta is made from hard wheat, not soft wheat. Hard wheat has more protein and is digested very slowly. What 's interesting is that because of its high density, pasta will not cause a spike in blood sugar at first. It has a glycemic index of 45 to 50, while bread has 70. But the problem is that you check your blood sugar after two or three hours. Sometimes after 4 hours you will definitely see that it has jumped. Therefore, I do not recommend pasta. I just want to say that the quality of pasta in Italy is much better than in the USA. This is probably why people go to Italy and don't eat pasta there and don't get bloated. Now let's move on to my conversation with a woman who lived in Sardinia. I am with a young lady from Sardinia. Were you born there before I was born Moliere, and when?  You left Sardinia when I was twenty twenty, so tell me what types of food they eat in Sardinia. Well, we eat a lot of meat, a little, well, pork, pork meat, pork is amazing, it's more organic. Yes, we eat pork, pork is wonderful, fish, and what kind of different fish? Sea bream, sea bass, shellfish, lobsters. In the north, they eat lobster. Sunda. I love lobsters. Great. Vegetables, vegetables, of course, they're very tasty. Artichokes are great. And a lot of artichokes, great. And a lot of sugar in this. You eat no sugar, not very much, even for dessert. No, no. Sweets here are not very sweet, just a little bit. Pasta, not very much, not very much. What about bread? Yes, we eat bread, a little bit or a lot, in different ways, not very much. Okay, and olive oil, olive oil, in Sardinia, it's wonderful olive oil, it's not like in Tuscany. What else? Well, we drink mirta liqueur there, and what is mirta? It's a digestif, it's made from, how can you say, berries.  There is a lot of myrtle in Sardinia, the berries are very tasty, and what about people living there for a long time, but they spend a lot of time preparing homemade food, perhaps it was like this in the past, women spent much more time in the kitchen preparing food for the whole family, now we spend less time on this, but we still enjoy cooking food to prepare different dishes for the whole family, amazing, how old are you, I'm almost 49, never ask a woman her age, it's bad form, and your grandmother is still alive, no, how old was she, she died in 1992, she looked young before, she looked very young, like my mother, great, here's another question, what is your stress level in Sardinia, is it high or low, no, the stress level is very low, and I think that's the whole secret or part of the secret, cool, and before, the absence of stress, life there is very calm and no rush, it's an island, yes, that's right, so you live on an island, eat a lot of fish, take your time, don't get nervous, eat vegetables and healthy food, and there are so many places in Italy, in my opinion, maybe in Sardinia, even the water  The water there is different, not like everywhere else. Do you drink water straight from the tap or does it need to be filtered? No, I did that when I was young, I often drank straight from the tap. Now I don't. Tell me, do they drink wine there? Yes, they drink wine. They drink wine. Sometimes they overdo it or not. No, they drink very little. I'm looking for beer. They drink beer, it's in Sardinia and they get rid of it themselves. No, they don't brew beer at home, but many companies brew beer there. Excellent beer. What about pesticides and GMO products? Are there any there or not? I don't think so. It's a lot. Not very many. You need to go to Sardinia. Be sure to ask around. They preserve their culture. The culture there remains unchanged, it's not getting closer to American culture. No, no, no. The people there preserve their culture. They cherish the island's heritage. We live on an island, so in the past we rarely had contact with other countries. Year, it's clear. It's just amazing. It's crazy. They preserve it. You understand. They preserve it. They preserve their culture. They preserve traditional culinary recipes, even vegetables and other plants. You know, great, that means soon I  I'll move to Sardinia and stay there. It's interesting, though. This woman definitely doesn't look forty-eight or forty-nine. But did you hear what she said about pork? You see, we're told that pork is very unhealthy, but they eat much more pork. They also eat fish and shellfish, which are full of maidenhair iodine, selenium, zinc, and copper. All of this wonderfully slows down aging. Vegetables: artichokes, low sugar, few desserts, and not much pasta. A little bread, a little wine, of course, and a little beer. Of course, olive oil and a digestif. It's made from berries that help the process. 1000 jam, low stress, lots of walks. Perhaps that's how they burn these carbohydrates. It's incredibly difficult to pinpoint exactly what makes sardines so popular. So, my question is for you. Look at this list, or perhaps something else, and write in the comments what, in your opinion, has the greatest impact on the longevity of those living in the Blue Zone. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.