It's sad that people no longer drink cod liver oil the way your grandmother may have given it to you before. But we don't do it that way anymore. Cod liver oil is a superfood. And now I'll explain why. It contains four very important substances: omega-3 fatty acids reduce inflammation, support brain health, and nerve cells. Deep research on omega-3s shows that their benefits are significant. The problem is omega-6 fatty acids are seed oils, and they compete with omega-3s, which many people end up lacking. But cod liver oil has two more things: It's a good source of vitamin D, and also a good source of vitamin A. I talk a lot about vitamin D on my YouTube channel and in my course. Today, I want to devote more time to vitamin A so that you understand its role. By the way, cod liver oil and fish oil are not the same thing at all. If we want to get vitamin A from sardines, then compared to cod liver oil, you will need to eat more than 200 grams of sardines. If we compare it with salmon oil, then its  You will have to drink five times more than cod liver oil. Dr. Price, a dentist, wrote an excellent book. The link will be below. He talks about the diet of ancient people. Some drank cod liver oil, and he recommends consuming this oil together with butter. Grass-fed butter contains a lot of vitamin K2. Cod liver oil is very useful for children and pregnant women. It has a beneficial effect on the structure of teeth. If you lack any of these substances, you may have to wear a brace. Perhaps bones. These fat-soluble vitamins are essential at an early age for the formation of the skeleton in a child. Sources of KD are butter and grass-fed cheese, egg yolks, and sauerkraut. As for cod liver oil, sometimes people do not like its smell or taste. This smell is created by fish protein. Cod liver oil does not contain many toxic metals because lye metals do not accumulate in fat. Cod liver oil is made mainly in Norway. Another important point is that algae also contain omega-3, but they do not contain either vitamin A or  Vitamin D and I definitely do not recommend this source for children consuming all this, the nursing mother herself passes it on through breast milk, which is ideal for the child, at the same time, it is claimed that you can get vitamin A from vegetables and fruits is not true. Unfortunately, the Food and Drug Administration allows some manufacturers to officially call beta-carotene vitamin A, although this is not true. Right now, the most common autoimmune disease on Earth is Hashimoto's disease. There is a very strong and clear relationship between vitamin A deficiency and hypothyroidism, especially autoimmune hypothyroidism, because receptors for vitamin A, retinol, are found directly in white blood cells. Vitamin A also helps regulate iodine and, among other things, vitamin A directly affects the mucous membranes in the mouth, sinuses, throat, and lungs. That is why it is so important for protection against infections, and even the condition of the roots of the microvilli on the inner lining of the intestine depends on vitamin A. The word Retinol, the name of vitamin A, comes from the Latin retinalamine. I personally do not like liver, but cod liver oil is for me.  Suitable if you don't like the taste, you can find this oil in capsules. I won't go into detail about the role of vitamin D. I've already talked a lot about this. Without vitamin D, which many people lack, a person does not absorb calcium and magnesium. If you eat beans and other legumes, especially oats, you will get a lot of phytic acid. This increases the need for vitamin D. Therefore, I classify cod as a superfood. It is very difficult to find a product that contains all the fat-soluble nutrients and not in the form of precursors, but in the active form of vitamin D, vitamin A and amazing omega-3 fatty acids. If you are concerned about immunity and inflammation, consider cod liver oil. You know what superfoods are. These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, increase immunity and energy. You will also find notes, recipes and additional materials. Follow the link below to join. Dr. Berg's course for healthy eating