I will tell you eight reasons why magnesium can help you sleep like a baby. Magnesium is a very important element, it is involved in many biochemical reactions, more than 300 enzymes, that’s 300 different functions. One of the important properties of magnesium is that it can improve the quality of sleep in eight different ways. Look, first, magnesium increases serotonin levels, which increases melatonin levels, a hormone necessary for sleep. The higher the melatonin level, the better a person sleeps. Serotonin is also very beneficial for mood, it helps reduce stress levels. Second, it increases the level of GMA, a neurotransmitter, it promotes relaxation, it helps to relax, especially if you are trying to sleep. Third, magnesium helps lower adrenaline levels. Adrenaline is part of the fight-or-flight mechanism. It provokes a sympathetic nervous system response. With high levels of adrenaline, you will not fall asleep because you are in adrenaline stress mode. You can try to fall asleep, but it will not work. Fortunately, magnesium can help lower adrenaline levels. Fourth, magnesium is extremely important for muscle relaxation, not only skeletal muscles, but also the muscles of the digestive tract.  If you sometimes experience stomach pain or cramps after eating, magnesium can help. Let's say you have a cramp in your leg or foot. Magnesium can be very helpful in this case. 5. Magnesium can help reduce inflammation. It lowers C-reactive protein levels, so inflammation is reduced. It's hard to sleep when you're in pain or suffering from inflammation. 6. Magnesium alleviates restless leg syndrome. It really bothered me when I was two. I had to literally get out of bed and go running to burn off the energy that was in my legs. 7. Heart problems are reduced. With magnesium, more oxygen will flow to the heart. Angina will ease. It's hard to try to sleep when you have angina. Magnesium is also excellent for arrhythmias. The less you're bothered by heart rhythm problems, the better your sleep will be. 8. Magnesium helps reduce cramps during PMS. What are menstrual cramps? They are spasms of the muscles located in the walls of the uterus. Magnesium can significantly reduce cramps, and if there are fewer cramps, especially at night, the quality of sleep will improve. If you haven't seen my other videos about magnesium, here they are, watch them.