Today we'll talk about how to stop flatulence. The average person, according to authorities, farts about 5-15 times a day without odor. Some might think I fart more, or I fart less, or I'm not scaring you at all, but we're talking about the average person. It's like if I said that the average person eats sixty-five kilos of sugar a year. For example, I don't eat sugar at all, and some people eat a lot of sugar, some a little. But we're looking at average values. So, a person usually passes gas on average from 5 to 15 times a day. It happens that gases can come out more often, depending on what you ate. For example, if you're in college and ate beans with chili, you might experience flatulence. I personally had similar problems when I was 30. I tried to become a vegan for a few months and never succeeded. But if you already have a problem, now I'll show you what to do to solve it. Since we're talking about flatulence, I should bring up the topic of cow flatulence. Their burps. If you search for flatulence on the internet, there are many pages.  First, it will be about how cows fart and burp, releasing from 160 to 320 liters of methane per day and that this is the cause of global warming and all that stuff, but if you delve into all the data and research, you can find a lot of interesting things that will refute this theory and provide missing information that is not mentioned when talking about this topic. I will leave a link to the next study below. From 1990 to 2007, the global cattle population on the planet, namely cows and buffalo, increased by 125 million heads and during all this time, the amount of methane emitted did not increase by a liter, but this is always missed when talking about this topic. Again, when evaluating any information, you need to look at the whole picture to come to the right conclusion. The world is full of things that emit much more methane than cows, and so what causes flatulence? There is a certain fiber, certain carbohydrates in the form of sugars and starches, which are then fermented. Bacteria live on these sugars and fiber and eat them.  That is, this is their food, then as a by-product, bacteria release hydrogen and thus methane. This process should occur in the large intestine, it should not occur in the small intestine. When it occurs there, siber, a syndrome of excessive bacterial growth, appears, and this creates a lot of gas and causes a lot of problems. One of the causes of siber is a lack of stomach acid. One of the main causes of gas is a lack of acid in the stomach, and with age, stomach acidity becomes lower. Acid is lost when taking antibiotics. Acid is also lost when taking antacids. Many things can cause the stomach to lose its acidity if the stomach does not have the necessary page, namely, between one and three, and this is very sour. Food is not completely digested. When this happens, everything below the stomach desperately and painfully tries to digest this food. This puts a strain on the pancreas and the production of enzymes in it, on the gallbladder and the release of bile, and in general on the functioning of the small intestine, and then fermentation occurs in the small intestine. I repeat, this is called siber. At this stage, a person can eat fiber, even vegetables, he will still swell like a balloon.  and he is perplexed, like, I eat healthy and wholesome food, why do I feel so bad, very serious bloating, pain and gas, and the fact is that the bacteria are not where they should be and fermentation occurs in the wrong place. Here is the solution for a lack of acid in the stomach: betaine hydrochloride, the chlorine in it will help restore hydrochloric acid in the stomach, which includes chlorine, this product helps produce acid in the stomach. Betaine hydrochloride is sold in tablets, you can take a couple of tablets and the changes will be small. I recommend taking more. Sometimes you need to take 6, 7, or 8 tablets at a time to achieve the desired effect, especially in the beginning, over time, you will need less and less because the body will begin to cope on its own, and then it will no longer need help. I also recommend several herbs for digestion and convince. It helps not only get rid of gases, but also release bile, release enzymes, and also cope with spasms of the small intestine or with heaviness. It helps relax the intestines and digest food. Mint is also good for digestion, as well as dill and apple cider vinegar.  Vinegar is beneficial. So-called reliable sources on the internet say there are no studies proving the benefits of apple cider vinegar for digestion. But personally, I don't care what they say. I know that it works, and I've seen it myself. I've tested it on patients, and it's helped many. And who would spend money on research on apple cider vinegar? No one would give money for this, except perhaps the apple cider vinegar companies. Most research on the digestive system is sponsored by big pharma. A drug manufacturer is the only one who can afford research on digestive problems, not some ordinary person who wants it. But there is research on how acetic acid slows down digestion. Enzymes in the small intestine can begin to work and help with more complete digestion. The faster food moves through the gastrointestinal tract, the less complete digestion will be, for example, with diarrhea. Yes, it can pass through the body undigested in transit. But if something slows down digestion, for example, apple cider vinegar and a sufficient amount of fat in the diet, then gastric juice and other juices will be able to digest food normally and there will be no problems with gases and excess methane.  bloating and other related symptoms, so betaine hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar are excellent at reducing flatulence and can even eliminate it completely. Now let's talk about food intolerances, for example, lactose is not an allergy, but simply an intolerance because the body does not have enzymes to process milk sugar. Dairy products will cause gas. Many people have problems with this. You can take enzymes or simply avoid dairy. Next, gluten. Many are allergic to it, and some are simply intolerant to it. This can cause bloating, gas, pain, arthritis, and so on. But there is good news. If you follow a healthy diet, you wo n't have such problems because we don't eat gluten or grains. In principle, with any intolerance, you can always take more enzymes. Probiotics so that they enrich the bacteria so that they produce more enzymes. I also found that if a person has an allergy to a certain food, probiotics help alleviate it. Then they go to so-called gas-causing foods, for example, fruits, beans, legumes, starch, and things like potatoes and cereals, certain sugars.  Cruciferous vegetables, such as Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cabbage, onions, and garlic, cause gas in some people. Others can eat them without problems. But if you're on a ketogenic diet, you won't eat fruits, legumes, starch, or sugar. So, in that regard, everything is fine. If you have problems with cruciferous vegetables, eat other vegetables that do n't cause gas, such as lettuce, cabbage, tomatoes, zucchini, olives, and avocado. So, eat more of these vegetables. In general, when I recommend a healthy diet, I recommend eating more greens and vegetables. However, some people don't have enough bacteria to handle that amount of fiber. You need to start little by little, but many start right off the bat with a huge amount of greens and no problem. Fiber is needed to feed the bacteria, and it also provides potassium, magnesium, vitamin C, and phytonutrients. All of this can help a person and improve health. But the new level is the fourth sugar, alcohol, and when a person starts a ghetto, he definitely knows about all these new cool desserts like Tetta cookies.  and decide to lean on them all these chocolates with all sorts of ketogenic-compatible fiber like corn fiber dextrin which is supposedly considered compatible but they can provoke gas formation inulin is such a glove can cause gases and it is contained in many ketogenic-compatible products then come sugar squirt and like and xylitol monito retreat which can cause gases in many people if you have an intolerance to these sugar alcohols you will immediately understand this when switching to ketogenic many people switching to ketogenic start to eat a lot of things I recommend first carefully try everything little by little personally I use xylitol not gamma I constantly add it to coffee every day and everything is fine it does not cause me any problems I wanted to mention sugar alcohols and because they can cause flatulence 5 chewing gum especially if you live and with your mouth open so you will swallow a lot of air the same if you eat with your mouth open so you swallow a lot of air and this causes gas and so eat  Keep your mouth closed, and if you chew gum, do it with your mouth closed as well. Sixth, soda. There are many sodas that can increase the amount of gas in the body and lead to flatulence. Before you go, watch my video about apple cider vinegar, which has already gotten a lot of views. Be sure to watch it if you haven't seen it yet. Here it is.