Hello everyone, Today we have a very special guest, I want to introduce you to something that I am extremely interested in right now. This is a new topic. I have never talked about this or made a video about it. I want to gradually introduce you to this because this is the future of medicine and it is called metabolomics. Metabolomics is not fiction. Such a subject exists and it is quite young. I will conduct an interview with my doctor who examined me and my family. He is a very authoritative doctor and he is not just a doctor, he has a degree in metabolomics. This is Dr. Tsoukalos. Greetings, Doctor. Thank you very much for the introduction and for your kind words. You are in Greece, so we will talk via video link. In America, there are not many doctors who do this now, but you no longer conduct examinations. You personally have a team of doctors who do this. That is, you are a trainee. What is metabolomics? Metabolomics means that the suffix "omic" means similar. The science of molecules with similar properties. If we are talking about the study of genes, it will be genomics, the study of proteins - this is proteomics, the study of small molecules involved in chemical reactions. Metabolomics is a discipline that is part science and part medicine. In fact, it is a combination of biology and medicine. It studies small molecules involved in all reactions in the human body that are related to energy, cell structure, hormones, protein metabolism, glucose, amino acids, and so on. So, let's say someone goes to the doctor and takes a routine blood test, a complete blood count, or some other test. We then compare its results with the results of metabolomics. The tests that doctors perform aim to diagnose a disease, a malfunction of the body. Well, that is, simply put, a pathology, but not a deviation from normal function that is not a disease. If the test results are outside the acceptable range, we say that this condition is a disease. Metabolomics allows us to identify dysfunction years before they become a disease. The main difference is that not every deviation from the norm in metabolomics is a disease, but it can become a disease in the future. In fact, metabolomics allows us to identify a lack of dysfunction at the molecular level even before they become a disease.  When I studied biochemistry in college, of course, no one understood it. It was very difficult. There are many biochemical reactions without which no process in the body can do. There are all sorts of enzymes and everything else. What is inside the cell? You can clearly imagine, show a picture and see what is happening in the mitochondria, the Krebs cycle and all other pathways. You see all this biochemistry in real time and at different stages. Now we can finally see each stage of this biochemical machine. We can see in which part something is blocked. That's right. Yes, absolutely right. I don't know if you can see it. Yes, a diagram of human metabolic pathways. A complete diagram of human metabolic pathways. At the moment, over 80 small molecules have been identified that are created inside the human body. These molecules are called metabolites and they give us information about how the body actually functions. What's very interesting here is that the body needs over substances such as vitamins, minerals, amino acids, fatty acids, even probiotics, enzymes. And so on. They are needed for the body to function normally and be healthy, and what we really need is that we actually need to figure out what will happen.  correct What is the correct amount and proportion of these elements of nutrients that are necessary for life, but here is the difficulty. We can measure the amount of these elements, vitamins, and so on, in the blood, and this is a more accessible, easier way to measure it, but the body tries to maintain a stable level of these nutrients in the blood, so measuring the level of calcium in the blood will not reveal a calcium deficiency throughout the body, because calcium is in the bones anyway, so the body will simply take it from the bones and send it into the blood. The same thing happens with other nutrients in the body, so we cannot detect a lack of nutrients until it is too late. We will see low levels of vitamins, low or high levels of calcium, and so on. But only when it is already very late, when the body has actually exhausted all its internal resources, it is already very difficult to improve health and change something. Let me pause here. Yes, of course, I want to understand this, because it is simply amazing. Let's understand this by the time some deficiency manifests itself in the blood, often, let's say, there is some kind of acute deficiency, not just subclinical, and people live for themselves. And they think, Yes, nothing, a blood test is not normally the best suited for  assessing the condition of the body because the body is constantly trying to keep the blood composition unchanged, so metabolomics Now it can After all, if you think about it, take zinc, for example, zinc is needed for hundreds or even thousands, for several thousand metabolic pathways If you conduct metabolomics in all of them, you see low levels of zinc After all, all these nutrients or cofactors ensure the transition from one stage to the next, and you can immediately see what is really happening Did I understand correctly, yes, absolutely right, zinc is involved in about 2,000 chemical reactions inside the body, and magnesium in about 00 reactions inside cells and another 315 reactions outside cells But in fact, if you want to know if there is a lack of magnesium or zinc in the body, then you don’t need to examine all 615 chemical reactions, you need to examine only a few reactions that are markers of deficiency or sufficiency of magnesium, zinc, and other nutrients So, we examine precisely those markers that show the whole picture and allow us to identify the deficiency or sufficiency of nutrients, which is what we really want And what we need is to identify the ideal ratio and amount of those same 160-plus nutrients that need to be provided to a specific  a person through food and nutritional supplements to achieve the most optimal functioning of the body as possible Amazing Because you have You as a doctor use this incredible analysis to see the real state of affairs as a whole and then correlate it with nutrition You pay a lot of attention to nutrition and you I want to tell people about a few things that you discovered For example, I eat pretty healthy food but it turned out I need to pay attention to a few things firstly, I had very low B3 levels which is interesting because B3 is not needed for certain biochemical pathways you know because I train extremely hard Sometimes I'm on the verge of overdoing it Rena you understand yes yes I need more B3 I need more B3 I need more vitamin C glutathione and also several others and you were able to look at my you compiled my lifestyle my stress level my diet and found out what I'm lacking And you can even assess the level of toxicity but I think this I wish more doctors did this firstly When you go to a doctor in America He does an analysis but is he interested in your diet no is he interested in your nutrients no ONT that he only looks at  based on symptoms and prescribes medication, you also said that certain medications can improve the functioning of these pathways and this is very mildly, but they can actually harm biochemical pathways. This is true, but in reality, in your case, it is not a lack of nutrients, but an increased need for them. That's it, because your body probably has much more vitamin B2, B3, or glutamine than someone else, but your need for them is greater because what you do, your activity, increases the need for them. We could examine an athlete or someone who has a very stressful lifestyle and see that some pathways are blocked due to an increased need, not because of a lack. And if we examine other fluids, say, like blood, urine, saliva, or something else, there may even be more nutrients than someone else, but the need for this nutrient in this person is different. This applies to tests of routine tests, common tests. They are certainly necessary, and we need to make a diagnosis, identify a dysfunction in a person, but ultimately, this will only eliminate the symptoms, and this is not I do not think that this is something bad.  If you are a limiter with this, after all, if I have a patient, say, with rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis or autoimmune thyroiditis, and I need about 2 to 2 years to bring him to this point, I cannot tell him to suffer for 2 to 2 years and live with inflammation and pain while I bring him back to normal and optimize his paths. So, diagnostics and most anti-inflammatory drugs are needed to maintain quality of life, to control inflammation, pain, symptoms, but it is not enough to do only this, and I think we have developed this practice also because over the last century, the main problem was acute diseases. These were infectious diseases. Well, these problems were responsible for most of the diseases and deaths in the past. Well, 100 or 150 years, the average life expectancy was 35 years, and the main reason for this was infections and injuries that we could not do anything about. Today, we live more than twice as long; life expectancy has more than doubled. And in fact, this is an achievement more of engineering science than medicine, because the ability to control our environment, control temperature, and obtain clean water  create systems that process waste, the ability to control the temperature in our environment, the ability to also safely store food until we eat it, all this has allowed us to reduce to zero. Well, although not quite to zero, more than 100 years ago, deaths were caused by infections and acute diseases. And today, less than 8%, that is, 92% of deaths are caused by chronic diseases. And if in the case of an acute disease we need to take steps to stop the disease, then with a chronic disease this is not enough, such a disease cannot be stopped, we need to actively do something to improve health. In this way, we need both to happen simultaneously, we need to eliminate the symptoms, we need to make a diagnosis. We need to stop the progression of the disease, but we also need to restore the ability to supply the body with all the elements for its optimal functioning and everything. This should happen simultaneously. Yes, I think you hit the nail on the head, because what we lack is the creation of health. Yes, nothing in medicine creates health, we will eliminate the symptoms. And what about the creation of health? I think that this new examination method eliminates all the difficulties, because it gives very difficult when I practiced I did not have this tool. I want to study it, it was difficult to find out. And now  It's like car diagnostics, we connect to the database, we look at all these chains, about your problem, that's what we can finally do now and identify the problem in the body's biochemistry. This is very valuable, especially when you have to deal with complex problems. Most people have many problems, but what is their cause? In nutrition, in toxicity, in heavy metals, in pollution, in stress, in something else. You understand, and there is a danger of making an incorrect diagnosis and treating the wrong thing. So, I can tell you very well what this is. There is such a point. Well, you look at a certain pathway, you look at a certain nutrient, you look at some enzyme. Normal values, with which we now compare, say, the result obtained by someone in comparison with others. How were normal values ​​established based on the values ​​in sick people? There are existing establishments. What values are normal? This was probably one of the most difficult tasks because metabolomics was used mainly to diagnose dysfunction of congenital. Well, this means that a person has a deficiency of some enzyme without which the body cannot use some nutrient or metabolite, this nutrient or The metabolite accumulates and can be detected in human urine or blood, that is, in the presence of a metabolic inborn error of metabolism, the blood contains an extremely large amount of a certain metabolite and for diagnosis, you do not need to know a very narrow range of values. Well, for example, there is a metabolite called citric acid, this is the first metabolite in the Krebs cycle during which the mitochondria in our cells produce energy and it is believed that the normal level of this metabolite exceeds 2000, but 2000 is too much. Based on the example of many thousands of people examined, we saw that the blood circulation works perfectly. The level of this metabolite is from 67 to 171, this is a very narrow range. So, first of all, we need to narrow the ranges of the basic metabolite values ​​and compare them with the ranges in the majority of people. In healthy people who do not have any serious problems, but as you know, more than 90% of people have problems with metabolism. That is, excess weight, fatigue, and problems with the microbiome. Well, and much more, so it was very, very difficult to identify normal values. In the end, we realized that  In people with whom we worked and whom we helped to choose a diet, these values ​​even exceed the average value. What is called the average temperature in the hospital, so to speak, they reached an almost optimal state of health. Of course, with adjustments for heredity, environment and personality of a person. So, finding the ranges of normal values ​​was one of the most difficult tasks. We published the data. Of course, they were based on previous publications, of which there were many. It must be said that although the term metabolomics first appeared in 1998 in an open scientific article, today more than 8,000 articles have already been published in which the term metabolomics is mentioned, and every year more than 12 thousand new scientific articles appear on this topic. This is one of the fastest growing areas in medicine, and next year we will hear a lot about this area. In general, the difficulty is that it is not enough to identify a deviation from the norm of one element and correct it. Only this we need to correct everything at the same time. Imagine that there are two groups of people, and this is one of the main problems that we wrote about in one of the main British medical journals. Previously, we studied only one element at a time, one molecule, one drug, one Well, something, but let's say we took two groups of people.  to conduct a clinical trial and one group we give oxygen and the other group we give water in both groups people will undoubtedly die in the first from lack of water in the second from lack of oxygen is needed both we can't say that we conducted a clinical trial where one group received vitamin D and the other magnesium no improvement because they need both for vitamin D to work you need magnesium you need vitamin K you need boron you need B vitamins well calcium well and so on so the point is that every body needs 166 nutrients and they must be present at the same time we provide food and nutritional supplements and if a person takes some drug the drug complicates the biochemical picture it becomes more complicated because if a person really needs to take some drug and of course there are drugs that as I already said help with pain inflammation and other things but they block some metabolic pathway for there to be an effect you need to block something therefore something else this increases the need for something else therefore you need to provide more of some elements for the drug to be beneficial and to minimize its side effects this significantly improves  the result of treating a number of chronic diseases In general, the point is that you need to provide all the elements and when all this is provided, something changes in the body and a new examination is needed, because we have created new needs, this is not something static, this is something dynamic, and in a couple of months a new examination is needed, because metabolism is like a fire, we put wood in a small fire, but when the fire flares up stronger, then of course it needs more wood. Yes, we increase the need of metabolic pathways for something. After all, we provided nutrients and these pathways began to work better, metabolism became faster. We created a need for new additional nutrients and increased it, so it is very important to repeat the examination again and again, evaluate and adjust the diet and usually also taking the drug. This is what your system is, you have identified unique normal values ​​​​based on your own work experience, apparently, that is why you are now focusing on training doctors and creating a team to really understand this information, because this is a kind of learning cycle, it was necessary to go back and study biochemistry, and now you apply knowledge to the body and this makes them much more real. So I will simply explain to our viewers how your work is organized  You conduct one examination and then four more during the year. Yes, you conduct a new examination every quarter until everything stabilizes over several years. This is not a one-time examination. You repeat it every few months. Yes, in fact, for most people, the timing varies. It depends on the condition and speed. Most people reach an ideal metabolic state in about 2 seconds to a year, and most changes occur in the first 6-8 months. We conduct the first examination after 4 months, conduct the second and make adjustments, after 4 months, another one and make adjustments, and usually after the third examination and the third adjustment, we give those more time. We repeat for 8 months, and then once a year or two to maintain good health. And what I like is that you don’t even need to send a kit. A person collects material, dried blood spots and urine, freezes them, and sends them by mail. The study takes a couple of weeks, then you conduct a consultation. Well, I just wanted to introduce my viewers to metabolomics, which I think is the future of medicine, and it really is eliminating the real cause of problems. I wish I had this tool when I was practicing. After all, I acted  I just went blindly based on you feeling better. Okay, let's do a blood test. Yes, it looks like he's feeling better, and that takes us to the next level. So, I just wanted to, I know you have a lot of work today. I just wanted to take a little of your time and get this data to share with my viewers. Thank you so much for taking the time to do this, and I think if anyone wants to take this test, I'll give a link below in the description, you can follow it and do everything. Thank you for inviting me. Thank you, it was great, it was a pleasure talking to you. Mutually. Have a great day, bye too. Bye.