I want to talk about the nutrient that best increases collagen production. It's not vitamin C, although vitamin C helps produce collagen. No, it's something else. What is cold? It's a protein that binds various things together. Of the total amount of proteins in your body, 35 percent is collagen. It's the connective tissue of the body. Halogen forms cartilage, muscles, tendons, ligaments, eyes, fascia, this is the material that holds all the muscles together. It's located under the skin, right on the surface of the muscles. Collagen forms bones and even teeth. It's everywhere in the skin. It seems to me that many people are trying to increase collagen by eating it, but in fact, they lack something else. For today's conversation, I was inspired by this book I'm reading, it's called Soil, Grass, Iraq. The connection between human and animal health, as well as the mineral composition of the soil. It's a very interesting book. Nutrition. It talks about the connection between the meat of animals we eat and the soil on which the grass that these animals feed grows. If there isn't a certain mineral in the soil, it won't be in the plants that animals feed on, and it won't be in the meat of these animals that we eat either. So, the most important nutrient that increases collagen. Copper directly affects collagen production, prevents collagen loss, and influences the synthesis of elastin, a protein that maintains the structural integrity of collagen. This trace element is necessary in very small quantities, but is irreplaceable in enzymes involved in protein synthesis. The main role of copper-containing enzymes is structural integrity. If you have a copper deficiency, various problems can occur with your body's tissues. Firstly, it can lead to spinal curvature ( lordosis) in animals, for example, horses, but it also occurs in humans. This is an excessive curvature of the lower back, and the reason for this is that the body lacks structural strength. Body parts are not connected tightly enough, which can also manifest as loose skin. By the way, copper brings many additional benefits, including increasing the ability to stay in the sun longer. What about hernias below? I'll leave a link to one very good study. It demonstrated a link between the presence of hernias and a significant copper deficiency, and this applies to hernias of all types, from pokhavai to esophageal hernia of the diaphragm, because copper provides the structural integrity necessary to hold body parts together. It supports joints. If you have weak joints or they are deteriorating, it is possible that the cause is a copper deficiency. The same applies to muscles. They can be weak due to a lack of copper. Athletes who have enough copper are more resilient. They have more fluid in their bodies and can go longer without water for physical exercise. Collagen and connective tissues are very important. Joints, muscles, and everything else work here. The spinal disc in the lower back needs copper for greater strength, and blood vessels need copper to prevent varicose veins. All this demonstrates the connection between copper and collagen, but copper is useful not only in this. If you have iron deficiency and anemia, but also a lack of copper, taking iron supplements will not help with anemia. Copper is simply irreplaceable for the immune system for white blood cells, and in addition, it affects the size and shape of red blood cells. If you have a copper deficiency, this can manifest itself as increased sweating. Copper is also associated with melanin, which is responsible for color pigments, so a copper deficiency can lead to premature graying. In addition, copper is necessary for the brain, it can help you. Maintain balance in the dark or with your eyes closed. If you feel dizzy or light-headed when you close your eyes, you may have a copper deficiency. For example, you undress to take a shower, and this brief loss of light can cause you to lose your balance. Having it helps you keep uric acid levels under control. You need to have an organ and a stomach to remove fluoride. By the way, the more fluoride in the body, the less copper. Finally, copper helps warm the feet, probably because it helps carry iron, which is necessary for hemoglobin. Now let's see which foods are high in copper: liver, kidneys, oysters, crustaceans, shiitake mushrooms, and sesame seeds. What are the main causes of copper deficiency? Probably the main reason is that there is little copper in our soils, and this ultimately leads to a lack of copper in the food we eat. Copper deficiency also occurs in people who have had gastric bypass surgery. Another reason may be excessive intake of ascorbic acid, because it is only part of the vitamin C complex. Normally, copper, as an enzyme, should be part of the complex.  Vitamin C, but if you take only a lot of ascorbic acid, the whole complex can also lead to copper deficiency. Another common cause of copper deficiency is taking too much zinc. Recently, taking zinc in large quantities has become a craze, and it is often taken separately from a whole complex of trace elements, which includes having and excessive zinc intake over a period of time can upset the balance with copper and lead to its deficiency. In general, increasing zinc lowers copper, and increasing copper lowers zinc. Zinc and copper work together. This is why I always recommend taking trace elements in a complex. Excess sugar, especially fructose, can lead to copper deficiency. Alcohol can cause copper deficiency. Excessive fiber consumption also causes copper deficiency. I do n't mean the fiber from food that you get along with trace elements, but the so-called functional fiber, a recently invented food supplement that is found in supposedly ketogenic bars and other products. Since we are talking about Calloden, and probably many of you are interested in the topic of rejuvenation, this is the best video for the next one.