At one of the Keto Summits, Professor Benjamin Bickman gave a talk about ketones and this data is taken from his talk. If you want to know more about him, there is a link to his video below, it is in English. He talked about ketones and fat burning, and here is what really interested me: when we are in ketosis, our fat cells are very wasteful. A person with a slow metabolism has a very economical metabolism, he can spend very little fuel, but when a person enters ketosis, he uses a huge amount of fuel, he spends much more oxygen while receiving less fuel. Here is the best analogy that comes to mind. Let's say we are driving a car, but instead of gasoline, we poured fat fuel into the car's tank, and our goal is to get rid of fat fuel. So, when we press the gas pedal, we spend more energy, but let's say we also press the brake pedal, the car will soon stop. Therefore, more energy is needed to press the gas pedal harder to get the same amount of energy and get somewhere. This is exactly what happens in ketosis. We use much more fuel because we lose a lot of fuel, and great, because we need to spend  A lot of fuel. Here is one of the worst situations: a person weighing almost 140 kg goes on a diet and cuts calories to 500 and for some time he goes on a diet and then stops it and then he gets to the point where he trains and consumes 500 kilocalories but practically does not lose weight because his body has become so economical that a small amount of fuel is not enough with ketosis. The situation is completely different: a person loses a lot of fuel and he releases ketones with his breath and urine. This is why checking your breath or glucose levels gives such results: this is the loss of fat from the body. In the description of this video there are links to two studies. One study showed that ketosis speeds up metabolism, and the second showed that reducing carbohydrates in the diet does not necessarily even enter ketosis, but simply reducing carbohydrate intake speeds up metabolism because the main factor that controls metabolism is that insulin. If we cut carbohydrates or fast, insulin levels decrease, and a decrease in insulin levels speeds up metabolism. So, if you have a slow metabolism, you need to switch here so that the body becomes less economical and loses  More fat. To do this, you need to enter ketosis. For beginners, there is a link below on how to do this, it's very easy. This is very useful. There is absolutely no need to try to lose weight with a slow metabolism. You just need to understand the simple principle of entering ketosis so that insulin decreases and fat cells become more wasteful. Thank you, I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.