So this video is probably one of the most important videos I will ever make on the topic of health I didn't know what to call it so I called it that the most important antioxidant is melatonin they glutathione this is completely new information you have never heard of this this is very important information a few weeks ago I interviewed Dr. Roger Schwill it was an amazing interview about vitamin D at the end he talked about some little known studies on the use of vitamin D by the immune system and he said something that intrigued me it's probably not only about vitamin D if in the studies they used sunlight they only used vitamin D then the result would apparently be much better then he sent me a scientific article that completely amazed me I'll leave the link and this video a summary that is the article and so people want to live as long as possible why do people die the vast majority of people die from heart disease this is the leading cause of death the second reason is cancer and the third reason why people die is related to metabolic diseases like diabetes or Alzheimer's it depends on the country living, but usually it is some underlying cause associated with metabolism, but all of these causes of death have something in common. They are all mitochondrial diseases. In other words, some kind of dysfunction destroys mitochondria. Cancer cases begin in the mitochondria. The mitochondria is damaged, and then this cell turns into a cancer cell. In heart disease, there is great damage from free radicals due to a high-carbohydrate diet, smoking, or severe oxidative stress. Then irritation or inflammation occurs inside their blood vessels. But this damage occurs in the mitochondria. If you look at what the problem essentially is, this is what we see: excessive oxidative stress or damage from free radicals. Normally, the human body must protect itself from this, and it protects itself from this with the help of antioxidant networks. There are enzymes that act as an antioxidant, and one of them is glutathione. It is considered the most important antioxidant. But you know that melatonin is even more powerful and even more effective because melatonin is not only an antioxidant, it activates other antioxidants, including glutathione. Melatonin is twice as powerful as vitamin We know how important vitamin E is for the prevention of cardiovascular disease, and so melatonin is a very powerful antioxidant and it activates other antioxidants. Can you say wait a minute, I thought that melatonin just helps you sleep better? It is associated with circadian rhythms and helps cope with jet lag. You may have heard that melatonin is now used to strengthen the immune system. Now it is considered an immunomodulator that helps regulate the immune system, and of course, it is very effective against certain viruses. I will do without names, and there are many studies that show that melatonin is an extremely powerful anti-cancer compound. Perhaps you already knew this, but here's what you do n't know. There are two forms of melatonin. There is a type of melatonin that is found in the circulatory system and also in the pineal gland. The pineal gland produces melatonin when it is stimulated by darkness, but there is another type of melatonin, intracellular, that is, it is inside the cells. It is located inside the mitochondria, and here's why it is there. It helps protect against strong oxidation and damage from free radicals, which is typical.  For mitochondria, there are two forms of melatonin: circulating and intracellular. This melatonin in the mitochondria, which are located inside the cell, is the majority of the melatonin in the body. In fact, there is new data that indicates that the melatonin in the pineal gland is only a reserve supply in addition to the main mass. That is, if there is not enough melatonin in the cells, they take it from the pineal gland. If there is little melatonin in the pineal gland, this will affect sleep. The quality of sleep will be disgusting, inflammation will appear and there will be no protection from antioxidants. Because of this, a lot of problems can arise, not only poor sleep but also chronic inflammation. Chronic degenerative diseases, especially of the brain, there is a condition called evening confusion. It occurs in people with Alzheimer's disease and dementia. Apparently, when the sun sets, 45 percent of people with Alzheimer's disease and dementia experience severe anxiety and extreme fatigue. Why do you think that? Because they are running out.  Melatonin, they lack melatonin. You're probably completely confused right now, because melatonin is considered the hormone of darkness. Everyone knows that the absence of light stimulates its production. But there's new data, so if you've been distracted, come back now. There's something extremely important. The most powerful stimulator of intracellular melatonin production is near-infrared light, also known as sunlight. Certain wavelengths of sunlight stimulate melatonin in cells, and darkness stimulates melatonin in the circulatory system and pineal gland. More than half of the energy in sunlight is infrared waves. It's not just about the benefits of vitamin D from the sun. Have you noticed that sitting by a fire makes you feel very relaxed and then sleep much better? Because a fire emits infrared waves? Fires are very beneficial for your health. Why are you so relaxed? When candles burn in the house, infrared waves are present when you use incandescent lamps, which have been in use since the nineteenth century. The light emitted by an incandescent lamp, unlike light  LED lamps, which use a completely different technology, incandescent lamps contain infrared light, but unfortunately, the industry is stopping producing incandescent lamps. We have entered the era of artificial light, LED lamps, blue light lamps in computers and mobile phones. One very interesting study (I 'll leave a link below) showed that children who live mainly in artificial light develop a deficiency of gray matter, it is much more difficult for them to learn something. This also explains why infrared saunas are so useful and now many people buy infrared lasers and infrared ray therapy to get rid of pain, inflammation and improve sleep. So, melatonin is not only a hormone of darkness but also a hormone of sunlight. Another beauty of the sun is that even if you are wearing a hat, grass, clouds, and the earth perfectly reflect infrared waves, so you don't have to look at the sun from the outside. Reflected infrared light shines on us. I want to add something here now. I live on a farm and my two neighbors who help me a lot on the farm are over 60. Their diet not only leaves much to be desired, their diet is absolutely terrible. They live on sugar, one lives on tobacco, two smoke, so that's it. They are both outdoors all day long, I doubt they have computers, much less cell phones. They just work in the fields all day and they rarely get sick. They don't have any particular health problems. They are both very strong, but their food is terrible. They get a huge amount of antioxidants that reverse damage from oxidative stress from free radicals. I'm just curious to know what's important and what might be less important. I haven't really emphasized the importance of the sun for health simply because I haven't had this data on infrared light and its connection with increased melatonin levels. But apparently, in terms of therapy, being outdoors in nature in the sun is extremely important, perhaps as important as a healthy diet. Another beauty of infrared radiation is that it penetrates the skull. It's incredible. That scientific article said that it penetrates the cerebrospinal fluid, covering the entire brain and spreading throughout the spinal cord. It's crazy. This is another reason for people with Alzheimer's and dementia to be in the sun. And that's what's great: infrared waves protect against ultraviolet radiation. If you're worried about the sun causing cancer, I understand.  It's not about getting sunburned, it's about being outside and possibly getting the sun's energy reflected from the grass. The point is that red light helps produce a lot of antioxidants that can potentially protect mitochondria from complications associated with damage due to free radicals. Well, what causes the lack of infrared light? Artificial lighting, LED light, blue light, mobile phones, monitors. A person sits all day at home in front of a computer screen or at work, sits at a desk in front of a computer screen, and when he goes home, it's already dark outside, and so melatonin in sufficient quantities is important to protect against all this damage. It's not just about vitamin D obtained from the sun. It's about melatonin, and you can do something in addition to being in the sun more often. Buy an infrared lamp and direct the light of the near infrared region of the spectrum at yourself for 20 minutes before bed. This is already something. You can use incandescent lamps more often. You can make a fire in the fireplace more often, light candles, or sit by the fire. In general, I think this is an amazing topic, and by the way,  The interview I mentioned at the beginning is in my course on vitamin D. I invite you to my course on vitamin D, the vitamin of health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many illnesses. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these illnesses and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speech on longevity and health at the 2019 Te To Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you at the course.