Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. Let's discuss how to get rid of puffy eyes and bags under the eyes. First, I should say that cucumber slices will help you for a short time, as will creams and other things. The problem here is in the internal organs, primarily in the kidneys. A person is walking on the other side of the street. I see his swollen eyes and understand, "Ah, kidney problems. Kidney problems are always accompanied by liver problems. These organs suffer almost simultaneously. With very sick kidneys, there is no such thing as a healthy liver. They work together. The kidneys remove toxins. All the blood in the body passes through them. It's like an oil filter, only for blood. Let 's consider what's happening to the kidneys. First, you may be eating too much cooked protein. Too much protein. Let's say you had a huge plate of chicken wings or chicken fillet for dinner, but you have no vegetables at all. You have nothing to counteract the chicken. You simply eat too much protein, as a result, uric acid crystals and a lot of waste are formed. Because the body can only process a limited amount of protein. Anything more than that is just an extra burden on the liver and kidneys. So,  Excess protein is very harmful to the kidneys, we only need 85-170 grams of protein, we don't need huge amounts anyway. Excess protein and too few vegetables. People who have bags under their eyes and kidney problems usually don't eat vegetables at all. If you have such problems, start eating vegetables because this also has to do with the level of potassium in the body. There must be a certain ratio of potassium and sodium in the body, they work together. Fluid retention usually indicates excess sodium. When the body has a normal level of potassium, this is enough to remove sodium and fluid. We need 4 times more potassium than 3 times. But for many people, it's the opposite: they have 4 times more sodium than if they were like barrels of liquid. This can be seen in their ankles, there is always swelling there. But the situation is actually. Potassium is found most in vegetables, and by eating protein, you won't get enough potassium. Let's consider alcohol. Alcohol is not at all kind to your kidneys. It is not kind to your liver, there are bags on its conscience. Many people think that drinking alcohol regularly is normal. They drink one or two bottles of wine and think that everything is fine, but the question is, can you stop drinking? If not, You probably have an addiction, let's move on. Problems can be caused by monosodium glutamate, a flavor enhancer. Chinese restaurants love to add it everywhere, they hide it under the name modified food starch. There's a lot of sodium in it, but you can't taste the saltiness after such a meal. You'll be terribly thirsty, and the liquid will simply overwhelm you. It's a flavor enhancer that retains fluid in the body, and it also causes insulin to spike. Regular sugar and unhealthy food are harmful to the kidneys. We need four thousand 700 grams of potassium, which is 7 to 10 cups of vegetables. They often say I don't need a lot of potassium because it can supposedly harm the kidneys. Now I'll tell you the truth about glasses. If you're not on hemodialysis, if your kidneys haven't yet reached the last stage of renal failure, you can safely consume potassium. In fact, it's been proven that potassium protects the kidneys. Potassium doesn't harm the kidneys. Potassium is needed to protect them only when the kidneys are too sick and can't process potassium. It's not excreted from the body and begins to accumulate. You need a lot of potassium, but it's excreted every day. If the kidneys can't cope, the body gets too much potassium and this is dangerous for the heart, but I repeat, if you are on hemodialysis, you can't take potassium, but here's the cool thing, you don't even need to take supplements, you get everything from vegetables, and this is a safer way. Another cause of kidney problems can be an enlarged prostate. What happens is that when the prostate enlarges, it presses on the bladder from below, and now the bladder can hold less matcha than before. As a result, the matcha returns back to the ureter and moves towards the kidneys. What happens as a result, the kidneys cannot filter urine. The matcha returns to the kidney, which increases in size, so an enlarged prostate can also seriously impair kidney function. I had one patient, I performed only one simple acupressure with these points. You can work with them using a massager. What's interesting is that this area can seem very tense and painful. Don't press too hard, do n't stop. Many of my patients did this and then suddenly got rid of all the excess fluid in the body. It's simply incredible, but this is by the way. Kidney problems were discussed. Number two, we usually have blood sugar if a person has  Hypoglycemia, insulin resistance, or diabetes. He will have puffy eyes. This is because where there is sugar, there will be sugar. Therefore, there will be a lot of swelling. Ankles swell, hands swell, bags appear under the eyes. If you have problems with blood sugar, eat 85-170 grams of protein per meal, not too much, but do not completely give up protein. It is necessary, and 7 cups of vegetables is not that difficult. True, you may need more, but for starters, this will help normalize blood sugar and insulin levels. You also need a little healthy fat so as not to snack between meals. Below are several links in case this is your first video and you do not know how to normalize blood sugar levels. This is one of the reasons. Let's return to the kidneys. They work well if the diet is rich in vegetables and a little protein. By the way, one of the foods good for the kidneys is beans, and it's a funny coincidence that beans do not look like a kidney. Well, use what I told you. Thank you so much for watching. See you in the next video.