Hi all.  Today we'll start by answering questions on social media.  Strumble asks: "What do you think is the root cause of similar illnesses like Lyme disease, fibromyalgia, protracted COVID, and so on? Is there a connection between them? Well, Lyme disease is caused by spiracheta bacteria. There's something else I can't talk about here, or my channel will be closed. Let's call it a bacterial infection. Protracted COVID is caused by a virus. Original Dr. Berg's supplements are not available on Ozon and Wildberries. They sell counterfeits. Original products in the CIS can only be ordered from drbergstore.com. And both of these illnesses, viral infections, and even Lyme disease, have an interesting strategy. These microbes want to avoid our immune system. And the first thing they do is reduce the sensitivity of our receptors to vitamin D. Therefore, you need to increase the dose of vitamin D3, otherwise you will not get any benefit from it . One excellent way to get rid of some pathogens is intermittent long-term fasting. It triggers autofadue, and it cleans out some of the microbes. The factor that greatly aggravates these conditions is stress, especially the loss of a loved one. After all, it simply collapses the immune system. In general, many people are looking for different remedies for this. I am studying all sorts of proposals. Soon we will be able to find out which remedy is the best for solving this or that problem. So be patient. We are working on this right now. Yeah, this is ruining a lot of people's lives. And now we have a quiz question. Your floor, dog. True or false? In type 2 diabetes, 80% of the sugar in the blood does not come from food. We are waiting for your answers, friends. And we continue to answer questions on social networks. Asks Don Trumble what methylene blue is and where it is obtained and how it is useful or harmful, and if it is harmful. It is a dye, and it is one of the first drugs discovered . It is excellent for malaria, useful for neurocognitive problems. It is not at all like the food dyes of today. It is a completely different Chemistry. It has some very interesting therapeutic properties at low doses. There's some confusion about it . Some people say, "You can't take it, it only helps certain people." First, it's extremely important for restoring or improving the condition of mitochondria in those who have damaged mitochondria. And what percentage of people have damaged mitochondria? It's very, very high, and I'll name the metabolic disorders that methylene blue can help with. Schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, anxiety, depression. These problems usually involve mitochondria, and methylene blue sort of absorbs some of the electrons, the free radicals that are running around there. It holds them and allows the mitochondria to use oxygen to provide more fuel to neurons and the brain. And also Partinson's disease, Alzheimer's, type 2 diabetes, fatty liver, hypertension, and much, much more. If you have any of these, methylene blue will be helpful; you don't need a lot of it. I  I would take it a couple of times a week, among other things, and I would go on a low-carb diet, eat quality foods, take magnesium, vitamin D, Nomethylene blue - that's just the icing on the cake. Sorry, Steve, I shouldn't have mentioned cake in front of you. Anyway, it's an additional tool. Yeah, that's definitely a sore point. And now we have a question from Eson. We lost sound, but Allison typed her question and is holding it up to the camera, so I'll read it. I have fibromyalgia, type 2 diabetes, osteoarthritis, gargling, but I've had my gallbladder removed. I've lost 13k. Congratulations. In the 6 weeks since I cut out ultra-processed foods, started intermittent fasting, and went on a low-carb keto diet, should I do a vitamin IV or injection for a quick fix and then move on to vitamin pills? I think it would be good to do vitamin IVs as a temporary measure. You should  You'll feel much better, and then you'll realize that as the effect of vitamin supplements builds , the benefits will be similar. This way, you bypass potential intestinal damage that prevents nutrients from being absorbed. You bypass these barriers, deliver nutrients directly into the bloodstream, and you feel better. So, I think this will be helpful. I don't have a vitamin injection regimen, because I don't do them myself. But many people like this approach . Also, when you're taking nutrients for the issues you have, especially if you have any intestinal inflammation or have had intestinal damage in the past, which it seems you do, you need higher doses of almost all nutrients. Higher doses of trace minerals, B vitamins, vitamin D, magnesium, to overcome these barriers and achieve a similar effect. Then you'll be doing great. Many nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine throughout this entire eight-meter tube. Some nutrients  They're absorbed in other areas. As you heal your body with a proper diet, bile salts will help improve the absorption of fat-soluble nutrients . Bitaine hydrochloride will help with mineral absorption. Overall, I think you're doing the right thing, and I'd just add a few more nutrients, but vitamin injections will work quickly. Alison, thank you for your amazing resourcefulness. She's calling from Lancashire, UK. We also have Jason here with us, who also wants to ask Dr. Berg a question. But since we don't have audio, I'll read his question from the screen. I had an extended lipid profile, but they measured small LDL particles instead of large LDL. The result was high, 616 mg/Lt. Is small LDL particle count a good indicator of cardiovascular health? I found the range. Could you please move the question up, Jason, so I can read it? A little higher.  Are small LDL particles in the lab test? I can't make it out anymore. Is what I've read enough for you ? Yeah, that's enough. So, thank you, Jason. So, Dr. Phil, he's a cardiologist. I interviewed him. We'll leave a link to his website below. He has a lot of great data on how to interpret an extended lipid profile. Because there are small dense particles and large floating particles. Sometimes they're not separated in the test results. Sometimes they're listed together. Sometimes they're not listed all at once. And you have to count them yourself. We shouldn't have a lot of small dense lipoproteins, because that's what's bad for us. All of this is controlled by insulin resistance. And Steve, we've already answered the quiz question. No, we haven't answered it yet. Yes, we'll answer it after we talk to Jason. Okay. I'll say more when I answer the quiz question. It's on that topic. But the gist is this. If your small dense particle levels are high, then your insulin levels are too high. And If you lower your insulin levels, there should be fewer small dense lipoproteins and more large buoyant ones. And this will reduce the problem for the inner lining of the blood vessels. Yes, I'll leave a link to this doctor's website below. He's actually a cardiac surgeon. Check out his website. He has a lot of excellent information that will help you understand the test results. It really isn't that simple. I'll make a note to post the link below. Jason, thanks for the great question. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you of new videos. With this simple action, you will greatly help the further development of the channel. And we continue. Now let's see what viewers answered to the quiz question, which sounded like this. True or false? In type 2 diabetes, 80% of the sugar in the blood does not come from food. 92% believe this is true, and 8% believe it is false. That's an interesting question, tiv. In type 2 diabetes, 80% of the sugar comes from  Blood doesn't come from food. Where does it come from, Steve? I have no idea. This is crucial to know if you have diabetes or pre-diabetes. It's true. Most of that sugar doesn't come from food. The thing is, type 2 diabetes is caused by such severe insulin resistance in the liver that insulin doesn't work anymore, and the liver ignores the signal that insulin sends to it. Stop making sugar, yes, but it doesn't ignore the signal. Store fat, store fat, LDL, cholesterol, and so on. The liver ignores that signal and starts making sugar out of everything like crazy. That's why some people stop eating sugar, or don't eat any at all. Maybe they have pre-diabetes, and then they wake up with high sugar in the morning. Why? Because the body itself, the liver, is making it. And that only means one thing. The liver is so damaged by insulin resistance that the signaling mechanism is simply broken. So the sugar sensors in the body are broken, and the body creates more and more sugar. So, the solution is to eliminate insulin resistance. And to do that, you need to cut back on carbohydrates, Intermittent fasting, eating right, taking berberine, apple cider vinegar, and cinnamon. Exercise is very powerful. And be patient, because sometimes it takes months to get rid of But it is possible. And on my channel, you'll learn many ways to speed it up. Amazing. And now questions from social media. Elin from Facebook asks: "How to get rid of dark circles under the eyes?   You need to be in the sun, make sure you don't have anemia, and get enough sleep. All this is very important. Kimberly from Facebook asks if Spermedine helps activate autophagy and if there are any risks associated with it .  Have you heard of this?  Yes.  Spermedine is an excellent remedy for longevity and for enhancing autophagy.  This is confirmed by good research. So this is another tool in addition to fasting that can help you.  And that's all.  Thanks for watching and see you soon.