If your feet are cold, don't forget about iodine. I have several videos on this topic. Feet can be cold for other reasons, but iodine deficiency is definitely one of them. Let's talk about iodine deficiency and some accompanying symptoms. The first symptom is a slow metabolism. Your metabolism is highly dependent on iodine because iodine is part of thyroid hormones. Without iodine, the thyroid gland cannot function. The thyroid gland affects every mitochondria, which is the power plant of our cells. Without iodine, metabolism slows down, fatigue occurs, you will feel weak, hair may fall out, skin will dry out, and you will definitely feel cold. Learning problems are associated with iodine deficiency, especially in children. Low IQ is also associated with iodine deficiency, especially if the mother had an iodine deficiency during pregnancy. The child's mental abilities are directly related to iodine. It is extremely important for a pregnant woman to get enough iodine, but there is a problem getting the norm from food. It is problematic because the soil is depleted, so if you do not eat seafood, or help or supplements with iodine or trace elements  There may be a lack of iodine, this is a very important point. If a child has a deficiency in iodine, they will have problems with their studies. Iodine has many other functions, and one of them is to soften the effects of excessive amounts of estrogen. So, if there is estrogen dominance, j can help cope with this. Therefore, j is indispensable for ovarian gestosis or fibrocystic mastopathy. With excess estrogen in women, j can help reduce its level to normal. So, you know, on the planet, one billion five hundred and seventy- two million people are at risk of iodine deficiency, but it is needed not only for the thyroid gland, it is involved in many processes. Let's talk about good sources of iodine, kelp, what is special about it. Firstly, it has a lot of iodine, it is an excellent plant source, but it has a lot of other things besides iodine. Laminaria is rich in manganese, an important trace element. It has a lot of iron, which is deficient in many children in certain parts of the world. It has a lot of zinc, many elements, a lot of potassium and magnesium, and even calcium. Laminaria also contains vanadium, which is very  An interesting microelement. Animal studies have shown that vanadium acts like estrogen; it normalizes blood sugar levels. It also contains another natural substance, fucoidan, which has anti-cancer and anti-tumor properties. It's also interesting that kelp contains the pigment fucococcus santin, which helps with weight loss. It also contains alginate, a fiber that prevents the absorption of some fats, which also seems to help with weight loss, but this is not the key to weight loss. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, if you're new to the channel, follow the link in the description to learn more about chum salmon. Returning to cold feet. If you take kelp, you don't need to take it in large quantities. One capsule is enough. Take it early in the morning, not before bed, because it will give you a surge of energy and you won't be able to sleep. Take it for at least two to three weeks, because sometimes it takes time. But if you have an iodine deficiency and these symptoms are present, this might help. If you're cold, if you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.