The most frustrating thing is when you try to lose weight and do everything right, but it's all in vain. Your spouse is losing weight, your friends are losing weight, but you're not. And you think that I'm doing it wrong, then your friends and spouse will tell you all the possible reasons why they think it's not working. Usually, the reasons are wrong and it only gets worse. Incorrect diagnosis and all that. I have detailed videos on this topic about all the reasons why people don't lose weight. Today, I'll name another reason after which everything will become clear. If you have this problem, and you won't be left in the dark about what the reason is. It's true that dieting in the past slows down metabolism. It's true that the longer you have insulin resistance, the harder it is for you to lose weight. This factor also happens that people follow the right diet, this is a separate low-carb diet with intermittent fasting, and they do everything right, which is very important. Sleep is also very important. If you don't get enough sleep, your sugar will be disrupted, stress hormones will be elevated, and this can also prevent you from losing weight. It could also be due to other diseases. All these reasons are possible, but  There is another reason that I have not yet talked about in my videos. These are your genes. Your heredity is a very interesting subject. I will offer several solutions to the problem. If it is a matter of genes, I am now deeply studying genetics. There is amazing information that I will share in future videos. There is such a thing as a variant. A gene is essentially a blueprint that indicates the body. What to do? Genes can be influenced by various environmental factors, lifestyle factors, both positively and negatively, but in different people there are certain variants of certain genes that act differently. Some may have a fast metabolism, while others will have a slow one. Some burn fat more slowly, while others are able to burn fat quickly. Some are constantly hungry no matter how much they have eaten, they can still eat, while others get full very quickly. There are also different patterns of behavior. Take sweets, for example. Some, having started eating sweets, cannot stop, for some reason they just continue to eat them. And others prefer fatty foods. And some are more inclined to protein or exercise. Take two people. They train the same way. One loses weight, the other. No, this can upset you if you do not understand that a genetic factor could be at work here. You can regard this as a genetic  weakness, but it's not a weakness if you understand that the body always tries to survive as efficiently as possible for its environment. These are genetic variants, not errors, they simply arose in our genes a long time ago. But these genes do not help us in the environment in which we live today. Let's take metabolism. What advantage for survival does a slow metabolism give? Slow fat burning and a reluctance to spend it. While other people are slim and shiny and burn fat. What are the advantages of a slow metabolism? What if you look at the past? Thousands of years ago, let 's say in the cave era, then if you have a slow metabolism and you more easily stored fat and kept it longer, then you were the one who survived. People who did not store fat easily died out. But of course, in today's conditions, this does not help because we have a lot of food available. And what about someone who can't stop when they eat sugar, what is the advantage for survival here? Let's say, for example, you have little food and you walk through the forest in search of it and accidentally stumble upon a bee's nest full of honey and this is a lot of energy. True, you can get a lot of energy for survival by consuming all the honey that is there. You would hardly ate a little bit probably you would have eaten everything that was there and it would have helped you survive unlike someone who would not have eaten all these carbohydrates Because these concentrated carbohydrates then very easily turned into fat replenishing the mass of fuel that allowed you to live longer but this does not help in our conditions when there are so many different types of honey and other sugars around when I took a genetic test I had such a gene variant associated with sugar that once I started eating it I can’t stop this explains everything because I was one of those children who is ready to eat a whole mountain of sweets as if I needed to store it for survival thinking that tomorrow I won’t get to eat that’s the train of thought that was in my head and on Halloween we collected whole bags of candy I ate everything that same evening it’s just madness I did this for many years In our current conditions this can be very dangerous to health the problem with gene variants especially when it comes to losing weight is that now the conditions are different we no longer live in the environment where it became possible to survive I will give some advice on what should First of all, understand that you are probably doing everything right and it is not your fault, it will just take more time and more effort. You have genes that still work as if you lived thousands of years ago, although it is the 21st century. First, be patient. Second, you will probably have to very strictly monitor carbohydrates. Some people tolerate more carbohydrates easily. But you apparently do not. Third, you definitely need more fasting. Fast more often, fast for a long time, fast longer. This will help. This is a good way. This is the epigenetic action that controls your genes and helps you because you need to simulate the conditions of the past when no one ate three times a day. At best, they ate once a day or every other day. If you, like me, have a problem with sugar, then you will have to completely avoid sugar. Don't think that you can limit yourself to one piece because you will reach for more. This is one of the reasons why I don't eat sugar at all. I have enough knowledge and discipline to avoid it, but I can easily break down on sugar and it is scary to overeat it. At the same time, you will also have to avoid some sweet ketogenic treats and even sugar alcohols. They can come out on you.  sideways because the sensation of sweetness is still there, although it is definitely better than sugar itself and is good for adaptation if you still have a problem with satiety, you are always hungry and you enjoy the process of eating, you can cope with this by deeper immersion in ketosis when the body is completely adapted to fat and burns fat around the clock and you completely lose appetite, this is the best way to overcome appetite and of course you need to eat foods rich in nutrients then your cells will be full many people following Keto do not pay attention to nutrients Yes, the body feeds on ketones, but the ingredients in foods help you feel full if you tried an empty tomato or something else empty, take for example Daritos, you won’t eat one piece, you’ll eat the whole package, it’s such an empty food that you try to get full with it, but this is impossible because it has no nutrients at all, of course, there are flavor additives and monosodium glutamate, which stimulates hunger. And the last thing I want to say is that you may have to use many different tactics or methods that will give you an advantage, not just one thing, but many different tactics, this may include increased training more  intense training and recovery with each meal take apple cider vinegar once with water this will help blood sugar more sleep is very important berberine - This is a natural analogue of metformin useful for insulin resistance Add cinnamon these little things can make a big difference another point if you have a slow metabolism you do not need to consume as much fat as with a fast metabolism in this situation you do not need additional fats The fat that comes with protein is enough do not Try to drink more, there will be proof coffee at first you need it so that you can fast longer But over time it is better to reduce fats below 100 grams but not below 75 you do not need low-fat or high-fat food you need a medium-fat diet you need to understand that chum is a low-carbohydrate diet they are high-fat you cannot achieve deepening ketosis by increasing fats It's all about reducing carbohydrates And I would also avoid catering establishments Try not to go there because it's just a dump there is a lot of stuff that will bother you bread desserts Temptation quality of food is very important to control what you eat I repeat you know what you can  There may be a gene variation, you may need more time and you need to do everything much more strictly. If you need a detailed, structured plan on how to switch to a healthy Keto diet, I recommend this course. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.