Hi all.  We're back with answers to your questions about nutrition, keto, and intermittent fasting.  There are many people who want to ask a question.  So let's get straight to the point, without any long introductions.  The floor is yours, Steve.  I'm all for it. Alex YouTube asks how long one should take vitamin B1.  I take four doses a month.  Can I gradually reduce the dose or continue taking it? Apparently he meant a quadruple dose per day for a month.  It's one of those things.  I hope this helps you.  I would take it for several months to really eliminate the deficiency.  And see how you can get B1 from food.  Does your diet replenish it?  Count it.  We are being deprived of vitamin B1.  Things like stress.  alcohol, wine, tea, carbohydrates, starches, antibiotics, many things.  So it depends on your lifestyle.  If you drink a lot of coffee or tea, you probably need to take B1, say, one capsule a day, but you don't need to take high doses, especially if you're looking for a therapeutic effect.  So I think even vitamins can be taken in cycles to understand what works and what doesn’t. How are you feeling? Especially B1. This is the recommended daily intake of B1 a couple of milligrams.  This is a kuromnasmesh. These standards are outdated.  We need much more.  Unless you eat nutritional yeast or liver, getting enough of either from food is not easy, especially in today's society.   Is an overdose possible?  Does this happen? No, because it is water. Although there is also a fat-soluble form, but no, there will be no overdose.  It has no side effects that I know of, but if you drink the whole bottle, your stomach will definitely get upset. But I haven't heard of vitamin B1 poisoning.  But if you take large doses for a long time without taking other B vitamins, it can lead to an imbalance. In nature, vitamins do not exist on their own .  There are always cofactors that help absorption. It's like with vitamin D. It needs to be taken with vitamin K2 and zinc. magnesium. So, perhaps it's worth taking B1 along with other B vitamins. Excellent.  We continue to answer questions on social media, of which we have accumulated quite a few.  Someone on YouTube with the nickname "Podushka 1987" asks: What do you think causes lipoma and how can I get rid of it? This is a question.  I still don't know and I'm trying to find out.  I'm guessing it's due to some kind of encapsulated toxin.  It might be liver related. I haven't been able to figure it out yet. I've always been interested in this.  I looked for an answer to this, but I didn’t find anything logical, much less a way to get rid of them. Perhaps one day we will solve this mystery. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  These simple steps will greatly help you in the further development of your channel.  And we continue. Very good question from Harpreet from Facebook.  Which foods contain the most vitamin B2? B2 riboflavin.  It is found in many products. In eggs, in vegetables, in liver, in meat, in fish. What it is not in.  So the probability of its deficiency is very low.  Unless you eat a lot of junk food, a lot of refined food, a lot of refined sugars.  But this is not about you and me, so you don’t have to worry about it. Of course, this is not about us. Someone on YouTube with the nickname "Fly High" asks.  Which do you think is better for pain relief: DMSO or MSM? DMSO is what really helps. DMSO is absorbed into the body.  He is very much like a solvent.  You can smear it on the soles of your feet and immediately feel its taste in your mouth.  Metallic taste.  Some people use it for pain.  Some people add various agents to DMSO to help it deliver them to the tissues.  This is also a great way, worth trying. MSM dissolves well and is also good for arthritis.  I don't know which one works better, but here's the good news. Very soon, within months, we will be able to find out.  So subscribe and don't miss new videos.  Great.  And the first question of the day is from Rumble, asked by Mary Moore.  If any liquid, even water, causes bloating, is it a sign of SIBR? Thank you. Well, it's not water.  No, not water.  But if fiber or probiotics cause bloating, it could definitely be a sign of SIBS.  Sibir is when microorganisms are in the small intestine, where they don’t belong, they should be in the large intestine, and they begin fermentation. Yesterday I fed my braids. I have one lamb that lost its mother, but one goat took it under her care.  They go everywhere together. I feed this lamb raw milk from a bottle every day.  And then this goat, who had become his mother, came up to me.  And I see that she has a huge belly.   The goat's gastrointestinal tract is literally designed for fermentation.  Their microorganisms ferment fiber.  grass in this big tank.  But if we eat too much, the same thing can happen to us .  And yes, this one wasn't pregnant, but that's exactly what she looked like.  This is normal for them.  Poor thing. This is life on the farm.  Gregory from Facebook.  What are the benefits of methylene blue?  Another question about methylene blue.  A popular remedy.  This is one of the first drugs in medicine.  It has been used for a long time.  It is a dye, it is a pigment, blue, but it is not the same as red dye, which is very toxic.  Methylene blue is produced differently. And it seems to have some very interesting properties.  It helps mitochondria. Its action is similar to that of oxygen.  It helps create ATP. So, I think it should be drunk for metabolic disorders, type 2 diabetes, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, dementia.  And there are many such people, even with severe inflammation, because it helps the mitochondria.  If all this is not there, then it is probably not needed.  In general, it improves the functioning of mitochondria, the functioning of the biochemical mechanism.  creating ATP.  I'm curious, asks Eriks Rambla, what would you recommend for eliminating cataracts?   Is this possible? There are eye drops. It is cicetyl carnassine, not cysteine.  This is NC, but a different form, not ACC.  Drops with enocytylcarnosine. They are difficult to find, because they are sold for animals, for dogs.  There are great success stories.  I don't know why they don't sell them to people, but they are available in online stores.  Place a couple of drops into the eye. It is absorbed into the lens and acts as a powerful antioxidant in different areas of the eye.  It's safe. And this is the best remedy for cataracts that I know of.