I found a very interesting article, I'll leave a link to it. It talks about metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is also called syndrome X. It is characterized by high levels of lipids like cholesterol, a patient with insulin resistance, high blood sugar, and high blood pressure, and obesity around the waist. The article explains why metabolic syndrome should be called hyperinsulin syndrome. The traditional, accepted view is that insulin resistance leads to increased insulin, but is this really true? Does insulin resistance lead to high insulin levels, or does high insulin levels cause insulin resistance? To figure it out, we need to observe what happens after gastric bypass. Part of the small intestine is excluded from the gastrointestinal tract. One of the organs that affects insulin is the pancreas. Something in the small intestine activates insulin production, so with gastric bypass, the problem of high insulin is partially solved, and insulin is reduced. It turned out that this procedure corrects type 2 diabetes in 83 percent of cases, solves the problem of high blood pressure in 63 percent of cases, and solves the problem of high blood pressure in 60 percent of cases. Now let's look at cholesterol. Type 2 diabetes is high blood sugar, hypertension, and high cholesterol. Isn't this the same syndrome? X. Also, this procedure improved the condition of priapism. Well, during sleep, polycystic ovary syndrome, fatty liver, GERD, it's like acid reflux, and even with joint pain. The study I'm talking about is very interesting. The author studied 423 other studies but focused on the 58 that measured insulin. The direct conclusion is that if you lower insulin, it will cause changes throughout the body and affect many different diseases. Metabolic syndrome is a kind of collection of different diseases, or rather, symptoms of high insulin. Look, when high insulin levels persist in the body for a long time, the body begins to resist it. The insulin receptors will begin to reject it. So, this high insulin leads to insulin resistance. And of course, when insulin resistance develops, it goes in a circle and will further increase insulin levels, but only if you continue to do what stimulates insulin. There are carbohydrates. With type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance develops. High insulin also persists for a long time until the insulin-producing cells begin to weaken. They weaken.  And blood sugar levels rise at first, insulin is high, but it decreases with obesity. insulin is also high, but it can happen that you have type 2 diabetes and no excess weight. You can be thin but have high insulin levels. Why is this so important? So, if it is true that high insulin causes insulin resistance, which ultimately leads to prediabetes and then diabetes, then it is very, very important to measure insulin in the early stages and not just blood sugar levels. If you take a blood test and find out how things are with insulin, this will be a more reliable indicator that will help predict and even prevent insulin resistance, as well as prediabetes and diabetes. Unfortunately, some doctors cannot connect cause and effect. For them, the main thing is blood sugar levels. What's worse, because of a lack of understanding of how everything is interconnected, they end up prescribing insulin to patients with type 2 diabetes. Think about it: if a person has hyperthyroidism, that is, an excess of thyroid hormones, would you prescribe him to take these hormones or an excessively high cortisol level, like Cushing's syndrome, would you increase this patient's levels? Of course, there's no cortisol level, but high cortisol, thyroid hormone, or insulin levels can only be determined through testing. These tests are rarely prescribed. To summarize, high insulin is observed long before diabetes, and a person with diabetes may not have excess blood sugar for many years, but they may have many other problems that will be treated separately, such as lipids, high blood pressure, and many other problems. Lastly, and most importantly, if you're new to my channel, know that insulin is stimulated by consuming too many carbohydrates, frequent meals, and snacks. People do this to keep their blood sugar from dropping. To learn more about what to do about it, watch these videos.