What happens if you eat mostly healthy whole grains for a month?  If you haven't tried it, give it a try .  I did this, practically, my whole life, until about 28 years old, that is, I stopped about five years ago. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. This might not be the best experiment to try on yourself, but I did eat a lot of what I thought were healthy whole grains. Well, you know, cereal, bread, pasta, crackers, and so on.  Let's dive deep into this topic and look at some of the components of grain products.  First, I want to talk about fiber, because I hear all the time, "If you eat whole grains, you'll get two to three times more fiber than if you eat refined grains." Yes, it's quite possible that this is true, but grains don't contain that much fiber to begin with .  Even brown rice contains only 4% fiber.  This is not much at all.  There are g of fat in one cup of rice , so there is very little fat.  It also contains about 45g of carbohydrates, which is a lot.  And yet it only contains 6 g of fiber. This is a tiny amount.  And there are also 4.3g of protein.  This is also not enough.  What about multigrain bread?  It contains 1.7g of fat, which is quite low.  And yes, we are talking about one slice.  18g of carbs, which is a bit high, but only 3g of fiber and 5g of protein.  If you take the same celery, for example, it consists of 50% fiber, or a handful of spinach, 50% fiber and only 4 g of carbohydrates.  So, it's best to get your fiber from vegetables, not grains.  The next thing I want to talk about is that no one eats only 100% whole grains.  They eat foods containing whole grains, which also contain refined grains.  And there is refined sugar, and a lot of chemicals, and a lot of other things.  And I have yet to see a single person who would take a whole grain and eat it.  Usually the grain is eaten when it has already been turned into flour.  Nobody eats the grain as is, or adds it to cereal, it can be boiled, soaked, but people don't do that.  They grind it into flour, and then cook something from this flour .  When people grind it into flour, it is exposed to air.  This alone destroys nutrients and causes oxidation. Vitamin A and other fat-soluble vitamins are especially lost.  Oxygen fat- soluble vitamins.  I won't even mention the fact that the flour that is sold in stores sits on the shelf for quite a long time .  The longer flour is exposed to air, the fewer nutrients it contains.  But that's not the biggest problem.  The biggest problem, I think, is that if you eat a flour product, if you eat that grain in the form of flour, it's exposed to even more digestive enzymes.  And that causes a spike in blood sugar because 80% of that grain is starch, and starch is glucose molecules packed together.  And if you heat it up or grind it up or process it in any other way , digestive enzymes will turn those so-called healthy complex carbohydrates into simple carbohydrates, into a bunch of glucose molecules.  It's no better than eating sugar.  And yes, it all depends on the quantity, but in this video we're talking about what happens if you eat mostly whole grains.  The glycemic index, which essentially measures how quickly a food causes a spike in blood sugar, doesn't differ much between whole and refined grains .  It's almost the same. That's just one problem.  Another problem is that whole grains contain much more phytic acid than refined grains. What is fetic acid?  Fetic acid is an antinutrient.  Phytic acid interferes with the absorption of zinc, calcium, iron and magnesium.  This can lead to various deficiencies, especially in children, but more on that later.  Now about gluten. Certain grains contain gluten. This is a kind of protein.  Gluten has a very destructive effect on the intestines.  It can irritate the intestines, it can cause inflammation and leaky gut syndrome.  It is associated with hypothyroidism. especially with Hashimot's disease and other autoimmune diseases.  Therefore, if you have problems with the thyroid gland, you should not eat any grains at all.  There are allergies and intolerances to gluten.  Many people are gluten intolerant.  By the way, I was surprised that even some keto products contain wheat gluten.  It is a protein, but it causes inflammation, so you shouldn't eat it. There is also the issue of glyphosates, such as Roundup.  This is a type of herbicide that is almost always used to treat wheat. Although wheat seeds are not usually genetically modified, glyphosates are still added.  And you can imagine how it affects the body.  So, if you eat mostly whole grains, the number one problem is the glycemic index, which is how quickly they will cause a spike in blood sugar. Today we eat far different grains than people ate before, in the distant past.  Nowadays we eat hybrid evils that contain a lot of carbohydrates and fetic acid.  In other words, if you eat these grains, your blood sugar will rise.  This will affect your mood, causing anxiety and possibly even depression.   A spike in blood sugar levels will also affect cognitive function.  There is a very close connection between what happens in the gut and what happens in the brain. If there is inflammation or bloating in the intestines, it will affect cognitive function and cause brain fog.  Now about weight. Grains will make you fat, potentially give you a fatty liver, and carbohydrates will cause a spike in cholesterol. Next, problem number two.  Phytic acid in whole grains locks up various minerals.  And what's interesting, you can see it for yourself, the links will be below.  More than 10 million children die every year due to nutrient deficiencies. A large percentage of these children die due to diarrhea caused by zinc deficiency.  And guess how you can get zinc deficiency. Firstly, due to the unavailability of animal sources of protein, and they contain a lot of zinc. Secondly, because of the cereal, because of the diet, which mainly consists of cereal. Many children under 5 years old simply live on these flakes.  The fetic acid in them can deplete zinc stores.  This can cause diarrhea and even risk of death in the child , as well as growth retardation and many other problems associated with delayed early development. Usually, they try to solve this problem by fermenting grains.  I don't know how popular it is. If grains are fermented for three days, the bacteria that arise due to the change in pH in lactic acid begin to produce the enzyme phytase, which destroys phytic acid.  So if you ferment grains, they will have less phytic acid and you will better absorb nutrients, especially zinc, magnesium, iron, and calcium.  By the way, for the same reason we ferment grain for our chickens.  We have 16 chickens and I soak the grain in water for three days.   This way they get less fetic acid and more nutrients.  Now what do whole grains do to the digestive system?  Gas, bloating, inflammation because excess omega-6 fatty acids irritate the colon. SIB, bacterial overgrowth syndrome, allergies and even the autoimmune disease Hashimot's disease may occur.  Below is a link to additional information. In short, cereals are not recommended for the digestive system. Some people may digest refined grains better, apparently because they contain much less fetic acid and are easier to digest.  Of course, refined grains will bring additional problems, so all grains have their downsides.  And if I had to choose between whole grains and refined grains, I would choose neither.  I've already talked about glyphosate, a herbicide that affects the microbiome.  Recently, there has been increasing evidence of a link between glyphosates and celiac disease.  This is a digestive problem, not to mention other problems that need to be covered in a separate video.  And finally, these cereals provide additional enrichment.  Even though you eat whole grains, these grains are still fortified with synthetic vitamins. They also add iron to it, but not the kind of iron that the body can easily absorb.  Because of this iron, these grains can sit in your stomach for a very long time .  And our body is not designed for the type of vitamins that gold is enriched with .  For example, folic acid instead of folates or synthetic B vitamins in an attempt to minimize vitamin losses during the refining process.  Those of you who are skeptical about what I've said and have no problem eating whole grains, try eating mostly whole grains for a month and let us know how your health improves. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Today we will try to find out why whole grain products are healthy. Whole grain products are often recommended as healthy foods. Almost every diet you can find online will tell you to "Eat lots of whole grains."  Let's look at bread made from 100% whole wheat.  It is made from whole grain wheat flour, meaning it is not refined. So what is the difference between refined flour and whole wheat flour?  Let's take a look.  Essentially, grain consists of three elements.  Fiber, that is, bran, germ.  It contains B vitamins, vitamin E and some protein.  that is, nutrients.  And the third part is called the endosperm.  That's where the carbohydrates are. Refined flour is essentially 100% endosperm.  Let's first compare these two types of flour.  This is bleached wheat flour.  It was processed to make it white.  It says enriched.  Wonderful word. Neocin iron was returned here .  B1, B2 and folic acid.  That is, these nutrients were returned here in a quarter of a glass, that is, in 30 g of flour, 23 g of carbohydrates.  There is practically no fiber here, and the nutrients that are here are essentially added. Now let's compare this to whole grain flour.  Here she is.  There are 20g of carbohydrates per 30g of flour.  Slightly less carbohydrates.  and another 3 g of fiber.  This is 17 g of digestible carbohydrates.  It's funny because people often say that whole grain products are high in fiber.  Well, 3g per 30g is a bit of fiber. Let's see what nutrients are here.  It says here: vitamin D 0, calcium - zero, iron - 1 mg, potassium - 110 mg. Overall, it's not rich in nutrients, but it does contain whole grains.  So, we have fiber from the shell.  There's an embryo here too, but I don't see any B vitamins. Let's check the expiration date. September 23, twenty-three, next year.  How can this flour sit on the shelf for years without spoiling? This is simply incredible.  In addition, many of these vitamins are oxygen sensitive.  They oxidize and break down. When the grain is ground, it is exposed to air, light, and so on. Do you think it retains its nutrients? I doubt.  And here it’s even more interesting. Shelf life of refined flour.  April twenty-fourth year.  This will stay on the shelf for another year longer.  Incredible. Yes, it is preserved very well.  So, what's in our bread?  Let's take a look.  Whole grain flour, water, sugar, vegetable oil.  Here we have wonderful vegetable oil.  It is made from plants.  Let's take a look at the composition. Soybean seed oil.  Soybean oil.  So, soybean oil was added here.  Omega-6 fatty acids.  So, what else do we have here? Gluten.  Gluten was added here, as well as a little vinegar.  Natural flavors. Citric acid.  So, this is the composition of bread.  One slice contains 21g of carbohydrates and 3g of fiber. Again, 11% is not much at all.  So we have wheat, we have rye, colba, quinoa, and also corn, rice, oats.  All of these are grain crops.  And even popcorn is considered a whole grain product.  We need to figure out what is so beneficial about these products.  Maybe fiber?  Well, there's not that much fiber there.  3g per serving isn't impressive. Maybe vitamins and minerals in whole grain products, they are only about 10% of the recommended amount.  I wouldn't call this product rich in nutrients.  Another drawback of whole grain products is fetic acid.  It is part of the hard shell of the grain and blocks the absorption of minerals: zinc, calcium and iron.  Interesting.  But refined flour does not contain phytic acid, and this problem will not occur.  But you have to eat all these synthetic minerals in their elemental form, stones and metals.  They are very different from minerals found in plants.  Next question. Maybe there are phytonutrients in there, flanoids or polyphenols, something like that .  The problem is that many of these phytonutrients are fat-soluble and quickly spoil when exposed to oxygen.  Then maybe their benefit is in the protein.  How much protein is there?  7% 4 g. 4 g is not much at all.  4 g. And that's not even complete protein.  Let's see if there is protein in refined flour.  Yes, 3 g, there is a little bit.  Let's check what's in our bread.  4 g. And again, this is not a complete protein.  So explain to me what is so special about these grains?  Maybe I missed something: fiber, vitamins, minerals, protein, phytonutrients.   Here's what you need to know about grain research.  There are three important points here.  I won't go into too much detail about this.  Details at the links below. The vast majority of studies on grain products compare whole grain products with refined grain products. And, of course, whole grain products are healthier than refined ones.  But no one has compared eating whole grains with avoiding them.  They are simply comparing two products.  But people who eat whole grain foods are likely to be more health conscious.  They don't smoke much, probably exercise, and lead a healthier lifestyle.  And most of these studies are simply observational.  That is, based on questionnaires, a person is asked to remember what he ate during the reign of King Pea.  These are very unreliable studies.  In fact, there are a lot of different factors.  And the results of these studies can be easily manipulated, giving them any color.  So there is a lot of bias in them.  In addition, many of them are sponsored by manufacturers.  In general, their results should not be trusted.  Even some studies in the Blue Zones, areas of the Earth where people live a lot of long lives, claim that people live long lives there because they eat grains.  But this is unprovable. It could be the fish, or the fact that they don't eat as often, or the fact that they have less stress in their lives.  In 2017, a group like Raine's—a very large group of independent scientists— looked at nine randomized controlled trials. And this is the conclusion they came to.  There is not enough evidence to say that eating whole grain foods reduces the risk of heart disease. It's true that eating oatmeal may lower your cholesterol, but that does n't necessarily mean your risk of heart attack will be reduced.  Such a conclusion cannot be drawn.  But in studies of low-carb diets, links below, grain products were excluded from the diet.  Are you trying diet again, but nothing helps?  Try a proven technique.  The Theta Menu book is a ready-made meal plan for weight loss and health.  Healthy eating, a clear plan, and step-by-step recipes will help you lose weight without stress and stay full.  Start now and feel the results.  Download the book using the link below.