Let's talk about the relationship between intestinal bacteria and viruses. Your intestines have something called the microbiome. I don't know if you know, but this collection of not only beneficial bacteria, but also yeast, parasites, and even candida and viruses are in the intestines. Yes, I know there is such a thing in the lb virus- like particles, and there are a lot of them inside and around your body. VLPs are not contagious; they do not introduce genes into the cell, but these are virus-like particles that exist in the body. Not much is known about them, but research is being conducted. I don't want to alarm you or scare you, but there is a human intestinal microbiome. This is a cluster of viruses living in your body, and there are many of them. Don't forget how many trillions of bacteria there are inside us, and these viruses outnumber bacteria by 10 and sometimes 20 times. These viruses coexist with you and most often do not create problems unless you have a weakened immune system or some medical problem, then you become vulnerable, and they create problems, but many viruses are already living in your body. That's why it is so important to maintain a very strong immune system. For some reason, they don't talk about this in the news in your rear.  There is a whole army of immune cells, not only white blood cells, but also the microbiome, beneficial bacteria, which is also part of your immunity. I'll tell you what they do to keep your immunity strong. If you have few beneficial bacteria, say after antibiotics, then harmful bacteria begin to flourish. Also, if you eat foods that cause inflammation, inflammation alone can be a mixture, because the balance is from beneficial bacteria to harmful ones, and you will lose many different beneficial bacteria. And beneficial bacteria, the microbiome, help maintain the integrity of the intestinal barrier. So imagine the large intestine, and here is the mucous layer on both sides, and right behind the intestinal wall, you have a layer of lymph and lymphatic tissue, and here are many white blood cells, immune cells, and so here is a protective mucous layer, and here are beneficial bacteria, as well as many pathogens and viruses, which also live here. So, one of the key points is for these bacteria to work and build this wall, preventing bad guys from crossing this wall and entering the body. This is your immigration control. You must have a valid passport and receive it. A stamp to gain access inside, so this is a defense mechanism, defense, and so beneficial bacteria and white blood cells provide you with protection from pathogens. Beneficial bacteria monitor the integrity of the intestinal barrier. They also curb inflammation, which is important. They also compete for space and food, leaving hostile bacteria no room and food. There are a lot of beneficial bacteria, and they simply compete for space and food. This is one of the strategies. They suppress pathogens with these two mechanisms and many other means of defense against microbes. They are able to directly kill pathogens. They help improve your immunity by eating fiber, for example, from vegetables. They produce short-chain fatty acids, and this alone can reduce inflammation and help immunity. By the way, one of the short-chain fatty acids is butyric acid, it is very good against inflammation, normalizes blood sugar, and nourishes intestinal cells. So, these bacteria produce food for your cells. There is also a relationship between the bacteria in your intestines and the respiratory tract. If you think about it, these bacteria, and their trillions live not only in the intestines, but also outside of it, in the lungs, help protect them. That is, they are definitely interconnected. Throughout the body, there is even a connection between your bacteria and intestinal cells, that is, in the immune system there is a close interaction. If your system of beneficial bacteria is not sufficiently holistic, you are very vulnerable to all kinds of pathogens and infections. In addition, bile salts are processed and modified, and beneficial bacteria fight microbes. The microbiome also has antiviral properties. You need to understand that many of these pathogens love sugar, especially Candida, so this is something that is so easy to avoid. To support immunity, you also sometimes need to replenish the ranks of beneficial bacteria. Therefore, I always advise periodically resorting to probiotics to maintain the number of beneficial bacteria, as well as prebiotics, that is, fiber. These bacteria love fiber. If you eat a lot of vegetables every day, you will give them food that they really love. If you haven’t seen my video about digestion, it’s very simple but very informative, here it is, take a look.