Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll talk about how to lose 1 size in a week, guaranteed. There are 5 points to focus on. We'll put together all the best strategies. Number one is the use of a technique called intermittent fasting. Why? Because with every meal, insulin increases. It's insulin that determines whether you'll be able to lose weight or not. Whether you'll burn fat or not. If there's too much insulin, forget about losing weight. You need fewer meals. It's not about calories, but about eating less often. This will help lower insulin levels and lose weight. I recommend eating twice a day, you can distribute them evenly, for example, closer to noon and in the evening. No snacks in between, otherwise your insulin will spike. We need 85-170 grams of protein. Not too many vegetables. You need a lot of them. They're necessary because when burning fat, you need to remove all this fat from the body. There's no need to follow a high-protein diet. Protein should be moderate. I would even say a little, but in general, you need a lot and you also need to add fats without fat. It's almost impossible to achieve our goal. Why is fat the only thing that insulin doesn't do too much for? Fat will jump and allow you to last longer without food, they have more calories, but it doesn't matter, you only care about insulin, it should be low, this is a good and healthy combination of foods, and so we eat protein, vegetables and fats, no snacks, two meals a day, number two, you need to get enough sleep. The main fat burning occurs when you are in deep sleep. 5-6 hours of sleep is not enough, with 5 at least 8 hours, if you need to lie down during the day for this, for health, try to sleep 8 hours a day to sleep more soundly. I do two things: first, a lot of stretching before bed. 2. I take a night formula for the adrenal glands, this is a very powerful thing, it does not contain melatonin at all, it supports the adrenal glands, calms them down, usually you need one capsule, but to sleep all eight hours, I take 2. When you wake up, you will feel a surge of energy, they are foggy in the head, the quality of sleep will improve, but it's good next stress if you are under stress, it interferes because stress stimulates the production of the hormone cortisol, which does not allow you to burn fat. You write down on a piece of paper all the factors that provoke your stress, perhaps they  will be associated with people for a week, avoid these people, to your surprise, you will find that you have lost weight if you constantly encounter people who cause you stress, this is harmful, I also recommend not watching the news for a week, watch a comedy, read a book, the point is that stress will prevent you from sleeping, remember, you don’t need negativity, start taking long walks, hiking is useful, get out into the open, it helps relieve stress, there are many other techniques, but these will also help if you get more sleep, this will also reduce stress, exercise, do high-intensity interval training and training, with these training you need to load the whole body if it’s not too cold outside, I ride a bike, I also run sprints, I do rock climbing and deadlifts, while watching my back, you do what is interesting, you need to properly load the whole body from top to bottom, do short intervals, but very intensely and do this only once every 2 days, because the body needs to recover, all the benefits of exercise are in the recovery phase, do not exercise every day if you are not in perfect shape, even every other day, it is better not to exercise if you are stressed and  Sleep problems, you need to select their purity. I had clients who reduced the frequency of training and ended up losing weight very well. It seems illogical, but it works on the days when you don’t train for a long time. Take long walks where there is space and look around. This is regarding training, nutrition, seaweed or help. Why? Because they activate the thyroid gland. This will speed up metabolism. Take help only in the morning. Take one or two small tablets in the morning. Do not take them before bed, otherwise you won’t be able to fall asleep. Potassium citrate. Manufacturers produce potassium chloride. I recommend potassium citrate, regardless of what is written on the bottle. Multiply this by 5, there will be under 100 milligrams. You take 500 milligrams, this is only a small part of the daily requirement for potassium. 4700 milligrams are needed per day. Then why take potassium? The fact is that when you burn fat on a titrogenic diet, you lose a small amount of potassium, you need to replenish it. Potassium will reduce the need for insulin. Injection makes your sleep sounder.  It will prevent the formation of kidney stones, help muscles relax, and even give you energy. I usually don't recommend taking any element separately from others, not in a complex, but we are talking about intensive weight loss. You won't do this for long and it's very difficult. I know it's hard to believe, but it's hard to convince people to eat as many vegetables as they need, and you need 7 to 10 glasses a day. Some people are hard to persuade even to eat 7 glasses of vegetables, although you need 7 to 10. So, these people don't have enough potassium, so you can take potassium citrate for a short time, but remember that you need to take 5 times more than recommended. The only contraindication is kidney disease, which is very unlikely, then you don't need to do this. Otherwise, everything is fine. Nutritional yeast can be bought in health food stores. It contains a lot of natural B and vitamins. It will help you cope with stress, get rid of a swarm of thoughts in your head, it will calm your adrenal glands and help with all this. I hope this video helped you. Thank you very much for watching.