Let's talk about the nine best foods for the Teto Diet.  I base it on two criteria: low carbohydrate content and high nutrient density. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com.   The first product is marine invertebrates. I'm talking about shellfish, oysters.  Mussels. An excellent product, rich in microelements: zinc, selenium, iodine, chromium.  They also contain DHcha.  What is this?  It is an essential omega-3 fatty acid.  So, marine invertebrates are the undisputed leader in microelements and healthy fats.  The second is salmon, specifically commercial salmon.  Of all types of fish, commercial salmon contains the most omega-3 fatty acids.  First of all , we are talking about two acids: EPA and DHA. They are beneficial for the retina, brain and heart.  In addition, salmon contains high-quality protein.  Third- leaf greens, such as salads. Why?  It contains potassium, magnesium, other elements and a large amount of vitamin C. It is also easily digestible.  I recommend eating it raw.  The fourth product is sardines.  Sardines are high in EPA and DHA. These are omega-3 fatty acids.  And the protein in sardines is very good.  Fifth.  Eggs.  I mean organic pastured eggs.  They contain almost all existing vitamins.  except maybe vitamin C. But otherwise, they have almost everything. I eat a lot of eggs.  These are very healthy foods and will not raise your cholesterol.  If you've heard that eggs can lower your cholesterol, follow the link below the video.  I discuss this in detail there.  There I talk about facts, not myths.  Eggs are a very healthy product.  The sixth product is cruciferous vegetables. I recommend steaming most cruciferous vegetables, especially Brussels sprouts and other cruciferous vegetables. This increases the availability of phytonutrients in cruciferous vegetables. The benefits of cruciferous vegetables are not only in vitamins and microelements, but also in the abundance of phytonutrients. And phytonutrients are additional health factors that can reduce complications from diabetes and Alzheimer's.  They minimize the damage caused by these diseases. They also protect the body from cancer.   The seventh product is avocado.  Low in carbs, high in healthy fats.  It is a very healthy product, but some people get bloated if they eat too much of it.  I couldn't help but mention this.  But overall it is a very healthy product.  Eighth - olives and extra virgin olive oil and organic.  Excellent for the tetogenic diet.  Ninth - meat is completely grass-fed.  This is very important.  The fact is that sometimes cattle are fed grains before slaughter, and this grain may be GMO.  Scott can be fed with it to gain weight for 10 months, and this is bad.  Look for meat from animals. who were fed grass all their lives.  I'm not saying I recommend eating lean steaks.  Eat a fatter cutlet.  This extra fat may even reduce the effect of insulin, making the product easier to digest.  The same applies to sausages made from meat from animals that are entirely grass- fed.  And now the other side.  There are many foods that are not even remotely related to the Titodena diet. There are worse foods than these, such as sugar and cereals, but I will tell you about the foods that people on the Teto diet regularly eat.  This is dirty chum salmon. And I want to talk about this.  Firstly, some people consider corn to be a vegetable, so they eat corn on the teto diet. Perhaps just a little.  The problem is that 95% of corn is GMO.  This is a serious problem.  In addition, corn has a high glycemic index, so even though corn is a vegetable, you shouldn’t eat it. Yogurt has a lot of sugar, but some people eat Greek yogurt.  Be sure to read the label.  You'll be surprised how much sugar is in Greek yogurt.  If you eat it sparingly and count the carbs, it might not be a big deal, but make sure it's organic and grass-fed.  But still, it's not a very good product.  Next, store-bought chicken.  Unfortunately, chickens are poorly treated, they are raised on farms and fed grain.  Overall, it's not the best protein for a healthy body. Next comes the meat after technological processing, cold meats, etc.  Although it can be considered suitable for keta. It contains nitrates and a lot of added sugar.  Sometimes it contains MSG, and it's definitely not from grass- fed meat.  I also don’t recommend eating this kind of meat .  Now the cheese.  I eat some cheese regularly.  The point is, what kind of cheese is it? Cheese after technological processing and cheese from milk of cows not fed with grass.  I don't recommend this kind of cheese.  If you decide to eat cheese, find organic, grass-fed, or don't eat cheese at all.  Many people are very sensitive to certain components in cheese.  Cheese is made from milk. Milk is associated with many hormonal factors that can affect men with prostate disease, women with fibrocystic breast disease, and ovarian cysts.  So, if you have estrogen dominance, I don't recommend eating cheese.  If you do eat, I recommend not eating a lot, but just a little at a time .  Spinach. The problem with spinach is that it contains a lot of axlates.  Axalates can lead to kidney stones.  Spinach is ok if you don't develop stones.  If you have never had kidney stones, then spinach is perfectly safe for you to eat.  There is an interesting point.  If you eat high-quality cheese or cottage cheese with spinach, the calcium will bind the axalates in the digestive system, and they will not enter the blood and kidneys.  So the calcium in cheese may protect against kidney stones. But I don't recommend eating a lot of spinach.  I recommend eating other greens.  Now the nuts.  It's easy to overdo it with nuts. Almonds contain the most axlates.  If you are prone to kidney stones, it is best to avoid almonds.  Some people with arthritis should also avoid almonds. You'd be surprised how many people with arthritis eat too many carbohydrate-rich foods , which leads to joint irritation.  If you eat nuts, nut butter, or even seeds, eat only small amounts .  Excessive nuts can irritate the gallbladder, liver, and digestive tract.  Vegetable oil.  It is considered to be a very healthy product.  It's actually grain oil.  These are usually GMO and often cause inflammation, but they are suitable for ketosis because they are low in carbohydrates and high in fat.  These were two lists: good products and bad ones.  Thank you very much for watching, friends.  Subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell.  to enable all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. You know, for some reason some people don't like that belly fat.  They need him to disappear.  Today we'll talk about ten foods that can help you get rid of belly fat.  Let's get started. What is belly fat?  This is visceral fat.  I want to show you one book. This is a medical atlas from Siba Publishing House .  By Frank Netter.  This volume is about the endocrine system.   There is a short chapter here dedicated to cortisol. Do you see this picture? It's belly fat and it's excess cortisol.  Let's first discuss what the connection is between cortisol and belly fat.  Cortisol converts protein into sugar.  It forces your liver to create new sugar from non-carbohydrate sources such as fat, ketones, and proteins. If you have high cortisol, which is a stress hormone, you need to synthesize sugar quickly.  The body will create a lot of sugar.  People with elevated cortisol often don't eat sugar, but their bodies get sugar from other sources.  And this increase in sugar raises insulin.  Elevated cortisol can even cause diabetes. That's why one of the side effects of prednisone is synthetic cortisol in the form of the drug.  This is diabetes.  So the reason why belly fat or visceral fat appears is due to the hormone cortisol, which creates sugar, which then increases insulin.  In reality, we get a surge of insulin, and insulin creates belly fat.  It is a fat-storing hormone.  It doesn't matter whether your insulin spikes because of a high-carb diet or sugar you've eaten, or because of elevated cortisol, or because of frequent snacking if you eat too often. You may accumulate excess fat in your belly.  Belly fat usually appears after the liver has already become fatty. Much of the visceral fat that surrounds the organs ends up there, leaking out of the already overcrowded liver. So if you have fat in your belly and when you look down you can't see your feet, that means you have a lot of fat in your liver too .  From there it flows into other areas of the body, because there is no longer enough space for it in the liver .  So, knowing this information, we can say that the foods that will help you should either lower your insulin levels, or lower your cortisol levels, or make your liver less fatty.  As I go through the list, some people might be surprised to know that I recommend eating some fats. You may think that you need to avoid fats to get rid of fatty liver or belly fat.  But this is not true.  Let's start with the first number on the list. Eggs.  What is it about eggs that can help you lose belly fat?  Well, first of all, they contain practically no carbohydrates.  This means they will not raise insulin.  Because they are a good source, in fact the best source of protein, they produce very little waste in the form of glucose.  Because if you eat too much protein, especially the wrong type, it will also turn into sugar.  So, in terms of the quality of dietary protein, eggs are champions, and low-carbohydrate protein stimulates the hormone opposite to insulin, glucose.  Glycolic will also help burn fat.  Eggs are very high in lecithin, and lecithin helps break down fat in the liver.  Eggs are rich in halene, which also helps dissolve fat in the liver.  Number two, salmon.  What's so special about salmon?  Salmon is very high in omega-3 fatty acids.  It is one of the richest sources of omega-3 fatty acids.  Omega-3 fatty acids do two things: they lower insulin by increasing sensitivity to it, and they also help lower cortisol.  Plus, they have literally zero carbs.  Number three. Cod liver or cod liver oil .  If you've tried cod liver, you may or may not like it.  I like the taste of it.  Give it a try. It is available in canned goods.  It looks like a can of sardines, but it says cod liver.  In my opinion, it's a good product. Cod liver is mostly fat, but it also contains proteins.  And it's loaded with omega-3 fatty acids, which increase insulin sensitivity and reduce cortisol levels.  The second option is oil.  from cod liver.  If you don't like the burping effect of this oil, you can take capsules.  Number four. Sauerkraut.  How can she help us? Firstly, it can improve liver function and, according to one study, it also helps reduce liver fat.  It is an excellent anti-inflammatory. Fiber provides food for the microflora, which then produces an interesting type of fat, very similar to tetons, which acts as fuel. Sauerkraut also contains probiotics.  And when you eat those wonderful probiotics in fermented foods, that alone can help you lose weight, because now the bacteria are working for you.  In addition, sauerkraut has the highest concentration of vitamin C. One glass of sauerkraut contains up to 700 mg of vitamin C. Amazing.  And the adrenal glands, which produce cortisol, need vitamin C. It's a key nutrient that supports us during times of stress.  Among all the vitamins required by the adrenal gland, vitamin C is in first place.  Number five.  Cruciferous vegetables.  For example, kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, arugula.  I adore her. Cruciferous vegetables contain phytonutrients that are beneficial for fatty liver.  And the minerals, especially potassium and magnesium, found in these vegetables can actually reduce stress.  They help reduce cortisol and normalize sleep.  In addition, potassium is one of the most important minerals for lowering insulin.  I recently recorded a video about this.  As for magnesium, this mineral is an excellent relaxant.  It helps you feel calmer and sleep better.  And, of course, the fiber from cruciferous vegetables is beneficial for the microflora that feeds on fiber.  Number six is ​​a hamburger.  You're probably wondering why he's on this list.  I don't mean a BUN with meat, but a fatty patty made from high-quality beef, without any ketchup, and it doesn't come with French fries.  Essentially, it's a combination of fat and red meat, which is sometimes easier to digest than a leaner cut of meat.  And therefore, such a cutlet has even less effect on insulin.  It has virtually no carbohydrates.  It is rich in nutrients, it contains a lot of vitamins and minerals.  I eat a lot of hamburgers, I feel great, and my blood sugar is normal.  But the beef is, of course, entirely grass-fed.  Number seven is avocado. Avocado contains something called avocatin bi.  This is a certain substance in avocados that normalizes blood sugar.  It improves insulin sensitivity and may help reduce insulin resistance. Besides everything else, it is very useful for people with fatty liver.  Avocado is a great movie-worthy vegetable because of its fats.  It's very high in fat, very low in carbohydrates, and is basically a vegetable.  Try avocado with a beef patty and sauerkraut on top. Number eight.  Broccoli sprouts.  You can eat other sprouts, but broccoli sprouts are high in sulforaphane.  It is a phytonutrient that is very beneficial for cancer, but also for reducing visceral fat.  There was one study done, albeit on mice, but it showed a twenty percent reduction in belly fat in these animals, as well as a reduction in liver fat.  So, if you have pets, mice, degumyaks, it is worth giving them broccoli sprouts. Broccoli sprouts, like any other sprouts, are very rich in nutrients.  The highest concentration of nutrients in a plant is at the germination stage. It is not necessarily preserved in the adult plant.  OK.  Number nine is asparagus. Asparagus contains a substance called asparagine.  It is a specific natural compound that helps remove toxic ammonia from the liver.  Ammonia is a by- product of protein breakdown.  If your liver is damaged and ammonia is building up, you should definitely eat asparagus.  This phytonutrient helps with blood sugar in insulin resistance, increases insulin sensitivity and lowers insulin levels.  In addition, the fiber in asparagus is beneficial for the intestines, nourishing the microflora, and this is another way to normalize blood sugar levels.  And of course, it contains a lot of fiber and a minimum of carbohydrates.  Number 10. Nutritional yeast. Avoid buying nutritional yeast that is fortified with synthetic vitamins.  Often they add synthetic vitamins, which are essentially made from petroleum. Cheap vitamins are of very low quality. Many companies add these vitamins when producing yeast. Apparently, the yeast eats them, which enhances the B-complex in their composition.  But you don't need that.  You need plain, unenriched nutritional yeast.  They can be found either in tablet or powder form.  The powder can be added to salad.  It turns out very tasty.  Nutritional yeast tastes like Parmesan.  Add olive oil or vinaigrette.  This is a very useful product.  Nutritional yeast not only provides you with B vitamins, which can help with fatty liver, but also provides you with a large amount of vitamin B1 to reduce cortisol and stress. By mixing the foods from the list in a salad, we get magnesium, we get potassium, we get fiber and phytonutrients.  We'll get some nutritional yeast, you can add a small avocado, and put a beef patty with sauerkraut next to it. Simply the perfect food to remove belly fat.  I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy diet.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.