Let's discuss another hidden underlying cause of depression and anxiety. It's related to the microbiome, beneficial gut bacteria. There's a connection between the brain and the gut via the vagus nerve, the longest nerve in the body. What's interesting about the vagus nerve is that it 's a two-way street, but only 10 percent of the information goes from the brain to the gut. If you take the information going from the gut to the brain, it makes up 90 percent of the total flow. In other words, the brain receives a lot of feedback about everything that's happening in the gut, especially about everything related to beneficial bacteria. What you need to know, which people don't usually know, is that beneficial bacteria produce neurotransmitters. They produce many neurotransmitters identical to those produced by the body itself. So, we have bacteria that are in a real symbiosis with us. They help the body, although they are not part of it. They themselves produce acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine. All these neurotransmitters allow you to feel calm and  serenity happiness and if your bacteria for some reason stop producing them this information is transmitted to the brain and you feel not so well this part of the nervous system is part of the parasympathetic division it opposes the sympathetic responsible for the fight or flight mechanism the parasympathetic is responsible for rest digestion recovery that is when stress occurs below it is transmitted above and you feel anxiety panic and depression all this can happen if something is wrong with the intestines why I raised this topic because if you don't know about this and start solving the problem after all qing by taking medications without knowing the real reasons then you may never solve the real problem by the way about microflora it feeds on fiber from vegetables and produces short-chain fatty acids as a by-product these bacteria process fiber whether it is a carbohydrate you fat of a certain type and this fat provides up to 90 percent of the energy to the intestinal cells it also helps to cope with insulin resistance which is associated with blood sugar levels it also maintains the integrity of the intestinal lining that is performs a very important function if you don't have enough bacteria producing these acids then guess what you  You will be tired and it will seem to you like you are depressed, but in fact it is just severe fatigue. A simultaneous lack of neurotransmitters and fatty acids can cause you severe malaise or disorders. Also, if there is inflammation in the large intestine or even if bacteria penetrate into the small intestine, this is called bacterial overgrowth syndrome. This can create severe stress in the brain. These bacteria are out of place and will take away nutrients from you, leaving you with a deficiency and creating a deficiency of B vitamins, which will also make you feel stressed. What I want to convey in this video is that there is a powerful connection between a feeling of well-being and digestion, and conversely, if you are stressed, it can also affect your digestion. You have heard the statement that stress leads to stomach ulcers. Here is the reason why you also need to know that the connection that goes from the brain to the intestines controls the release of enzymes, acid production, the release of hormones in the muscles surrounding the intestines. You may experience abdominal pain due to spasms. The speed of bowel movement may increase or decrease, causing diarrhea or constipation. Excessive stomach acidity is also possible.  You may have an enzyme deficiency that will prevent you from digesting food. For more information on how to maintain gut health, watch the video at this link.