This video may be a little creepy, but you have parasites living in your mattress. This is the topic of today's video. I'm trying to open your eyes to this because many people don't even realize what's going on in their mattresses, but that's where we spend a third of our lives. First, let's talk about dust mites. These are small, tiny microorganisms that have taken a liking to your mattress and live there happily. There are also pillows. Their number in one mattress can reach 10 million, and they don't bite. They live off dead skin cells. The average person sheds more than a million dead skin particles every day, so dust mites have plenty to eat. The male dust mite lives from 10 to 19 days, but the female lives for about 70 days and lays more than a hundred eggs. They also depend on humidity. If your bedroom is next to the bathroom, and you leave the door open when you wash, moisture comes out, or when you open a window in the summer and the air becomes humid, this will allow dust mites to thrive, so it's best to limit this.  and get a dehumidifier but for dust mites you are a food source and they can cause allergies if people are sensitive in the morning their nose may be stuffy they may have red eyes and they may start sneezing but don't worry I'll tell you what to do about it number two bed bugs now they are already biting you can't let them bite you bed bugs are about the size of an apple seed they can't fly but they run very quickly on the floor and ceiling they are quite nimble in one study they decided to count how many bed bugs can start up in a mattress and counted 2000 so there can be a lot of bed bugs and they will bite you call they have a small tube with which they can from three to ten minutes per recording a person's blood if you woke up and found a red itchy pimple it could be because of a bed bug okay let's move on to the next topic fungus and bacteria I apologize in advance for the nasty topic but the average adult leaves about  100 liters of sweat every year is a very large amount of sweat and this unfortunately creates an environment for bacteria and fungus. Recently, laboratory tests were conducted on seven-year-old mattresses and it was found that about 3 million colonies of bacteria live in every square centimeter of the mattress, so a lot of bacteria live in your mattress, this can cause nasal congestion, sneezing and red, itchy eyes. 4. Pet dander: more than half of pet owners share their bed with them, and animals bring all sorts of things onto the bed. They can bring parasites like fleas and ticks, so you should think about not letting your pet sleep with you on the bed. Let him sleep on the floor or in another room. 5. Chemicals: When you sleep on a mattress and the body heats up, certain substances evaporate, volatile organic compounds, and the evaporation of formaldehyde and other chemicals also increases. I'm not even talking about the chemicals that may be in new mattresses. What can you do about this? First, regularly wash your bedding in very hot water. You can add baking soda to it, it kills bacteria as well.  Try to reduce the humidity in the bedroom, close the bathroom doors or windows if it's hot outside, or simply buy a dehumidifier. Don't let pets on the bed if they have problems with parasites. Also, buy an air purifier; it will help you if chemicals evaporate from the bed and you have allergies. Add baking soda when washing, as I already said. Finally, vacuum your mattresses regularly, since bacteria tend to accumulate and need to be kept to a minimum. And once again, sorry for such an unpleasant topic. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.