How do you like this question: is it possible to gain weight by eating vegetables and fruits? Of course, it all depends on how much you eat and how often. Let's start with vegetables. It's unlikely that you'll gain weight from vegetables. You're probably thinking about potatoes, because they're vegetables, but I'm not talking about them. Of course, you'll gain weight from them, especially if you heat them. Cooking them releases sugar and disrupts your blood sugar levels. But if you take vegetables in general, greens. See for yourself. Let's take, for example, 7 cups of salad made from a mixture of other vegetables. There will be only 10.8 grams of carbohydrates, this is a very small proportion. But 7 grams of them are fiber, so there are only three and eight tenths of a gram of digestible carbohydrates, this is very little. Very little sugar. It's all fiber. You won't gain weight from this, because it's not fiber that affects insulin levels, only carbohydrates. What happens is that vegetables contain so much fiber that no matter how much you eat, you won't gain enough carbohydrates to replenish. We're talking about them in cups and outside of just 10 grams.  So, if you eat vegetables, you won't get fat. Vegetables can cause bloating or fluid retention, which can result in weight gain, but not fat. If you're not used to eating vegetables and suddenly gained weight after eating them, you know this is a digestion problem. Reduce the amount. You might have the so-called Siberian bacterial overgrowth syndrome. If so, watch my video on this topic. But the point is that this is a different problem. It's not fat deposition, but fluid retention in the body. You just need to reduce the amount of vegetables and switch to a different food. I have a video with a link in the description. What about fruits? Can you gain weight by eating fruits? Definitely yes, but here it also depends on the quantity and regularity of intake. For example, if you snack on fruits between meals, like me, about five years ago, my weight rose to almost 96 kilograms. 96 I excluded fruits and my weight dropped to 81. So, I'm convinced from personal experience that you can gain weight from fruits. A long time ago, you could buy wild watermelon. Here it is in the photo. It had a completely different sugar and carbohydrate content. And also  wild banana just look wild carrot it's not at all like the carrot we're used to wild corn used to have very few carbohydrates and also wild peach is completely different from today's peaches then wild apples that is ranetki are very astringent not too sweet they have very little fructose in them as a child in our backyard in the layout of the apple tree these apples could literally break a tooth they were so not saturated with fiber and very very sour there was no weakness in them over time the fruits have changed they have become sweeter the sugar content in them has increased and therefore the fructose content in one apple too 19 grams of sugar is a huge amount the problem is that at least 60 percent of this is fructose the offense of fructose is that it is absorbed otherwise the whole load falls on the liver and this can result in insulin resistance you stand you will get a fat layer on the stomach there are also advantages in fruits more vitamins microelements phytonutrients and they protect a little from the action  Sugar, but as for weight, you will gain it if you overeat fruit, especially pears and apples. Apples contain 60 percent fructose. Pears also contain 60 percent. Melon also contains 60 percent, although melon has more fiber and water. The fructose content is also high. If you compare this with regular table sugar, it contains only 50 percent fructose. These fruits have more fructose than table sugar. In nature, fruits grow seasonally, and before, they were available only at certain times of the year, and they had much less fructose than now. So, you can gain weight from fruits, but not from vegetables. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.