Today I want to talk about uric acid and how to cleanse the kidneys and the entire body of it. Most people consider uric acid to be just waste, but it has functions that you may not know about. Firstly, it can stimulate the nervous system. Uric acid is very similar in chemical composition to caffeine. It is a neurostimulant that increases concentration, although it has oxidizing properties. At the same time, it is an antioxidant that helps neutralize reactive compounds such as hydroxyl radicals, hydrogen, and even chelate iron. Excess iron is very harmful to the body. Uric acid can also help the immune system, so it does not only cause harm. There are several sources of uric acid accumulation. 1. Fructose, or say you eat a lot of chocolate or consume a lot of protein. If your diet is very high in carbohydrates and you have lunch or even diabetes, this will increase uric acid levels. But fasting, and not knowing how to do it, I want to talk about it at a certain point can cause the release of uric acid. Because the body needs antioxidants. In some studies, the level increased from 4.1 to 10.7 milligrams.  There is a spike per deciliter, but this is a cola-shaped curve. The level immediately decreases. If you are prone to kidney stones or gout, you should understand something. You should increase the amount of vegetables in your diet or reduce your intake of animal protein. This is why, if the acidity of your urine is elevated, uric acid will be retained in the kidneys. If you even slightly acidify your urine, uric acid will be able to pass through the kidneys and exit with urine. If you have been tested and have elevated uric acid levels in the blood, you should take a look at the whole picture and understand that uric acid can affect the body in different ways, not necessarily negatively, but if you want to relieve symptoms, here's what you can do. You can take potassium citrate, it's alkaline. I advise you to introduce more vegetables into your diet. You can reduce your protein intake. You can take sodium bicarbonate. This is ordinary baking soda. A very simple recipe: dissolve two level teaspoons in three hundred and fifty milliliters of water and drink during fasting, for example, right before bed. But do not drink this solution before meals because it neutralizes gastric juice and complicates digestion. Once again, these two remedies To alleviate symptoms, you need to eat more vegetables and less protein to eliminate the imbalance and normalize your pH. Thanks for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos. To avoid missing new videos, just click the bell.