Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about ketosis and dairy. Can you have dairy? I won't talk about lactose intolerance, milk allergies, or casein, which is a protein found in milk. Let's talk about whether you can eat dairy on a ketogenic diet. First, let's discuss yogurt. Low-fat yogurt with fruit. The so- called healthy fruit yogurt is usually not just fruit. It's jelly made from fruit and sugar. Sometimes, there's not even fruit. It's just artificial flavors. That's 47 grams of sugar. It's like drinking soda. That's a lot of sugar in plain low-fat yogurt. 19 grams of sugar is incredible. In low-fat Greek yogurt, 9 grams is better, but still too much. That's 200 grams, that's about a glass. In plain whole milk yogurt, 11 grams is still too much, but compare it to plain low- fat yogurt. It turns out that low-fat yogurt has more sugar. I don't even look at the carbohydrates. I only look at the sugars. It's very interesting. Plain whole milk yogurt is better.  plain low-fat, low-fat vanilla, 34 grams of sugar is too much, goat's milk kefir has 7 grams, and if you are forced to eat some yogurt or kefir, this one is obviously the best, and this one is in second place, but only if you are threatened with a weapon. Let's move on. Blueberry kefir has 20 grams, but low-fat kefir without additives still has sugar, 12 grams, another one is the same, de fer, it has 11 grams, but it is lactose-free. I don't understand why there is so much sugar there, because lactose is sugar. I don't understand. Nevertheless, there is too much sugar in yogurts. Is it worth drinking naked yogurts anyway? The answer is no. Sorry, I understand. Let's move on to milk. 2% milk has 12 grams of sugar per glass. Per glass, this is not that much sugar. Coffee cream has 36 hundredths of a gram, less than one gram, and in full-fat whipping cream, one tenth of a gram. So, if you drink coffee with cream, use full-fat cream.  Cream, although regular is fine, and you can love it. Organic cream from grass-fed cows is better, but 2% milk is not allowed. And if you have just a little bit of milk, you can, but only a little bit, otherwise it will knock you out of ketosis. Now let 's discuss cheese. Cheese is a fermented product, it is the result of the activity of bacteria that throw sugar from milk. A significant portion of the lactose is lost in the whey, that is, with the liquid when it leaves the cheese during its preparation. But look at this: in cream cheese, less than one gram, forty-five hundredths of a gram per glass is great. Cream cheese, you can eat it without any problem. Pepper Jack cheese has no sugar at all, but it's excellent. 4 also has 0 grams. In general, the older the cheese, the better, the less sugar it contains. Mozzarella has 1.4 grams of sugar per glass, which is still not bad, although no longer 0 grams. But look at this: processed cheese. Processed cheese. Small wrapped pieces of cheese that most people eat. Maybe Valve or something else. Many people buy it and eat it whole at lunch. 19  19 grams of sugar in processed cheese is a complete overkill, and in grain, we need two for 6 grams ago. That's quite a lot of sugar. How can you eat cheese or not? These cheeses are ok, but these are better not. You can have a little cottage cheese in grain, but definitely not processed cheese. You may have a cheese allergy because of the casino, that's a separate story, or lactose intolerance, that's also a separate story. But if you eat cheese, organic cheese from grass-fed cows is ideal. Thanks for watching.