Today I want to tell you about an extremely powerful natural remedy for inflammation, not only for inflammation but also for autoimmune diseases, for inflammatory bowel disease, for arthritis, for inflammation-related skin diseases. You may have never heard that it is associated with inflammation if you were lucky enough to consume this substance in infancy, you probably already benefit from it, but many have never received this substance, so unfortunately, they probably suffer from some form of inflammation. This substance has very interesting beneficial properties, especially for the intestines. We are all actually born with a very permeable intestine, it has holes right into the immune system. And this substance makes the gap junctions of cells very tight. This substance gives us immunity. Yes, it gives us immunity. There are two types of immunity. One of them we receive is the one we are talking about. The other type of immunity. We acquire and develop over time upon contact with pathogens, and this substance gives us passive immunity. In a study ( link below), they noted its threefold superiority over the flu vaccine and in protection against flu. In another study, it was indicated that it reduces intestinal damage from NSAIDs.  damage due to Helicobacter pylori, as well as infections that cause diarrhea, as well as damage due to autoimmune diseases, this substance has been shown to improve muscle growth. So it is very useful for people with atrophy. All this is completely amazing, but this substance also has the ability to repair the thymus gland. The thymus is an immune gland located above the heart. It can be compared to a boot camp for T cells. So this substance is. What is colostrum? Colostrum is the first milk that a mother gives to a child when breastfeeding. Many, many studies have shown the difference between those babies who are breastfed and those who are fed infant formula. The differences in future health are simply enormous. The risk of autoimmune diseases, allergies, asthma increases. The risk of respiratory infections increases. The risk of obesity and inflammatory bowel disease increases. The risk of cancer increases. So, as you can see, it is extremely important if you are a mother to breastfeed. Unfortunately, many of us were not breastfed, so we did not benefit from this, but you can benefit from drinking colostrum even if you are no longer  baby I'll tell you about this but first you need to understand what colostrum is and what it actually contains colostrum is the only natural source of what is called transforming growth factor alpha and beta what is it this is something that greatly helps regulate the immune system and this factor improves tissue repair and colostrum is the only natural source of insulin-like growth factor 1 and 2 what is it this is what has been found to reverse age-related thymus atrophy because with age the thymus decreases and everything that improves the condition of the thymus is very useful there are other means zinc vitamin D but colostrum can also help it has been shown that colostrum increases the number of all cells and also natural killer cells protects us from cancer and attacks viruses it can increase the number of macrophages which serve as a barrier against pathogens in colostrum there is twice as much fat as in regular milk and 4 times more protein but it has 250 times more immunoglobulins and these are immune factors that provide our immunity and this can greatly reduce inflammation and here is one of the very  Colostrum has interesting beneficial properties for babies. It promotes the development of endodontic villi, which are tiny roots inside the intestine. Colostrum helps them develop. And if these villi do not develop properly, there may be problems with the absorption of nutrients in the future. Then malabsorption is possible, but in colostrum. There is something even more amazing. I started looking for information about the connection between colostrum and microflora. There is an extremely large amount of microflora in colostrum, these are microbes, friendly bacteria. So, in fact, this first milk introduces part of the mother's immune system into the baby and microflora into his intestines. And this is 70-80 percent of the immune system. Colostrum gives us a lot of amazing things. And when milk is pasteurized, heating essentially kills all these enzymes, these immune proteins, all the microflora. There is interesting research that even calves that are given pasteurized milk instead of raw milk have huge differences in their overall health. The link below is worth reading. And this is another reason why there is an allergy to milk, because  Our immune system perceives milk as something completely different. Another fact. All cows in the US, without exception, are given colostrum. I don't know why we don't give colostrum to our babies if they are not breastfed. I think it's very important to do this. In general, be sure to breastfeed your baby. Perhaps you should try to find colostrum. Goat colostrum may be better than cow's colostrum. Why? Because cow's colostrum contains casein and other proteins that you may be allergic to. Perhaps the problem is goat's milk, and especially goat's colostrum. As a rule, allergies are much less because goat's milk is more similar to human milk than cow's milk. But if you can't find, say, bam, goat colostrum, then try to find at least colostrum that has not been heated. There are such brands, but I will not name them. Of course, if you can't find them, try to find a product from which casein has been removed to reduce the risk of allergies when taking something that affects the immune system, especially colostrum. Always start with a very small amount and see what happens, because at first it can  There may be some kind of immune reaction. So take a little half a tablet right before bed and watch the reaction, and then slowly increase the amount until you reach the dose indicated on the bottle. Don't take a lot at once. After all, you may be allergic to dairy products. So, colostrum is probably just what you need to overcome inflammation. And unfortunately, since many of us were not breastfed and did not receive the benefit of this immune factor from our mother, we need to work harder to create microflora and strengthen the immune system by other means. Since we are talking about inflammation, there is more data about this in one of my videos, which has more than 5 million views. There are many other underlying causes of inflammation, you need to watch this video.