In this video we will talk about facial aging. Is there any way to slow down this process? Unfortunately, it is inevitable that everyone ages, but if something can slow it down, it would be good to take advantage of it. Some people age too quickly, others do not. In many ways, it depends on the environment. I will also talk about this and also on your ability to recover and heal. There are certain nutrients that are essential for DNA repair. They determine how quickly you age. Typically, when aging, this is what happens: horizontal and vertical lines appear, wrinkles appear on the forehead between the eyes. You notice that the skin, especially on the eyelids, becomes very thin, almost like paper. This is also noticeable on the cheeks. Collagen is lost, elasticity is lost, the ligaments that connect the skin to the facial muscles atrophy and decrease. The fat on the face begins to atrophy, you lose it, and the skin under your eyes begins to sag. You may also notice dark circles under your eyes, and the tissue on top of your eyes on your eyelids begins to sag. You may also notice that the fat layer under your cheekbones begins to atrophy, your tissues sag, and you seem to lose your cheekbones. Your eyebrows sag and  Dark circles on the eyelids, even bone mass is lost around the face, around the jaw, near the teeth, and the lips can become less full. There is also a thin, tight-fitting muscle called the platelet muscle under the neck, it begins to atrophy and sags like a turkey's. I think I'm starting to have this myself, but otherwise, except for wrinkles, loose skin, dark circles, and this turkey-like sagging, you are doing great. Let's forget about all this for a second and discuss what can be done to slow this down. Inside us, there are two processes of tissue destruction and tissue construction. I'm talking about proteins. At the cellular level, oxidation occurs, protein damage. This, of course, can be due to smoking. Smokers usually age prematurely. There are people who are overly exposed to the sun, even to the point of sunburn. A little sun is beneficial. Excess sun can make the skin worse. There are also chemicals applied to the skin and chemicals in food. Many women apply layers of makeup to their skin every day and then wash it off. You just need to make sure that all these chemicals are non-toxic. Alcohol also ages the skin.  and some medications and soft drugs and also sugar, unhealthy food and empty carbohydrates, they put the skin probably more than anything else, and also stress, so what to do to prevent this, here's what you need to pay attention to: regular exercise, regular exercise slows down aging, regular exercise will give a lot of oxygen to the lungs and tissues, this will slow down the aging process, especially on the face, since it directs blood flow to the tissues. Fasting is a very powerful tool, I have a lot of videos about this, I will give links in the description, fasting does two things: it will strengthen your antioxidant network to counter some of these points and also activate and turn on some genetic factors that help autophagy, the processing of old damaged tissue, especially proteins, and the formation of new tissue, it will increase stem cells, especially if you periodically fast for a long time, which will help the body renew old cells and reduce wrinkles, fasting is also good for blood sugar and it also reduces oxidation well, it is imperative to eat foods with antioxidants, these are the things called vegetables, especially cruciferous antioxidants are also found in seafood and grass-fed meat  and also in eggs, but here's the thing when it comes to DNA repair and the nutrients needed for DNA repair. Here are the key nutrients, they are essential. I'll give links to studies in the description. Vitamin B3 deficiency can be caused by consuming large amounts of alcohol or sugar. Also, consuming large amounts of corn will lead to a B3 deficiency. Imagine that corn consumption has tripled compared to 70 years ago. It's just awful. So, we need vitamin B3 for DNA repair. Magnesium is absolutely essential for DNA repair. Magnesium can be obtained from many vegetables, leafy greens, and so on. Zinc is Marine invertebrates, seafood, seaweed, oysters. Cells are very important for preventing DNA damage and for its protection. The word "fall" itself comes from the Latin word meaning leaves, that is, cells are found in greens. The idea is, whose is this omega 3 fatty acid? It's found in salmon, cod liver oil, and finally, vitamin C must come from a natural source. A good source is vegetables. What is it? It's very simple. Try to focus on this and avoid this.