Hi all.  Today we will answer questions from social networks.  Shushan from YouTube writes.  Is it possible to exercise while intermittent fasting?  Will there be any side effects like bloating?  Is it better to exercise during or after fasting?  Hmm, so many questions.  If you're looking to lose weight and want to speed things up, working out while fasted can help, as you'll burn more fat and fewer calories from your diet. So, however, you have to try, because some people get more tired if they train when they are hungry and weak. Perhaps you are not ready for this yet and you need to really adapt.  to burning fat before you do it. Try it and see if it works for you.  But I made a mistake.  Not only did I fast for 36 hours, without water, dry fasting, but I also overdid it.  In the heat, I worked in the garden and sweated.  Bad idea. So the point is this. You need to try it and see if your body adapts. Some people train while fasting and lose much more weight. Interesting, but be careful, as Dr. Behr said, asks Rowe from YouTube: "How do you think freeze-dried colostrum would benefit a 66-year-old on a low-carb or no-carb diet? How quickly might changes occur?"  This is Rose, the woman, asking. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Colostrum is perhaps one of the most magical things that exists.  It gives the baby an immune system.  We are talking about animal colostrum. It gives us an immune system, probiotics.  Therefore, lyophilized colostrum contains live bacteria.  It contains antibodies, immune factors and many other useful things. It is beneficial for the intestinal mucosa, for the immune system, and it stimulates the thymus.  And with age it literally decreases. I think older people should try it.  Don't take too much at once. Take a little before bed. Some people have an immune reaction to it.  I didn't have it.  I would start taking it little by little.  If there is no reaction , continue and see the result.  I think this is very wise.  I am delighted with colostrum and the benefits it brings.  Especially if you have overdone it with prigneson, steroids and want to recover from them.  If something has shut down your immune system, colostrum can do you good.  Now here's the million dollar question.  Where can we buy colostrum and how can we, ordinary people, know that it is not counterfeit?  Is there any protection against counterfeiting in this area?  No. I've been researching this topic, and certainly if I were to search online, I would take the time to look at different companies that sell lyophilized colostrum from 100% grass-fed sheep or cattle . There are a couple of companies, but there are few of them and the supply is limited. Buy the best of the best.  You can ask GPT chat where to buy freeze-dried goat or sheep colostrum from 100% grass-fed animals.  Perhaps he can give you a hint. This colostrum will be ideal.  Of course, breast milk would be even better, but where to get it?  Nowhere.  Besides, you won't get colostrum from breast milk. It's not for sale, Steve.  So I would take sheep or goat. And we humans find it easier to digest the protein in sheep's and goat's milk. But personally, if I had to choose between a sheep and a goat, I think the goat, if you can find a goat that lives on top of a mountain, hasn't lived in a bad environment and benefits from eating all the weeds that goats eat. then her colostrum will contain more phytonutrients. This is another plus.  This is a very interesting product.  I myself live on a farm, part of which is in the mountains.  That's where I'll keep my braids. I will feed them to make cheese from their milk. And of course I will make it from raw I'll tell you about the results.  if I survive. But this is not colostrum. And colostrum is a magical thing, just like breast milk. Its components and its benefits are simply amazing.  But many cannot drink milk.  So I recommend cheese, because it is a fermented product.  Either kefir or yogurt.  Interesting.  Well, thanks for the detailed explanation.  You need to remember the GT chat.  Asks for BRLP 110 Trumble.  What do you recommend to help my 39 year old son gain weight? Wow, this is something new. You need to eat more calories, more fat, and do more weight training. Heavy weights, low reps, full body exercises.  and he will gain weight.  They'll tell me, "What about carbs? Eat 50g of carbs a day. Increase it, but not too much."  I know many experts recommend eating more carbohydrates, but this is not beneficial for most people who have metabolic disorders.  Their mitochondria are not entirely healthy and cannot process so many carbohydrates.  So carbohydrates need to be cut down, otherwise he will most likely develop metabolic syndrome.