Today I have a very short video about Nori roasted seaweed, I was asked what I think about it, it's an excellent product, it's dried plates of seaweed and they have a lot of nutrients, I always recommend shellfish seafood, but seaweed is also an excellent product, seaweed is a plant that extracts minerals from sea water and absorbs them, and then we eat this plant, because this plant converts minerals in elemental form into a form that is very easy for us to absorb, and seaweed is rich in trace elements, this is a big plus, especially iodine, selenium, zinc and iron in them, 84 minerals, iodine is good for the thyroid and also helps to cope with excess estrogen, estrogen is dominant in many people, in addition, many pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, heavy metals can mimic estrogen, these are estrogenic, more precisely, endocrine Destroyers, iodine, especially the form of iodine in seaweed helps to counter this, further Selenium I have  Selenium is extremely useful for autoimmune diseases such as hypothyroidism. It is a very powerful antioxidant; it neutralizes heavy metals, especially mercury, and also brings many other benefits. Zinc and Selenium are involved in a huge number of biochemical reactions. Both are very important for digestion and brain function, for testosterone production, and iron is necessary for the creation of red blood cells. They also contain calcium, magnesium, manganese, chromium, and many other minerals. Further vitamins include vitamin C and B vitamins. Seaweed salads contain amino acids, as well as DHA and EPA. This is a good source for vegetarians. DHA and EPA are omega-3 fatty acids. If you eat something like flax seeds or walnuts, you get alpha-lipoic acid from these acids, and from seaweed you get DHCPA directly. There is no need to convert anything if you are concerned about heavy metals in seaweed collected from polluted waters. The best seaweed is collected in clean waters, ideally organic. In general, nori is an excellent source.  Microelements and other nutrients can be given to small children, but don't give them too much. Because there are indeed a lot of concentrated minerals, especially iodine. But a little is okay. That's what I think about it. And thanks for watching. If you don't know what to cook on Keto, the book "Kita" will help you. A two- week menu for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of keto and fasting. Follow the link below.