Today's video Sorry, today's video is about how to get rid of phlegm that accumulates in the lungs. Very often, people take over- the-counter medications and wonder why they don't work and sometimes even cause side effects. There are two categories of such drugs: some drugs suppress mucus, others remove it from the lungs. These are called expectorants. And of course, when you suppress mucus or cough, the infection can persist much longer, and it can also weaken the immune system. In addition, some minor complications or side effects are possible, such as vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, and kidney stones. Otherwise, everything is fine. I'm talking about one expectorant approved by our Ministry of Health. All other drugs suppress mucus. Of course, I think it's best to find a natural remedy. I'll tell you about it now, but I want to say that it's important to train your lungs if mucus accumulates in their lower part. In other words, you can try chest breathing, a deep breath through your nose, and abdominal breathing when the diaphragm moves up and down to set some of the mucus in motion. It's also important to eat a lot of radishes. If you can eat it, radish draws mucus from deep tissues and also by the way, with a dry cough, when there is no mucus but there is a dry cough, a common remedy that almost always works is calcium, just take any kind of calcium, this usually eliminates a dry cough, it helps both children and adults, in fact, one group of drugs for hypertension, calcium channel blockers, works by blocking calcium. And their side effects. So, here are remedies from three simple ingredients and water, onion and lemon, let's start with onion. Onion is essentially a natural remedy that thins mucus, this is a natural and very effective expectorant, onion helps suppress a cough, especially if the cough is caused by a virus, rich gray onion thins mucus like radish. Yes, you can eat onions, but you can also squeeze juice from onions. If you don’t have a juicer, grate the onion in a small bowl, put it in a colander, you can put a paper towel and squeeze the juice from the onion, you only need one tablespoon.  A spoon for non-Americans is 14.7 ml. In addition, onions are one of the foods richest in quercetin. And quercetin is a natural antihistamine. No side effects. So, it is an excellent remedy for allergies, mucus, and inflammation. It calms an overactive immune system. So, you need to mix onion juice with the next ingredient, namely honey. If you find manuka honey, it will be a little better, but any raw honey will do. Honey is an excellent natural cough suppressant for expectoration. It helps with mucus. It is an antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory agent. See What bees do. They fly around all flowering trees and other plants and collect nectar, and along with it, pollen. That is, honey has all these factors that strengthen the immune system. Honey is even considered a natural antibiotic for the respiratory system. Open wounds such as bedsores are treated with manuka honey to help them heal. If you find manuka honey, it contains another factor, MGO methylglyaxal, a substance with a very powerful effect.  antimicrobial action, but as I said, any unprocessed honey will do. Honey also contains hydrogen peroxide, which kills pathogens well, and is an effective remedy for infections of the upper respiratory tract, sinuses, and lower sinuses. We need one tablespoon of honey, which is 14.7 ml. So, the first two ingredients must be mixed with the third lemon juice. You need 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, which is 29.4 ml. The citric acid in lemon juice actually thins mucus. Vitamin C strengthens the immune system. The sour, bitter substance of lemon thins mucus well and makes it rise so that it can be removed from the body. Add these three ingredients to a glass of water and drink 3 times a day. If you want to add a couple more ingredients, I would add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and even a little ginger. This is a very simple remedy for mucus that has literally no side effects. There are other causes of mucus that require other solutions. For example, if you have a herb when acid is thrown up through a valve in the upper part of the stomach, if not  Watched my video about this. It seems to have over 5 million views. Here it is, take a look.