The new year has begun, but today I want to give a couple of tips on resolutions and promises for the new year. Have you decided on them yet? If not, I will help you. Many people set a goal to lose weight at the beginning of the year. I advise you to change this goal to becoming healthier. Because losing weight is a consequence, a side effect, of improving your health. When you come up with a goal for yourself, be sure to include additional aspects of health in them. For example, energy level, stress resistance, a feeling of calm and well-being, looking younger, an excellent indicator of health, strength, flexibility, digestion. My personal weak point and my goal for this year is flexibility because of all my old injuries from wrestling and motorcycle riding. This is my weak point. My goal for this year is to become as flexible as possible. If you don’t mind, write in the comments what from this list you would like to improve the most. I will give a couple of tips, but in general, this is the most important one. Don’t be too serious in trying to achieve your goals. The more desperate you try, the less you will achieve. Be more carefree. Take a positive and confident attitude towards the matter, but not too seriously. First, you need to clearly formulate your goals and what exactly you want.  Achieve avoid vague formulations because they lack confidence the more confidently you formulate the goal, the more likely you will achieve it secondly, the goal needs to be written down I write down my goals in such notebooks I write down all my goals here and regularly reread them and they are all very precise and specific number three you need to apply the right knowledge to achieve goals so I advise you to watch my videos what is surprising last year, in my opinion, in October, you suddenly disappeared on the Internet on YouTube and in Google, I had to scroll far down to find a video on the desired topic despite the fact that before they were quite high on the Internet there has been a major shift and now it is very difficult to find truthful information most of the results are on the first five pages in Google and this, in my opinion, is very low-quality and false information I know you are not surprised but this is how things are now and your success in anything depends on the right knowledge and the ability to apply it then the fourth piece of advice do not compare yourself with your friends spouses with others in general compare yourself with an earlier version of yourself simply because we are all different I invite you to my course healthy keta it is for those who  Want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back on the course? I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us and move on. Calculate your strength. Enough time must pass for everything to work out. Sometimes we miscalculate our strength. We expect some miracle in a short period of time. You need more, especially if you, like many, have serious insulin resistance that prevents you from overcoming a hard setpoint. When you reach a certain weight and progress stops, the cause is insulin resistance. It can take weeks or months, up to a year, to overcome it. But if you are persistent and consistent, you will eventually overcome this obstacle. So, set specific goals for yourself, write them down, and apply these tips. Thanks for watching, see you in many more videos this year.