Today I will answer the question of whether it is necessary to drink water before bed and the answer to this question is no, you do not need it, there are two reasons for this: the first water you drink at night will wake you up and this will disrupt your sleep, we do not need this, the bladder can hold about 350 milliliters before reacting and waking you up to go to the toilet, there are people who have to get up to go to the toilet for other reasons, if you are a diabetic, the purity of urination also increases due to diuretics or prostate problems, by the way, if you are tormented, just try to exclude dairy products, perhaps the problem will decrease, you may have prostatitis, an inflammatory process that provokes dairy products, but this is a separate topic, perhaps there is fiberoid, then the tumor presses on the bladder, hypercalcemia can also have a very similar effect, I have a video about this, watch it and so, firstly, you do not need to drink before bed because it will disrupt your sleep, secondly, dry fasting, or rather my light version of dry fasting, they are a full-fledged long-term dry fasting, which implies temporary  The benefits of fasting are enormous, but with dry fasting they are even greater. Of course, there is a limit. If you don't drink for too long, you can die. During fasting, certain survival mechanisms are activated that increase adaptability and bring enormous benefits. Dry fasting also contributes to this. My recommendation is not to drink in the evening, say after 6-7 p.m. This will give you enough time to empty your bladder in about an hour and a half and once more before going to bed. Then you will benefit from sound sleep and from short dry fasting. You don't need to go without water for a whole day. You can drink the next day. But this is a kind of mini-version of dry fasting that will bear fruit. It is worth knowing that the body can convert some of the fat into water, so when fat is burned, liquid is excreted. Let's finish here until next time. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos. How you can don't miss new videos is just click the bell.