I wanted to make a video about coffee because I remember someone saying that they drink a lot of coffee and asked if it interferes with their ability to lose weight. What amount of coffee stops fat burning? 10 factors: the amount of caffeine consumed, potentially dangerous chemicals if coffee is inorganic, and too much coffee can deplete nutrient reserves, primarily vitamin B1 and calcium. A deficiency of B1 and calcium can affect many things, and if the deficiency worsens over time, it can create a whole series of side effects. You might think that since caffeine is a stimulant, it stimulates metabolism and helps burn fat. What if you drink too much of it? By the way, it takes four to six hours for a regular 250 milliliter cup of coffee to remove fat from the liver. So, if you drink a lot of coffee, it will stay in the liver longer and be eliminated longer while remaining in the body. How will this affect it? Will this affect the quality of sleep? The main problem with excess coffee is excess caffeine. By the way, tea also contains caffeine and it can reduce the quality of sleep. Weigh yourself before bed and after you wake up, see how much weight you've lost, and then again.  Wake up before going to bed, you will feel better when you wake up because most of the fat is burned at night. If you exercise today, you will notice an improvement in two days. Sleep is key. I am talking about the quality of sleep. Usually, you go through four sleep waves, and the peak of these waves is called REM sleep. This is not deep sleep. During it, you are mentally active, but at the same time, you are sleeping. Here, these are delta waves. Deep sleep occurs during deep sleep and most of the fat is burned. This is when growth hormone is produced. Therefore, you need to be here. If you are not getting enough sleep, this may be why you are not losing weight. If you exercise, then without sleep, you become in it. In which case, training will lead to actions that will not bring good results. If you do not sleep, then you will not achieve much with training, because you become from it. A lot of people write to me who drink a lot of coffee all day and are perplexed why they cannot lose weight. How much coffee do I drink? I only drink a cup of coffee in the morning, which, by the way, may be less than usual, but this is all in college. I probably drank a huge amount of coffee.  This was the cause of my ulcer and deteriorating health, so if you are in bed, forgive me, if you are used to drinking too much coffee, then start drinking it less. You can try decaffeinated coffee, but make sure that the caffeine was removed not with chemicals but with water. Start drinking less coffee and you will notice that over time your sleep will improve and you will lose more weight. But if you drank coffee in large quantities, then since it is addictive, it is better to give it up gradually because you may experience side effects. In general, I wanted to talk about this because this may be the reason why you are not losing much weight. Thank you for watching.