With stiffness, you always suspect a liver problem. If the liver isn't working properly, your joints will become completely sluggish. You'll feel almost like you have arthritis. Let's discuss why this happens. The first reason is that you may have something called cholestasis. What does cholestasis mean? It means that something is holding back your bile. It doesn't flow through the tubes and ducts. There are bile ducts there. Bile should flow freely through them, but sometimes it doesn't. As a result, there's too much cholesterol and not enough bile. The ducts become clogged, and bile stagnates, causing inflammation throughout the body. Bile is produced in the liver, it should flow through the ducts, and the gallbladder. If the ducts are not working properly, there will be pain, mainly on the right side of the body. Stiffness and pain will appear with a lack of bile. You also won't be able to absorb and utilize vitamin D, which is a powerful anti-inflammatory in itself. Without vitamin D, there will be stiffness and back pain. Other fat-soluble vitamins will also not be available, for example, vitamin K2, which is responsible for transporting calcium.  from the blood to the bones so that calcium does not accumulate in the arteries and joints, it keeps calcium where it is needed. A CO2 deficiency can occur, and not because it does not come from food, but because of a lack of bile. Also, vitamin E is another fat-soluble vitamin. Without vitamin E, you will not be able to resist damage from free radicals in the body with your normal diet. You will also not be able to absorb omega-3 fatty acids. Omega 3 is an anti-inflammatory fatty acid. So, as you can see, all these problems can arise due to insufficient bile flow. What is the solution? Just start taking purified bile salts. I will give you a link to those. I advise you to take them on an empty stomach. One capsule in the morning and one in the afternoon. You can even take suspension once, that is, 4 times a day. This should open the bile ducts. If this is the problem, you will feel better immediately within an hour. In parallel, to combat this problem, you need to observe healthy chum and intermittent fasting. This will ultimately help your liver. You will be able to produce bile and ensure its proper flow.  In the Healthy Tetta system, intermittent fasting is great for fatty liver and other liver problems. I'll give you a link below with additional information. If you're unfamiliar with this, secondly, exclude omega-6 fatty acids. If you often eat out or eat unhealthy food, then you're consuming a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, and this can be the cause of stiffness. You know, when people eat out, they always eat food with soy or corn oil, and then stiffness appears from somewhere. Thirdly, take up fasting. Fasting is one of the most effective ways to restore a damaged liver. And if the liver gets better, then your health will improve, and the stiffness will go away. If you study the topic of fasting, you'll learn about out of a due, which is the processing of damaged proteins, including scar tissue in the liver. If you clean out these proteins, the liver will function better, and stiffness and pain will go away. This is a very important point. Let's say the problem is not in the liver, but you have Stewart Reed. This is not the same as autoimmune rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis occurs mainly due to old injuries. This is a situation when the joints wear out due to some kind of disruption in the mechanics of the joints themselves, and the joint wears out more on one side because the body is in a mode where it is constantly forced to compensate for difficulties due to an old injury. For me, this is relevant. Here's what you need to know. You can't have it about Stewart. If the composition includes correct and symmetrical movement, there will be no such arthritis. So the secret is to maintain movement in the joint. There is an excellent technique that I found by chance and which I recommend. I don't teach it myself, but you can find a specialist in it in your region. You can practice it remotely with a personal instructor. There are books about this technique, there are videos. This is an excellent technique for maintaining balance in joints and protecting them from arthritis. It's called the method and gas. I wrote it down letter by letter because it's difficult for a guest to read. I have a link to their website in the description. I am not affiliated with them in any way, but I believe that this is a very effective and amazing technique for those people who suffer from chronic pain, poor posture, and so on. Thank you for that.  Watched this video, there will be a new one soon. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.