Hello, I'm Dr. Berg and I'll tell you what to do with insomnia. First, always sleep on your right side. Why? Because the heart is on the left and the liver is on the right. Many people have fatty or clogged livers. If you sleep on your left side, the liver can put pressure on the heart. It's much better if the heart is above the liver. In addition, it will be easier to breathe. Therefore, if you sleep on your right side, you will sleep better. This was the first point. Second, you need to breathe more slowly. Focus on your breathing. This is what happens if the adrenal glands are overloaded. Breathing will be like this. I'm exaggerating, but the exhalation will be shorter than the inhalation. You need to achieve balance so that the inhalation is the same as the exhalation. For 4 to 5 seconds, try slowly counting to 4 or 5 when you inhale like this: one -two-three-four-one-two-three-four. This was the exhalation. Inhale slowly and exhale slowly when you try to sleep. This helps a lot. Some people often hold their breath when they try to sleep, so breathe more slowly when you go to bed. Number three, go to bed until at least 10.  30 maybe a little earlier here is the thing that we have so-called circadian rhythms if you go to bed after half past ten, say at half past eleven and especially at midnight you will miss the right moment in other words you will have to wait an hour or even an hour and a half until the next wave comes it's all about the cyclical work of hormones having missed the right moment of the circadian rhythm you will not be able to fall asleep have you noticed this at half past nine you fall off your feet you think if I lie down now I will just pass out and then suddenly and not a wink of sleep that's what I'm talking about a person living before 10-30 the optimal time of this circadian wave is from 10:45 to 11 that's when it's easy for the body to fall asleep I always go to bed at this time and fall asleep very quickly but if I go to bed at midnight I will toss and turn for a whole hour that was the third tip the fourth your pulse let's say you lie down and the pulse is echoing in your ears boom-boom-boom-boom this means that you have a potassium deficiency with a potassium deficiency the heart beats  A loud and rapid pulse. The norm is 72 beats per minute, but 65 or even 60 is better. If your pulse is too rapid, start eating more vegetables because you don't have enough potassium. Your pulse is a good indicator of potassium deficiency. You will get more potassium. It will be easier to fall asleep. If you figure it out, potassium deficiency is caused by two things: firstly, long-term stress. The adrenal glands will use up all the potassium. Secondly, sugar. If you eat too much sugar, you will definitely be left without potassium, and your pulse will clear up and quicken. Lastly, I use this massager before sleep. I created it specifically for my body. There will be a link under the video, it shows how to use it before bed. I massage my neck, the middle of my back, and the adrenal area. Every time before bed, everything is extremely simple. I take it on all my trips because it helps me fall asleep quickly. You work with certain points on our body and the adrenal glands. This calms the body and you will sleep better. The massager helps relieve stress on its own. Depending on your height, use small, middle, or thumb fingers. It's a great tool for stress relief. A massager will help you if you have trouble falling asleep. These were a few tips and see you soon.