Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog. What one key nutrient deficiency is seen in all kidney diseases? Friends, write what you think about this. Question from Maris YouTube.  My relative has a cardiac ejection fraction of only 30%. Should he avoid heavy lifting and very long walks?  It seems like these are two different things.  Yes, I think I would be careful.  You need to strengthen your cardiovascular system slowly, in small steps. I think walking on flat terrain will be extremely beneficial in nature. I think it is extremely important to sleep more. Transitioning to a healthy keto diet is extremely important. You may want to consider taking key nutrients. It is important to take a natural B-complex. Magnesium is very, very important for your heart.  It is extremely important to avoid grains and sugar.  Necessarily. I would not take calcium supplements.  I would take magnesium.  Calcium increases muscle contraction, and you need something that relaxes them. Also, find a local farmer and buy animal hearts from him and eat them, say, a few times a month. This is extremely useful if you have heart problems.  Seriously, there's a lot in them. You can even take a coenzyme Q10 supplement to improve cardiovascular function. After all, there is a lot of coenzyme A10 in the heart muscle .  Excellent question from Yvonne on Facebook.  What vitamins are good for terrible migraines? Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. A couple of things come to mind.  High doses of magnesium are needed, perhaps even 1,800 mg per day.  You need magnesium glycinate, not oxide. After all, magnesium oxide will cause diarrhea, even at much lower doses.  In general, magnesium is vital.  There is also evidence that a lack of sodium can also cause headaches.  So you need more sea salt.  There is certainly evidence that vitamin B2 deficiency can cause migraines.  I haven't seen much results from taking B2, so I do n't think it will help.  And the last thing. If you have a good one, if you have been treating it, taking ibuprofen or something else for a long time , it could seriously harm the liver and even cause various headaches.  So I think a good turmeric supplement would be very helpful, or milk thistle to help the liver cope with this.  With any medication, especially if the problem is chronic, I would take antioxidants like these to keep the liver in good condition. Great.  Here are the audience's answers to the quiz question.  What one key nutrient deficiency is seen in all kidney diseases?  55% said potassium, 25% said magnesium, 10% said phosphorus, and 10% said vitamin D. Do we have any winners?  We have one group of winners.  The correct answer is vitamin D. Why?  Because in order for vitamin D in the body to convert from an inactive form to an active form, we need the help of the kidneys. If the kidneys are damaged, vitamin D activation is impaired and deficiency occurs.  At the same time, vitamin D deficiency increases the risk of kidney disease.  Here is another interesting aspect of kidney disease.  With a deficiency of magnesium and vitamin D, the kidneys are damaged. It's amazing that a shortage could lead to something like this, but it does.  Just as B1 deficiency leads to beri bere, and vitamin D deficiency leads to rickets. That is, it works both ways. You need healthy kidneys to have vitamin D. And you need vitamin D for your kidneys to be healthy. Great.  Today we have another quiz question.  Please, Dog.  What is the main difference in nutrients between fish oil and cod liver oil? Friends, send us your answers, and we'll continue answering questions on social media. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue, writes Rootsramble.  Yesterday I bought 600 mg Tutka capsules.  When is it better to take them: before or after meals or at another time?  Better on an empty stomach.  If taken with food or after a short break, they help digest food.  And this is not what we want from here.  The more I read from the duck, the more I read and think, "Oh, I need to take more tutka." After all, it has a powerful effect on the mitochondria, making them very healthy, but it also does something else, which I have already talked about in other videos.  The cell contains endoplasmic reticulum.  It helps create proteins, hormones, and neurotransmitters. He is very, very important. And it seems his condition is deteriorating even before mitochondrial problems arise .  It's amazing, I only found out about this recently.  And then I started reading about all the effects of tutka and learned that it reduces endoplasmic reticulum stress. I didn't even know that.  This is a unique property. This takes the load off the mitochondria and helps you.  Of course I take it and I wow I like how I feel.  Tutka is a bile salt.  It differs from regular bile salts.  It also gets into the blood.  This is how it should be. And imagine, our joints have receptors for bile, so tutka can also help with arthritis.  This is amazing. Its receptors are also found in neurons, so it is also beneficial for the brain.  Tutka penetrates deep into the cells and protects them. It is much more than just bile, which simply helps digest fats. And this is only a small part of its properties.  Okay , I got a little carried away.  No problem, writes Christel from Facebook.  Please tell me how to get rid of brain fog at the beginning of menopause during HRT.  I don't know what this means. Hormone replacement therapy.  She also has crippling anxiety.  Regret. Please give me some recommendations, asks Christel. Here's what I think about hormone replacement therapy. I'm not discouraging anyone, but you might want to be aware of its side effects. During perimenopause, estrogen and progesterone levels decrease. So you ask the doctor what is causing these problems?  He will say: "Estrogen deficiency."  What should I do? Take estrogen or progesterone and estrogen?  What causes this deficit? Doctors don't say that.  Well, it's because of menopause, we don't know.  Just accept them.  But this therapy increases the risk of blood clots, cancer, heart attack, and stroke.  Not everyone is happy with this.  Is there another way? Maybe something else is decreasing?  During menopause and perimenopause, two things happen that are related to the decrease in estrogen, namely, the problem of insulin resistance gets worse, as if you were eating more carbohydrates, although you are not. And this affects weight, fogginess, consciousness, cognitive function and much more.  So this means that you don't just need a regular keto or low-carb diet, but a very, very strict diet to be beneficial.  Cut carbohydrates as much as possible. Also, when estrogen levels decrease, vitamin D is not activated and is not absorbed properly.  This problem is getting worse.  And if you enter menopause with a vitamin D deficiency, that deficiency will now become even more pronounced.  And here are the symptoms of vitamin D deficiency: depression, hypertension, inflammation and much more. So I would focus on two things.  Increase your vitamin D3 levels through supplements or sun exposure and severely cut back on carbohydrates.  It will probably do you a lot of good and make you feel better.  Fine.  Now let's see what viewers answered to the quiz question, which was: What is the main difference in terms of nutrients between fish oil and cod liver oil?  78% of respondents said that cod liver oil contains more vitamin A and omega-3.  22% said it had more DHA and vitamin K2.  And 10% said that cod liver oil has more vitamin D. Okay, I'll answer very simply. Omega-3 in fish oil and cod liver oil is approximately equal. These are DHA and EPA.  DHA fats are the building blocks of the brain and retina. PA is like an anti-inflammatory , helps the heart, reduces inflammation anywhere. But Cod Liver Oil has two things that fish oil doesn't.  This is vitamin D and vitamin A. Moreover, its active form, retinol, is a good source.  So that's the difference.  Cod liver oil contains these two additional components.  If you read the history of cod liver oil, it's probably no accident, Grandma, that your parents gave it to you in a spoon.  After all, we get vitamin D and omega-3 from it.  This is their source, and it helps to avoid many problems.  In the past, it was used to prevent rickets, which is essentially a softening of the bones.  Then synthetic drugs from oil appeared, which could be patented and from which one could make money.  And all these natural remedies are a thing of the past, as folk, unscientific and unconfirmed. I'm going to make a video about this because it's an amazing story, especially if you read about it in the textbooks they used back then.  Wow, there were a lot of natural remedies in the thirties, forties, even in the fifties.  And suddenly they all disappeared. Good question from Susan on YouTube.  What is the best non-drug remedy for motion sickness B6? Okay, take B6 and call if anything happens. Also, if you are driving in a car, focus on something that is far away.  After all, the car is rocking, and you need to stabilize your gaze on something motionless in the distance. Asks Endria Strumble.  And I think I was able to read it correctly.  What can you recommend for sebaceous dermatitis? So, for these skin problems, especially this problem, high doses of vitamin D3 and, of course, zinc are very helpful - these are two key remedies, but be sure to change your diet, because with insulin resistance, insulin is elevated and the skin condition worsens.  Many problems arise.   The sebaceous glands secrete more sebum, and acne appears.   It's all about insulin.  It increases androgens and it makes everything go wrong.  So, you need to change your diet.  Low-carb diet, zinc and vitamin D. And I think you'll feel a lot better.  Our time is coming to an end. Say one last thing, dog. And finally, I will say this.  From now on , before you put anything in your mouth, when you sit at the dinner table, or even when you buy groceries at the store, ask yourself, will this support my life, will this help my body repair itself and support tissue growth.  If the answer is no, then by definition it is not food.  Don't eat this. This will be a wise decision. Thanks for watching and see you soon.