Today I will tell you how to feel energetic in the morning. I am interested in how you feel in the morning. Are you feeling grumpy, irritated, exhausted, or just a little tired? Write in the comments below, I will definitely read them. The best indicator is a way to understand whether you are rested or not. It is not about whether you slept, but whether you feel that you slept well and really rested. This is how you feel in the morning, as well as how you feel throughout the day. The key and most important factor determining the quality of sleep is a hormone called melatonin. Melatonin is a hormone whose production is stimulated by darkness at night. In the dark, less light enters the brain through the pupil, which stimulates the pineal gland. It converts serotonin and melatonin. Fatigue appears and you fall asleep during the daytime, or if the room is bright, light passes through the retina and enters the brain and turns off the production of melatonin. In turn, melatonin is vital for the immune system. This explains why people who sleep poorly get sick. The less you sleep, the less  melatonin and, accordingly, the higher the risk of getting an infection, heart problems and a whole bunch of diseases. And you should also note that melatonin is a very powerful antioxidant; it saves the body from destruction caused by free radicals and, in the long term, can prolong life. Melatonin can be taken in the form of supplements, but I do not recommend this, because it is a hormone and after some time the body will begin to compensate for its excess by producing less of it, therefore, I am not a supporter of taking melatonin as a means of sleep due to melatonin am. There is another problem with age: its production decreases, which is why the older a person is, the more problems they have with sleep, this increases the risk of other problems. Melatonin also fights inflammation well. With poor sleep, you lose flexibility, pain and inflammation appear. And when is the best time to go to bed? Ideally, when it starts to get dark, but of course, this is not realistic. I advise going to bed at 10-11 pm. Ideally, this is the best time for sleep. There is also such a phenomenon as circadian rhythms. They can be represented as waves. Their period is about 90 minutes, and it is advisable to catch the wave between ten and If it's already 12 o'clock and you're still awake, it will be much more difficult to fall asleep because the moment is lost. If you go against this natural rhythm, you have to wait to catch the wave and fall into deep sleep. You've probably noticed that around 9-10 o'clock, drowsiness appears, but you hold on, turn on the TV, and then you can't fall asleep for at least another hour and a half. Now you know why, and now let's talk about how you can improve the synthesis of melatonin in the body. Number one, when you go to bed, turn off the lights. Usually, something is glowing on all sides, a cell phone, a laptop, or a TV is working. Turn off everything so that not a ray of light hits the retina. Remember, the fewer light sources in the room, the better. So, turn off the lights. Step one. Number two. Fluoride. The fact is that fluoride interferes with the functioning of the pineal gland. It can even cause calcium deposits in the body. So, install a good water filter to solve this problem. Below is a link to the filters that I recommend. There is also a video about this. Tap water almost always contains fluoride. After installing the filter, you will also notice that the condition of your skin will improve, especially when Acne number three: Glycine is an amino acid that has a very positive effect on serotonin production. It increases it. Take 12 grams before bedtime. This will help you fall asleep. Number four: Less blue light. This is about the blue light from a computer or TV screen. Blue light reduces melatonin production. You can buy glasses with a blue light filter, and there are also free apps that you can install on your computer to block blue light. You'll see that your eyes will become less tired. Number five: More sun, vitamin D during the day. The fact is that melatonin and vitamin T seem to oppose each other. Therefore, you need to turn off melatonin during the day, let it recharge, and turn it on at night. This doesn't mean you need to live in the dark. It's just that sunlight and vitamin D were present during the day, not at night, because it is stimulated by darkness. It helps switch this switch. What will happen if there is a lack of sun and vitamin D? Melatonin won't work at night as it should. Number six: Stress should obviously be minimized. Change your environment. Take long walks, for example, in the park. In general, get rid of stress because it also turns off melatonin. More precisely, it is cortisol, the stress hormone, that does this, and of course, caffeine interferes with the natural production of melatonin, just like alcohol does. And here's another interesting thing: melatonin is stimulated not only by darkness, but also by cold, which also has a stimulating effect. So, if it's cool in the bedroom, it stimulates the production of melatonin. I set the thermostat to 20 degrees. I like to sleep when it's cool. And finally, let's touch on the most important topic. Electromagnetic fields, let me change the slide like this, this is a really important topic, what is m.p.  This abbreviation stands for electromagnetic field, that is, we are talking about certain frequencies and energy in the space around us, or more precisely, about this further, which surround our body. I don’t want to go into detail in this video, but let’s talk about the place where you spend at least a third of your life, of course, this bed, and about the SMP connection, and as you yourself will now understand, this can be another reason for poor sleep. You can verify this with the help of this device. I have several of them. It picks up electromagnetic fields and different frequencies. This particular one determines the magnetic field and the electric field. We will focus on them in this video. It also shows radio frequencies, like this, for example, a signal from a mobile phone. I do n’t want to go into this now, but I’ll tell you a little about the electric and magnetic field to understand what we are talking about. Imagine a hose with water. When you open the valve, due to the pressure that is generated in the hose, the water flow increases. It spurts out in a stream. Something similar happens if you plug a plug into an outlet and then turn the switch. The switch is on. There is an electric current, as a result, the light comes on, and a  an electric field and a magnetic field if I turn off the tap here it will stop the water flow just like a switch stops the electricity and you might think that the magnetic and electric fields disappear but that's not true there's still voltage in the wire that is pressure we just turned off the light here but the wire is still in the outlet here the same thing with the hose if you turn off the water here the pressure hasn't gone away why because this valve is still open look at this diagram you're sleeping here there's a nightstand next to it a lamp on it it's plugged into the outlet probably an electronic alarm clock nearby most likely a phone here which we'll talk about later the light is off but the wire is still in the outlet this continues to generate an electric field and a magnetic field that extend two two and a half meters from the outlet if you don't believe me take a tester and see for yourself first let's measure the electric field I'll bring it to my board not so bad the electric field is weak but what about the magnetic magnetic field is very strong you have to hold the device away and then check when I  I would n't want to be exposed to such a level of radiation for a long time to write on it, but now let's look at the radio frequencies. In fact, as you can see, the level is low, but what about the phone? Here's the device, here's my phone. Good, now I'll turn it on and check my mail. You saw that the phone is emitting quite strong radiation right now, but you bring it to your head many times a day. I advise you to keep it away and use speakerphone. You can think of something else, but please, spare your head, don't touch it. In fact, they even warn you about this when you buy a phone. Now I checked the lamp. Here's the electric field, now the magnetic field is not bad. What if the light is off and the magnetic field is lower? What about the electric field? You saw it going off the charts, but the lamp is off the charts. Why is that because there's still voltage in the wire, because the plug is still in the socket. That's why you need to unplug the plug from the socket. Don't look at the lamp, even if it's far away. It should be quite strong. 05 is quite strong here. You see what kind of field the wires have, and now I'll unplug it. Everything has disappeared. So, before going to bed, unplug all the plugs from the sockets or install one general switch. All this is necessary so that  Reduce the electromagnetic radiation around you at night, because since we spend so much time sleeping, it’s worth reducing the m.p.  Why does this radiation reduce the production of melatonin in the pineal gland? This can disrupt the fourth stage of sleep, deep slow delta sleep. As a result, even if the body is sleeping, it does not rest. Here are some very simple and effective tips: Unplug all plugs from the wall sockets, replace the cord with a battery-powered clock, and replace it with a table lamp. You can also spend a couple of dollars and buy a switch like this and plug it into the socket with the wires of electrical appliances in them. This way, you can completely de-energize them, which will significantly reduce the electromagnetic field. Don't forget about another important point: put your mobile phone as far away as possible or turn on airplane mode because the phone emits a high level of radiation harmful to the brain, heart, and cells in general. And so they repeat: first, turn on airplane mode on your phone. Second, unplug all plugs from the sockets next to the bed or buy the switch I showed you to turn it off. If you have a tester, you can find that the wires in the wall also emit radiation. I won't go into this now, but I advise you to buy a device for measuring fields to make sure of this. I recommend this model, it's called Troy.  field and m.f.  The TF2 model is not an advertisement. I am not affiliated with the manufacturer, but it is one of the best. You can use it to measure any radiation at home. I will shoot another video on the computer. This topic also deserves attention. All these cables, a surge protector under the table, a spare battery, a lamp, a printer, all of them are sources of harmful energy. Because of this, you get tired, heart problems, even arrhythmia and other problems can occur. Replace the electronic alarm clock with a battery-powered clock. This simple action will field. If you have a water mattress, get rid of it. The electric heater in such a mattress generates a field that is harmful to the body. For this same reason, you should not use various kinds of electric heating pads. It is especially harmful to hold them close to your back all night. They may help with back pain, but they themselves also create by generating an electromagnetic field. An electric blanket is very harmful; it creates a field around the entire body. It is not at all useful. Some people are more sensitive to electromagnetic radiation, others less so. I am talking about the long-term effect, especially about the impact on sleep cycles. This turned out to be a rather long video, but I think this is an important topic. Thank you for watching.