How to get rid of those annoying floaters that float before your eyes and which 70 percent of people have? The solution here is very simple and inexpensive, generally free. But first, I explained what these floaters are. These are strange little particles similar to worms or cobwebs in the eyes. They float back and forth, especially if you try to look at them or look away. This is not dangerous, it’s just annoying. In fact, these are pieces of collagen fiber that cast a shadow on the back of the eye, the retina, and as a result, you see these floaters. Usually, these are particles of decayed tissue inside the eye, whether due to internal bleeding or due to some kind of inflammation caused by white blood cells. In 9 cases out of 10, this is caused by the aging process. It can be caused by an old injury, infection, or problems with blood sugar levels. Since people with diabetes usually have many more floaters, high blood sugar directly affects the eyes and destroys eye tissue. But regardless of all this, the solution is autophagy. Those who watch videos on my channel know.  What is it, but for beginners I'll explain. Autophagy is a process in which the body processes old damaged proteins. That is, the body takes these old proteins, processes them and creates new proteins from them. This process is most effectively stimulated by fasting. So, a combination of intermittent fasting and periodic long-term fasting for two days or even three days from time to time is the best thing you can do to get rid of floaters. Man, I'll make a reservation, I haven't found any research on this topic, but still try it. It's not just cheap, but generally free, and it will bring you great benefits in addition to getting rid of floaters. For beginners, there is a link to a video on how to do this on my channel below. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.