I want to talk about progesterone, this forgotten hormone in men, progesterone is associated with women's problems, menopause, menstruation, and what is its role in men? Today I'll talk about the importance of progesterone for men, because it is a precursor to testosterone. It's interesting that progesterone helps maintain normal testosterone levels. Progesterone reduces inflammation in the brain. It is an anti-inflammatory hormone. It enhances neurogenesis, that is, the creation of new brain cells. Progesterone undoubtedly helps protect against dementia, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's. Progesterone also helps fight depression. These are some of the effects of progesterone in the brain in young men. Progesterone increases sperm production. Progesterone helps maintain muscle mass. It affects the immune system. Progesterone promotes prostate health and prevents its enlargement. In fact, the drug finasteride is a synthetic derivative of progesterone. This drug, like progesterone, specifically blocks the enzyme that is involved in the conversion of testosterone to DHT. This is a more potent form of testosterone that causes Prostate enlargement. Fino Srit blocks this enzyme, which helps shrink the prostate, but progesterone blocks it naturally. No side effects. Progesterone also helps reduce the risk of breast tissue growth in men. Why does progesterone become low and how can we increase progesterone to normal levels so that we have more testosterone and related hormones? All these steroid hormones are created from a raw material called cholesterol. This is why cholesterol is so important. Especially for hormones, many take statins, and they block your ability to create all these very important hormones. Let's start with this level and then see how we can improve this entire biochemical pathway. How to get cholesterol. There is a lot of cholesterol in sardines. Offal like liver contains cholesterol, and fatty meats contain cholesterol, and cheese, but not other hormones. Should I take pregnenolone? I don't recommend rushing to take it. If you are going to take pregnenolone, and it is very easy to buy without a prescription, you know that it is a precursor that is converted directly into progesterone. I advise always starting with only 5-10 mg, this is a very small dose, perhaps.  You won't need pregnenolone. But if cofactors don't help you, you can add it a little later. There are three cofactors. Number one is magnesium. Many people have a magnesium deficiency. Low testosterone can be easily raised by taking enough magnesium. I recommend taking magnesium glycinate before bed. This will open the door to the work of many hormones. Magnesium is found in avocados, leafy greens, pumpkin seeds, and dark chocolate. The second cofactor is zinc. Many people increase testosterone simply by taking zinc. Zinc is found in shellfish, crustaceans, oysters, and red meat. The last cofactor is vitamin B3. Niacin can be obtained from nutritional yeast, from a separate dietary supplement. If your skin turns red, this is good for the heart. I talked about a couple of ways to strengthen this biochemical pathway. I'll say that statins block different parts of this biochemical pathway. I've already mentioned statins. They are notorious for blocking hormones, because statins block hormones. If you take statins or they want to prescribe them to you, think carefully. Why do you need them? Many cardiologists even Practitioners are strongly against statins. There are many other methods to balance the lipid profile. Cholesterol is one of them. Eliminate empty carbohydrates and sugar. Unfortunately, doctors do not focus on this, but prescribe a drug that blocks cholesterol. It is important to take coenzyme Q10 so as not to damage the muscles. This is a side effect of statins; they deprive you of coenzyme Q10. There are three more things that block this entire process. Number one is chronic stress. How to reduce stress. Ashwagandha. Vitamin B1. One of the best remedies for stress is increasing the so-called oxytocin by taking a special fermented product that increases oxytocin levels and greatly reduces stress. The next factor that can disrupt this pathway is insulin from excess empty carbohydrates. Sugars. The third factor is hormonal. Destroyers are found in the environment, including plastic, various chemicals, heavy metals, substances that mimic estrogen. There are a couple of ways that help reduce the estrogenic effect. First, you need to regularly eat cruciferous vegetables, such as Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower, and arugula, and buy a filter for  water that at least partially removes plastic This was the third point and the fourth alcohol greatly reduces testosterone I'm sorry I'm just informing you don't turn it off that's not all and the last factor that destroys this entire pathway is inflammation inflammatory phenomena can be eliminated Taking enough vitamin D vitamin D can indirectly increase both progesterone and testosterone by reducing inflammation but small doses will not help you need to take at least 10,000 IU every day this is a preventive dose and with low testosterone or progesterone you need to get enough sun or take 10 e of vitamin D every day in the form of dietary supplements And this is only 40 minutes in the summer sun is not so much vitamin D is extremely important for reducing inflammation in the body Which will allow these biochemical pathways to work If you want to increase testosterone then in addition to cholesterol you need enough high-quality protein and the best source of it is red meat completely from grass-fed not only beef but also and if you add such a testosterone-increasing factor as high-intensity interval or strength training a couple of times a week This will stimulate the body to create more  Testosterone and something about overtraining. If you allow yourself to overtrain, your testosterone will drop to the very bottom. Why? Because cortisol increases, interval training is needed. Long walks are suitable. Your heart rate should not be average or high for a long time; this is bad for testosterone. I hope you learned a little more about progesterone, its role in the relationship with testosterone, and ways to increase it. If you are a man, thank you for watching, and until next time, I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you, along with a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.