Today we'll talk about what happens if you eat plant-based meat for 2 weeks. It's interesting that plant-based meat is positioned as clean, environmentally friendly meat. But why do people even think of eating this fake? Yes, because everyone knows that regular meat causes cancer, so let's see what science says about this. Firstly, the Supreme Court is based only on questionnaires and observational studies. Having studied 800 different articles, they selected only 17 of them and ignored the remaining 783. But here's what's interesting: a new group of researchers conducted a similar assessment by re-collecting all the studies on the relationship between red meat in Iraq and they came to a slightly different conclusion. The Journal of Medicine prepared articles stating that the evidence for a link between red meat consumption and cardiovascular disease and cancer is too inconsistent to recommend reducing it. Their conclusion is based on five systematic reviews with the most comprehensive set of available facts, four randomized controlled trials, as well as the health benefits of red meat. According to the new recommendations, we do not need to change the amount of meat in the diet; it does not significantly affect heart disease, diabetes, and cancer. This has been proven.  Dozens of trials. But here's what's interesting: before publication, editor-in-chief Christina Lane received a full ten emails within 30 minutes, blocking her inbox, all from one organization, the True Health Initiative. This organization preaches veganism and plant-based diets. It's funny that they resorted to using bots to overload the inbox and create the appearance that many people are against this publication. Someone, David Katz, even compared this article to information terrorism that could blow to pieces. The results of a lifetime's work by honest scientists. People once thought the earth was flat, but scientists have discovered that it is round. Medicine is also changing, but we read in between. There's an agenda behind which serious forces are pursuing. Soon after publication, the Physicians for Responsible Medicine committee asked the Philadelphia district attorney to review this publication for potential danger. Even earlier, the same group filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission regarding claims in articles about meat consumption. As you can see, there is resistance to these facts, research, and publications stating that meat is not a harmful product.  Now let's move on to the plant-based meat product from the Morning Star company. Let's read the ingredients: water, wheat gluten, soy protein concentrate, vegetable oil, corn, rapeseed or sunflower soy flour, soy protein isolate, dextrin, potato starch, sugar, soybeans, plant-based burgers also contain seed oils, maltodextrin, modified starch, and the Impossible Burger contains dextrose, modified starch, as well as the so- called soy Lego lobster, which is genetically modified. In short, we see a lot of ultra-processed ingredients, but essentially all sorts of garbage in the composition of these products. All these ingredients are made from seeds. Manufacturers take the seeds and intensively process them, turning them into something else. The result is in no way reminiscent of the seeds from which it was obtained. For example, they use dent corn instead of sweet corn, making corn chips, tortillas, and also corn syrup. Then they take these same ingredients and feed them to animals whose meat we eat. It would be correct to call this [music]. Ultra-basic metabolomics in animals and plants. There is a difference in meat in 171 So plant-based and real meat are not the same thing at all. Next time you're at the store, just take this product and read the ingredients. I think you'll be shocked. Now, in my opinion, you should learn about the benefits of real meat. I talk about this in this video. M