I'm back, I'll show you a very powerful acupressure technique. In fact, this technique of pressing on one spot on the back of the neck will open your sinuses if they are blocked or not releasing contents. And you will feel good. You will breathe again. I have used this technique in my work with thousands of people and got excellent results. I will show you how to do it. I will say a couple of things about the sinuses. Because this is an acupressure technique, and sinus problems can have other causes, for example, a fungus, a bacterial infection, and so on, as well as an allergy to cheese. Cheese is probably the main culprit. So, if you have a problem with your sinuses, don't eat cheese and see if the sinuses clear up. And of course, sugar serves as food for harmful fungi and bacteria in the sinuses. Giving up sugar will probably help you a lot. I made a video about using a couple of drops of diluted soda. This perfectly restores normal microflora in the sinuses. And of course, Black River is a good remedy for sinus problems. You have two options: you can purchase this tool. This is my massager and work with it. the back of the neck or you can ask someone to watch this video and apply this technique I will show you both ways but first I must tell you how I came to this So when I studied chiropractic unfortunately at the very beginning of training you need to practice applying the techniques but who to practice on other students So you practice on other students And these new students practice on you I say in the neck adjustment and here people who do not understand at all what they are doing begin to adjust the vertebrae someone worked on me incorrectly my nose was so stuffy that I could not breathe So I went to the designer and our instructor was a very famous at that time chiropractor Virgil Strang Everyone who is in the subject knows Virgil Strang he is the author of books on philosophy he is a very competent chiropractor with many years of experience he is one of the best chiropractors who worked with me he checked me and said that I need to work C2 this is the second vertebra he felt the vertebra and determined that it was turned the wrong way he turned it the other way and simply opened my sinuses I finally  I was able to breathe after my nose was stuffy for several days. There is nothing better than visiting a competent practitioner who does exactly what is needed. But of course, during the training process, people rub and adjust incorrectly, and in practice, I thought instead of adjusting the second vertebra, will there be a result if I just press and it turned out that it gives an absolutely wonderful result. And when you finish watching this video, have someone do this for you if you have a problem with your sinuses, and then write in the comments what happened. After all, you will feel a huge change in your ability to breathe, but first, just check your sinuses. Close one nostril and see which sinus is open and which one is blocked. Just pay attention to how blocked they are, then you evaluate it again to see the improvement. But you should experience great relief immediately when pressing on the second vertebra. The question is why this works, I don’t know, because the nerves that control the sinuses are part of the cranial nerves that are located higher in the brainstem, the occipital protuberance, right here they do not reach this area, as far as I know, but maybe there is some connection. I just don’t know. I  I just know that if you press on this place correctly, the sinuses can open up wonderfully, I'll show someone how to do this, and someone will do it. You need to work with your thumb and middle finger. I'm not showing you. The middle finger needs to be pressed directly from the back of the front. Press here usually. I prefer the person to be sitting. I place my elbow like this and press like this, that is, I don't raise my elbow. This is how I approach from behind. I prefer the person to be sitting, and this trace stands because of this, it's a little more difficult. Well, okay, press here. You spread your fingers about this wide. How to find this place? Lower your fingers directly under the skull. You will feel the first vertebra. Go down about 2 cm lower. Perhaps 2.5 cm lower than this back part of the skull. This is the so-called occipital protrusion. Lower your fingers about 2.5 cm. Here is the second cervical vertebra and just press and put your other hand on your forehead so that this doesn't happen. So, put your hand on your forehead, I'll show you, hold it.  and press so the pressure is directed so it's clear just press it doesn't have to be very hard And hold the main thing is that the pressure force with the middle finger and thumb is the same clear and just hold your fingers like this for maybe 20 or 30 seconds and ask the person to say when it will be easy to breathe And probably after 10-15 seconds the person will say Wow it became easier if you do it longer it won't be better anymore that's how easy it is to use this technique so if you have my massager you can use a medium-width fork put it on your neck and lean back in a chair with a high back or on the couch I did this every evening leaning back in a chair and allowing gravity to create pressure from behind on C2 the second cervical vertebra I just held the pressure there it improved my breathing and helped in other ways this and there are two ways to use a simple acupressure technique to open the sinuses Now have someone do this for you if you have problems with the sinuses or you do this to someone and write in the comments How do you like it and after that I recommend you watch what is the most video  Watch the video on how a couple drops of kimchi juice can really improve the microflora in your sinuses.