I'm always looking for information about various body problems and I already have a video about gout and uric acid, but I found a remedy that you need to know if you have gout. Having looked at how some gout medications work, you can see that they block the enzyme that converts purine into uric acid. This enzyme is called santinooxidase. The question arises: is there anything natural with the same effect? ​​What is the answer to this question? Yes, I suppose you know that you need to give up alcohol, beer, and fructose. This will help get rid of the problem. But for many, gout does not go away after this, which is painful, especially when walking, because of pain in the foot. This can affect the whole body. After all, you limp and shuffle, and all because of one joint in the big toe. People have lost the enzyme that helps break down uric acid. What have we acquired in this process? We have acquired a survival mechanism that helps us store fat during periods of food shortage. Although this probably doesn't make you happy, what is, is. However, that's not what we're talking about today. Today I want to tell you  about one amazing remedy This substance of plant origin is sulforaphane, it was studied at Johns Hopkins University They found that it is useful for cancer and tried to get a patent for broccoli sprouts, but they failed to get a patent and they abandoned further research After all, if there is no patent, no one wants to invest in such a project, anyone can take and grow broccoli in their garden Sulforaphane is also available in capsules, but it is better to eat sprouts and broccoli and radish Here are some of its important features Firstly, bioavailability, it is absorbed much better than any polyphenol, its bioavailability is 80%, look at silymarin bioavailability 73% curcumin bioavailability Only 1% quercetin 4% sulforaphane 80% it flies into the body like a rocket almost unhindered Another interesting fact about sulforaphane is that it has the ability to activate certain genes and enzymes to remove poisons from the body and also convert carcinogens into substances that no longer cause cancer It can activate more  100 beneficial genes that protect the body from harmful effects. Regarding gout, studies have not been conducted on people, but it is worth a try. The advantage is that the number of side effects is practically zero compared to drugs. It has been established that sulforaphane helps restore nephrons, filters inside the kidneys. Uric acid is produced by the body, and the kidneys filter it and remove it. Often, when a person has kidney problems, such filtration of uric acid does not occur and almost simply dumps it into the body's tissues. Sulforaphane also helps these filters inside the kidneys filter better. It also helps increase the production of antioxidants, and they reduce the harmful effects of free radicals, which leads to a decrease in inflammation. The accumulation of crystals in the area of ​​​​the thumb Nadya says. There is a big war between them and the immune system about the harmful effects of free radicals. Sulforaphane helps regulate the immune system's response to these crystals and to inflammation on many fronts at once. It also increases the diversity of the microbiome, which also helps remove some of the uric acid from the body, since microorganisms can destroy uric acid. So, sulforaphane is promising.  An inexpensive remedy with almost no side effects. Perhaps this is the missing piece of the puzzle you've been looking for. I have another video on this topic. If you haven't watched it, I recommend it.