Today I will tell you something very curious. I found something incredibly interesting about tremor. Tremor is often mistakenly diagnosed as Parkinson's disease, but tremor can also occur without Parkinson's disease. There is a type of tremor called essential tremor. It can develop into a more serious problem over time. This tremor intensifies with movement, unlike resting tremor, which occurs in the absence of tremor. I have a patent, the author of which is a neurologist, that is, he clearly knows something about tremor. I studied the patent and learned something extremely interesting, which I will tell you about. If you take large doses of vitamin B2 and large doses of coenzyme Q10, this symptom can significantly decrease, but in this patent I did not. I have a description of the mechanism. I would hug why this helps, so I did not dwell on this and studied this topic much deeper and I found something even more interesting. I found a mechanism that explains why these two nutrients work and learned in what quantities they need to be taken to get a positive effect. There is a high correlation between mitochondrial diseases and mitochondria.  - this is the body's power plant and movement disorders, the fact is that the system requires a huge amount of energy. Therefore, it needs very healthy mitochondria. If a person has neurodegenerative diseases, pathologies, or any related problems, then, as a rule, he has mitochondrial dysfunction. The question is this: What is the relationship between vitamin B2 and coenzyme Q1 and mitochondria? The most direct function of the mitochondria is to convert food into energy. ATP is like a battery. In the process of breaking down food, its conversion into energy, one compound is involved. This is a kind of transporting agent on the conveyor that extracts energy from food. It extracts electrons. It helps transport these electrons along the conveyor. So, coenzyme Q10 and vitamin B2 are necessary for this transporter that carries electrons. This transporting agent is called flavin adenine dinucleotide. It is curious that few people talk about it. Then, as they say a lot about this over, you can even buy it in the form of bergenia. It improves the functioning of mitochondria. It slows down aging and tidies up the mitochondria. It  It gives energy and does many other things. Many people take its precursor - vitamin B3, and for fats, vitamin B2 is needed. But if we look at what vitamin B2 does besides improving mitochondria function, we will see that it is necessary for the metabolism of fatty acids to maintain the lining of the nerve fibers. With an acute deficiency of vitamin B2, people experience all sorts of neurodegenerative problems. They develop neuropathologies, a tumor in the nervous system, the lining of the nerve fibers begins to disappear, multiple sclerosis develops, there may be increased reflexes, and dementia can also occur. So, when it comes to the consequences of vitamin B2 deficiency, people often think that B2 is taken for migraines and so on, but it should be taken for any neurological problems. Vitamin B2 is a precursor, it helps protect mitochondria. That's why vitamin B2 is necessary to reduce tremors. And what about coenzyme Q10, it does the same thing: it helps transfer electrons and produce energy in the mitochondria. But if a person takes statins, and they block cholesterol, then he will have a deficiency.  Coenzyme Q1 because of this he has But neurological and muscular symptoms. If someone takes statins, he needs to take coenzyme Q10, otherwise there will be many side effects. So, I studied all the side effects of statins and Guess which one. Side effect of statins I found tremors. Try this. And when. Try it, write about your results in the comments. Vitamin B2 user. I recommend taking approximately 800 mg per day. Split this amount into two doses: 400 mg in the morning and 400 before bed. I also recommend taking enzyme Q10 in large doses. 1000 mg per day is possible. You can take 500 mg in the morning and 500 in the afternoon. Try it and write about the results below. At the same time, you need to pay attention to your diet, which may have caused this deficiency. And to find out what exactly you need to eat to strengthen the body with the right nutrients, watch this video.