Dr. Berg is back on air.  Today we'll talk about the real benefits of collagen that people don't talk about, perhaps because they don't know about them.  This information is quite astounding because most people take collagen for hair, for skin, for nails, for joints, to prevent wrinkles, to be more beautiful.  But the real purpose of the koloden is not connected with beauty. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Today we will talk about its real purpose. But first, a few stories. Long ago, our ancestors lived differently, not like we do today. They ate animals whole.  They ate organs, ate bone marrow, cooked soups from various cuts, bones, chicken bones, and prepared various horns.  If you look at all the protein in the body, 30% of it is collagen, a separate type of protein. All connective tissues are made of wood , including the glue that holds everything together, including tendons, ligaments, cartilage, and fascia, which are present throughout the body, giving the body its shape and preventing it from falling apart.  Bones also contain a lot of coloden.  But nowadays, in our time, we like to eat tender meat, that is, meat without collagen.  We love lean chicken breasts.  We don't like tough meat.  In our diet, collagen makes up only 1-3% of the total protein, but we need 30%. This can cause problems later on because it results in a deficiency of one of the key amino acids, glycine. More about him later.  The point is that most people are deficient in collagen compared to our ancestors.  At 17 years old, we have the most collagen in our entire lives.  We are in optimal condition.  We can fall on concrete and bounce back.  If I fall on the concrete now, I will literally fall apart.  But when I was young, I had a lot of injuries.  I'm surprised I survived them at all.  But as we age, say by age 75, we can potentially lose as much as 80% of our collagen as we age. We lose a lot of collagen, we lose the connective tissue that keeps the body from falling apart.  This is why our skin sags, wrinkles appear, joints deteriorate, and we become more fragile.  Colladen is very important.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. First, I want to talk about the secondary purposes of collagen, and then I'll move on to the most important one.  Collagen may act as an antioxidant because it increases levels of glutathione, one of the main antioxidants in the liver that protects us.  It helps remove toxins.  One of the benefits of collagen is that it helps sleep cycles.  Collagen is important for the restoration of the intestinal lining. This can help protect against leaky gut syndrome.  For this we need collagen, because one of the main amino acids in collagen is glycine.  Glycine not only helps remove toxins and poisons, but is also essential for deep sleep cycles.  If you have a collagen deficiency, you will have problems with sleep.  Now let's move on to the most interesting part. People think that if they consume collagen in powder form or get it from food, it will immediately get into the body where it needs to be and will cover the need for refrigeration.  But it doesn't work that way. The lion's share of collagen obtained from food or powder, about 90%, is broken down in the digestive system and enters the bloodstream as an amino acid. Now I'll show you. When we eat protein or take collagen, we get several amino acids linked together in a chain.  These resulting chains of individual amino acids are called peptide chains.  A peptide is a chain of amino acids.  When we eat collagen, most of it, 90%, breaks down into individual amino acids, but 10% remains in the form of peptide chains. This is very, very important because peptides are signaling molecules.  This is a completely unique feature.  Even if you take collagen, you only get a small percentage in the form of peptide chains. They play a vital role in sending signals to the body to repair and rebuild collagen connective tissues. Let me explain it even more clearly.  You consume collagen.  Most of it , 90%, breaks down into individual amino acids and ends up in the general pool of amino acids that you would get from eating eggs or meat.  Everything ends up, so to speak, in a common pot, which is used as a source of raw materials for creating muscles, tendons, hair, nails, or even collagen.  But there are also small peptides that do not break down into individual amino acids. They are absorbed in the intestines and enter the bloodstream as peptide chains, as signaling molecules to instruct the body to repair itself. It could be skin repair, it could be joint repair, it could be intestinal lining repair . This could be ligament repair, this could be vascular repair, because vascular repair is also collagen.  When I talk about repair and remodeling, I mean stimulating genes that activate cells called fibroblasts.  These are the cells that produce collagen. They also produce elastin to make everything more elastic. Holgen is not bones, it is more flexible tissue, so to speak.  And this is what distinguishes young people from old people.  Young people are more flexible, pliable, elastic and resilient, like an elastic band.  When we lose elastin, our skin becomes wrinkled, less flexible, and we look older. Therefore, we need more collagen and elastin.  And eating more collagen gives us not only the raw materials to make them, but also peptides that act as signaling molecules and tell the body what to do with those raw materials.  What's even more interesting is that if you just eat steak or chicken or an egg or fish, you don't get these signaling molecules, you don't get the peptide chain. If you eat meat, if you eat eggs, if you eat fish, if you drink whey protein, you only get amino acids.  What makes collagen unique and different from everything else is that it stimulates collagen production, collagen repair and remodeling. Again, I'm talking about skin, nails, tendons, ligaments, fascia, vessels. The question is, how can you get more collagen?  Yes, you can take collagen in powder form, but you can also get collagen from chicken skin or fish skin.  You can also cook different soups and rogu with chicken bones or cartilage, boil it all down and make different rogu.  Bone marrow contains a lot of collagen, but in general you just need to eat the whole animal, from nose to tail. Many nations do this.  Boil chicken feet to make delicious dishes. Grass-fed beef is not as tender and soft, but it contains much more lean meat because these cows move around more. They are much healthier than cows raised for slaughter.  They don't have much space.  Their meat develops layers of fat and becomes very tender.  Understand this: you will get protein and amino acids from this beef, but you will not get the collagen needed for repair and rebuilding.  Personally, I add a little cream to my coffee in the morning.  I don’t add sugar, but I add powdered coloden, and it dissolves in it.   It doesn't add any aftertaste to the coffee .  It just makes the coffee creamier.  This is how I get my collagen. By the way, for collagen to turn into body tissues, additional cofactors are needed .  For example, vitamin C is a very important cofactor.  Biotin and trace minerals like med are important.  Therefore, variety of foods in the diet is very important.  I invite you to my mini-course: Health Diagnostics by Skin.  You have a window, papillomas, dry skin.  dandruff or other skin problems.  These are not just skin defects.  Such signals indicate problems within the body.  In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause. Sign up using the link below.  See you.