Today we'll talk about, I apologize, but even chronic mucus in the throat. To truly understand this problem, you need to think like an engineer and not a doctor. After all, if you search on this topic, we immediately learn that everything again comes down to suppressing symptoms. These conditions are even classified based on symptoms, so these symptoms can be perceived as a disease. Unfortunately, no one gets to the root cause of these problems and does not inform you about the most typical causes of these symptoms. So, I will consider one symptom, chronic mucus formation in the throat, and simply identify its most likely cause. With chronic mucus secretion, there is mucus drainage from the nasopharynx. There is a chronic cough more often at night than during the day. I will tell you why there is definitely hoarseness or a sore throat. It is also possible to feel a lump in the throat or as if something is stuck in the throat, and even a sore throat, although there is no infection. So, let's approach the issue technically and consider the cause-and-effect relationship. We will consider the logic underlying this problem instead of looking only at the tip of the iceberg.  On the symptom and select medications to suppress it, mucus can be secreted due to allergies due to a virus in the sinuses, but a more likely cause is associated with two other symptoms. About their underlying cause later, one of them is GERD, gastroesophageal reflux disease, this is when acid rises through this valve in the upper part of the stomach and enters the esophagus, and the second condition is LFR, one real reflux. The main difference between GERD and LFR is the following. Both conditions are very similar: the valve does not close and acid rises freeguard into the esophagus, and with LFR, acid rises above the vocal cords to the back of the throat. These conditions are classified as treatable as such, usually with antacids and other anti- acid medications in the stomach. If you have pride, you need to see if you have all the other symptoms associated with these conditions. With GERD, this is heartburn, belching, reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus, excess mucus, irritation in the throat, there may be a lump in the throat, difficulty breathing, because when the tesla rises in  The throat's ability to receive oxygen is sharply reduced, making swallowing difficult. Sometimes mucus drips from the nasopharynx. This worsens at night when you lie down, because the valve doesn't close completely, and you may have a food allergy (more on that later). The second condition, LFR, is accompanied by many of the same symptoms, but it can also be accompanied by a metallic taste in the mouth and more severe irritation of the vocal cords, i.e., hoarseness. Before delving into the root cause of these problems, I want to talk about some treatments that can even cause this condition or worsen it. For example, when taking antacids, constipation and even acid reflux are serious side effects. There are other medications that work slightly differently and are called, etc. Proton pump inhibitors essentially block the enzymes that produce acid. They also have side effects: constipation, gas, risk of stroke, risk of pseudomembranous colitis, palpitations, and even high blood pressure. There is another side effect of hyperglycemia. What is it? It's an excess of gastrin, which leads to excess acid in the stomach. You are trying to get rid of the acid by taking a drug that increases the amount of acid. It's completely illogical. Another problem with this treatment is that it removes acid, which makes it difficult to absorb minerals such as calcium and magnesium, and this creates problems with bones, muscles, and many others. Of course, there are other solutions. You can have surgery to tighten this valve. However, there are a couple of complications here, for example, belching will become impossible. The gastrointestinal tract will accumulate more gas, you will have to take more antacids, etc., which I mentioned. Ultimately, the optimal solution to a problem should not create an even bigger problem than the one you are trying to solve. Let's move on to the most likely reason why the valve does not close, which is why there is a gastritis or LFR. The reason is not  in excess acid and in its lack in low levels of hydrochloric acid with a small amount or low concentration of acid in the stomach, the valve does not close properly, it may not even close at all, but when acid increases during the digestion of proteins and similar foods, the valve should close very tightly if everything is working correctly, so the root cause of the valve not closing is a lack of acid in the stomach, this is the underlying cause due to acid reflux. You think I have excess acid, I need to get rid of it, I will take anthracite or do something else to reduce the acid, but the root cause is that you do not have enough acid. So, hydrochloric acid in the stomach is a very important fluid for many systems in the body, especially for the immune system. One of the purposes of this very strong acid, yours, which should be from one to three, is to kill pathogens. So you know, the stomach is sterile inside and nothing can live in it, because the acid is very strong, this is one of the barriers of the immune system of our body, because if we can kill pathogens that get into the stomach with food and not allow them to penetrate further, it is excellent.  We are protected from these pathogens, but if the acid in the stomach is weak, pathogens can pass further into the body and create a host of different problems in the lower digestive system and even in the small intestine, the so -called Siberian bacterial overgrowth syndrome can begin. The reason for this is that the microbes were not killed in the stomach. Another important purpose of hydrochloric acid is the breakdown of proteins. Their complete breakdown. If there is not enough acid in the stomach, proteins are not completely digested and this causes stress in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract because they need to produce more enzymes and make food and much more. This disrupts all digestion. If you add to this inflammation in the intestines, if there is leaky gut syndrome, then proteins penetrate directly into the holes of the leaky gut. The immune system begins to create antibodies to these proteins and this is the beginning of autoimmune diseases. This is the beginning of allergies. The third reason why we need hydrochloric acid in the stomach is associated with the ability to absorb minerals. Without this pH, it is difficult for minerals to enter the body. This is one of the underlying causes of anemia or deficiency of some minerals. A person cannot  absorb minerals calcium magnesium potassium zinc j all these minerals also this high acidity activates the secretion of enzymes by the pancreas and the secretion of bile by the gallbladder so without this concentrated hydrochloric acid in the stomach with the right page the condition of the entire digestive system begins to rapidly deteriorate and in addition to everything else, the sensitive mechanism does not allow this valve to close tightly and acid begins to be thrown into the esophagus even the reflux of bile into the stomach is possible and then hydrochloric acid along with bile can be thrown through the esophagus into the throat this irritates the back of the pharynx and forces the body to constantly protect it with mucus the body tends to secrete mucus in an attempt to protect itself from strong acid that destroys your tissues I am now talking about the most likely root cause of mucus secretion of this chronic irritation of the throat causing cough knowing this to cope with the problem is very simple because you need not suppress the symptom but eliminate the cause itself you need to increase the amount of acid in the stomach by the way you need to decide with your doctor how to gradually stop taking antacids if you are not interested in this ask your doctor what  What are the long-term consequences of long-term antacid use and what is the underlying cause of this problem? I'm sure you'll be curious to hear his answer. He'll probably say something like, "It's just stress, it's just genes," and with age, these problems arise in most people. You need to restore your acidity. You need to take something that produces hydrochloric acid. The best remedy for this is betaine hydrochloride. Betaine hydra burns. You need to take three, four, or even five, six, or even seven capsules right before meals. This is my recommendation. Some people who take this remedy have this problem if they have an ulcer because this condition has gone too far, or if they have gastritis, that is, inflammation of the stomach. If they take betaine hydrochloride, it may get worse because the tissues are inflamed. In this case, you will first have to heal the mucous membrane in the stomach. This can take 2 to 3 months before you start adding acid to the body. But you need to understand what's happening and understand that ultimately, you need to increase the acidity in the stomach to a normal level. So, if you have an ulcer or gastritis, you can watch the video at the link below. Carnosine will probably be of great benefit to you.  zinc and if you don't have an ulcer, taking betaine hydrochloride can really help you. Besides this, you need to do something else because your food is probably not helping you and the main culprit in this situation is grains and here's what's amazing if you look for information they will tell you to eat grains to get rid of acid reflux but in fact it will only make everything worse. They are disheveled and cause inflammation, they cause food sensitivities, allergies, autoimmune diseases, even reduce immunity and with grains the body receives a lot of omega-6 fatty acids in typical grains, omega 6 is more than twenty times more than omega 3 which reduce inflammation. You create severe inflammation in your body by eating grains and also products from animals that were fed abundantly with grains, as opposed to products from animals that are completely grass-fed. I'm just trying to encourage you to start taking this into account, think outside the box and see how you can put your diet in order and what needs to be changed. Intermittent fasting is also absolutely necessary. Don't follow advice like just eat.  little by little 5-6 times a day no no you don't need that you need intermittent fasting because when you fast for at least sixteen seventeen eighteen hours skipping breakfast you give your digestive system a chance to rest and recover because it is not constantly activated by food another important reason for this whole problem is low stomach acidity and lack of bile salts because of which you may have impaired digestion of fats is a vegan diet vegans often eat a lot of grains and a lot of products that destroy the digestive system and they eat little animal fats and since they eat little animal protein they may not start producing hydrochloric acid the combination of these products causing inflammation and lack of nutrients in a vegan diet can cause chaos in the digestive system but the right way to follow a vegan diet exists I am not against doing it right I am against you eating all this meat not from meat soy protein isolate grains sugar and so on and so forth if you don't know what to cook for chum the book chum menu for two weeks will help you a diet for three  and two meals a day, simple, delicious recipes from affordable products, the basics of chum and fasting, follow the link below