I would say that of all the areas in which I am an expert, the main one is fatigue. Universities do not issue a diploma in this field; it is obtained in the harsh school of life. Personally, I experienced such fatigue for so many years and then overcame this fatigue and helped tens of thousands of people. Now I will tell you how to regain your energy. I tried all the wrong methods, drank all these pills and vitamins, but at the root of my fatigue there was something else that I was overlooking. When years later, I finally understood what was going on. It was as if I had removed the evil eye and woke up. So, let's talk about the seven reasons for your fatigue. The first reason is adrenal fatigue. You have too much cortisol. This is what's interesting about cortisol. It is a stress hormone that adapts the body to stress. Under stress, the body begins to work on glucose, regardless of your diet. If there is too much stress, the body simply works on glucose. Therefore, cortisol has another name: glucocorticoids. These are glucocorticoids. This is a glucose hormone for short-term energy supply. It should give us energy, but in the end, it arises.  Fatigue, because it uses a lot of glucose stored in the liver, and cortisol creates glucose from protein and fat. This process is called gluconeogenesis. All this glucose is sent into the bloodstream. Blood sugar levels rise, insulin is activated and lowers it. Chronic stress only makes everything worse, and all this glucose really exhausts you. That is, the more stress, the more the body works on sugar. In the brain, there is a small gland called the amygdala. It is very similar to the adrenal glands next to the kidneys, but it works in aski. In other words, it targets a special type of stress in the brain. This special stress is stress caused by fear. This is a reaction to fear. So, the amygdala is associated with various shades of fear, whether it is a very high level of fear, such as embarrassment or a severe panic attack or a state of horror, or somewhere in the middle, anxiety or restlessness. All this is a state of fear, and each time a state of fear is felt, the amygdala is activated and it affects many biological processes, for example, the ability to sleep, the ability to relax, and everything related to fear.  It encourages us to avoid this fear. You've probably heard this: you need to face your fears. What if you face fear? They're no longer fears, because fear is avoidance of something. But if you stop avoiding it and look at this fear, it disappears. The best remedy for adrenal stress or overactive amygdala is taking vitamin B1. A good dose of vitamin B1 in the form of nutritional yeast will help you feel very calm. You can also take ashwagandha. There's more information at the link below. Ashwagandha is an adaptogen, it increases stress resistance. There are many other adaptogenic herbs, but ashwagandha is one of the best. The next remedy is sleep. More sleep improves stress control. The adrenal glands function better during sleep. We'll talk about another remedy: physical work is simply excellent therapy for stress. Any physical work really helps reduce stress. Exercise also helps, but physical work is much better because physical work and exercise help deplete the accumulated stress energy that prevents us from sleeping. Number 2: sleep. Poor sleep leads to fatigue, which often prevents us from sleeping.  Fall asleep excess cortisol is caused by stress, especially if it occurs from midnight to 2 a.m. At this time, cortisol should be at a minimum, but with adrenal hyperactivity at this time of sleep, usually in neither eye. I had this problem for many years until I figured it all out. One more thing about sleep. There is a sleep hormone called melatonin. I recently released a very interesting video about melatonin and there are two types of melatonin. One type is found in the blood and the pineal gland. But there is type 2 melatonin. It is found in all our cells, deep in the cells, it is called intracellular melatonin. To increase the level of this melatonin, you need infrared radiation. You know that sunlight is more than half infrared light. This infrared light increases the level of melatonin in all the cells of our body. This significantly improves sleep. Another role of melatonin is that it acts as a powerful antioxidant, even more powerful than glutathione in the liver. Therefore, melatonin is very important for counteracting stress and reducing damage due to oxidation. and free radicals, so if possible, be sure to be in the sun for a long time, but in winter, when there is no sun, you can get infrared light from a fireplace, a fire, candles, or with red light therapy. Infrared radiation feels the same as heat that comes from the sun or from a fire or from incandescent lamps, but not fluorescent lamps or LED lamps, which are now in use, like in computers and smartphones. Such light counteracts infrared radiation and depletes melatonin reserves. This is probably one of the reasons for sleep problems. People sit in front of a screen all day and cannot replenish melatonin reserves. I recommend another very good sleep aid. I use it myself. I take four capsules of my Healthy Sleep formula about twenty minutes before bed and 3 capsules of my vitamins D 3 and CO2. This works very effectively. It plunges you into a wonderful deep delta sleep, and thanks to this, I can sleep even for 9 hours. I use this when I need to sleep a little longer, but now everything is pretty good with my sleep cycles. Vitamin D3 helps reboot the center from excellent. It helps with time shifts.  Belts and very, very important for sleep cycles Vitamin D3 right before bed helps sleep and it will not deprive you of sleep Number three post-viral syndrome Let 's say you only have bulbs or some kind of viral flu and now you have residual fatigue You have chronic fatigue syndrome In medicine it is called biological encephalomyelitis What does this mean This tricky term means a combination of muscle pain, inflammation or soreness and inflammation in the brain, which leads to fire, dark weakness and fatigue So this condition of the body is very similar to the symptoms of vitamin B1 deficiency and also to the symptoms of vitamin B3 deficiency I think what is actually happening here is that an immune response to inflammation occurs This causes strong oxidation Extensive damage by free radicals And a person is faced with this infection when he has run out of B vitamins and residual fatigue after this infection is actually a deficiency of vitamins mainly vitamin B1 but also other B vitamins and other nutrients If you have just had an illness and you Start taking nutritional yeast and/or B1, try to find its natural source, as well as vitamin D3 with zinc. Your energy levels will begin to increase. You can also take other powerful antioxidants such as N-acetyl cysteine. Don't take melatonin supplements, but rather be exposed to infrared radiation, which naturally increases melatonin, which, as I said, is a very powerful antioxidant, perhaps even more powerful than glutathione. I want to say one more thing about viruses. When you have viruses in a dormant state, they are called latent viruses. Let's say you had an infection at school age, the Epstein-Barr virus. Twenty years later, this virus comes out of dormancy. Usually, the virus comes out of dormancy when a person is stressed because cortisol is a hormone that suppresses the immune system. It actually reduces immunity. That's why many people take prednisone for a variety of infections because it eliminates symptoms. However, it not only eliminates inflammation but also completely eliminates the immune response. So, with high cortisol levels, your immune system temporarily falls asleep, opening the door to this virus.  which can break out and attack you when you are unarmed, so if you have any post-viral symptoms, be it fatigue or anything else, do everything possible to find the cause of your stress and try to eliminate it because it is very difficult to get rid of this fatigue if the stressful situation is still not eliminated and, unfortunately, losses can be part of stress, this is called from the mountains, due to loss, cortisol increases, stress increases and then viruses can break out and create many problems. If you are in such a situation, be sure to do what I am talking about: more sleep, more nutrients, infrared radiation, certain nutrients, etc. Well, another reason for fatigue is Lyme disease. This disease is caused by spirochetes. Oh, this is a type of bacteria that causes an immune response in the body. All the symptoms of Lyme disease are caused by the fact that the human immune system is trying to kill this microbe but cannot find it. So, I recommend using natural antibiotics, for example, oregano, garlic, thyme and sage. Natural remedies can strengthen the immune system but without side effects. Number five is insulin resistance. If  You have a high-carb diet. Realize that your brain is partially unconscious. That's what carbohydrates do. They make the brain sleep. That's why you feel sleepy after eating. A low-carb diet awakens the brain. The level of awareness increases, and at the same time, the brain runs on titanium, which is the preferred fuel. So, if you haven't yet switched to the whale gene diet with intermittent fasting, this transition can change your energy levels like nothing else. There's a link below for those who aren't familiar with this topic. Number six: low stomach acid. If you have weak gastric juice, especially with age, it gets weaker. You won't be able to absorb vitamin B12. You won't be able to absorb iron well. All this can lead to them, and you won't be able to properly break down protein. This can cause fatigue. You will be prone to bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine, which can cause fatigue, not to mention digestive problems. Fatigue can also occur from them. A simple remedy is apple cider vinegar mixed with hydrochloride, but keep in mind that in the beginning you will have to take a lot of it. You may have to take 5.  6 7 tablets immediately before meals for weeks before the situation really starts to improve because betaine hydrochloride is not a very concentrated hydrochloric acid, it is a very weak acid and it takes time to increase the acidity and the last point I will talk about is a vitamin deficiency, this can cause fatigue, this does not happen very often, but it happens, I would have already said 12, I already said iron, but I did not say a and in all our cells there is a sodium-potassium pump, it produces electricity for the cells and we need a lot of potassium to produce this energy, sodium is very easy to get, but it is more difficult to get potassium, to get potassium you need to eat a lot of greens, that's right, it can give you a lot of energy if you eat little greens, perhaps you need to eat more of them to get more potassium and also another mineral that is also needed for energy and ATP, namely magnesium, and so you can get a lot of magnesium and potassium from large portions of greens, I noticed that on the days when I do not eat a lot of greens, I am a little tired, so of all the things you can do, the most important thing is to put your diet in order, I did not know this before, I tried to take a lot vitamins and do everything else, but I ate a lot of carbohydrates, it's useless, so the first thing you need to do is start a keto diet with intermittent fasting. Number two, you need to eliminate stress so you can sleep. This is number 2, and these factors are connected. Number three, there are often some hidden residual effects after some past infection, or some latent virus could come out of hibernation. In this case, you need to take more B1 D3 zinc and do something else that I recommend. If you haven't watched my video about melatonin, and this is a very important video, watch it.