Let's move on to the next body type and this type of adrenal glands. The adrenal glands are glands above the kidneys. Let's point to the adrenal glands with your finger. So, these glands are associated with stress. Who of you has experienced stress? 1 2 3 4 5 6. Give an example of what causes stress: work, road, teenage children, husbands, excess weight, school, relationships, life, money. I see this is familiar to you, who has had at least once a tense relationship with someone, and we won't continue twice. And so the adrenal glands react to stress and prepare the body for it. If you imagine that a tiger will be running after you for the next ten years, and how your body will react to this, you will understand what happens to the adrenal glands. How they burn out. If a tiger is running after you, you will not be able to sleep. You will not be able to have offspring because of problems with the corresponding hormones. There will be problems with digestion, with pressure, with cholesterol. What is connected with blood sugar? Because the body runs on sugar. I will go through the entire list. The adrenal glands regulate stress, and stress accumulates. Yes, you are like a container that  It actually fills up right before you started gaining stubborn weight. Some kind of stressful situation happened, and this is always true. You always ask a woman, she thinks it's just calories. Remember when she started gaining weight, what happened right before it turns out she had a baby, had her uterus removed, had a C-section, had her tubals ligated, got married and divorced, all in one day. A lot of things have happened, even excess weight in children arose after asthma attacks, ear or throat infections. There can be many reasons for stress, but stress accumulates, and over time, too many applications appear on your computer, that is, in your body, all this accumulates and you turn into a box of stress. Some people are so wound up in life that they can't even relax and sleep. The probable source of the strongest stress for people is other people, and right, there are individuals who really get under your skin, for example, whiners, please help me, please, have they ever accepted help? No, okay, let me push you down the stairs. Help you, and so it is. Find out. There are hostile, rude people. There are also depressed people. They upset you, you can do this, they don't, it won't work, that is, happy people, they are always happy, it doesn't bother me, but if a person is depressed, he doesn't like happy people, they are too positive, but there is a certain personality type that really annoys me, they are also called passive-aggressive, or look at their cheeks, let me show you who they look like, look at me with hostility, you smile, look angrily, but now there is a smile, hello, nice to meet you, but behind your back there is a knife in your face, they won't say that they support you, but in fact, they destroy your reputation, they love gossip, you know those, they give a compliment but accompany it with a barb, like, a nice jacket, by the way, I got it at a second-hand store, who says that, crazy house, nice haircut, cut it myself, I had an uncle, yes, it was definitely him, he says to me, congratulations, I studied to be a chiropractor, when will you study, but a normal doctor, so some people encourage you, others put you down, these same people put you down secretly, their actions make you go into yourself, for example, you look fine, you look tired  You're not sick, actually, you don't need these words. Everything was fine. Personally, I know ways to fight back. Do you want to know if anyone knows this technique? Just reverse the flow, direct it at him. You haven't had anything there for a long time, and he will stand in front of the mirror for hours and look at what he has. He directs your attention inward. Okay, let's go back to a less difficult topic. But if you're in a relationship with such a person and are trying to somehow reason with him, don't bother yourself. You can't reason with him. This irritates you. You try to show him that he's not himself, but he still won't understand. He's right. He's more important to him than even his personal success. So, it's better for you to just ignore him. Vova, when your adrenal glands burn out, your stress tolerance drops. You can't stand people anymore. They infuriate you, they cause discord, especially the incompetent ones, those who make mistakes, and as a result, you react more strongly than necessary. You wouldn't go crazy. These are the adrenal glands. They are like a buffer against stress. It softens stress. Sometimes this buffer breaks down and you become irritable. Your thoughts  they come to mind one by one and all at the same time and your memory the adrenal glands affect the gps of the brain you approach the stairs and what I wanted to come back you are talking to someone and in your head you are having your own conversation maybe you are waiting for him to finish to say something because the thoughts in your head are spinning too fast 24/7 you are solving something and you can’t stop solving problems and generally thinking the adrenal gland is constantly thinking about something the fact is that it is in survival mode in fight or flight mode and the problem here is that this further inflates the adrenal glands but in fact this person should turn them off for at least half an hour a day go for a walk look at the trees birds will unwind without headphones and don’t stare at the phone any of you sit at the computer more than five hours a day 16 hours a day Volga what is happening here is the computer also puts the body into a state of stress especially if it is constantly next to your body I try to keep it away and when going to bed not  Leave electronics near your head, cell phones, etc. I'm personally very sensitive to energy fields and I generally don't like talking on a cell phone. It feels like there's a microwave in my brain. I just refuse. I need to run. There's no need to ask me for my number. I never pick up the phone. I don't like cell phones. So, when your adrenal glands are stressed, you can't stand the stress and your hormones start to rise, which causes fat to appear on your stomach. Your body shape isn't kidney-type, the weight is in your stomach. Why is it primarily in your stomach? Because the body is under stress and, for survival, fat accumulates around the most important organs, right in the stomach area. The body is trying to survive. This is protection against hunger. Hello, low-calorie diets, and so on. The main weight is here. How many squats will remove such a belly? Nothing will work because hormones are to blame. The problem isn't weight, but hormones. You need to lower your cortisol. What people do to lose weight ruins their metabolism and hormones. You don't need to make the problem worse by taking stimulants. They're already overstimulated.  The fat goes here and over time, instead of getting energy by burning fat in the belly, the body will eat the muscles in the legs before it gets to the fat in the belly, that is, the body will use proteins in the hip area and this affects the knees, that's why there are so many problems with the knees. Collagen, the glue that keeps the body from falling apart, is destroyed, hence the loose skin and a saggy belly that looks like a bag and when you get up from the couch, it's hard to get up and climb the stairs, your legs get heavy and this is not the limit after the body kind of eats the legs, the adrenal glands take on the next muscle, the gluteus maximus, who knows what this is, the one below the back, and as a result, a person has not only thin legs and a large torso, but also no bottom, no lower back, no belly, have you seen this? How much is ahead? Okay, I'm kidding, I'm saying you need to start right now. I mean, prevention in my relatives before menopause, then like this, and after like this, so before the adrenal glands will create problems reacting to stress and this will affect the ability to sleep  The idea is that when you sleep at night, you should go through four sleep waves: here is light sleep and here is deep sleep, here at the bottom, here we have the so-called delta sleep. It is in this sleep that you burn 98 percent of your fat, not during the day. All fat burning occurs during these moments. If you don't sleep, you won't burn fat, but your mind tells you that it's a waste of time, that you don't need to walk to burn all those calories. Let's focus on calories. Exercise burns calories, that's true, but it's not a fact that calories are in fat. Look, when an ordinary person exercises, they put the body in a state of stress. Yes, it sounds quite interesting, but all the benefit from these exercises is during the recovery period from fourteen to twenty-four hours later during deep sleep. If you sleep, if you allow yourself to recover. Have you heard of the kick-x system or crazy workouts? As I see it, people usually start doing this at age forty-five. Have you ever seen an 18-year-old do this? If endurance recovery is low, fitness is at a low level. With such extreme workouts, you can harm yourself.  I constantly see people with sprains after that. One day I was with my son, but he was training for wrestling. He was 16 or 17. I used to wrestle too. We walk into the gym and see fathers standing around the mats with their shoes off, standing in their socks, and you can see how they want to enter the circle, because they think they are 18. One breaks a rib, the other almost has a heart attack. It's funny, and only mentally you might be 18, but physically it's not a fact at all. And so, all the benefit is during recovery after training. Sports stresses the body, but then you need to recover, and that's when fat is burned. You don't see it during training. Go train for three hours and weigh yourself here, and afterward you've lost 900 calories, but you haven't lost a drop. All the weight loss is here, if you can recover from your adrenal gland, it's not easy for you to recover, it doesn't adapt. Training is only good if you change, adapt to it. This is exactly what we're dealing with: how to achieve body change no matter what. Who of you 18 could eat almost anything without any consequences? Yes, and who now thinks that there will be consequences? What's the difference? The difference is the metabolic rate, the metabolism is what is disrupted. Choose exercises depending on the ability of the adrenal gland to recover. You, for example, are better off just walking on a flat path than running to burn calories. And what do people do? They cut calories, pray to themselves with hunger, exercise until their pulse drops. This is exactly what prevents them from losing weight, and they don't despair, after all, they were told, but everyone knows that you need a diet and exercise. Yes, I'm really willing to bet that those who say this have never worked with a single person in their life. In 25 years in the field of weight loss, I've worked with thirty-five thousand people. I believe the patient because I observe him. Even with proper nutrition, it doesn't work. He storms the treadmill. This doesn't work, so the reason is within the training. You need to adjust it to the body's ability to adapt. You don't need to put everyone on the same program. Everyone needs their own adrenal gland. Either they can't relax and sleep because they are on edge due to the number of thoughts.  He either wakes up at 2 a.m. more alert than he was during the day, and after lunch or at 3 a.m. he falls asleep on the move, so he ca n't fall asleep, or he wakes up, or his bladder, which is controlled by the adrenal glands, says an idiom, and he gets up to go to the bathroom several times a night, and this is the adrenal gland, it's better to go to sleep, the adrenal gland is like that, half an hour before the alarm, he just fell asleep, it's already time to get up. Has this sounded familiar to any of you, and this isn't the limit, and so he has very disturbed sleep, he's unable to achieve changes, and training, and his cognitive functions are also affected, and many other things, for example, high blood pressure is one of the symptoms of the adrenal glands, high blood pressure. I always look at the top number, if it's high, it's the adrenal gland that's going to go away, because the body has lost the recovery mechanism that prevents blood pressure from rising, and so blood pressure, sugar, and diabetes are a sign of the adrenal gland. Vova, like, control sugar, cholesterol in the blood, this type of cholesterol is also needed by the adrenal glands to produce hormones during stress.  The more stress, the more cholesterol you need. All allergies, including sinuses, low vitamin D levels, and the adrenal gland, are of the same type. The doctor says to take vitamin D. You have a deficiency, but he doesn't explain why. You understand, arthritis and all the others, and you, in general, everything related to inflammation is the adrenal gland, bad handwriting. I write half a word normally to myself, the other half disappears somewhere. Blood pressure, blood sugar, cholesterol, allergies, vitamin D, inflammation, and cognitive functions, as well as insomnia. Otherwise, you are completely healthy. And here is the problem. The problem is that medicine is treating this without asking why there is no assessment. What are they doing? The city is a symptom. You understand, these are all symptoms, and they turn the symptom itself into a problem. They confuse the symptom and the problem. Isn't it obvious why no one but me asks this question? If you ask a doctor the reasons, in response you will get a very tricky scientific name. You have radiculitis, which is back pain, but okay, you have fibromyalgia, and what is that, but you have pain all over your body, your plantar fasciitis.  Fasciitis, what is it? Pain in your leg? De stat 1c sounds very scientific. It means you can't twist your arm back and forth. You have spondylolisthesis. This is a new broken back. Solid labels, post-traumatic stress disorder. That is, you were stressed. Recently, a diagnosis of non-compliance with doctor's orders appeared. This is serious, this is not a joke. A disorder of not following doctor's orders. If you don't do what the doctor tells you. I told my son about the UN, and it's like it's not for real guys, and I'm a fairy to him, in what sense is it not for real guys? He says this means I won't listen to you. Well, then, the doctor should diagnose himself. You don't do what the doctor tells you to do. Maybe you didn't want surgery. Maybe you need a second opinion. Here's your diagnosis: bipolar disorder. What does that mean? It means joy and sadness. What's wrong with joy? You have clinical depression. Maybe you just don't sleep. Those who don't sleep get depression. You're simply amazed, and then it's treated with poisons, forgive me, with medications. Personally, I think healthcare is overlooked. Sometimes, I even  I don't know if I'm the only one who thinks this way, or maybe someone else has thought about this. It's strange. Healthcare doesn't deal with health, but with diseases. Any discipline has fundamental principles, and these principles are very high, and all other principles are built on them. In my work, the principle of health for the sake of weight loss is weight loss for the sake of health. Health is the main thing, it's very powerful because if you do n't know this, you can easily buy into another unhealthy new diet or some harmful trick. But if you evaluate it from a health perspective, it can work. Let's take the word food. Who of you eats food well, and who of you has never read what food is in a dictionary? I'll tell you. Food is a complex of substances necessary to maintain life and continue the growth of the body. From the Latin word meaning support, care, nutrition. That is, food is nutritious. This is precisely why we eat. There are no other reasons besides health and nutrition. There are no personal ones, but go to the grocery store and ask yourself what you should buy. No, no, it's not really worth it. Otherwise, buy a cake. It's better to ask yourself what will be nutritious for me. What should I eat to get nutrition? This approach will save you from many problems.  I'm telling you for sure there are no nutrients in fast food except for artificial vitamins. There are fundamental principles in politics too. I think it's one of the fundamental principles in politics. The main principle is not to spend more than you have. I'm talking about the budget, isn't it an unreasonable principle? Although you do n't have to worry about it and it's sarcasm. Here's another example. What about healthcare in general? The principle could be like this: you need to create your own health. Just imagine if we directed only one percent of the money that goes to treating diseases to creating health and to preventing diseases and everything is in the bag. And I'm talking about prevention. The problem is that the doctor says to come back in six months and you keep coming for examination after examination. I'm very sorry. Hugo, ass, get it together. We're starting chemotherapy. What was done for prevention to create health? Nothing. And what about drinking it on your back every day? They should have gotten life insurance a long time ago. I wonder why everything reminds me about insurance. I went to the doctor, my cholesterol was 180, which is quite good, and the doctor told me everything was normal, but I'll prescribe medication for prevention. Why should I? Yes, but we prescribe them to everyone now and I refused. Thank you, no need. 1 free pill. Try it.  Statene has side effects, but stop all these articles, you can't find out everything, you get a kickback, in short, the pharmaceutical industry is very corrupt, you probably know I'm trying to convey to you that you must start creating your own health, because doctors don't know how I trained 2,400 doctors and none of them teach how to make a person healthy, except maybe the food pyramid, drink water and eat fiber, you understand, all these are small things, so you yourself must be able to create health and create it yourself, cancer needs 20 years to grow, for sure, there are cancer cells in every body, it is the current actions that protect the body and fight cancer, you simply need to create your own health every day I look at people differently I listen to a person I kind of divide him in two and what he does to create his health and what he does to destroy it, do nothing, the same as destroy and it's amazing everything becomes so simple wow, just look you just can't imagine many don't realize that cravings for various foods are simply a deficiency of such a nutrient, and like potassium and a lack of potassium a person tiani 2 for dessert  It's 100% simple, if you replenish your daily potassium intake, you won't have any sweet cravings. Okay, if I tell you what to do, you'll follow my advice to get rid of this craving in a day or two. Okay, then here's my advice. The usual daily intake of potassium is 4700 milligrams. How much potassium do we eat in bananas? It's not four hundred milligrams. How many bananas should you eat? 12 bananas. So, of course, you won't eat 12 bananas. It turns out you don't even know how much potassium you need. It's a lot, but what you can do is eat greens. You need 7 glasses. 7 glasses in total. It's not difficult. A couple of salads a day will satisfy your daily potassium requirement. This will eliminate cravings. It's a fantastic method for preventing diabetes. Potassium consumption helps normalize blood sugar. Who among you doesn't eat 7 glasses of salad a day? Few people eat it, and you're going to get so much potassium. That's the problem. People don't know what foods contain what.  Nutrients and also depleted soil in order to get the necessary volume of microelements right now, these are elements that the body needs in micro quantities with the current state of the soil, you will have to eat food that will contain 27 thousand calories, but it’s not very easy every day you will have to eat a lot, so you need to somehow enrich your diet. The main thing is to ensure that the nutrients are of plant origin in the right concentration. Yes, that’s the problem, people don’t know how to create health, so it’s just terrible. Let’s go back to the adrenal glands, like their problem is fluid retention, because all electrolytes, potassium, sodium are controlled by the adrenal glands, and problems with them lead to the loss of potassium, salts, and there is nothing else due to which fluid movement occurs and fluid accumulates in the ankles. Press on the ankle and an indentation remains. This is fluid retention. This should not happen. Let’s press on the ankle and see if a small indentation remains. Call an ambulance. Such fluid swelling in the ankles is exclusively a problem with electrolytes because the adrenal glands retain fluid, in addition  This type will be drawn to salty things because of the adrenal glands and the type of salt is a mineral that we consume at dawn.  we press the battery, so in the evening you want chips to recharge your dead battery, most of you are like cars, the battery is dead and you fill it with gas, why doesn't it start, you push it and it's heavy, electrolytes, liquid, then how much water should you drink 8 glasses, yes, who told you that, they said once, I finally know who it is and not because it's a myth, they told me the same, but I still don't know where this information came from, drink only when you want to drink, that's what I discovered, the more water you drink, the more dehydration, because water washes out electrolytes that should retain water in the body, there is such a condition, it seems, it's called hyponatremia, that is, excess water, it washes out electrolytes, it's fatal, you drank too much water and died, so drink when you want to drink, I have a device for measuring fluid in the body, usually those who drink more water are dehydrated, nothing, this is not the limit, they are everywhere and at the same time nowhere, I have no idea who they are, and so on, liquids, calcium, it is also controlled by the adrenal glands, calcium is needed to turn off at night, it's not only protection from bone loss or muscle cramps due to unhealthy adrenal glands, the rings will be deposited not in the bones but on the bones, and this is arthritis, bursitis, tendonitis, tartar, cataracts, kidney stones, gallstones, bursitis, any other stones, and you, and also twitching in the left eye. Yes, this is calcium, and what about people taking calcium carbonate, limestone, only in the form of dietary supplements or vitamin complexes? Every time you take a prescription vitamin from a pharmacy, it's just a quiet horror. How low can you fall? There are simply no words. This is an ordinary stone and mineral. They must be of plant origin. Look, plants break down minerals in the soil, absorb them, and bring them into a digestible form. Plant minerals are ten thousand times smaller than ordinary minerals and metal salts, such as in sea salt, up to ten thousand times smaller. It's like comparing a golf ball and an empire state building, and these minerals are absorbed much better. It happened that you ate but weren't full, as if something was missing even There are simply no nutrients in the water, where does dio come from? What are the different ideas? Because of a deficiency, and so there are sinus problems. Another diagnosis about, well, what is this? Blocked sinuses. How terrible everything is here. How much everything has gotten out of control. And now the solution to the healthcare problem is not in a higher budget, but in prevention. The whole philosophy is broken. You ca n't make money on prevention. It's too cheap, seriously, very cheap. In fact, I could look at your food expenses and I would probably see that in a couple of weeks you spend hundreds of dollars on food that could be replaced with healthier food. This alone would be creating health. Nothing complicated. You just need to choose what to buy. How do I know? Yes, I go to the store and see what they sell there. It's terrible. It's surprising. People probably buy it since it's on sale. Finding food in a grocery store is not at all easy. There are still questions about this body type. There is a very interesting type of snoring. There is a nerve that runs along the back wall of the sinus. With the help of cortisol, the adrenal glands kind of squeeze it, and it decreases, and as a result, the person snores, and so on.  The adrenal gland sometimes doesn't tell us that I snore, but of course I don't agree. I'll record it on a voice recorder. Okay, so, adrenal gland, I invite you all to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I'll tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course.