Today we will discuss natural alternative remedies for OCD obsessive-compulsive disorder Why even think about natural remedies Yes, it's just that some OCD treatments have some minor complications There are drugs like Prozac Celexa Zoloft under the hood They all have very serious side effects and the problem is that if you start taking them, will you ever be cured and stop taking them The answer is no, you will take them for a very, very long time And some people need to take them more and more over time and the more they take the more side effects There are side effects And the surgical method of deep brain stimulation is barbaric Because they literally drill a hole in a person's head and implant an electrode deep in the brain This method is described as safe and effective But digging deeper we find out that it was approved under the Humanitarian Device Exemption What is this This is a special permit that is issued in cases where the effectiveness I don't know In my opinion it is a very invasive method In addition, one study indicated that in 20 percent of cases it leads to irreversible symptoms such as problems with  gait, speech problems, worsening symptoms, there is even so- called psychosurgery, which is the removal of part of the brain as a treatment, and sometimes electroconvulsive therapy is even used to treat OCD, which, as we all know, is why I made this video. We will discuss some alternatives that are possibly much better. Much safer and more effective. So, what is this situation when a person has obsessive thoughts, impulses that urge him to repeat ordinary actions, be it washing his hands or anything. The person does not completely control his thoughts. He has thoughts that do not leave him. He is very introverted. The person seems to be stuck in his head and is constantly in it. He is mired in stress in solving problems in indecision. If you think about it, the purpose of the mind is to help us solve problems, and indecision and doubt do not allow us to solve the problem. The problem is solved only when there is no more indecision and doubt. So, the person is clearly trying to solve the problem obsessively thinking about it, but he does not completely control it. There is an excellent solution to this problem, which I want to talk about first. Let's talk about the diet that I recommend. If you watch my videos, you know what I will say. It's called the Heta diet.  Why is a low-carb diet so useful for this condition? The fact is that there is very interesting data on the connection between starvation of neurons when they lack energy or fuel and the presence of OCD. There is a very close connection. This suggests that if we find another fuel for neurons in the brain, and such fuel is ketones. Ketones bypass damaged neurons, they feed neurons directly, and you don’t even need to use glucose as fuel. So if you haven’t tried the keto diet yet, I advise you to try it first, but the benefits of ketones are much greater. They act as antioxidants. There is often inflammation and a lot of oxidative damage. So if you can somehow bypass the damage and use ketones as a healing tool, this will be a very good solution. In addition, ketones stabilize the membranes of nerve cells. If you combine a healthy version of the keto diet with intermittent fasting, I think this will be an excellent solution. When I was practicing, I talked to many people who had OCD, and almost every one of them was on a high-carb diet, they were not on a keto diet. And when people switched to  those diet their condition improved significantly in addition to this I recommend several more remedies based on good research links below these natural remedies themselves significantly improve the condition and they have much fewer side effects than drugs of course they can not be patented and this deprives pharmaceutical companies of profit So do not expect that there will be a lot of research in this area So I advise you to try them you will definitely not get worse and if they help excellent the first natural remedy that I recommend is called this part of the complex vitamin B it helps well and with such problems as polycystic ovary syndrome, reproductive disorders anxiety even agoraphobia this is when a person is afraid to leave the house there was an excellent randomized double-blind study of its inositol in 2011 and in thirteenth year another another good remedy hennessi notutin it is a very powerful antioxidant So I definitely recommend NSC Glycine another remedy take it before bed an excellent remedy for the brain improves sleep improves memory another remedy is called elserin El serine it is a good remedy can help and thanks to l-serine  There will be much more energy after sleep, sleep will improve, attention to many other problems too. And this is natural thiamine, vitamin B1. B1 is excellent for helping control thoughts, especially on a high-carbohydrate diet, but B1 helps reduce another symptom, the so-called delirium tremens, which is confusion of thoughts, inability to concentrate, confusion, disorganized thinking. B1 can help cope with this. I recommend taking natural B1, not synthetic B1, in courses of acetylcholine, and it is very important for the transmission of nerve impulses and for the parasympathetic nervous system, it restrains the mechanism or Run the sympathetic nervous system. And many people are stuck in this mechanism. If they have OCD, anxiety and stress, and lastly, start eating foods rich in antibiotics, kimchi, sauerkraut, strengthen your gut health. After all, it is very closely related to the health of the head. And to learn more about how to follow a healthy keto diet, below is a link to my course with detailed explanations. I recommend inviting you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again during the course. I  I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.