Let's talk about chronic fatigue, aches and stiffness. Mycoplasma is a very small microorganism, perhaps one of the smallest known bacteria. Other bacteria may be smaller, but they are from the same family. These microorganisms are associated with secondary infections, such as Lyme disease and even HIV. They don't have cell walls, so they are very secretive and difficult for the immune system to detect. Antibiotics may not work, but they may help at first, but mycoplasma will return, and it is often associated with rheumatoid arthritis, and it can even provoke autoimmune diseases. It is definitely associated with symptoms of Persian Gulf syndrome, fibromyalgia, and the already mentioned Lyme disease. This problem needs to be addressed with natural remedies, since medications usually destroy the immune system, which weakens the ability to fight these bacteria. You definitely need to reduce carbohydrates. Why? Because mycoplasma feeds on glucose and other carbohydrates. Therefore, fasting is very, very important. Fasting is also very important because it strengthens the immune system. Immunity, especially periodic long-term fasting, for example, two days every two weeks or a month, or even three days is even better. Fasting also activates out of a duel, which will help kill microbes in the body and process them. Herbs that I recommend are natural antibiotics with minimal side effects. A bath for sore throat, angelica root, and garlic can potentially cause detoxification symptoms if you don't take bile salts and pepper. How to take these herbs. Therefore, I recommend taking bile salts twice a day on an empty stomach, once in the morning, once in the evening. This will open the ducts so that fluid can pass through the liver. This should always be done before cleanses and then take these herbs. By the way, bile salts should be continued because dying bacteria sometimes release endotoxins. Endotoxins can block the flow of bile, which will redirect toxins into the blood and cause various kinds of detoxification reactions. Bile salts will help reduce the side effects of detoxification. Fourth, zinc, at least 100 milligrams per day, this will strengthen the immune system, and vitamin D3, 30,000 international units per day.  This will reduce inflammation. After a week of taking all of this, you will begin to regain more energy. This will reduce pain, but mobility will increase joint mobility. It is important to understand that in order to improve your health, you may have to take this for several months. Thank you for watching.