Is berberine a natural replacement for ozempic for weight loss today? We'll try to figure this out. I was n't interested in making a video on this topic until I searched for a natural replacement for ozempic on TikTok. I saw a lot of people who had successfully used its natural analogues. What caught my eye was what I saw when I searched for it on Google. The Google results looked like a massively targeted advertisement for ozempic. They denied that berberine works. They wrote something like, " We need to be careful with berberine because it has side effects such as diarrhea, constipation, gas, and abdominal pain." And if you use too much of it, you can die. You know, I'd really like to know how many people died from berberine. They just want to sow doubt in us about everything natural because it can't be patented and they say it can't be used as a replacement for azem because there's so little research. They want to wait until someone spends money on a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.  Berberine, but this won't happen. Let's talk about what berberine is. It's not a plant, but a phytonutrient or chemical found in different plants. It has very interesting properties. It brings great benefits for any disease. But it helps with diabetes best of all. It is compared to metformin, a drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. It helps with insulin resistance. Berberine's action is very similar to metformin's action, but it has fewer side effects. Metformin has side effects because of the side effects on metformin packaging and warnings. As for weight loss, berberine doesn't burn fat directly, but it helps cope with the reason why people get fat. Its purpose is insulin resistance. It can help lower blood sugar. insulin resistance and blood sugar levels are caused by a slow metabolism, which is the cause of obesity. Why are there 41 patents on berberine? Because they want to make money on it. Because it really works. Berberine even helps convert vitamin D into its active form. Studies have shown that berberine increases longevity and helps with arrhythmia. It reduces the risk of fatty liver disease. If you are on chemotherapy or radiotherapy, berberine can help increase the effectiveness of the drug so that the dose can be reduced. If we consider type 2 diabetes, most of the sugar in the blood is produced by the body itself, namely the liver. This process is called gluconeogenesis, the creation of new sugar. Berberine also helps reduce gluconeogenesis, but the greatest effect that berberine has is associated with the body's cells - improving mitochondria. We constantly return to them because most diseases are associated with them. What does berberine do to mitochondria? It increases the number of mitochondria. This is called mitochondrial biogenesis. It helps get rid of damaged mitochondria. You may already know that cancer occurs in damaged mitochondria. This is probably precisely because berberine helps get rid of damaged mitochondria before everything gets out of control. It helps prevent cancer. It also helps mitochondria work better so that they produce more energy from the food consumed. This is a superstar among natural remedies.  It has virtually no side effects if taken in normal doses, and a normal dose is 1 g or 1.5 gma per day. If you don't exercise or diet, it's unlikely to help you. But if you combine it with a healthy Keto diet and intermittent fasting, coupled with exercise, it can significantly improve results. You know what superfoods are? These are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these foods and their benefits. Short, concise videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. You will also find notes, recipes, and additional materials. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.