If you had to choose the worst ingredient in the world, what would you choose? This ingredient is used very widely and it is not some kind of banned harmful chemical, but an ingredient that has penetrated into many, many products. What would you choose? Write in the comments for the ingredient I will tell you about. Is the chemical index much higher than that of glucose? What is the glycemic index? It is a scale that shows how quickly any carbohydrate is absorbed and raises blood sugar. Glucose has an index of 100 and this is quite high. So, glucose is a monosaccharide, that is, one form of sugar. When you combine two forms of sugar, glucose and fructose, you get sucrose. Table sugar is due to the fact that the biochemical index of fructose is lower, this lowers the overall glycemic index of sugar to about 72. Sucrose is a disaccharide. It will retain the meaning of sugar. Odio means 2. Sucrose is a monosaccharide. There is only one form of sugar. I am telling you all this about monosaccharides and disaccharides because this ingredient is a polysaccharide, that is.  It contains many different forms of sugar and this polysaccharide is much worse than glucose, despite the fact that it is a polysaccharide, this ingredient has the highest glycemic index, I don’t know of any substance whose glycemic index is higher than this thing, and this ingredient is called malta dextrin, the word maltodextrin is not associated with anything bad, malta sounds like something natural, the ending dextrin does not sound like o, as in the names of sugars glucose and fructose, dextrin does not indicate that it is a sugar, however, malta dextrin behaves like sugar, but it is not classified as sugar, and that’s the problem, if any product contains maltodextrin, it does not need to be listed on the packaging in the sugar section, it is only included in the total amount of carbohydrates, this is confusing because you don’t know how much sugar is in this product, manufacturers somehow managed to find such a loophole, they know that many people are against adding sugar, even on their websites, some companies that produce maltodextrin use it as a marketing tool, here’s what is written on  One of the websites lists many soft drinks and flavored drinks as containing maltodextrin, which allows them to list less sugar on the product packaging. It's a great marketing strategy. The problem with maltodextrin is that it acts like sugar, but it's not listed as sugar. It's in a huge number of foods, but you're not told about it, so you don't know how much sugar you're eating. The reason maltodextrin has a higher glycemic index than glucose is that it's absorbed much faster in the stomach. Apparently, enzymes react to this man-made synthetic sugar-like carbohydrate much faster than regular glucose. Yes, it's a man-made synthetic sugar, it's produced using high temperatures, chemicals, and acids. It's a highly processed carbohydrate, and it's extremely cheap. You can buy 30 grams of maltodextrin wholesale for less than 1 cent. You're probably thinking, well, I don't consume maltodextrin in my food. It's not there. Well, I'll tell you where it's found. It's in food supplements, and it's even in natural foods. I had to work very hard to find a company that produces flavors for our products that do not contain maltodextrin and unfortunately these flavors are much more expensive than those that do contain maltodextrin. When you buy plant extracts, say ginko biloba or turmeric, and it says ten to one or five to one extract, then maltodextrin is usually used as a drying agent to turn the extract into powder. Even in the production of stevia, maltodextrin is often used in the form of powder. So you try to go on a low-carb diet and end up getting a lot of carbohydrates, but on the packaging, of course, it is only taken into account in the total amount of carbohydrates. They are included here as added sugar, even in powders from oils such as m-network oil or fish oil. I have cod liver oil in powder form but without maltodextrin and this is the only product on the market where it is not. I spent a long time looking for a company that does not use maltodextrin. In energy matters, let's say you are going to run a marathon and you need a tube of such a gel to get carbohydrates to replenish  energy what is the first ingredient maltodextrin it is unlikely that you as an athlete would want something with such a high glycemic index it will cause a surge of insulin there are also energy drinks protein powders electrolyte powder many of them add maltodextrin and even some forms of vitamins for example in expenses in a notebook and potassium or in a notebook and magnesium in baby food food for babies unfortunately they add maltodextrin in the composition of supplements for muscle gain often the first item is maltodextrin but on the packaging low sugar content with a high percentage of carbohydrates because it is not classified as sugars maltodextrin is added to beer and here you have a beer belly pet food contains maltodextrin in many tetta products it is in form and by the way I am going to post a list on my site very very soon I am trying to finish it as quickly as possible so that you know where maltodextrin is and where it is not because sometimes its presence in products is hidden by most dietary products on the market of dietary protein powders  bars contain a lot of maltodextrin, it is found in many ready-made soups, desserts, ice cream, cereals, stacks, and even in intravenous nutrition, droppers, the purpose of which is hydration, contain maltodextrin, sauces, and medications, maltodextrin has penetrated into many products, unfortunately, it is used to create certain sensations, its soft texture creates a pleasant sensation in the mouth, it is also used to increase the volume of the product simply as a filler to increase the volume, as I said above, it is used to dry both oils and protein products and, unfortunately, even food additives, it is used as a fat substitute in some dietary products for a low-fat diet, it is added because it gives a soft texture like fat, but in fact, it is a carbohydrate, now they began to use another form of maltodextrin, resistant maltodextrin, it is like resistant starch, its chemical structure was changed by converting starch into fiber, however, many studies on this topic were carried out by representatives of the industry itself, and at the moment I do not trust their results, this is just an experiment, there is a big difference between consumption Synthetic artificial fiber and fiber from vegetables such as celery or lettuce, you will see a lot of information about this functional dietary fiber, which is classified as healthy eating and added to those products, for example, banknotes, well, fiber or tapioca fiber, they are classified as resistant maltodextrin, we do not know who it is or whether it contains traces of chemicals and insufficient information about how all this is produced. Personally, I prefer to get fiber from real vegetables. In addition, while studying this topic, I discovered that maltodextrin also refers to insecticides, just think about it, and another big problem with maltodextrin is that it depletes our nutrient reserves, because every time you eat carbohydrates or sugar without supplementing them with nutrients, nutrients, B vitamins, potassium, and so on are used to digest these carbohydrates, so when you eat a lot of empty carbohydrates, your nutrient reserves will be depleted and this will lead to a decrease in their reserves, and for consuming carbohydrates, as a result, you will receive more  Strong insulin spikes, which are the root of many problems, are my plan to stay away from maltodextrin. This is just some kind of human experiment. There is no definitive decision on resistant starch yet. Time will tell, but it is very difficult, if not impossible, to find an independent study that truly examines the so- called benefits of maltodextrin. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.