Yes, if you use toothpaste from the store in the hopes that you can clean your teeth and freshen your breath, then you should think again to make everything clear. First, I need to explain what our saliva is made of. The body produces a huge amount of saliva every day. One and a half liters is more than 51 ounces of saliva every single day. What is contained in saliva: electrolytes, millions of bacteria, enzymes that help break down starches, protein that allows vitamin B12 to be coated so that it can bypass the stomach and enter the small intestine and be absorbed. Saliva contains mucus to facilitate movement, it also contains sodium bicarbonate, aka baking soda. The salivary glands produce baking soda to help neutralize acids that arise during the fermentation process. When you feed the bacteria in your mouth with sugar, including Candida. That is, as a byproduct, certain acids appear, and pH is very important. After all, if the environment becomes too acidic in the teeth, cavities appear in the saliva. There are also white blood cells. There are all sorts of antibacterial, specifically antipathogenic factors. It is very important not to disturb  The correct chemical composition of saliva. Because if it is skewed towards acid or alkali, inflammation of the gums will occur, such as genital tract infection or periodontal disease. Tongue caries will develop. There will be an excess of yeast or candida. Your mouth will smell bad. This is chronic halitosis. Biofilms can also occur, these are bacterial colonies of mucus and calcium plugs. I hope you now understand the importance of saliva, which helps cleanse your mouth and freshen your breath and prevent other oral diseases. Now think about it. You bought toothpaste in the store. It contains fluoride, which is harmful to both harmful and beneficial bacteria. There is also triclosan, which was generally banned. This is a chemical that acts as an endocrine disruptor and creates resistance to some bacteria. There is also sodium lauryl sulfate. This chemical is usually added to shampoos and toothpaste. It makes cleaning products foam. Imagine what it does to beneficial bacteria. Next comes propylene glycol, it is usually added to antifreeze and store-bought toothpastes. This is  salt which may contain dioxane And this is a carcinogen by the way sodium lauryl sulfate can also contain dioxane which I repeat is a carcinogen Well and on top of everything else they add artificial flavors dyes parabens they are by the way endocrine disruptors chemicals that turn into formaldehyde and as a cherry on the cake they add cardinane which causes inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract you think that you are helping your oral cavity honor your teeth with store-bought toothpaste But in fact it changes the microbiome and the chemical composition of your saliva I want to share with you a recipe for homemade toothpaste which has only four ingredients such a paste is cheap It has no side effects it will not cause any harm but will help maintain healthy saliva Take 1 teaspoon of coconut oil add half a teaspoon of baking soda then add 1/4 teaspoon of food 100 % hydrogen peroxide not 35% then add three drops of one of the following oils clove or cinnamon oil you can even oregano oil of course the paste may taste like pizza But I think these oils are very beneficial I think the next important video you need to watch is about the two best foods for your teeth and gums Check it out Here's the link