Overeating is provoked not only by monosodium glutamate, sugar and processed foods, but also by flavorings. Now foods have lost their original taste. Food tastes neither fish nor meat. For example, tomatoes have no nutritional value at all; they have turned into empty food. I remember in my childhood I picked a tomato from a bush and it was incredibly tasty. Once, when we were in Italy, I kept hearing about the delicious local tomatoes. We went on a gastronomic tour and the meeting place was in a small courtyard. So, we were sitting waiting for the guide. I look across the street and see a store, a small vegetable stall. I go in and notice tomatoes on the counter. I bought a few, about the weight of two regular tomatoes, but these were small. I immediately tried them and they were delicious, fragrant, incredibly tasty. I returned to my wife, Koran, and said, “You can’t imagine how delicious these tomatoes are. Why didn’t you bring them to try?” I ate every single one. But the point is that I was so full I felt satisfied and during the tour I couldn’t eat anything else. I was so full. Why because That those tomatoes had nutrients, you knew that, for example, when you buy a skinless chicken breast at the store, you simpletons, so you knew that they add chicken flavoring to it, chicken flavor is added to chicken to make it look like chicken, otherwise it's tasteless. If you buy chicken, look at the ingredients, it will say chicken, chicken broth, and flavorings to give it the taste of chicken. Flavorings increase appetite, making you want to eat them for pleasure. The problem is that processed foods are full of empty calories and few nutrients, and that's why you eat much more than usual, and I'm not even talking about sugar, monosodium glutamate, fats, and salt, that's a different story. Taste is part of the survival mechanism. In nature, foods with the highest nutrient content have a brighter flavor, which attracts you, and as a result, more nutrients enter the body, and you survive better, but now there are artificial flavors, the brain doesn't see the difference between artificial and natural taste, so you can't live without chips and other junk in the evenings. But if there are any desserts or whale snacks, you probably already know that it's very difficult to eat a lot of chum.  Desserts or get a bong, yes, they have a lot of fat, but also more nutrients. This is not a dud, so it is enough to eat just a little. If you are new to this, I strongly recommend that you replace your usual desserts and sweets with clothes that are compatible, low-carb, and nutritious. Of course, desserts should be eaten during meals and not between meals, so pay attention not only to taste but also to nutritional value. Then you will feel full and satisfied after eating and will not overeat. If you don't know what to cook for those, the book "Diet Menu for Two Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple, delicious recipes from available products. The basics of chum and fasting. Follow the link below.