I'm Dr. Burke.  Today we'll talk about what you should never put on your face.  In my 30 years of practice, I have seen many people put very dangerous things on their faces.  But there are 11 things to watch out for.  Some of them can be applied to the face, but you need to understand what you are doing.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. The skin is the largest organ in the body. It has the largest surface area. On the surface of the skin, especially the skin of the face, there is an acid mantle.  What is this? It is a protective barrier with a slightly different pH level. That is, the environment on the skin is not neutral and it is not alkaline, it is acidic.  A pH of six is ​​10 times more acidic than a pH of seven, and five is 10 times more acidic than six.   The pH level of the skin is between 4.5 and 5, which is quite acidic.  Bacteria make the skin so acidic .  Every square centimeter of skin contains over a million bacteria, which help protect your skin from the environment around you.   It is very important to understand what skin is, what is on it, what should be on it, and what its pH is.  Because if you put something wrong on it, you can ruin both the skin and the environment on it. Redness will appear, then a rash, acne, the skin will begin to dry out, and there will be all sorts of problems.  Let's start with point number one.  Applying apple cider vinegar to your face .  Yes, it is sour, but it is too sour.  Now I mean undiluted apple cider vinegar because some people don't dilute it. H of apple cider vinegar is equal to two or three. It's like acid in a battery. Very sour.  This will cause irritation and redness of the facial skin, which is not good.  So don't apply it on your face. By the way, I remember how we sprayed the grass with apple cider vinegar to get rid of weeds. In 2 days, not only the weeds died, but all the grass in general.  Imagine what will happen to the face.  If you suddenly want to smear apple cider vinegar on your face, dilute it at least a teaspoon in a full glass of water.  And now this mixture can be applied to the face.  But don't apply undiluted apple cider vinegar.  Second. Lemon or lime juice.  It should not be applied to the face or hair.  Why? Well, it contains a specific phytonutrient that can cause problems.  If you go out in the sun, it can cause phytophotodermatitis. Phyto means relating to plants. Photo means light, and dermatitis means inflammation of the skin.  In other words, you can't smear certain things on yourself and then go out into the sun.  Especially the one that we have at number four, bergamot, its essential oil.  I think they also make perfume from it.  There is no need to apply it to your face and go out in the sun.  It is known to cause skin inflammation when exposed to the sun.  Let's go back to number three.  Essential oils.  There are many essential oils that you don't have to put on your face, but people still do.  For example, cedar oil or tea tree oil. They are too strong, too rich. There are other essential oils that you should be careful with because they can irritate your skin.  You can apply a very small amount of oil to a small area of skin somewhere far away to see if there is a reaction. There are a lot of things in concentrated essential oils, and you need to be careful with them .  I think you can apply it to other parts of the body, but be very careful with your face.  Fifth.  Baking soda. What's wrong with her?  The pH of baking soda is nine.  Think about it, neutral pH is one, then comes eight.  It is 10 times more alkaline, and from mi to nine it is already 10 times 10, that is, 100 times stronger. This means that the pH of baking soda is 100 times higher than neutral. In other words, you don't want to alkalize acidic skin because the bacteria won't have a suitable environment.  This will cause a problem in the entire bacterial ecosystem. This can be compared to soil.  The soil must be fertile and healthy.  In general, don't apply baking soda to your face. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Some people smear toothpaste on their face.  I have no idea why, but toothpaste contains harsh chemicals to remove plaque from teeth.  Sometimes hydrogen peroxide is added to it, sometimes to torus.  These chemicals should not come into contact with your face.  Sometimes people try to get rid of stains this way, but stains can be treated with things designed for this purpose , for example, serums with vitamin C or even acetylsolicylic acid.  So there is no need to smear toothpaste on your face.  Seventh.  Alcohol antiseptic.  The problem with alcohol-based antiseptics is this.  Yes, you can use them on your body, but I would be careful about using them on your face because alcohol kills bacteria.  This is an antibacterial agent.  And you have a lot of beneficial bacteria on your face .  Alcohol will kill them and allow harmful bacteria to grow there, which leads to problems such as rosacea, which is redness of the skin of the face, and other problems. Just understand this: the more you sterilize your face, the worse it will be for your skin.  So don't apply any alcohol-based antiseptic to it.  This also applies to various face creams.  Beware of creams and lotions containing alcohol and do not apply them to your face, because they will not only kill bacteria on your face and sterilize it, but will also dry out your skin. Hydrogen peroxide is a highly oxidizing and caustic substance.  It removes plaque well .  It's good for cleaning anything, but you shouldn't use it on your face because it's too concentrated and can act as a bleach.  And this is not good at all.  Moreover, it kills bacteria.  Ninth.  Applying hair dye to eyebrows and eyelashes. Hair dye is very aggressive and can be toxic and can get into your eyes.  If it gets into your eyes, you can lose your sight.  There have been cases where people have gone blind from it.  So be careful not to get it on your face or in your eyes.  Just thought I'd mention it.  Tenth.  Creams or ointments containing steroids.  They are quite common for use when skin is red, irritated or flaky.  People don't even think about them.  Steroid cream.  So what?  Steroid creams can be applied to other parts of the body, but be careful with the face, especially with repeated use.  It is an asteroid, a synthetic steroid, that literally disables the immune system on the skin of the face.  It removes inflammation.  It is an anti-inflammatory, but at the same time it stops the growth of skin cells, it stops the production of collagen.  A serious side effect appears: thinning of the skin.  The skin becomes paper-like.  Blood vessels begin to appear , and as a side effect, there is an excessive growth of harmful bacteria, because you turn off the immune system, the skin can atrophy.  As I already said, the skin begins to lose collagen and its own cells.  Stretch marks and severe redness, such as rosacea, may even appear. Pigmentation of the facial skin may increase or, conversely, disappear.  This is not good.  I would n't put steroid creams on my face.  Eleventh. Daily use of exfoliating scrubs. Again, the scrub kills bacteria on the face.  By using scrubs you are stripping your face of protection and sterilizing it.  This can seriously affect the health of your skin.  Many people think that healthy skin should be sterile and perfectly clean.  And they use scrubs.  Even I used them when I had acne as a teenager.  The more I used them, the worse it became. The skin became red and irritated. There's nothing wrong with scrubs, you just shouldn't use them every day.  You should also purchase a shower filter to filter out chlorine and fluoride, as they are also harmful to the skin.  And the last thing I want to talk about is cosmetics.  Various foundations and all that stuff.  Make sure you buy cosmetics that contain as few chemicals and as few fragrances as possible, as these are also toxic to skin bacteria. Now that I've covered what to avoid, you can learn what's good for your skin.  I have a whole course about her health, link below. I invite you to my mini-course: Health Diagnostics by Skin.  You have rashes, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff or other skin problems.  These are not just skin defects.  Such signals indicate problems within the body.  In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause. Sign up using the link below.  See you.