I was recently asked a question in the comments about insects and they said that recent studies have shown that the future of food is insects. It's scary to eat insects for dinner. They want to have insects by 2050. We ate insects because the Earth's population will grow to 9 billion people and supposedly there won't be enough food for everyone. Everyone knows about this climate change movement. Cows are harmful to the environment. In general, it's time to look for another source of food. A beetle with the taste of bacon. We are even told that we will have to abandon agriculture with pastures and farms because cows emit methane and it has a destructive effect on the environment. One of the popular replacements is insects because they have a lot of protein and they are very nutritious. Let's look at this topic closer. If you take 100 g of these beetles, then these 100 g contain 12 g of protein, about 5 g of fat, 5 g of carbohydrates, a little iron, a little fat, but is 12 g enough for our body? Actually, no. If you calculate how much you need to eat these cute creatures for the daily protein requirement, then we need to eat four times more whole.  a bucket of grasshoppers But for most people you need to eat eight times more every day to get the protein requirement Well, maybe you can grind beetles into a puree and add them to a pizza in a hamburger, sprinkle them with sarcoma and that will solve the problem But what about the price? It should be expensive But the price can be reduced by feeding insects cheap food, for example, corn, soy, beet sugar But this reduces the nutritional value and the amount of protein and this is already a problem to breed healthy insects It is quite expensive Secondly, everyone will have to give up their traditional and cultural dishes and this takes time In my opinion, the first bite is the hardest Then people think Wow This is delicious Oh how crunchy thirdly this is perhaps the most important If you compare insects with beef, they are not similar at all Those who say that they are similar are lying and do not blush, they are not even close I am not even talking about protein now I mean the quality of protein nutrition that is in beef but is absent in insects So do not believe that they are similar fourthly insects carry  In 2019, a study was conducted on several cricket farms that found that 81 crickets had parasites, 30% of which were potentially poisonous. We have a safety standard. To destroy all bacteria in insects, they will have to be cooked and processed at high temperatures. But this will also destroy the nutrients in them. Pesticides are used on these insects, and this is not regulated in any way. You can control different microorganisms that live in insects. Then, people with seafood allergies will be allergic. And to insects, due to the similarity of proteins, people with seafood allergies will not be able to eat insects. Insects also have exoskeletons, that is, they have a skeleton outside their body, and this skeleton mainly consists of a compound called chitin, which is an antinutrient. People cannot digest it. It also blocks vitamin A and vitamin E, which is another disadvantage. In fact, they are conducting an experiment on people, encouraging them to eat insects in order to see the results in a few years. Personally, I believe that insects cannot become the future of our nutrition; this has too many disadvantages. If you want  To find out what I think you should be eating right now to improve your health, watch the video about the healthiest diet that's coming up right now. Here's L