The secret of diabetes lies in its definition. If you have diabetes and you conduct research, you will be completely and utterly confused because if you find the definition of diabetes, it will say that it is hyperglycemia, that is, high blood sugar affecting large vessels, especially in the heart, as well as small vessels in the eyes and kidneys. It also affects the nerves, damaging the peripheral nerves, the nerves at the ends of the legs and arms. You will have pain in your fingers and sometimes a burning sensation. If we consider the causes of diabetes, it will be a lack of insulin or low insulin, since insulin is a hormone that controls blood sugar levels. If there is no hormonal control over lowering blood sugar, and there is none, the sugar rises higher and higher. Hello, diabetes, what controls insulin? The pancreas produces insulin in its beta cells. insulin enters the blood and binds to certain receptors to lower blood sugar. That is, a lack of insulin can be caused either by insufficient insulin production or, on the other hand, a blocked receptor. The insulin receptor becomes unresponsive, as with  insulin resistance, that is, either it is insulin resistance or the pancreas is not capable of producing insulin, but Gaitan's physiology and other medical textbooks have a small clue. The first thing that happens when diabetes develops is the so-called compensatory hyperinsulinemia. What does this mean? This means that when cells begin to reject insulin, the pancreas compensates for this by increasing insulin production. That is, we still have the function of lowering blood sugar to some extent. In the case of resistance, the pancreas compensates for its press, I have more insulin, so this is compensated. Then, after a while, the second thing that happens is that you can no longer compensate for this because the beta cells are not functioning. They are exhausted, depressed, and have stopped working. When they turn off, blood sugar becomes higher and higher. Therefore, the most important question here is what initially causes the situation of excess insulin, which leads to an increase in insulin levels. For this, it is necessary to study hyperinsulinemia. Here's what's interesting: if you look on Wikipedia, what causes an increase in insulin, the answer will be a neoplasm, that is, a tumor, a violation of carbohydrate absorption, cancer.  pancreas, polycystic ovary syndrome, and trans fats. It's also written there that they are caused by a number of diseases, that is, this list, as well as sugar consumption, and it's written at the very end. There is no emphasis on this and it's not mentioned anywhere else on all the pages. If you're new to the topic and you're just reading this without knowing the direct link between sugar consumption and diabetes, you can get so hung up on these things, like, "What if I have cancer?" or "What if I don't?" while I'm focusing on something so rare that you'll miss the mention of sugar. If you knew that you could pick up a textbook like Gaitan's Physiology and read about insulin, but you're unlikely to do that. But if you do read it, you'll learn a lot about what activates insulin, primarily carbohydrates. That is, to control insulin, you need to reduce carbohydrates in your diet. But you might be confused if you read this book, " Waterworks" by Mark, chapter on diabetes, it talks about nutrition for diabetes. Listen to the composition of the diet. There's no need to disproportionately limit carbohydrate consumption in the diet for most diabetics.  There is no doubt that this is bad advice because they recommend just getting by with metformin and if you have consumed more carbohydrates, you just need to proportionally increase the dose of metformin and there is something else on this page that really interested me it talks about experiments on mice supposedly a high-fat diet contributes to the development of hyperinsulinemia and if in an ordinary person then read this you will say wow I need to limit fats in my diet the problem with this study is that you will not find the full text of it you have to buy it on the Internet if you bought this study and downloaded it and found out what they were actually feeding the mice what they thought was a high-fat diet I did so I ordered this study and found out what they were feeding these mice then you would see that it was not just a high-fat diet it was a high- fat and high-carbohydrate diet and so we have this missing piece of information and everything changes radically if we start from this false information because if you combine carbohydrates with fats or carbohydrates with proteins compared to pure carbohydrates you will get a much stronger  The effect is an insulin surge when you combine high fats and high carbohydrates in your diet. It's not surprising that a high- fat diet supposedly caused an increase in insulin levels. Then we go down the page where treatment, diet, exercise, and metformin are described. They also mention eating cinnamon, for example, toast with cinnamon and sugar. If you look further down the page, specifically what they say about this diet. They talk about reducing simple carbohydrates, not about giving up simple carbohydrates like sugar, but reducing them and replacing them with grains and cereals. They don't even mention eating vegetables. They say you need to eat more grains. If you have too much insulin, it's carbohydrates that raise insulin more than anything else, and whole grains are carbohydrates. In the next sentence, they say eat less potatoes. They don't advise giving up potatoes. Just reduce them. Again, potatoes are carbohydrates. Why are you even talking about potatoes? You need to give up all carbohydrates or at least significantly reduce them. Then they advise the following: increase your intake of legumes, especially with them, and they don't mention any others.  Women only talk about the need to consume soy. I looked for studies that mentioned it, and of course, it turned out to be a survey. A very scientific approach, isn't it? There are a million nuances. There are people who smoke, and people who eat whatever they want, and how can you single out among all this that it was soy that lowered insulin levels in the blood? It's not as obvious as it seems. There was some bias here, just like here about Zlate. That's why I'm making a video to help draw attention to important things so you don't get lost in a sea of ​​​​disorganized health information. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.