I want to talk about a natural remedy for anaphylactic shock due to severe allergies. Usually, a syringe and pin are used to inject epinephrine into the muscle. Epinephrine has a completely unique effect. It can dilate the bronchial tubes, can dilate the coronary artery, relaxes smooth muscles, increases the amount of blood to skeletal and smooth muscles, and it increases cardiac output. So, epinephrine counteracts very strong allergies, but EpiPen has contraindications. What should a person do in case of anaphylactic shock? If he has an overactive thyroid gland, if he has diabetes, or a disease with a name like Parkinson's disease. Although this is a different disease, Parkinsonism. Also, epinephrine should not be administered in cases of glaucoma, high blood pressure, angina, and also in case of heart disease. I will tell you about an alternative remedy, but first I will describe the symptoms. These symptoms can be life-threatening. Usually, itching occurs, a rash may occur, the eyes may swell, the lungs contract. So, you can't breathe, the throat may contract, the tongue may become very swelling, difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, dizziness, possibly even loss of consciousness, low blood pressure, possible shock, the cause of this could be an insect bite, the venom of some insect, nuts (for example, peanuts), seeds (for example, sesame), milk, shellfish, fish, eggs, sulfites, which are found in dried fruits in red wine, by-products of fermentation if you consume nutritional yeast, apple cider vinegar or sourdough bread, antibiotics, dyes, latex, in some people, anaphylactic shock can be caused by exercise, as well as side effects of vaccines. It is very strange that we have allergies. We reject something from the environment, and then when we come into contact with it, various negative reactions are possible and they can be very strong. And here's what's interesting here: children who grew up in an ultra-clean environment usually have more autoimmune diseases and more severe allergies, including anaphylactic shock, because their immune system was not exposed to stress and therefore it was formed. The fact is that at birth we only have half of the immune system, and the other half we acquire, this is acquired immunity, it is formed due to the fact that Something affects us, then a reaction occurs, the immune system experiences stress, we get sick, and when we recover, we are already prepared and protected. It's like if you had an army that was not properly prepared. You did not subject this army to stress, relieved it of training, and you did not send the soldiers to a training course, making their lives a real dog. So, when you meet another army, they will easily defeat yours. This is just another example of how important it is not to constantly avoid stress. This is especially true for children. Children living in villages and towns where there are many germs. Children who have animals have a much better immune system. So, if your child gets sick, don't think that it's bad. If your child gets sick often, don't just try to quickly bring down the temperature, suppress a cold or sinus problem. Let it pass through the immune system. And the child eats well, but don't think that this is bad. It's bad to live in a sterile environment for too long. Now, let's look at remedies for anaphylactic shock. The first is called fahf2. It is a mixture of 9 Chinese herbs. A double-blind, controlled study was conducted.  During the treatment of anaphylaxis caused by peanuts, it stands for Herbal Formula for Food Allergies. It's easy to remember. You can find this remedy, buy it, but in case of anaphylactic shock, and carry it with you. What helped with peanut allergies can apparently help with other anaphylactic reactions. Many Chinese plants are known to help with anaphylactic shock from severe hypersensitivity. Here are some of them: edible chestnut, Asian rose, and third, poncirus. If you can't find one of them, you may be able to find another as a replacement. It's important to keep them on hand in case a problem arises. And of course, discuss with your doctor before doing what I'm talking about. I'm not advocating against using it. Keep in mind the following four remedies, and they are essential for emergency care in case of anaphylactic shock. They are mainly for reducing sensitivity over time. To avoid such shocks and severe hypersensitivity. So, number three, oral immunotherapy, its effectiveness is 60-80 percent. A person is given a very small dose of what he is allergic to for a month. A certain dose will not cause any reaction in a person. So, they give him this dose.  and under the supervision of a doctor, the dose is slowly increased until the person begins to tolerate this substance normally. So this is one natural therapy number four, vitamin D, vitamin D is very important for the formation of immunity, in fact, it is a steroid, it acts like cortisol, but it is an immunomodulator, that is, it normalizes the functioning of the immune system, and this is exactly what you need. number five, fasting significantly reduces hypersensitivity and allergies by correcting the immune system. I recommend arranging a three-day fast once a month if you have anaphylactic shocks due to any allergy, and you fast for three days once a month while regularly fasting intermittently. I think you will feel much better just due to this alone. And finally, probiotics. The fact is that research is currently being conducted to develop a certain type of probiotics that can greatly reduce allergies and even anaphylactic shock. The exact composition of beneficial microbes that need to be taken is now unknown. I think that any probiotics are better than none. Think about the side effects of antibiotics. One of them is allergies and even anaphylactic shock. Probiotics are important, because 80 percent The immune system is located in the intestines. And if you haven't watched my video yet, about a super remedy for strengthening and fortifying the immune system, just watch this video.