Let's talk about how to get rid of nail fungus, it's very simple. This formula has two main ingredients, but it's important to first ask the question. Why do some people get nail fungus while others don't? Why is it so common among diabetics? In one study, 77 out of 152 diabetics had this fungus. Why is it often associated with Cushing's syndrome? This is a disease characterized by high cortisol. This is severe stress, and why is there a risk of getting it? This disease occurs after the spleen has been removed. These are the questions I need to ask. I'm making this video because I want you to start looking at your body in a new way. Look at symptoms in a new way. Consider symptoms like indicators in a car. Like a check light. You don't rip out the wires to turn it off. You're trying to diagnose and understand what's going on under the hood. Unfortunately, medicine does n't work that way. It's designed only to relieve symptoms with medications that have side effects. Natural remedies are better, of course. But we also want to find the cause of this and talk about why a toenail becomes such a white-yellow-black hard crust and breaks off from the nail.  bed, this is strange. This disease is difficult to cure. External remedies do not work because they do not penetrate the nail, and systemic treatment helps only for some time, but the disease returns and not alone, but with side effects. A small digression. I recently spoke with a man whose leg hurt. He went to the doctor and What treatment was prescribed to him? Steroids are not locally administered into the leg by injection, but orally systemically into all parts of the body to relieve pain in the leg. And what if after a couple of days, when its effect ends, the pain will return. And what if you take it again and again and rejoice? Be these problems that it will bring. This is not normal, but in the United States alone, 35 million people suffer from nail fungus. In the Western part of the world, it is more often a fungus in tropical regions. It is more likely mold because the climate is more humid there. Let's figure it out. First, we have a fungus. So what happens with nail fungus? Let's correlate this with other examples of excessive development of Candida fungus or yeast infection in other places of the body, whether in the groin or even in the mouth or on the skin. In many, Candida or yeast grows excessively after  Taking antibiotics because normally the bacteria in the body do not allow the fungi to run wild. There is always this balance. We know that beneficial bacteria are found both in the intestines and on the skin. Did you know that there are also beneficial fungi on the skin. Inside the body there is also friendly Candida and friendly yeast. Not only beneficial bacteria are friendly. The fungi are called microbiota. Mycobiota are various fungi that live on the surface and inside the body. They are beneficial. But if the environment changes, they experience stress and some of them become pathogenic. So, for the most part, it's a matter of a battle within our own immunity, which, by the way, includes both friendly bacteria and friendly fungi. This is part of our immunity, it's not something separate. That's why when immunity is lost, for example, due to HIV or due to the removal of the spleen or due to high cortisol levels, in addition to Cushing's. What happens with high cortisol, the immune system literally goes into a dormant state and becomes paralyzed. Cortisol is a steroid that neutralizes inflammation and removes the symptoms of autoimmune diseases. It calms an overactive immune system by suppressing white blood cells. At the same time, it neutralizes our defense mechanism against pathogens. If you have chronically elevated cortisol, as in Cushing's syndrome, you have a higher risk of developing all sorts of problems such as nail fungus or autoimmune diseases. As for diabetes, let's touch on this topic. What is diabetes? Chronic high blood sugar. And what? Fungi, yeast, and mold simply adore sugar, even in the soil at the roots of plants. Plants give the fungus carbohydrates, and the plant roots give minerals. It exchanges minerals for carbohydrates. So, fungi love sugar and, of course, stress cortisol too. I read one study in which, after restoring the cortisol balance, nail fungus went away. It's interesting. What's unique about HIV is that it's a disease in which essentially all immunity is lost, that is, anything can happen. When you want to strengthen your immune system, you need 4 things: first, increase your vitamin D levels, 2. Vitamin C in its natural form, third, zinc, it's very important, and fourth, fasting. Start regular intermittent fasting. And periodically, long-term fasting is  will strengthen your immunity. That's what I wanted to clarify. I wanted to discuss what's going on under the hood of your body so you can work with it. Let's move on to the remedies for it. There are two main remedies: the first is Epsom salt and the second is iodine. 2 tablespoons of Epsom salt are diluted in 3-4 glasses of hot water until completely dissolved and we steam our feet in this solution for about 15 minutes once a day. After this, the fungus will begin to die off. The advantage is that the fungus will not develop resistance and this remedy has no side effects. This is the first and second thing. Take a drop of iodine. I recommend taking either a bleached type of iodine that does not leave yellow stains or povidone iodine. Drop one or two drops directly onto the nail, let it feed and dry, and do all this before bedtime. Then it will penetrate the tissue. Epsom salt will soften the nail and immediately after that, let it absorb. Iodine is a powerful antifungal agent. No side effects. Follow these two points. You can also add other remedies. Oil.  Tea tree oil is antifungal, oregano oil is antifungal, clove oil is antifungal, and lavender essential oil is also a very powerful antimicrobial and antifungal agent. Lavender smells amazing, and microbes cannot stand it, so you can add any of these oils. If you want to speed up the process, since we've already talked about stress and immunity, I have a course that covers this topic, but in much more detail. There's not only a lot of theory, but also a lot of practical techniques. A link to the recording is below. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it, and I will also give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.