Let's discuss 11 ways to increase melatonin levels for better sleep. Melatonin is a hormone produced by the pineal gland. It is stimulated by darkness, and sunlight turns it off or blocks it. If you compare it to a muscle, you tense it and then relax it. So, you definitely need darkness at night. Of course, you don't need to sleep with the lights or TV on for melatonin to be produced, but you also need the sun to turn off its production. Overdoing it with cuteness is also bad for us, because if you tense your muscles, you need to relax. That is, we need the right balance of darkness and light alternately. Light, preferably sunlight, recharges the pineal gland. Vitamin D from the sun is also very useful for processing melatonin in this gland. If you take melatonin as a supplement, it will help you sleep, but over time, you will need more and more melatonin, and the pineal gland will begin to depend on it. So, I do not recommend taking melatonin as a supplement to solve sleep problems. And so, thirdly Excess blue light can lower melatonin levels. This applies to sitting in front of a computer or phone screen for a long time. Some types of lamps in the house can emit blue light, which is not at all useful. By the way, red light. Some types of red light used in medicine help increase melatonin. Fourth, you can't eat a lot before bed. You shouldn't eat a huge steak right before bed because sometimes bloating can have a bad effect on sleep. 5. Glucose or sugar increases insulin, after which blood sugar drops, hypoglycemia develops. Low blood sugar then counteracting hormones such as adrenaline and cortisol come into play, and this prevents you from falling asleep. Even pure carbohydrates or sugars can initially help you sleep, but the effect will be short-lived. When I was in my twenties, I couldn't sleep. My solution was to eat a whole pint of ice cream before bed. I ate the whole bucket and immediately passed out, as if I were in a coma. I woke up after two hours of sleep, with no vision in either eye, in terrible tension, so it helped a lot. For a short time at the time I didn't know what to do with it. Sixth, reduce stress. Stress obviously reduces melatonin because it increases cortisol. Seventh, certain TV programs that you watch at night are action movies, horror movies are bad, news is very bad to watch at night, they will keep you awake, so avoid TV or watch something comedic. 8. Limit caffeine, even if you only consume caffeine in the morning, drinking 2-3 large cups can harm the liver and suppress melatonin in the evening, so I would advise drinking one medium or small cup if possible. 9. There are certain factors that are inside and involved in the production of melatonin, you need magnesium from leafy greens and vegetables, vegetable salads, b3, b6 and b12, zinc and calcium, all of which are necessary for the production of melatonin. 10. Some foods contain tryptophan. Tryptophan is an essential amino acid, it is found in almost all proteins, there is a lot of it in walnuts, it is in milk. Maybe you heard about milk at night, people.  Drinking milk at night helps you sleep better. I don't recommend milk, I'm just saying that it contains tryptophan. Wine contains tryptophan. The problem with wine is that it contains sulfites and other things that interfere with sleep at night. So, although it can raise your melatonin, it can also counteract it. Coffee can also raise melatonin, but it also contains caffeine, which blocks melatonin. So, I don't recommend coffee and wine for sleep. But believe it or not, some people sleep better after coffee. Go figure. 11. Yellow and green vegetables can raise melatonin levels. If you want more tips on sleep, watch these videos.