If you don't eat at all for a whole week How many kilograms can you potentially lose? In many videos I said that you can lose a maximum of 900 grams per week But this is on the condition that during this week you go And today we will discuss What will happen if you fast for 7 days Having started any diet, especially limiting carbohydrates, you lose fluid Take a lot of fluid because you get rid of glycogen reserves, which is like feeding a sponge with water in each gram of glucose stored in the form of glycogen in the liver and even in the muscles contains 3 g of water per 1 g of glucose and When you start getting rid of glycogen, you begin to get rid of water and you can easily lose 5 kg 890 g In a week you can lose 9 kg or even less It depends on how much water you have, how much glycogen you have 450 g of fat is 3,500 kilocalories The average person can burn perhaps about 2,000 kilocalories per day This figure can  vary very much, but we will use it now. So, in theory, if you burn 2,000 kilocalories and everything goes as it should, you can lose 57 pounds per day, that is, 200-300 g per day, this gives us a little less than 5 pounds or 2 kg 200 g per week, this is provided that everything goes as it should, you have a fairly fast metabolism and all that, but there are many other factors: training, stress level, sleep, age, metabolic rate. I had people who fasted for a week and lost 450 g, and others fasted for a week and lost twice as much, which happens quite rarely. Part of this weight could be liquid. But this is possible. It all depends on these factors. How many carbohydrates you have eaten in your life also affects. If you ate a lot of carbohydrates, then you have strong insulin resistance. Your body will resist losing weight. This will affect your metabolism, that is, children, and then you reach a plateau. Health problems, say, with the thyroid, also affect it. So, you can potentially lose almost 5 pounds, that is, 2 kg 200 g in  If you fast for a week, there is something else that worries people about muscle loss. We talked about water loss, glycogen loss, and fat loss. But what about muscle loss? Should we worry about this? Fasting greatly stimulates growth hormone. Growth hormone is a hormone that stores protein, it prevents protein loss. The body usually does not use its own protein as fuel. The body burns fat fuel until it runs out, and then it is taken over by the muscles, which is exhaustion. But when we fast, we burn only fat. Let's say someone is a bodybuilder or someone just has a lot of muscle mass and he trains, and then he begins to fast. If he does n't train for a week, his muscles can potentially decrease, and that's why training maintains stimulation and muscle growth. This is especially influenced by this parameter: training intensity. When you fast, an indicator of what you are doing is that you can train without feeling particularly weak or tired. If this is the case, then you are fasting correctly. But if you fast and feel tired and lacking strength, you cannot train as intensely, then you need more electrolytes. Electrolytes, especially potassium and magnesium, provide interaction between muscles and the nervous system. So  they are very important but there are two more electrolytes sodium and chlorine and they are no less important and during fasting you need to take not only potassium and magnesium you also need to take enough sea salt preferably Himalayan salt one and a half teaspoons per day This is very, very important regardless of whether you are eating or fasting You don’t eat and sweat the need for salt It may increase I also advise when you take electrolytes with any liquid add some green powder to it because with any prolonged fasting ketones are produced and the environment in the body can become slightly acidic and drinks with greens are great slaps in the face this acidity especially if you are prone to gout or you have high levels of uric acid Also during fasting it is important to take B vitamins preferably in the form of nutritional yeast they contain natural and take trace elements including zinc and iodine because for example zinc remains in the body for only 4 days So you can easily deplete zinc reserves if you don’t eat for a week it constantly pops up that you need to load the muscles with carbohydrates to cause A surge in insulin, because it helps muscles grow, is an anabolic hormone. Yes, this is true, but insulin is a double-edged sword. It has many problems. insulin is stimulated by carbohydrates, but imagine that it is also stimulated by protein. So, if this worries you, it is better not to eat more carbohydrates or not to eat carbohydrates at all. But eat more protein. If you eat a lot of protein, some of it will turn into glucose and increase insulin, this is either good or bad. It depends on your goal. If the goal is to lose weight, this is bad, because you need low insulin. But if your goal is to build muscle, it may be better to eat more protein than carbohydrates. After all, when this additional protein becomes glucose and increases insulin, it also increases the level of another hormone called glucagon, and it helps use fat reserves. It helps burn fat at the same time. And when you eat only carbohydrates, there is no surge in glucagon; glucagon decreases. This is a little advice for bodybuilders and everyone who trains and wants to maintain more muscle. Thank you for watching, and until next time, I invite you to the program on healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn't matter if you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available, there are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed, there are a lot of examples of what and how to eat, I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet, you need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients, not only in reducing calories but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life, and