I think many people firmly believe that osteoporosis is simply a lack of calcium in the bones. But when you start taking calcium, you make your bones a little denser, but the risk of fractures does not decrease. So, taking calcium not only will not solve the problem, but can also make osteoporosis worse. There are practically no symptoms, and this is a problem, but it increases the risk of bone fractures. If you are an elderly person and break a hip, it will be very difficult to recover. Most people after a hip fracture live no more than a year. The prognosis in this case is not very good. The problem is that taking calcium actually increases the risk of fractures. It's interesting. Yes, and here's what else is interesting. One of the best predictors of myocardial infarction or heart attack is a high index called the coronary calcium index. It is calcium in the coronary arteries that predicts a possible heart attack. Therefore, throwing even more calcium into your body, you will only make it worse. Calcium is unique in that Yes, we definitely need it, but we need to get it mainly from food. You should not take it from supplements, at least get carried away with it. Especially drinking the recommended thousand milligrams per day. It's too much.  Our body can't easily get rid of calcium, the same can be said, for example, about iron. While excess potassium is easily excreted from the body, some minerals are poorly excreted from the body. So, by filling the tissues of your body with calcium, you create its excess. With age, a person accumulates a lot of calcium in the body, calcium is deposited in the joints and blood vessels, bone spurs appear in the spine, and here are some more possible problems: arrhythmia, an increased risk of stroke and heart attack, high blood pressure due to calcium, blood vessels lose elasticity, calcium accumulates in soft tissues not only in blood vessels but also in joints and other tissues of the body. Not to mention excess calcium in the kidneys, kidney stones, other possible symptoms include constipation, depression, psychosis, arthritis, tendonitis, bursitis, and even abdominal pain. So, excess calcium is bad. We need enough calcium, but not too much. Here are some real causes of osteoporosis: steroids, taking cardiac steroid hormones, or excess cortisol for some reason, for example, due to a tumor.  The adrenal glands secrete too much cortisol, which is called Cushing's syndrome, and osteoporosis is one of its symptoms. Low estrogen levels, for example, due to menopause or removal of the ovaries, can lead to osteoporosis. Estrogen protects against osteoporosis. This is why women suffer from osteoporosis more often than men. Too much phosphoric acid from carbonated drinks can have this effect. A lack of vitamin D is a very, very common reason. Vitamin D not only helps absorb more calcium from food, but also, acting in conjunction with vitamin K2, another essential vitamin, helps deliver calcium to where it is needed. If you lack vitamin D, you will absorb only about 10 percent of the calcium from food, while vitamin D does not have the same side effects as calcium. Poor nutrition is another cause of osteoporosis. For example, you do not have enough trace elements or amino acids. Such things can create problems if you take IPP medications for heartburn or GARP. You remove acid from the stomach, which ultimately interferes with the absorption of all minerals, and since bones are made up of  Not only from calcium but also from other minerals, phosphorus, protein and other things, and PP can create a serious problem. Other risk factors for gastric bypass and malabsorption are the inability to absorb certain nutrients due to an unhealthy intestinal lining. Here's the solution: First, get calcium from food. In my opinion, the best source of bioavailable calcium is raw milk cheese. If you can get this cheese, it's best. Leafy greens, sardines, fish in general, and nuts are also suitable. All of these are sources of calcium. Increase your vitamin D intake to at least 20,000 international units per day, and don't forget Proco-2. It's very important to take these vitamins together. For every 20,000 international units of vitamin D, I recommend 200 micrograms of vitamin K2. Take them together. Vitamin C is very, very important for bone health. Vitamin C is needed for collagen, a protein found in bones. Bones are not only minerals but also protein. Vitamin C is a key factor. If you don't have enough vitamin C, you won't be able to build bones. In fact, people with latent vitamin C deficiency, for example, in a condition close to scurvy, always have  Osteoporosis microelements are extremely important they activate protein in the bones and are also part of the bones themselves. So a good complex of microelements is very important. Let 's return once again to vitamin C. Get it from food products. Do not take synthetic proteins. High-quality proteins are also important. If you get proteins, for example, from peanut butter or some soy-based powder, this will not be a good source of protein. The best source is eggs, as well as seafood, shellfish and crustaceans, fish, meat - all this is high-quality protein. If you have osteopenia or osteoporosis, I also advise taking betaine hydrochloride. It corrects the lack of stomach acid, which is likely what causes acid reflux. Betaine hydrochloride becomes especially important with age for the absorption of minerals and for the digestion of proteins needed for bone formation. In conclusion, I want to recommend you my detailed course on vitamin D. I will leave a link to the recording below. I invite you to my course on vitamin D. Vitamin D is a health vitamin. Vitamin D deficiency occurs in 90% of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases with vitamin D and  Symptoms to improve health and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 Keto Summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course.