I just got some bad news again. According to the news, a study has shown that intermittent fasting can harm the heart. If the eating window is 8 hours or less, the risk of death from cardiovascular disease increases significantly. Lousy news, because now I have to redo the 442 video. There will be something for the weekend. Start eating before bed, have a snack between dinner and bedtime, and when you get up in the morning, start eating right away. After all, the main thing is to save your heart. The study focuses on mortality from heart problems, but they also found that if you fast for longer than 16 hours, it reduces the risk of cancer. So, the choice is yours. Which risk should you reduce? Heart attack or cancer. Of course, all this is my sarcasm again. These are the brief conclusions of this study. An observational study. People recalled what they ate in the last 24 hours. It is assumed that a person remembers what he ate. For example, I don’t remember what I ate the day before yesterday. They evaluated the 16-hour fasting regimen and an 8-hour eating window. Sponsor: American Heart Association. So you can trust this. After all, they themselves Unbiased The results will be presented at the conference This is one of those studies where all you need is to sow doubt in people's minds so that a person begins to hesitate to do something or not, suddenly it will lead to a heart attack A similar tactic has been successfully used for many years by the tobacco industry The author of this material is Victor Wen Zan from China I have already heard Previously, he speaks out against red meat, eggs and cholesterol And this is also based on observational studies sponsored by the American Heart Association as part of its strategic research network But the same association recommends eating food seed oils for heart health In my opinion, they are not good for the heart But they get away with it because such oils lower cholesterol But this is a separate topic now I want to tell you about four more reliable and peer -reviewed studies that demonstrate the benefits of intermittent fasting, including for the heart and blood vessels The first single-blind randomized study All links will be below Long-term effects of time-restricted nutrition and strength training A period of more than a year Results Significant reduction in body weight and fat mass Reduced inflammation Increased insulin sensitivity More balanced  Lipid profile. No side effects. Safe and effective improvement of cardiovascular health. The second non-randomized clinical trial of a time-restricted diet, its effect on the body and the risk of cardiovascular problems. An hour-long fast significantly reduced waist circumference and reduced the risk of cardiovascular problems. The third systematic review of the effects of intermittent fasting on Cardiology. A controlled trial showed the results of intermittent fasting. It showed a significant reduction in weight, waist circumference, body weight, fat mass, blood pressure, triglyceride levels, fasting insulin levels, and insulin resistance. The fourth also evaluated a 16-hour fasting regimen and an 8- hour eating window in people who had breast cancer for only 8 weeks and a significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular problems. The risk of visceral adipose tissue formation also decreased. You know, I certainly hate making videos about such ridiculous topics. But someone will read this and doubt it. There is no need to doubt it. This so-called study is absurd and can be ignored. Since we are talking about cardiovascular health, I recommend watching it.  Here is this video