Let's talk about Alzheimer's disease. I want to share with you some fresh information that debunks the hypothesis that amyloid plaques are the cause of Alzheimer's disease. This issue was raised by Professor Matthew Schreck, MD, PhD. He conducted an in-depth analysis of a fundamental study conducted in 2006 that linked amyloid plaques in the brain with Alzheimer's disease. It must be understood that all subsequent funding and research was based on these materials. If I'm not mistaken, amyloid plaques were introduced into the brains of animals, and they developed dementia. Many people relied on that study to continue their own research because many studies at that time did not show any improvement in attempts to reduce or stop the formation of plaques in the brain. In other words, the hypothesis that Alzheimer's causes plaques never took off and did not produce results. And unfortunately, the fate of many people depends on the answer these studies give. What medicine will be offered as a long-term solution, and scientists have been focusing on the wrong subject for decades. The same thing happened with the idea of ​​​​the dangers of cholesterol. Increased attention.  cholesterol as a source of heart problems is based on a study from the fifties that selectively ignored some data that gave a conclusion other than that cholesterol is harmful and of course the same thing happened with the theory that depression is a chemical imbalance. It was recently discovered that there is no evidence that people with depression have a chemical imbalance. But we all use this theory for medications for depression. Before I tell you what I think is the cause of Alzheimer's. Let's discuss its early symptoms. You have difficulty remembering recent events. You also have difficulty finding words. Difficulty finding your way around the city. It is very difficult without a navigator. This is due to a part of the brain called the hippocampus, which is responsible for orientation in space. This is the first thing that happens with Alzheimer's. The hippocampus begins to shrink. You may also lose your sense of smell. And your mood can change dramatically. To solve this problem, you first need to see what we know for sure about it. We know that with Alzheimer's disease, the brain shrinks and the process begins with the hippocampus. We also know that this disease affects people at an increasingly younger age. Even people 45 years old  People over 30 and even over 20 get Alzheimer's, it's just wild. A high correlation has also been found between hyperinsulinemia, high insulin resistance, and Alzheimer's disease. And as I already said, it has been established that treating amyloid plaques simply doesn't give results, it's useless. There's another risk factor called I won't go into detail now. All you need to know is that it's associated with LDL, which, by the way, increases with this thing called hyperinsulinemia. I'll touch on this in more detail a little later, but I started looking for alternative theories of Alzheimer's development. I looked through a lot of data and wasted a lot of time, but then I found an alternative theory that seems absolutely logical because a lot of additional data agrees perfectly with it. This alternative theory is based on the fact that Alzheimer's is a problem of waste accumulation in lysosomes. What is a lysosome and what is it? It's a small factory inside the cell that helps process waste and get rid of it. There are lysosomes in our cells. They are in  neurons and Apparently with Alzheimer's this waste processing mechanism is disrupted. If you can't take the trash out of the house and it starts to accumulate, life in such a house will eventually become unbearable because of the trash and its toxicity. This is exactly what happens with Alzheimer's. Inside the lysosomes, which in the cell remove and process trash, old damaged material, trash proteins, damaged proteins pass through a mechanism of more than 50 enzymes and acids that dissolve and break down this trash. Okay, and on the other hand, lysosomes release renewed building blocks that the body can use and build new cells. This process is called autophagy. Autophagy is the process of recycling the body's own materials. Now the question is, is there any data in favor of this theory and the answer is yes. There is a very common mutation of the pspn1 gene, which, if present, causes major problems with removing trash from cells. It seems that it has long been known that a mutation of this gene causes Alzheimer's disease, which also fits into this theory. I also discovered a patent for a drug. Links to all this will be below, one of the functions of which is to improve the functioning of lysosomes. medicine with which you can improve and enhance the work of lysosomes here are the names of the drugs the first reduces neurodegeneration and the second enhances neurogenesis restoration the creation of new neurons Are there studies linking autophagy with Alzheimer's disease Yes, there are quite a lot and they show that Alzheimer's is a disorder of autophagy now the question is what activates autophagy and now I will tell you about it but know that autophagy is most strongly activated by fasting there are a lot of studies showing that fasting helps with Alzheimer's many factors fit into this theory and today I think that the problem of lysosomes is the most likely real cause of Alzheimer's well The next question is for those who do not like to take medications because of side effects if these drugs have natural versions that would be able to enhance the work of lysosomes yes a lot can be done to improve the work of lysosomes and also autophagy the first thing you need to know is that autophagy is stimulated by a decrease in glucose consumption this is a very powerful factor A what does a decrease in glucose mean it means low carbohydrates and no sugar that is a ketogenic diet this is the first point the second fasting as I  I already said If I personally had Alzheimer's or if my wife had it, I would put her on it, although she is already on intermittent fasting. I would put her on amad, one meal a day, and every week I would fast for two days. Someone will say: And if a person is already too thin, this is a problem, but Personally, I would prefer that the person and I myself were also too thin than get Alzheimer's. My mother-in-law, Gamer, I visited her in the nursing home where she was, it was simply terrifying to see all these people with Salzheimer's and how their spouses visited them, sat with them, tried to communicate with them. Perhaps Alzheimer's is one of the most terrible things that can happen to a loved one because you essentially lose the ability to think, communicate, and this is tragic. And of course, when I was there, I saw what they fed patients there, these were snacks between meals and solid carbohydrates. 3 I searched and found an amazing study about which herbs can be used with an effect that improves the functioning of lysosomes, and also Curcumin, a substance found in turmeric, has amazing properties that not only improve cognitive function but also have many other benefits. It is especially beneficial for improving and enhancing the function of lysosomes, which is amazing. 2 Pine bark, especially pycnodinol, which is found in pine bark, has the property of helping to improve the function of lysosomes. There is also the herb Wilford's triptera and green tea extract, especially its component, and JCG can significantly enhance autophagy. Omega-3 fatty acids, especially in children, can significantly enhance autophagy. There is also evidence that autophagy improves short-chain fatty acids. These acids are provided to us by the intestinal microflora. It produces them from the fiber we eat, that is, greens. Fiber enters the microbiome and it produces short-chain fatty acids that are chemically very close to ketones, that is, a ketogenic diet reduces glucose and increases these acids. Acetate is a useful point. Physical exercise is another significant factor in enhancing autophagy. So, they are also needed. And also sleep, cruciferous vegetables, some Phytonutrients in Extra Virgin Olive Oil: Beware of Counterfeits, and Finally, Heat and Cold Therapy. In general, to combat Alzheimer's, you don't need to get rid of plaques; you need to get rid of the debris accumulating in lysosomes. To do this, you need to stimulate autophagy. It's one thing to apply all this to a loved one or acquaintance, and quite another to start applying this knowledge to yourself, your friends, and family right now to prevent Alzheimer's. For those who want to know how to fast, here's a good video about it, watch it.