Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz.  The floor is yours, dog. What is the main reason why LED lamps are harmful to eyes? Interesting question.  We are waiting for your answers, friends. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Now let's answer the questions that have accumulated on social networks. Vincent Rambla asks: "What does pain in the right side of the chest, just below the armpit, mean? I only feel it when I eat. I've had this for 15 years. It's probably because there's some kind of blockage in the bile ducts that go from the liver to the gallbladder. It's not necessarily a gallstone. You probably have what's called cholestasis. That is, the outflow of bile is a little slow. Bile is thick, it has sediment. It can stagnate and press under the ribs on the right, as if something is wrong with the ribs. You can massage this area with your hands after eating on both sides, left and right, to achieve relief. But taking tutka on an empty stomach will help you the most . Two capsules in the morning, two in the afternoon. You can also take bile salts with meals. And the bile will begin to liquefy. And find the root cause of the problem. Most likely, it is in something you eat. I  The cause was an excess of nuts. And in the past, grains too. Oh my God, and seeds. All that bad stuff. A low-carb diet should get rid of it. Another cause of this pain is junk food. Especially protein powder and especially soy protein. But some foods make the problem worse. Keep a list of them and eliminate them. After all, it's usually a matter of diet. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you of new videos. This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel. And we continue. Paula from YouTube asks: What are the benefits of colostrum? It's good for the immune system. Colostrum is the first milk. If you take cow or sheep colostrum, you're unlikely to be able to buy human colostrum. Colostrum is interesting because it contains two substances. And it's a magical liquid, because it contains the mother's immune system. Colostrum gives us part of our innate immune system. We have two immune systems. One is acquired, which we get when we get sick and fight the infection, thereby training our immune cells. But the immune system can be acquired not only from the mother, but also from animals. After all, there are many immune factors that can strengthen someone's immunity if it is weak. That's one thing. And also, according to research, colostrum strengthens leaky gut. That's interesting. And colostrum can also be a probiotic. A few months ago, I made a video about the Elroiteri bacteria. You can make yogurt from it using pasteurized milk, which will increase the Elroiteri population in the gut. This is an amazing bacteria. It increases oxytocin levels, which reduces stress. And where does this bacteria come from? From breast milk. So, if you weren't breastfed, you may not have this bacteria, and you need to eat this yogurt so that you have this bacteria. And  It's very important. Basically, we get probiotics from the mother, and we can get them from store-bought colostrum. But get freeze-dried colostrum, don't get pasteurized colostrum, find freeze-dried colostrum. It will boost your immune system. And I recommend taking it little by little at first, because colostrum from another species may or may not trigger an immune response . Take it little by little , gradually increasing the dose, and see how you feel. Great. I have to put my face out here, because Crystal Marie from Rambla has a question. We fast a lot, we're on a healthy chum diet. Together, we've lost 175 pounds. Here's our bell to acknowledge that. We take a lot of supplements, but now we're both losing hair. I'm not very strict on chum, and I don't have much hair. But look at Dr. Berg. He has thick hair, just like his wife, and no one follows a pure, healthy chum diet more strictly.  than they are. I just decided to answer this question too. There are a lot of posts online about people losing hair on the keto diet, but I know a couple of people who strictly follow it, and they do n't have this problem. So, the question is from Crystal Marie. Minu77k and their hair is falling out. In fact, it's a wig. Look, you know, here's what you need to know about hair in general. Firstly, insulin resistance is the root of hair problems. insulin resistance is one of the possible causes. Take polycystic ovary syndrome, for example. Women experience hair loss due to polycystic ovary syndrome, and with this syndrome, androgen levels are elevated. And what causes androgens to increase? Due to excess insulin with insulin resistance. A direct connection. Male-pattern baldness is also an androgen problem, namely excess DHT, a very potent form of testosterone. And even if you do an online search, does insulin resistance or high  insulin levels, you 'll find out that yes, it does. Will a low-carb diet help with hair loss? I don't know, but maybe it's one of the measures that will improve their condition. But there are, of course, other measures. I recently made a video about all the most researched products for improving hair growth. Watch that video. I talk about some new things there that I didn't know before. I don't want to make any claims about that. I'm just telling you what you can try and see if it helps . If it helps, great. If not, I've described a few remedies. You can try something else. Great. We wish everyone the best of luck with that. The quiz question was: What is the main reason that LED lamps are harmful to the eyes? So, 66% answered that they harm the retina. 24% said that they can disrupt sleep phases. And the remaining 10% answered that these lamps cause headaches and eye strain. Do we have any winners? I think the question should have been worded a little  Otherwise. The vast majority of LED bulbs only emit part of the visible spectrum because the whole goal is to make a very bright and energy-efficient bulb. So, in the past, there were incandescent bulbs. They weren't very energy-efficient. They wasted a lot of energy. But was it really wasted ? Because they gave off a lot of heat, and people thought that was a problem. Unfortunately, in 2028, there's going to be a regulation that we'll only be allowed to buy certain types of LED bulbs that emit a very narrow part of the visible spectrum. Steve, that's going to be a big problem. I do n't like someone deciding what bulbs I should buy. What about chips and donuts? Are they going to be banned? Of course not. I'll just tell you something about incandescent bulbs. They emit a much broader spectrum, including infrared light. LED bulbs emit virtually no infrared light. So, they emit mostly green and yellow light and a lot of blue light. We get other parts from them.  spectrum, but not infrared light. And infrared light is incredibly beneficial for both the eyes and the entire body. It protects against other wavelengths, especially blue light. So yes, you can and should get infrared light from the sun, but if you sit under an LED lamp with a very narrow spectrum, without infrared light, you will have a lot of problems. There is a lot of research on this topic. And probably one of these problems is deterioration of vision, especially with age. You need more and more light to see anything. Problems with the mitochondria in the retina arise. After interviewing Dr. Roger, I really think that the reason is the lack of infrared light and the large doses of artificial light around us. This may seem like an unimportant thing, but when you learn about it, you realize that it fundamentally changes everything. After all, Dr. Roger's patients install full-spectrum lamps or even incandescent lamps, if they can find them, and they get huge benefits. But you don't even have to do that. You just need to spend some time in the sun, to receive infrared light. And 93% of people don't spend enough time outdoors. This is a very important factor. I'll make more videos about this, but keep this in mind, pay attention, and don't spend all day under artificial light without sun.