Today we'll discuss 13 foods you should n't buy organic.  It's not worth it.  Organic versions of these products cost 50-80% more than conventional ones, but you don't need that.  Then I'll talk about the products that you should always buy organic, because conventional ones contain the most pesticides. Let's start with the definition of the word organic. What does it mean?  This describes a product that does not contain artificial chemicals.  In the case of animal products, this means that the food that the animals are fed does not contain synthetics. This also means that they were not given antibiotics.  Briefly about chemicals.  By chemicals I mean pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and fungicides.  They accumulate in the body and cause problems.  Let me define three more things.  Product made from organic ingredients.  What is this?  This means that at least 70% of the product must be organic.  There is simply the word organic.  This means that at least 95% of the product must be organic.  There is 100% organic. This means that all ingredients must be organic.  Yes, it can be confusing.  I also want to say something about so- called hydroponics.  This is when vegetables or plants are grown without soil in liquid.  which contains minerals. This method of growing vegetables and plants is called hydroponics. If I'm not mistaken, they are considered organic, but I don't like it because the vegetables or plants are grown in water with minerals that are clearly insufficient.  The soil contains microorganisms.  And when I see the words organic and hydroponics on products, they mean nothing to me.  And finally, I want to talk about this.  There is organic junk food.  These are organic poptars, and these are regular poptars.  There is the same amount of sugar and starch, but they are organic. Eating organic junk food won't make you healthier.  Both versions are high in sugar. In the case of organic junk food, this is just a marketing ploy.  The buyer thinks: "Organic."  Apparently this is better.  But in reality there is a whole bunch of sugar in there.   Eating organic junk food won't make you healthier.  Let's first go through the list of products that I would not buy organic.  First. Sea salt.  Funny, that's true. Sea salt is a mineral.  It is not extracted using pesticides or derbicides.  Insects don't eat salt, so it's just a marketing ploy. Yes, some sea salt should be purchased from good sources.  Pink Dimalay salt, Kelsey salt, Redmond salt and Bach Gold. But you don't need organic sea salt.  Secondly, commercial salmon.  Yes, they sell organic wild caught salmon.  First of all, how can you even control what wild fish eat in the ocean?  The fish don't swim in farm ponds, but in the ocean.  This is another marketing ploy to make you think their salmon is healthier and to rip you off .  All commercial fish do not have to be organic.  Third - avocado.  Avocados may be sprayed if they are store-bought, but they have a very thick skin that pesticides do not penetrate . Organic avocados cost 50-80% more.  But there is no point in overpaying for it .  Avocados are virtually pesticide-free, so don't worry. Fourth.  Baking soda.  Baking soda is sodium bicarbonate, an alkaline mineral. Often on packages of soda they write " organic soda".  This is another marketing gimmick.  Baking soda is not affected by pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. It is extracted from the earth, and there is no need to specifically look for organic ones.  Sometimes baking soda is confused with baking powder, which sometimes contains aluminum.  But we're not talking about baking powder, we're talking about soda. And you just need baking soda, not organic. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. I'm not kidding.  Fifth.  Sometimes you can find organic mineral water on sale.  Some people actually believe that organic water exists.  The water is not treated with pesticides, deterbicides, and so on, to somehow protect it.  There are chemicals in tap water, but organic mineral water is nothing more than a marketing ploy.  So buy good mineral water from a good source and don't worry about the organic label.  Sixth.  Walnuts. They have a thick shell that herbicides, insecticides and other chemicals cannot penetrate.  So you can buy regular walnuts.  It will be cheaper.  Organic ones are not needed here.  The same goes for pecans and Brazil nuts. By the way, Brazilian ones are the best source of selenium.  Macadamia nuts also have thick shells.  In general, you shouldn't buy organic nuts in the shell.  Next, coconuts.  No pesticide will penetrate their thick shell. You don't need organic coconuts. Eleventh.  Cabbage.  Usually, cabbage is not sprayed heavily, although it can be done.  All you need to do is remove the top leaf of the cabbage. And you won't get any pesticides. Pesticides will not penetrate into the cabbage.   Do n't be afraid.  The same applies to bananas.  I do n't eat them, but someone does.  Pesticides do not penetrate banana peels. And the thirteenth.  Game meat.  It's basically the same as with commercial fish.  This is the meat of animals such as elk, wild boar, and deer.  They live in the wild.  They are not fattened up on farms somewhere. We don't know what they eat there.  And when someone says, "Organic game," it does n't mean anything.   Did you remember to press the bell? And now the food that should always be taken organic.  The first is peanuts.  Peanuts have very thin shells and grow in the ground rather than on trees. It is sprayed very heavily with chemicals. to resist mold growing on peanuts. Peanuts have very thin shells, so they absorb pesticides like a sponge.  So if you buy peanuts, buy organic.  Second. Strawberry.  You shouldn't buy regular strawberries.  It has no shell and chemicals penetrate it.  Again, she's like a sponge.  Coffee is one of the products that is sprayed a lot with chemicals. Coffee is grown all over the world.  Sometimes you need to know where your coffee comes from.  For example, Leon is from the tropics, where there is a higher risk of mold formation, and it is processed there.  So, get organic coffee.  Let's move on to tea now.  Tea is also sprayed a lot.  And since tea is a leaf, it contains even more chemicals than coffee.  If you drink tea, I highly recommend organic tea. Chocolate.  It is also sprayed with chemicals.  Chocolate is grown in the tropics, where there is a high risk of mold and mildew, so it is sprayed with chemicals.  So the chocolate needs to be organic.  Cotton is another mass-produced crop that is heavily treated with chemicals. Cotton is used to make tampons, which are essentially used internally.  Chemicals from them can get inside, and the body can absorb the remaining chemicals. Cotton is used to make clothes and sheets.  You should know about this.  They may contain chemical residue, especially from tampons and cotton products for small children.  The cotton must be organic.  Spinach is another plant that gets a lot of spraying.  Spinach, take organic.  Personally, I don't eat a lot of spinach because it contains a lot of axalates, which can cause kidney stones.  I usually eat arugula or romaine lettuce.  Apples are also often sprayed with chemicals, so I recommend buying organic ones.  I think if you peel the apple, you can remove most of the pesticides.  But the skin is not as thick as that of nuts, so the apple is not as protected. Grapes are also often sprayed with chemicals, so organic grapes are needed .  Cherries also need to be organic, as they are also constantly sprayed with chemicals.  Next comes wheat, oats, lentils and legumes.  They need to be taken organic.  And here's why.  If wheat is labeled GMO-free, it only means that it is not genetically modified. But this does not mean that it is not sprayed with herbicides, such as glyphosate.  It is used to dry wheat.  Some of these chemicals are not used to kill pests and weeds.  They are used for drying foods, especially wheat, oats, barley, buckwheat, and even lentils and legumes.  If you eat them, buy the organic versions, not just the non-GMO ones.  Organic products are, by definition, GMO-free, but the GMO-free label does not mean that the crop has not been sprayed with any herbicide.  So there is a difference.