Hello everyone Today we will start with the question of our quiz the question True or false Please doc So True or false animals insects and humans continue to eat until they satisfy their need for protein Dear viewers, you can answer and in the meantime we will answer questions from social networks writes Deborah She is 70 years old While working in the garden she broke and badly cut her thumb she had 12 stitches she needs to replace the antibiotic prescribed by the doctor with something she does not want to take it I repeat I cannot give medical advice here But if you search for information on this topic I think I would start eating a lot of garlic I would eat oregano perhaps I would treat this area with hydrogen peroxide In general, if you need a general remedy, I think it is useful to eat a lot of garlic and onions with each meal and remember the immune system needs enough vitamin D So spend a lot of time in the sun I love with Yuba writes the doctor advised me to switch to a carnivore diet to reduce the symptoms of SIB I used to be on a healthy Keto and quite quickly it got very  I've been on the carnivore diet for almost a month now, but I've only lost a kilogram. It's harder to lose weight on a carnivore diet. People usually lose weight most actively on a carnivore diet because it eliminates many different problems. But on a carnivore diet, you need a variety of proteins, such as fish, shellfish, offal, bone broth, chicken, and fish. Eat with the skin. If you eat them, eggs, and perhaps you should get the most calories from grass- fed meat, that's best, because the protein in such meat is the best. And understand this: I don't know anything about you, whether you exercise or sit a lot, what your sleep is like, or stress, but some part. If you ate carbohydrates in the past, and especially if you have prediabetes, then the liver begins to produce sugar, this is called gluconeogenesis. And where does this sugar come from protein? Protein can come from muscles, from amino acid reserves, or from food. But if this is what happens, you see all this protein, you also won't have problems from this sugar. You don't need to worry about it, but perhaps you need to fast intermittently, reduce the amount of food, and more.  I wouldn't worry about training for one month. I had patients who, on an extremely low-carb diet, didn't lose weight at all. In the first month, they lost a couple of kilos. And by the third, 10 kilos. You just need to understand that first you need to become healthy and then lose weight, and not vice versa. Excellent. A shooting star from Yuba asks. Can you tell us about the influence of blood type on how food is digested? I'm curious. I studied this topic and it seemed like there was some kind of technology in it, but when you look at the research, there's nothing really there. I didn't find anything significant in the sense that with a certain blood type you need to eat or not eat something. It's simply not based on any real evidence that I would consider reliable or trustworthy. I think this diet helps some people simply because it's healthier without junk food. It's obvious that this will help somehow, but I don't see a real technology in this that allows you to develop a certain diet. Excellent. Let's see what the audience answered to the quiz question that sounded like this: True or false. Animals, insects, and humans continue to eat until they satisfy their need for protein. 80% said it was true and 20% disagreed with them and said it was a lie. There is a protein lever hypothesis and it's interesting because it is observed in nature. I saw this in my horses in the spring, they constantly eat grass and become fat because of the sugar in fresh green grass, this leads to laminitis, this is associated with prediabetes, more precisely with insulin resistance. Although with prediabetes, horses become lethargic just like people, and one veterinarian advised me Bobo, for example, soybean meal, but not GMO. Although I would not feed it to people, and we started giving it to horses somewhere half a kilo a day, and the horses' behavior changed a lot, they no longer chew grass like crazy. So I think it's true, because even when I became a vegan, it was the worst period in my life. I tried to eat enough to get full, I ate green beans, but I was constantly hungry because there was little protein, and then I read something in the book Mastering the Zone, in the second chapter about protein, it said that protein is the solution to insulin problems, and I  So I ate a huge piece of meat for breakfast and immediately, Wow, I finally felt full. Because protein nourishes not only muscles, but also all the enzymes, neurotransmitters, hormones, collagen in the bones. Most of the body is protein. So if you don't eat quality protein, and this isn't soy protein isolate. This crap also contains unrefined milk protein. This definitely does n't have quality ingredients, it just has a lot of sugar. I would eat real grass-fed meat, and it's the most satisfying food there is, because your body will finally get what it wants, which is protein.