About a week ago I started feeling tired and started analyzing Why my energy levels have dropped Usually I'm full of energy I looked at my diet nothing has changed I wasn't stressed But I did notice one change Usually I drank a large glass of water with apple cider vinegar and lemon juice and electrolytes but for some reason I haven't drunk vinegar the last few days Usually I added about two tablespoons So I brought back the apple cider vinegar and lo and behold all my energy returned then I decided to figure out what in apple cider vinegar gives energy I dug up some amazing information everything is extremely simple If you are tired and want to add energy just do this simple and inexpensive action 1 tablespoon in a glass of water once a day can add you energy I have a ton of videos about apple cider vinegar about how it improves digestion helps with bloating indigestion garp and acid reflux I also have somewhere around 130 videos about how it can lower blood sugar and help with insulin resistance and its benefits for the phenomenon  morning dawn When you have high blood glucose in the morning, even though you haven't eaten anything sweet, it's also good for fatty liver and helps you lose weight. It can even help lower blood pressure and has a positive effect on the cardiovascular system. You can also add that apple cider vinegar can solve the problem of oxalates. Axalates are substances found in food and are also produced by the body. They can lead to problems such as gout caused by uric acid and steel. It's formed from oxalates. The big toe can hurt. Oxalates are also associated with the formation of kidney stones, especially in people who eat spinach, almonds, beet tops, and Mongolian vegetables. And of course, there are a lot of oxalates in beans and grains, but apple cider vinegar can inhibit the formation of such oxalate crystals. Now I'll tell you how it increases your energy. You've probably never heard of it. What is apple cider vinegar? It's essentially acetic acid, and acetic acid can be directly absorbed and used by most tissues in the body as fuel. This is how it actually turns into acetone and beta-carotene.  hydroxybutyrate What is acetone and Beta hydroxybutyrate? These are two of three ketones that the body can use as fuel and which are formed from fat. This is very simple. Let's say you are already on a keto diet, you are fasting and you need more energy. Add apple cider vinegar to your diet and you will have even more energy. Whether you need it for training or for something else, it is always good to get more energy simply by consuming apple cider vinegar. Not to mention the benefits for the gastrointestinal tract, the reduction in bloating alone will add energy, lowering blood sugar levels will give a similar result. And here is another interesting fact. A boxy acid that I discovered is that your body itself produces acetic acid. It is the intestinal cells that have the ability to convert carbohydrates, for example, fiber, which is not digested, into short- chain fatty acids. At the same time, most microorganisms in the intestine that do not need oxygen can produce acetic acid and it can serve as fuel for intestinal cells. These acids bring all sorts of benefits. They lower blood sugar, reduce inflammation by acting as an anti-inflammatory. Acetic acid helps increase blood flow in  It helps peristalsis work better in some parts of the gastrointestinal tract and, in addition, the intestine itself produces it. It also produces two other acids of this type. This is the so-called butyric acid from the same category as beta-hydroxybutyrate, which essentially acts as a ketone. Butyric acid also maintains the density of the intestinal walls. It helps increase the synthesis of mucins that form mucous membranes and can even reduce the risk of bowel cancer. All this can be stimulated by providing microflora with fiber. I advise taking fiber from salad and vegetables. Bacteria that produce acetic acid convert carbohydrates with fiber into acetic acid. This is how apple cider vinegar is obtained. Your intestines also ferment carbohydrates and fiber, producing various substances. Propionic acid is the third short-chain fatty acid. Apparently, it acts as an anti-inflammatory. So, everything is very simple. Add 1-2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to a large glass of water, about half a liter in volume. I also add lemon and electrolytes in powder. But this is not necessary. You can add only apple cider vinegar. Drink it and you will notice. How  Your energy has increased dramatically. The brand of apple cider vinegar I recommend is Fairchiles. I used to buy that brand until I found out that another company bought them and now they dilute their apple cider vinegar. Diluting it increases the volume and you can earn more. Fairchiles is an organic concentrated apple cider vinegar. It contains mother liquor. Although the mother liquor itself doesn't provide much, the fact that they don't filter it is good because it contains more than just acetic acid; it also contains other very beneficial acids. I have a video about apple cider vinegar that has 16 million views. If you haven't seen it, I recommend watching it here.