The more I study health, the better I understand that health cannot be created without stress and some destruction. Have you heard the phrase no pain no growth or Whatever doesn't kill us makes us stronger? What does this mean? Today we will take a little deeper look at the concept of hormesis, what does the term hormesis mean? It is something that can lead to two opposite results. I will give many examples of this, but I think everyone knows that during training we partly destroy cells. And the result of this is more strength, more health, better physical fitness. So, hormesis is actually a controlled dose of stress somewhere deep in our cells. There is a very interesting adaptation mechanism, and this mechanism is partly controlled by the endocrine system and partly controlled by the autonomic nervous system. These two systems together help the body adapt to become stronger, and the key word here is adaptation. Perhaps you have heard this idea that the fittest survive. It would be more correct to say that those who can adapt better survive, and hormesis allows you to adapt to various stresses, such as stress from radiation, from training, from the cold, from heat, like in a sauna, and so on. A decrease in oxygen levels and an increase in CO2 can also create Even different chemicals in plants can create a hormesis effect, that is, many different insecticides, pesticides, and even fungicides. Of course, they are there in extremely small doses, because their goal is to kill insects, and they are smaller than us, and when we eat these plants, we get the hormesis effect. Let's take, for example, sulforaphane, which is found in broccoli and radish sprouts. Sulforaphane activates certain proteins, certain chemical pathways. One of these proteins is called heat shock protein, and it, in turn, activates certain factors that enhance the action of our detoxification enzymes. That is, we are exposed to a small dose of poison that increases our ability to remove poisons. There is a system of enzymes in the liver, these are detoxification enzymes, phases 1 and 2, they convert the poison into a harmless substance. Guess this system. Sulforaphane is the same poison. As a result, all these enzymes and proteins are restored and repaired, and the restoration and repair mechanism does not work until we activate it. Similarly, training causes microvolts in the body to get rid of inflammation. There is also a crazy idea to deprive the body food, what we call fasting, and suddenly amazing things happen: brain cell growth increases, the number of mitochondria begins to increase, the immune system is renewed thanks to new stem cells in our genes, over the years of adaptation, various mechanisms have emerged and strengthened that resist hunger so that we can survive, because hunger can kill us if it lasts too long. But if it doesn't last long, everything is fine too. And with training, you can only trade a certain amount of time in ice water, otherwise there will be problems. Each person has their own tolerance limit for a particular stress, which allows them to benefit from it. Health cannot be created if you always lie down and do nothing. Other interesting paradoxes are associated with health. This is not on topic. Hormesis is simply paradoxical. We used to think that if we eat less fat, we would get rid of body fat. But it turned out that this does not work, because people switch to a different type of calories, carbohydrates, and they turn into fat. And there is also such a phenomenon: the more sugar you eat, the less sugar is ultimately absorbed. Why? Because the body adapts, it develops resistance. insulin resistance is a protective mechanism. Our blood contains  only about one teaspoon of sugar But people usually eat a lot of sugar, they absorb a lot of sugar, and this is not normal. And the body defends itself with insulin resistance, and now a person does not absorb sugar well, and this creates problems, because of this, brain cells do not receive fuel, and a lot of problems arise. Here's something else that seems paradoxical: sterile conditions. The more we cleanse ourselves of bacteria, get rid of them, disinfect ourselves. This is especially true for babies and small children. The more we make ourselves vulnerable to disease, the more allergies we have. Children who live on farms have a very strong immune system. Children who live in excessive cleanliness get sick much more often. You cannot create a strong immune system if you never get sick. Disease trains the immune system and creates protection against disease. The same thing happens when taking antibiotics. The antibiotic kills all these bacteria, gets rid of them, and what does this lead to? An overgrowth of pathogens. Pathogens become stronger. Antibiotics no longer work. So, it's a double-edged sword. And people don't have antacids, but heartburn gets worse. How is this possible? You just need to understand the mechanism of occurrence.  Heartburn acid is thrown up through the valve that is located at the top of the stomach, this is called acid reflux, you need acid to get rid of this acid, if you take apple cider vinegar or betaine hydrochloride, acid reflux goes away. Why? Because its The real reason is a lack of L, not its excess. When there is not enough acid in the stomach, the valve does not close. Here is another example, this is interesting: when you are not in the sun, your risk of developing certain types of cancer increases. Wait a minute, we were told that the sun causes cancer, maybe not. The sun gives us vitamin D, and a deficiency of vitamin D can make us very vulnerable to cancer. It weakens the immune system. Vitamin D is essential for all parts of the immune system. Here is another interesting point: the more you diet, the more weight you gain, and this is really true when you go on a diet, especially if you do this wrong. What happens is that your metabolism becomes extremely economical so that you can get by with very little fuel, and now it is extremely difficult to get rid of fat, you need to make fat cells wasteful, disunite, and you waste a lot of energy, and this can be achieved with the keto diet through fasting.  And with the help of hardening, and the metabolism becomes economical due to a large number of diets, the main idea of ​​this video is that health cannot be created without some stress, and it’s good to start with training. If you want to watch a video about this, here it is.