Today we will talk about the lack of breast milk. You have just started feeding, but there is not enough milk. What can be done about this? We will discuss in this video, but most resort to natural remedies such as fenugreek, alfalfa, brewer's yeast, and fennel seeds. If you take them, this can help with lactation. But what if this does not work? What is happening and what to do? The ducts in the breast are regulated by estrogen and the growth hormone of the breast tissue itself. Progesterone and prolactin are needed. All these hormones must work together. With a chronic deficiency of nutrients, it may turn out that the structures in the breast tissue have changed so much that these remedies will not work right away. What to do? Ideally, you should have switched to a certain diet two years before conception. Then you will not have any deficiencies at the very beginning of pregnancy and there will be no problems with milk supply either. I want to emphasize how important a woman's nutrition is during and even before pregnancy and when she breastfeeds. This lays the foundation for the health of the baby. If you have already given birth, you are now trying to feed. You can still help, but you need to change your diet. You definitely need to switch to a low-carb diet and eat foods rich in carbohydrates.  Nutrients are extremely important. It may even be asymptomatic. I have polycystic ovary syndrome. There's a hormonal problem here, since high insulin leads to elevated androgens. Androgens disrupt these hormones. Hypothyroidism may also be the cause. Most hypothyroid diseases are autoimmune diseases, such as Hashimoto's. However, during pregnancy, there's this curious thing: autoimmune diseases disappear as if someone pressed a button. If you had hypothyroidism before pregnancy, it may turn out that the symptoms disappeared. But if you don't have autoimmune diseases, then perhaps the cause is high estrogen levels. Again, hormonal problems arise. The higher the estrogen, the slower the thyroid. The secret to success here is Toyota. If you take it during pregnancy or even breastfeeding, it can balance estrogen and help the thyroid. But it's very important to minimize carbohydrates and eat nutrient-rich foods. If you've been on my channel for a while, there's a link with details in the description. Understand that reversing this will take time. Maybe you should find a breastfeeding support group. and use donor milk while you get your body in order and solve these problems to start producing milk yourself. This is a comprehensive approach, correcting your diet and taking some of these. I think fenugreek and brewer's yeast are best here. Others often help too. And here's another point: under no circumstances take synthetic vitamins for pregnant women. Why are they of very low quality? It's better to find natural vitamins, they exist. I won't name the brand. Look for it yourself, but the ingredients in synthetic ones are of terrible quality and the difference between synthetic and natural vitamins is colossal. If you are already taking synthetic ones, switch to natural key nutrients that are needed during pregnancy and breastfeeding. This is definitely vitamin D. Cod liver oil is available in capsules and microelements. Other vitamins are also needed, but these nutrients play a key role in strengthening the mother's body so that the baby gets everything it needs. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.