I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  Healthy habits for the rest of your life. I want to tell you how to get rid of not only the symptoms of peripheral neuropathy, but also its main cause. Many doctors simply tell you what remedy to use, but they do not explain the mechanism of this disease in simple terms. This is what I want to explain to you. After all, if you understand, it is unlikely that this disease will occur again, because you will know what to do. Diabetic neuropathy is an ailment that usually affects the soles of the feet and sometimes the hands. The question arises why it affects these areas. The fact is that this is one of the first signs of quite serious problems with blood sugar. And since we have very long nerves, the farthest ends of the nerves suffer first because they receive the least oxygen and fuel, unlike those parts of the nerves that are closer to the heart. I will talk mainly about diabetes and blood sugar problems, because other causes of peripheral neuropathy are less common among such causes: chemotherapy, hypothyroidism, some autoimmune diseases, drugs, viruses and Lyme disease. In diabetes, four types of tissue are usually affected: nerves, blood vessels, eyes, kidneys, peripheral neuropathy.  It can be very painful because we need to walk, sometimes there is hypersensitivity, sometimes a burning sensation, sometimes severe pain, and sometimes just itching, but something strange is happening with the nerve, and the problem is that if this is not corrected, over time, ulcers may appear in the lower body, gangrene may begin. But if you understand this mechanism, the solution to the problem is very simple. This is what happens to the nerves in the soles of the feet. Let's look at this wire with insulation. This insulation is similar to the insulation around the nerves, which consists of myelin. So, with diabetes, the myelin sheath is destroyed so much that the nerve is exposed. Secondly, blood flow decreases, blood circulation worsens, and blood flow to the nerves and the soles of the feet decreases, and blood circulation is impaired due to the fact that the vascular system is damaged. In fact, the nerves are starving. I will describe this in a little more detail, but in simple terms, because I want you to understand what is happening at the cellular level. If you remember, in other videos I talked about mitochondria. These are small power plants, and when a person consumes too much sugar, as happens with diabetes, this engine is overloaded, but there is another engine that comes into play even earlier.  Mitochondria, this engine breaks down glucose and converts it into something that the mitochondria can use. This is where the main problem arises. Ideally, we receive glucose, then it goes through various stages on this conveyor. Eventually, glucose is converted into fuel that the mitochondria can use, and everything is fine. But at the last stage of this conveyor, there is one enzyme that stops working because too much fuel was poured into this carburetor and it extinguished the spark plug. That is, vitamins and minerals are actually a problem of nutrient deficiency. After all, when a person eats so much sugar that gets into the blood, his need for nutrients simply skyrockets. Ultimately, he will take all the nutrients from his own tissues and will be left with no nutrients to convert glucose into the form of fuel that the mitochondria need. In this biochemical pathway, so to speak, a bottleneck arises, this path is blocked, as a result, all this accumulates in the body and leads to lactic acidosis, damage by free radicals and a host of problems, essentially all the work in the body. Enzymes perform they can convert one substance into another and all enzymes have coenzymes cofactors, these are just vitamins with minerals. I want to tell you something else about what happens during this process. Our body has many backup plans like plan B for obtaining energy. We have one alternative path, a by-product of which is sorbitol, a sugar alcohol, and that's the problem with sorbitol. The fact is that sorbitol gets stuck in certain tissues, for example, in the lens of the eye. Which leads to cataracts and also in the retina of the eye, this leads to the development of diabetic retinopathy. This is a problem with the retina of the eye, because in this case the cells swell. In addition, sorbitol gets into this insulation around the wire, that is, the nerve, it swells, breaks down and fails, and sorbitol can also turn into a enzyme, which creates new problems. This is the main question. What cofactors are necessary for this enzyme to work so that it begins to heal the nerves and relieve you of pain? The first such cofactor is vitamin B1, but there is a problem. If you are trying to get B o from food. When  You already have diabetes. It will be very difficult for you to do this because you need a lot of this vitamin to eliminate this problem. I often hear even from doctors who do not think in nutrients. All nutrients can be obtained from food. Well, some may be yes, but it is very difficult to get them all, especially if you are trying to get something in order. Can I just take B1? The problem with B1 is that it is a water-soluble vitamin. A water- soluble vitamin has a hard time penetrating the fatty membrane of nerve cells. To get them in order, you need a fat-soluble B O. It is called benfotiamine. Usually it comes in 300 mg capsules. Take one four times a day. There are dietary supplements with the next remedy that I will talk about, and this is lipoic acid. Lipoic acid is another cofactor necessary for an enzyme that does not work. I say this based on experience working with tens of thousands of people over 30 years. I have used this remedy in working with a huge number of diabetics. So, I have a lot of experience successfully working on this problem. There are other nutrients that are associated with this: vitamin B5.  B2 and vitamin B3 are all the cofactors that this enzyme needs so that the body can absorb glucose and convert it into something that the mitochondria can use. In theory, you can be a diabetic and not have peripheral neuropathy if you take a lot of these nutrients, but why do this? Isn't it better to get yourself in order? So, you need a low-carb diet with intermittent fasting. So, there is another reason to do this. The fact is that chronic diabetes over time leads to a whole avalanche of various problems that deeply affect the nervous system right down to the brain. The first symptoms are pain in the feet, in the hands, and so on, but then it affects other areas of the body, especially the autonomic nervous system. Constipation, abdominal pain, and so on are possible. Heart problems may begin. You can simply change your diet and you will feel great relief in the soles of your feet, but I have noticed that some people experience relief, but the problem does not always disappear completely. Unless they take large doses of benfotiamine or POE acids. But the main thing is to eliminate the root of the problem, namely The wrong diet and to find out how to do this you need to watch and study this video