I want to share with you some interesting information about synthetic vitamins. I believe that synthetic vitamins should not be taken regularly to improve health. If you take them as part of a detox, this is something completely different. However, taking them regularly month after month can create problems. Let's discuss why I raised this issue. 98 percent of all vitamins sold are synthetic. The question is, are they the same vitamins as natural ones? The answer is no. The only thing is that just because they are similar does not make them completely identical, just like artificial flavoring is not identical to natural flavoring. 90 percent of all ascorbic acid in the synthetic version of vitamin C is produced in China, and production standards there may not meet the standards we need, especially considering that vitamin C is produced from corn using chemicals and solvents. Ideally, it is the best source of any nutrients. This food is nutrient-rich, but it is very difficult to find products containing all the necessary nutrients. You also need to know that vitamins are produced by the microflora in the intestines. The form of the synthetic vitamin itself is not the same as the natural one. Without going into details of the production of synthetic vitamins.  I'll say that synthetic vitamins are in a slightly different chemical form, and when they enter the body, their key doesn't fit our lock, and most of this vitamin is wasted. That is, the absorption or bioavailability of a synthetic vitamin is lower. This is why synthetic vitamins are sold in huge doses, like 11,000 percent of the recommended daily dose. Most of the vitamin will simply leave you in the urine if it is not fat-soluble, and synthetic vitamins do not have all the cofactors that normally accompany vitamins in nature. In nature, vitamins come in complexes; they have many excipients. They do not exist in an industrial, isolated, fractionated form. They exist as complexes of many mutually reinforcing parts. They may include a microelement, part of the vitamin, and other vitamins that promote their absorption. One of the reasons for this will be discussed with antioxidants. An antioxidant gives its electron to a free radical, which is nothing but a bar, that is, it lacks an electron, and the antioxidant gives its electron to stabilize this radical, and now the antioxidant itself becomes a free radical, because it no longer has enough.  An electron, and it has to take this electron from a friend or a neighboring antioxidant. If you don't have a good antioxidant network, your antioxidants can become free radicals. Therefore, in nature, antioxidants exist in a group with their auxiliary substances. Another important problem with synthetic vitamins is that they contain residual traces of some chemical solvents: chloroform, petroleum acetate, glyphosate, which is a herbicide, and even hexane is a solvent, but this does not exist in nature. The fact is that vitamins are fat- soluble and water-soluble. If you take a large amount of a water-soluble synthetic vitamin, its excess will be eliminated through the kidneys; it will not be so easy to get rid of a fat-soluble vitamin; it will be deposited in fat cells. This is why synthetic fat-soluble vitamins have serious side effects. If you take a synthetic vitamin during pregnancy, the child is at risk of developing birth defects. There is data on synthetic vitamins and early death, and folic acid, which differs from natural vitamins, increases the risk of cancer. There is also vitamin C, specifically about ascorbic acid. There are studies link below that show it. By 1C, it reduces mitochondria in the muscles and you produce fewer mitochondria, so training is less effective. But I must say that there are also positive effects when synthetic vitamin C ascorbate is administered by injection for cancer. This is not a recommendation, but there is interesting data that it helps kill cancer cells because in crab it can turn into 5,000 hydrogen and kill cancer cells. I'm not saying that this should be done, I'm just saying that there is data that synthetic vitamins have benefits, but even folic acid for pregnant women can reduce the risk of developing neural tube defects. This is a beneficial effect, but there is also a side effect - an increased risk of cancer. That is, we have both pros and cons, but there are many more pros if you take natural ones. Aim for food concentrates in synthetic vitamins. Many additional things are added to additives and preservatives, flavorings, dyes. Let me read you the composition of perhaps one of the most popular and best-selling synthetic vitamins. Modified corn starch. I don't know why they put modified starch in vitamins. Maltodextrin is sugar, more like dextrose. Ascorbic acid, retinol acetate, synthetic vitamin A, and then sunset yellow dye. Some minerals are in the form of oxides, which is not the most easily absorbed form for a mineral. Plant-based minerals are better because they are better absorbed. They also add calcium carbonate, which is essentially limestone, and ascorbic acid. Of course, I'm not trying to sell you my vitamins, I'll just read out the ingredients of my Domination: organic freeze-dried Barbados cherries, organic freeze-dried strawberries, organic freeze-dried acai berries, organic freeze-dried blueberries. I also have a product called Chum Energy, vitamin A from carrots, vitamin C from blueberries, cranberries, and strawberries, vitamin D from shiitake mushrooms, vitamin E from tomatoes, vitamin K1 from spinach, vitamin B2 from broccoli, especially B vitamins, B1, B2, which are made from coal tar, acetone, and ammonia, and natural vitamins are made from garlic or nutritional yeast. Vitamin B2 can be found in basil. Vitamin A is  Cod liver oil. The problem with natural vitamins is that they are more difficult to extract and more expensive. We need much less of them because their bioavailability is higher and they have far fewer side effects. I think you can identify synthetic vitamins by looking at the percentage of the recommended dose on the packaging. If the values ​​are very high, it is most likely synthetic. I wanted to give you basic information about the differences between synthetic and natural vitamins. If you can, choose natural vitamins, and even better, eat nutrient-rich foods. For more information about nutrient-rich foods, watch this video.