I want to talk about a potential root cause of an overactive bladder, leaking, not holding urine, forcing you to urinate more often, and sometimes even causing you to get up frequently at night. Let's look into this problem. There's a lot of confusion surrounding its root cause, and treatment methods certainly have side effects. Many medications prescribed in this situation are anticholinergic, which means they block a neurotransmitter called acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is a type of hormone within the nervous system that affects the pelvic floor, as well as the mechanisms that allow the bladder to contract and relax. This entire system is called the autonomic nervous system. Medications for urinary incontinence actually affect the autonomic nervous system, and this is logical, because one of the root dysfunctions is neurogenic, meaning it's caused by the nervous system. Another cause is considered to be an idiopathic factor. This tricky term simply means the cause is unknown, but here's what we know about idiopathic or unknown causes. The main cause of urinary incontinence is, yes, you guessed it. insulin resistance is a condition also characterized by high insulin levels, which in turn causes changes in the autonomic nervous system. This imbalance in the interaction of the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions of the nervous system affects the so -called detrusor, and this is what is confusing. When studying this topic, we see that the emphasis is mainly on estrogen, on reducing its levels, especially after menopause. After all, during menopause, estrogen levels certainly decrease and a hormonal problem arises that can definitely affect the bladder, as well as the vaginal area and many other areas. But the problem is that taking estrogen does not get rid of urinary incontinence. This problem is more associated with the autonomic nervous system, which can be greatly affected by insulin resistance. So, the problem worsens with age, during pregnancy, during the birth of a child, especially with the birth of several children, because it affects the muscles that contract and relax the bladder. This also affects the structure; it stretches the valve that controls the outflow of urine from the bladder. There are factors that aggravate the problem, such as chronic constipation. Obesity, chronic cough and asthma, and of course, the usual things like tea and coffee in large quantities can all aggravate the problem. Of course, this condition is aggravated by stress, and this is logical given the impact of stress on the autonomic nervous system. The first remedy I recommend can easily solve this problem without even having to try herbal remedies or even do Kegel exercises. This remedy is aimed at eliminating insulin resistance. insulin resistance has a powerful negative impact on the autonomic nervous system, and many associated problems disappear when eliminated. I recommend a healthy diet with intermittent fasting, and this must be done properly. That is, eliminate empty carbohydrates and consume no more than 25 grams of carbohydrates per day. Follow a healthy version of the ketogenic diet and follow intermittent fasting. Fast for 18 hours with a 6-hour window between meals. This will help with frequent urination, especially in men at night. It is very, very effective. If the problem really is with the autonomic nervous system, this will significantly improve control.  bladder, I say this because if you immediately start taking herbal remedies and do not solve this basic problem with nutrition, do not eliminate insulin resistance, the effect of the herbs may not be what it should be and you can simply decide another remedy did not work, it is better to knock out a pill, but pills have side effects, so I highly recommend starting with a healthy whale diet, intermittent fasting, this is the first second Kegel exercise, it improves bladder control, because urination is both an involuntary and voluntary process, and these exercises will increase control over the voluntary work of these muscles. How to do them, first, empty your bladder and lie on your back. You can lie on the bed, bend your knees, the lower back should remain curved. Unnecessary straightening can be done by rolling up a towel and placing it under the lower back, this will bend the pelvis forward, then lift and tighten the pelvic floor muscles, hold them like this for five seconds, contract these muscles, then relax them for five seconds, repeat this about 10 times, do three approaches a day, distributing them Throughout the day, these exercises have been used for many years with excellent results. Regarding herbal remedies, I found excellent data when I was looking for patents on the use of herbal natural remedies for urinary incontinence. Below are links to all this information. One of these patents describes a very serious double-blind, placebo-controlled study revealing shea butter and great improvements. I carefully studied these three plants and guess what, I found they affect the autonomic nervous system. Who would have thought the first remedy is kara on nettle stems, rval, and also called varuna. Number two is horsetail, and number three is linder. All three plants are listed below. Perhaps you will find a product containing all three, but be sure to start with healthy ketones with intermittent fasting. Below is a link for beginners. Also, if anyone doesn't know yet, I have a course on how to start and successfully practice some of them along with intermittent fasting. A link to the recording is below in the description under the video. I invite you to my course, healthy ketones, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.