We all know for sure that with constipation you just need more fiber. The general opinion of doctors is that lack of fiber is the real cause of constipation. Let's discuss what people most often make mistakes in connection with constipation and what else you need to know if you have constipation. Let's briefly consider what constipation is. It's a traffic jam in the intestines. It's stagnation. It's an excess of fecal matter. So, fiber increases the contents of the intestines. It increases the fecal matter. It increases the volume. And given this alone, why increase the volume and mass of contents in a tube that is already overflowing? I don't see the logic in this and think about what happens to fiber. Our microbes ferment it. Fermentation is accompanied by gases and bloating. Constipation usually doesn't require even more gases and bloating. In addition, people with chronic constipation already eat a lot of fiber, but this doesn't help. So, more fiber is a bad idea. There are very interesting studies that show that when people with chronic constipation and people with constipation and irritable bowel syndrome or other inflammation eat more.  fiber makes them worse Yes, if you have small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, that is, your microbes are not where they should be, they are in the small intestine, but should be in the large intestine, they are higher in you If you start eating more fiber, you will have terrible bloating, you will feel very bad So, the main mistake that people make in connection with constipation is to eat more fiber. I myself had very, very severe constipation and got rid of them by accident. This was when I first learned that you need to eat less carbohydrates. And for the sake of fiber, I ate a lot of carbohydrates in the form of cereals and all that. But when I started eating more meat, for example, buffalo steak and even fish for breakfast, my constipation completely went away. I was stunned because I thought that I needed more metamucilla or other fiber. But when I did this, it always got worse. It was very strange that when I just started eating meat, the constipation completely went away, but at the same time, I didn’t know why. That is, you shouldn’t eat more fiber. And just don’t eat it. So, first, eat less fiber, but I must say, fiber fiber Vegetable fiber doesn't usually cause problems, but even it can sometimes cause constipation, but the condition most likely worsens when people eat grain fiber, and this includes fiber from lentils and other legumes, fiber and linseeds, and unfortunately, now even on theta, people eat all sorts of new types of synthetic fibers such as corn fiber, tapioca, and many other things that I consider very harmful, but we will not discuss them in this video. Number two, constipation. Side effects of drugs: antacids, antidepressants, all of these are common drugs with a side effect in the form of constipation, but there are others. I always look at the first thing that immediately catches the eye if you are taking medications. See if they have a side effect in the form of constipation. The next reason is a lack of thiamine, vitamin B1. B1 is important for peristalsis, the wave-like contraction of the walls of the colon, because B1 is needed to create a neurotransmitter called acetylcholine. B1 deficiency occurs due to excess sugar and other carbohydrates in the diet, and sometimes constipation can be easily eliminated with B1.  In addition, one is needed for the vagus nerve. And this is part of the autonomic nervous system, so one can really help if a person is under too much stress and everything seems to be jammed because he is in Bailey and Run mode. So, one possible cause of constipation is the following reason: lack of bile. Lack of bile is usually accompanied by constipation. It lubricates the large intestine. Sometimes bile sediment forms, which accumulates in the bile ducts. This can cause pain in the right shoulder or discomfort. Tightness under the ribs on the right is a sign of a lack of bile. Taking bile salts in the form of a dietary supplement can sometimes help relieve constipation and even get rid of constipation. Because it helps lubricate the large intestine and digest food, but I will talk about this separately, because this is a clear cause of constipation. If you take too much bile, diarrhea is possible. This is a sure sign that you have taken too much bile. Another reason is dysbiosis, which is an imbalance of microflora in the intestines, and here it is worth consuming more probiotics. They contain more fiber, so it will be better, because with constipation.  There are often no beneficial organisms in the intestines. But if you have small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, these microorganisms will get into the small intestine and can increase bloating. So if probiotics increase bloating, you may have small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. Another common cause of constipation is eating too often. If you eat three times a day and snack three times, the digestive system does not get a chance to rest between meals. So switching to intermittent fasting will radically change the situation with chronic constipation, because the digestive system will finally be able to rest between meals. Eating so often is unnatural. It also happens when people eat too much protein and go on a root diet, constipation occurs. They need to increase the proportion of fat in relation to protein. After all, if there is too much protein and you can digest a limited amount of it, undigested protein can create a problem and sometimes constipation is possible. That's why the Atkins diet. And in a little protein, one of the side effects is constipation, whereas in a healthy Keto diet, which I recommend, the amount of protein is moderate. Another reason associated with this is a lack  If you don't have enough hydrochloric acid in your stomach, you can't digest protein, and this will cause constipation because the food isn't fully digested at a higher level. You have a huge tube there, about 8 meters long, if the food at the very top isn't digested. Imagine what it would be like lower down. Due to the large amount of undigested food, a blockage simply occurs. So, it would be very wise to take vitamin hydrochloride with food. Apple cider vinegar is another strong reason. Magnesium and potassium deficiency are needed to charge the energy. Small batteries that supply energy to the nerves and muscles, and the colon is a muscle. So, it needs these electrolytes, potassium and magnesium. In addition, magnesium is a great muscle relaxant. But of course, its excess can cause diarrhea. I wanted to tell you more about constipation so that you could think about it and take action. If you haven't watched my video about intermittent fasting, I think it's time to watch it. If you haven't started fasting yet, here it is.