Today I will tell you something very important about zinc. I am talking about zinc because zinc is involved in many processes. It is part of three hundred different enzymes, more than a thousand factors associated with DNA. Zinc performs many functions; it is needed by various enzymes not only for digestion but also for many other processes. If you can identify the early signs of zinc deficiency, subclinical deficiency, then you can prevent serious problems associated with zinc. These are problems such as complete loss of appetite, which leads to anorexia, necrosis caused by the fact that tissues do not heal. So zinc promotes wound healing, and with its deficiency, ulcers can occur both outside the body and inside. Ulcers can even appear in the oral cavity. For example, if elderly people have bedsores due to the fact that they lie down. And bedsores are non-living ulcers, wounds, then they need a lot of zinc. Another big problem due to zinc deficiency is hypogonadism, which is atrophy, a decrease in testicles, while testosterone levels are low. Of course, it will be low, this can be caused by a serious lack of zinc. I will give a link below. Another interesting serious problem with this study is thymus atrophy. The thymus is located above the heart and has a huge impact on the development of cells for the immune system. The thymus is a kind of training camp for the immune system. You can imagine what will happen to the immune system with thymus atrophy. It will not function. The adrenal hormone cortisol, its level can increase greatly with a lack of zinc. Perhaps this is what affects the thymus and the immune system. Because high levels of cortisol paralyze the immune system and white blood cells. A person also loses muscle mass because muscles need zinc. In fact, one of the best sources of zinc is animal meat and zinc is needed by muscles to create antioxidants to protect them from oxidative damage, especially during training. So, if you identify the early signs of zinc deficiency, you can prevent more serious problems. I'll show you one of my favorite books. This is Technology of War by Suz. It is very different from the book Art of War. If you look at books, art, and there are about 45 different versions of them. Many of them distort the original text, and the book Technology of War accurately reproduces the original text written by Suz.  In Chinese, he writes that the highest skill is not to win 100 victories in 100 battles, but to subjugate the enemy's operations and his troops without a battle. If you apply this principle to the body, which I do constantly, then you do not need to wait for the disease to develop to do something about it. If you know the early signs of symptoms of something, you can easily prevent it. After all, you have knowledge, so knowing the early signs of problems with the body is extremely valuable knowledge. And I have a lot of videos about this. So let's discuss. The most common early sign of zinc deficiency. Well, first of all, we need to know. Which organs does zinc have the strongest effect on? Oga, the one that suffers most from zinc deficiency is the pancreas. The pancreas has two parts. One controls blood sugar with insulin, and zinc is closely related to this, and the second part is the exocrine part of this gland, and it is related to enzymes, and this is the symptom. Are you ready? Foul-smelling stool that does not sink. Yes, that's exactly it. There may be cramps and slight diarrhea. There may be abdominal pain, maybe even bloating, but  This sign is very easy to notice and yes, the reasons for this can be different, for example, some food, but the cause can also be zinc deficiency. By the way, I made another video about this. Four years ago, there is another common first symptom - shortness of breath during exertion, this is another sign and it is useful to know because sometimes we think I'm just not in shape, but it may be a zinc deficiency. So, you need to look at the diet. Does it have enough zinc or could this be due to poor absorption in the intestines? The intestines may be inflamed, this is a common cause of zinc deficiency. Another reason for zinc deficiency is eating something that contains phyto or phytic acid, and it is found in cereals. If you eat cereals. If you eat a lot of empty carbohydrates, you get phyto acid and this can potentially cause zinc deficiency. Millions of children in the world have zinc deficiency. These children eat a lot of cereals and flakes, they eat little meat, especially red meat, and they develop diarrhea, and this is very, very dangerous. And the product richest in zinc is oysters, then come crabs, other shellfish, meat, fish, there is some amount of zinc. in cashews and peanuts, but you need to look at the big picture to understand whether it's related to your diet. Is zinc deficiency caused by something I eat? Because zinc deficiency can even be caused by sugar and diabetes. Excess stress can cause zinc deficiency. Regular alcohol consumption can also cause zinc deficiency. An infectious disease can cause zinc deficiency. I think it's very important to follow these principles to predict. And to predict, you need the right data. You need all the data to understand the consequences and early signs of something that can become something more serious. Because usually, when you have a symptom like digestive problems, you go to the doctor. He gives you a pill. It masks the symptom. The symptom subsides. The problem remains and then gets worse. I'll give you some more information about zinc. Zinc is very strongly associated with sleep cycles. If you have sleep problems, like too short a REM phase, then you may need to take zinc right before bed. Zinc is also extremely important for a part of the brain called the hippocampus. It's a kind of relay for memory, learning, and other cognitive functions. As I already said, zinc is also associated with insulin.  Zinc deficiency can create a risk of developing diabetes. Zinc is needed for neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine, they affect mood, and zinc also forms a very important group of antioxidants that are needed for the brain, heart, and muscles. These three parts of the body use a lot of oxygen. And if you look a little deeper, zinc helps reduce oxidative stress in the mitochondria, these power plants that are found in all tissues. So, start looking at the symptoms a little differently instead of treating the symptoms. Try to understand what your body is telling you. Understand that many problems are associated with nutrient deficiencies due to your diet. Use these signs and indicators as knowledge that allows you to predict and prevent something. Unfortunately, we cannot talk too much about the prevention of something, because even on cans with different nutrients there is such a mandatory inscription. It is not intended for the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of any diseases, that is, disease prevention is an illegal activity. In my videos, I try to give you knowledge about what can happen to you. Thanks to this, you do not need to get into a situation where you need to fight something, because it is much more difficult. It is much easier to win this war by doing something than to start a battle with Health problems begin when there is a lack of essential vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in various ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In a course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. Over 100 lessons, notes and lists. Everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.