This is not a source of energy. Although I used to drink them. I don’t drink them anymore because they make me tired. Today I will show you seven ways to get a real surge of energy. I will talk about the full production of energy and not stimulating the body with energy drinks like coffee and other drinks. We are talking about real energy, about a constant surge of strength. When you feel alive. Vigor and when every part of the body works. You see, stimulants like caffeine do not give energy. They only get rid of substances that cause fatigue, but they do not give energy. It may seem that Glucose or sugar gives energy. But in fact, it causes fatigue. Each of these energy drinks contains more than 50 g of sugar, which is 12.5 teaspoons of sugar. But let's move on to the method of obtaining energy. The first way is to get magnesium. Magnesium is a cofactor in the production of ATP. ATP is something like a battery, and without magnesium, the body cannot produce ATP. Therefore, the first symptom of magnesium deficiency is fatigue. How can you get magnesium from spinach, almonds, avocados, and fish? Second, there is something in the body.  The sodium-potassium pump is a pump found in every cell of the body. The sodium-potassium pump is a very interesting thing. It allows the cells to generate an electric current like a battery. This current supplies energy to the muscles and nervous system. Many people on a ketogenic diet or fasting do not consume enough sodium. Potassium is another mineral that is very common in people. You need 4700 mg of it per day. How can you get it from vegetables and greens? But you need to eat a lot of greens to get that much potassium. Most people don't eat that much greens and replace greens with electrolyte powder. Third, you need to create more mitochondria. This is called mitochondrial biogenesis. The best way to do this is to exercise regularly for a period of time so that the body adapts to training by producing mitochondria. Do both endurance and resistance exercises. It is very important to alternate them. Fasting, including interval fasting, increases mitochondrial growth. Therefore, I always recommend intermittent fasting on the Keto diet. Hardening can also help increase growth.  mitochondria because you shock the body with cold and it has to produce a huge amount of heat to compensate for its loss and maintain a temperature of 36.6. You can imagine what stress the mitochondria are under when they produce heat. I will say that hardening itself really charges you with energy for the whole day. Polyphenols can also help mitochondria. Polyphenols are found in some vegetables, herbs, supplements, and berries like blueberries. Polyphenols are also in dark chocolate. Fourth, ketones. For this, you need a low-carb diet. If you compare ketones as fuel with glucose, ketones produce 10.5 kg of ATP, while glucose produces only 8.7 kg of ATP. A low-carb diet definitely gives energy. Next, carnitine, what is it? This is a compound that helps metabolize fats in a power plant called mitochondria. Carnitine can help improve endurance during exercise. It delays the onset of fatigue and can even act as an antioxidant and reduce muscle damage. Guess which one?  Food contains the most carnitine, at least. Try to guess the answer in red meat. This is why you get energy. When you eat meat, sixth, apple cider vinegar. Apple cider vinegar is an acid, and here's what's interesting: mitochondria can use it as fuel. Dilute a tablespoon in a glass of water and drink every day. Seventh, B vitamins are a good source of nutritional yeast. B vitamins are closely related to mitochondria, which convert food into ATP. Therefore, a deficiency of B vitamins can cause fatigue, even if you ate without B vitamins. It simply doesn't convert into ATP. You learned how to get energy now. Now it's worth learning more about sleep. To do this, you need to watch another video, for example, this one.