Today we'll discuss 27 genius ways to fall asleep again in the middle of the night.  Over the years, I've had just about every sleep problem imaginable .  But you need to know one thing: the harder you try to fall asleep, the less you sleep.  Because as soon as you decide that you need to sleep and start forcing yourself to fall asleep, your cortisol levels rise.  It was a big problem for me because I was like, oh my god, I need to sleep.  I was stressing myself out, my cortisol was rising, and I wasn't sleeping all night.  You need to get ready for bed very, very gently, as if you are not trying to fall asleep at all.  I will show you many different ways.  Number one.  If you have cold feet before bed, it disrupts the thermostat in the hypothalamus. Normally, when we fall asleep, our internal body temperature, which should be 37°, drops to 36, a whole degree lower, and this serves as a signal for the hormone melatonin.  It's time to go to bed right now.  But if your feet are cold, the signals will conflict with each other, your whole body temperature won't drop, and you'll have a harder time falling asleep. Yes, the bedroom should be cool.  Don't cover yourself completely with a warm blanket, but your feet should always be warm before going to bed .  You can put on socks or cover your feet with a blanket.  I cover my feet with a blanket and cover myself with a sheet.  This is a very simple tip.  Anyone can do this and it will help you sleep.  Number two.  Sea salt before bed.  How many people think that too much salt is harmful.  I know doctors have been saying this for a long time . But we need some amount of salt.  And if we have little salt, or more precisely sodium, then the level of the hormones adrenaline and cortisol increases. Why?  Because there is another hormone associated with this , which is often the hidden cause of insomnia.  This hormone is called aldosterone.  I won't go into detail about this.  You just need to know that aldosterone regulates water-salt balance and the amount of fluid in the body.  For many people with low sodium levels, aldosterone levels begin to rise as they fall asleep , and this activates the belebegi mechanism. Sometimes between 2 and 3 am. Simply because you lack sea salt.  Yes, many people snack on chips in the evenings.  They try to get more salt, and they sleep better because of the salt.  You need salt, but not the carbohydrates that come with it. Just try to consume more salt in the evening, preferably with food.  And see how much better you sleep.  Very curious.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Number three.  Breathing through the nose.  When we breathe through our nose, the flow of air into the body is limited.  You may think, "I'll get less air and sleep worse."  But look at someone who is experiencing anxiety or a panic attack and is breathing rapidly.  This is called hyperventilation.  He breathes rapidly because he has excess oxygen.  This is the boron effect.  When there is more carbon dioxide in the body, oxygen penetrates the cells better and is absorbed.  When we breathe through our nose, the correct balance of CO2 and oxygen is achieved , allowing the maximum amount of oxygen to reach the cells , while when breathing through the mouth this is not the case. When I breathe through my nose before going to bed, I do it consciously, intentionally.  I close my mouth and inhale for about 4 seconds. Then I exhale for about 5 seconds. I take perhaps a few breaths in and out at this temperature and wake up in the morning.  This works great.  After all, when we consciously breathe in a certain way, we take control of the autonomic nervous system. At the same time, oxygen penetrates deep into the tissue and saturates it as much as possible.  It's also a great way to stop thinking about problems, because we don't need that before bed .  Number four.  Adrenaline and carbohydrates. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, your blood sugar rises. And then the insulin level rises, and it lowers blood sugar. It rises and falls again.  Your blood sugar level remains low for some time.  This is how resistance to hormones, such as insulin, increases. And then suddenly your blood sugar gets low, around 2:00 a.m.  The body cannot allow this. He doesn't like high or low sugar levels.  Therefore, it secretes a special hormone to increase the level of glucose, sugar.  What hormone?  Adrenaline and cortisol.  It secretes both of these hormones.  These are stress hormones.  They counteract regulatory hormones to stabilize blood sugar and increase it.  So, insulin lowers high sugar, and adrenaline and cortisol raise it when it is low.  Many people who are not adapted to the diet because they eat too many carbohydrates have trouble sleeping at night because their blood sugar is very low.  They secrete these hormones, they increase and stabilize blood sugar, releasing it from the liver, but they excite. Therefore, you need to switch to a low-carb diet and adapt to it so that you can consistently sleep through the night.  and the adrenaline level remained low. I had this problem for many years and did n't know what was causing it.  Number five. Body scanning is another very simple and very powerful method.  So, you lie in bed and, starting from your head, scan your body all the way down, relaxing it, relaxing it.  I do this to find tension.  Sometimes I find it in my upper back, sometimes in my chest, sometimes in my stomach. I consciously relax my muscles as I scan, starting from the head.  Then I scan the arms, chest, midsection, pelvis, lower back, hips, knees, ankles and toes.  I'm just consciously releasing tension. Super effective.  You have to try it. This is very interesting.  It's simple.  Everyone can do it.  At the same time, you realize that you have a couple of places in your body that you hold under tension.  For me it's the lower back or upper back.  I keep them on edge all the time without even noticing it.  Then I realize this when I start scanning the body.  And I just relax, and then I sleep much better. Number six.  Don't eat late at night. Eat earlier in the day.  If you eat late at night, especially protein, you won't be able to sleep, especially if you've eaten too much . So, ideally, if you have trouble falling asleep, it would be very sensible to have dinner early, say at 3 or 4:00, at 5:30, maybe at 5:00 in the evening.  And don't eat anything after that. Nothing.  You will sleep better just by making this small change, eating dinner earlier.  Number seven. Snacking, especially in the evenings, will lead to insulin resistance, which will lead to the need to get up frequently to go to the bathroom. This problem affects many people and is very easy to fix. Men immediately think that it is a prostate issue.  But if they simply don't snack, especially in the evenings, they will urinate less during the night. There are other ways to improve this situation.  You can take salt to prevent aldosterone from increasing.  Do you think that salt will make you drink and pee all night?  No, you will retain fluid all night.  For example, it’s better not to take potassium before bed, otherwise you’ll have to get up to go to the bathroom.  Sodium will help you retain fluid, but snacking is very bad.  They will make you wake up and run to the bathroom all night and prevent you from sleeping.  In addition, snacking increases insulin resistance, thereby increasing adrenaline.  When I talk about a low-carb diet, I also mean no snacking and intermittent fasting.   These are two of the most powerful ways to create health.  Number eight.  You probably already know that too many stimulants, such as caffeine in coffee, tea, and chocolate, can keep you from getting a good night's sleep.  After all, the liver has to process this caffeine and other stimulants.  But if you consume caffeine at lunch and after lunch, your liver may not have time to process all that caffeine.  And so the evening comes, and you don’t want to sleep.  I drink a very small cup of coffee early in the morning.  And that's all.  After that, I don't drink coffee, and my cup is small, because in college I drank coffee literally by the bowlful from morning until late at night, until midnight.  And I just had too much caffeine.  So, less stimulants. Number nine.  If you watch TV in the evenings, choose your films carefully.  After all, if a movie is too interesting or has a lot of action or is scary or adventurous, it is not good for sleep.  In general, do as I do.  I watch boring soap operas where the same boring theme is always repeated over and over again .  Because when I watch a movie like this, I fall asleep instantly .  This just knocks me out.  In addition, about two hours before bed, I put on glasses with a blue light filter, which also filter green light.  They block blue and green light.  Light in these two ranges can reduce and suppress melatonin production.  I experimented with these glasses.  Sometimes I wore them, sometimes I didn't.  And believe me, they really do help. It's worth a try.  They block light, which reduces melatonin levels.   This gives me peak melatonin levels before bed, which creates sleep pressure that induces wonderful sleep. Basically, I wear glasses with a blue light filter.  No matter how stupid I look in them , I wear them.  Issue 11. M. What is MP?  Electromagnetic fields. So, in essence, the sources of MP are mobile phones, Wi-Fi, the router in the house, computers, electrical wires.  Anything connected with electricity creates an electromagnetic field.  It is invisible to us, but it can be measured with a small device.  I started detecting magnetic fields using this device in my bedroom and discovered that the magnetic field extended 2.5 meters from the wall at the head of my bed. It turned out that the magnetic field was being created by intersecting wires in the wall.  It penetrated me every night, and I didn’t even know it.  So, here's what I recommend .  You don't have to buy such a device. Just keep your cell phone and other electrical devices away from you. Also, if you have trouble sleeping and it might be a nuisance to other people in the house, turn off the electricity in your room using the circuit breaker and you will sleep perfectly. I know it's a bit of a hassle, but it will greatly improve your sleep.  Number 12. Don't look at the clock during the night.  If you wake up, don't look at the clock, otherwise you'll start thinking.  We need to not think when we sleep. And turn off notifications on your phone, turn on airplane mode so that there are no notifications at all.  This is very important.  And if you look at your watch, you start thinking, analyzing, and this stimulates cortisol.  After all, the purpose of the mind is to solve problems.  And this won't help you rest.  You need to regain your strength. Problems should not be solved at night.  There is no need to put any problems in front of the mind like: “Oh, it’s already 2 o’clock, and I’m still not sleeping. Oh my God, what should I do?”  And so on.  13. I have already spoken about this.  The harder you try to sleep, the less you sleep.  There have been times in my life when I've said to myself, "I need to sleep. I have to sleep."  And I couldn't sleep. because I tried too hard.  So the attitude towards falling asleep should be very carefree.  Well, come what may.  The harder you try to fall asleep, the harder it is to do so.  Number 14. Constancy.  Go to bed at the same time.  A good time to go to bed is between 9:30 and 11:30. I go to bed at exactly 10:30.  every evening.  Sometimes I go to bed a little earlier.  It works for me.  We'll talk about this a little more, but consistency is very important.  But even if you wake up an hour before your alarm and just lie there, not falling asleep completely, but resting, it is still valuable.  This still allows you to rest and recover to some extent .  Even though you don't fall asleep, this rest can help you to some extent.  It's not entirely useless. Number 15. Ashwagandha.  According to circadian rhythms, cortisol levels should ideally be at their lowest at 2:00 a.m.  If this is not the case, you have a cortisol problem.  If you have a problem at 2:00 a.m. and need a remedy to fix it, take ashwagandha before bed.  Number 16. Purity of pulse. If your heart rate is too high, it will keep you awake.  Try to fall asleep right after a workout, it won't help that it controls your heart rate.  The autonomic nervous system, and its functioning can be disrupted by a couple of things.  The first is vitamin B1 deficiency. due to excess carbohydrates in the diet, especially empty carbohydrates like sugar.   That's exactly what happened to me.  I would constantly eat half a liter of ice cream before bed, and this completely deprived me of vitamin B1, as well as potassium.  When you are low in potassium, your pulse rate slows down, and when you eat sugar and other empty carbohydrates, you lose potassium and B1.  So, taking potassium and B1 throughout the day helps normalize the pulse, and as an emergency measure, breathing control also helps lower the pulse.  Just inhale slowly and exhale a little slower. And one more thing about the pulse.  If you drink too much kombucha, which is an acid, or apple cider vinegar, the environment in your body will become too acidic.  Because of this, the pulse is also cleared.  This is just a by- the-way.   It happened to me too.  17 is the internal dialogue.  I've had this happen to me often .  I kept thinking and thinking, constantly solving problems.  I couldn't turn it off. This is a typical sign of B1 deficiency. Usually due to excess carbohydrates in the diet. When you eat a lot of carbohydrates, you produce more lactic acid, which causes your heart rate to rise and your brain to become overstimulated.  It starts working too fast due to excess glutamate.  You need to increase your GABA levels.  This can be done by taking B1 before bed. I will list all the symptoms of B1 deficiency. nervous tension, anxiety, lack of oxygen, low stress resistance, hypersensitivity of the nervous system to all of this.  So, B1 is extremely important for sleep, as well as for a calm mind. By the way, B1 doesn't work without magnesium, so you need to get magnesium along with B1.  That's why I added number 20. I'll tell you more about it later .  Magnesium glycinate is undoubtedly the best form of magnesium for sleep.  After all, there is not only magnesium here, but also glycenate, that is, glycine.  And glycine increases the level of GABA. And 2 glycines also reduce body temperature, which helps increase melatonin levels.  So, glycine is beneficial for sleep for a variety of reasons. Glycine can be obtained from magnesium glycinate.  We absorb 80% of magnesium from it. I take it in powder form in the evening. Excellent for sleep.  Next.  Acupressure. I made a video about the parts of the body that tend to accumulate more stress than other parts.  It is very important to know this in order to remove stress from the body.  I have an excellent technique.  I have used it in my practice for many years. Below is a link on how to get these videos.  Look, it's very effective. Number 19. Fascia stretch.  If you sit at a desk or computer all day, and I personally sit a lot, your posture changes.  There is tension in the body , and if you want to fall asleep after sitting at the computer all day, you need to stretch.  Fascia stretching.  Fascia is connective tissue.  It covers the entire body.  Fascia stretching involves many joints at once.  This stretch is great for relieving tension.   I want to return to point 20. The magnesium cycle. Magnesium levels are at their lowest early in the morning.   Did you remember to press the bell? This is interesting because many health problems also manifest themselves early in the morning.  I will list some health problems that most often appear early in the morning rather than at any other time of the day. Early morning heart attack, stroke, headaches.  The dawn phenomenon occurs early in the morning.  This is a high level of glucose in the blood.  After all, the liver secretes excess sugar due to pre-beta or problems with insulin.  Arthritis caused by soft tissue calcification also worsens more often in the morning.  Stiffness increases in the morning.  All these problems are related to low magnesium levels.  21. High-intensity interval training increases growth hormone levels , which improves sleep.  Combine them with long walks in nature to lower cortisol and get plenty of oxygen, as well as to burn off some of the energy built up from your workouts.  If you used to exercise and now don't use that energy, you may have trouble sleeping.  Therefore, regular training is extremely important.  22. Night eye mask. I put a small mask over my eyes to keep the light out.  I use earplugs to reduce the noise I hear.  And that brings us to number 24. Sleeping alone. Many people find this very difficult to arrange because they are in a relationship and have a dog sleeping nearby.  And if someone has a couple of dogs, oh my god, it's like an all- night party.  I have been solving these problems in patients with insomnia for years.  It's not about them, it's about other people.  They snore or make noise.   A decision needs to be made.  Sometimes it's important to get some rest at night.  If you can eliminate all that extra noise and sounds, it might be worth it.  When I come to bed in the evening, my wife has a dog.  The dog is sleeping in bed.  My wife goes to bed before me.  And so I come to the bedroom and want to lie down.  And Charlie the dog is lying in my place, and when I try to move him, he growls at me.  And now I need to carefully move the growling dog. But he lies too close to me.  But I found a way to get Charlie out of bed.  I just cover him with a blanket and cover myself with a sheet.  And after about 10 minutes Charlie becomes uncomfortable. He jumps on the floor and sleeps there.  Animals can interfere with sleep, especially if they snore.  Number 25. Elroyteri.  It's a bacteria that you can make a yogurt-like substance out of.  I made a video about it.  You can make this yogurt and eat it two large tablespoons or even half a glass a day.  Wow, this improves my sleep.  And it lowers cortisol. It is one of the best remedies for the gut and helps reduce stress.  I already said that 2 g of Maglicin reduces the temperature.  And the last point number 27. Light in the morning.  Getting outside when the sun rises and allowing blue light to hit your eyes for about 20 minutes can greatly help reset your circadian rhythms, which will improve your sleep at night and make you more alert during the day. But if you don’t have this opportunity, there are special glasses with blue backlight, there is a lamp that emits such light.  You can turn it on for 20 minutes to reset your circadian rhythms. After all, they are controlled by cycles of light and darkness.  I've given a lot of advice, but there's one area, number 18. Acupressure.  And I think everyone needs to carefully study the points they are working with.  I do this every night. This is a real salvation.  If you are stressed and need to fall asleep quickly.  I have been using this in my practice for 30 years.  I know exactly how to do it.  And here is about Roiteri yogurt, which I also mentioned today.