Let's discuss 6 unexpected signs of heart disease, since heart disease is the most common cause of death in the world. I think it will not be superfluous to understand this problem, especially the unexpected, unusual signs and symptoms that indicate heart problems that you do not know about. There are two types of heart failure: compensated heart failure and decompensated heart failure. What is the difference? What does compensated mean? This means that if the heart is initially weak, it no longer maintains the same blood flow, that is, oxygen, and the body compensates for this by increasing blood flow by increasing pressure and retaining sodium in order to maintain the same volume of fluid in the body. The body tries to retain fluid by increasing pressure and pulse. So, with compensated heart failure, there are no symptoms except high blood pressure. Why are there no symptoms? Because the blood flow is the same as with a healthy heart, the numbers are just slightly higher. Many people with high blood pressure have no symptoms. At least at first. What's interesting is that people simply take a drug that masks this weak alarm bell, making it barely audible, and you think, well, now the pressure is higher.  It's not high, so I'm fine, but it doesn't help the heart itself. In fact, you're just masking the real problem, and after that, symptoms of taking this medication may begin, but in fact, these are symptoms of heart problems, because now blood circulation is no longer what it should be for some people when taking medications that lower blood pressure. With this compensation, their legs begin to swell, dizziness, fatigue, and shortness of breath may begin. These symptoms are characteristic of decompensated heart failure. But it usually happens that compensation continues for many years. Until the heart weakens and stops compensating, then obvious symptoms of heart problems appear. There are known symptoms. And there are unknown ones. For example, pastosity or swelling of the ankles. If you press there with your finger and a dimple remains, this pastosity. Blood stagnation occurs in the body because the heart cannot pump it. This can also be a sign of something else, such as liver or adrenal disease, but with a sick heart, this also happens. Another common symptom of decompensation is shortness of breath, which occurs very easily, especially during exercise or climbing to heights. Other symptoms include pain in the left arm or chest, or here.  from behind, but again, these are well -known symptoms, symptoms that are not usually heard of, the following: Pardon, cough, this could be congestive heart failure, in which blood stagnates not only in the shins but also in the organs in the lungs and causes irritation, cough, 3 signs of dementia: You become forgetful, why? Because blood flow to the brain is no longer the same as before, with a lack of oxygen and blood flow to the brain, problems arise that, if chronic, can impair memory, 4 decreased urine production, the amount of urine excreted, Definitely not what it should be, because the body retains, trying to compensate for the lack of blood and oxygen, it just holds on to the liquid, then number five, difficulty breathing, lying down in a horizontal position, it becomes easier for you. If you sit or stand up, many do not see the connection here. They think that this is the same shortness of breath as during exercise. No, this is lying on your back, and sixth, you wake up after sleeping for 1-2 hours, trying to breathe, catch your breath, this is another sign connecting the work of the heart with breathing, well, all this is very interesting. But what to do about it  Firstly, you need to get a good night's sleep. Did you know that one study found that a nap during the day can be as beneficial as some blood pressure medications? Amazing. That is, the better you sleep, the healthier your heart will be. The less you sleep, the higher your risk of a heart attack. If you sleep 5 hours or less, your risk increases significantly. And your life expectancy decreases unless you are one of those special people who do n't need that much sleep. This happens. But this is more of an exception. 2. This point concerns the direct link between empty carbohydrates and heart disease. When you consume refined carbohydrates, bread, pasta, and cereals, you experience not only strong oxidation due to the fact that they turn into sugar, but also irritation. It's like taking a steel wool and rubbing your blood vessels from the inside. That's what it's equivalent to. And refined grains deplete vitamin E reserves. Vitamin E is the most important vitamin not only for the inner lining of blood vessels, but also for the heart muscle itself. If you don't have enough of it, your heart literally has to work to the point of exhaustion. In general, it's good for all muscles. A striking difference can occur if you give someone vitamin E and  Measure muscle strength before and after, the changes will be huge. The type of vitamin E that I recommend is only trinols. This is the best option for the heart, 50 times more effective than regular tocopherols. 3 vitamins. 2 vitamin K2 was discovered. Not long ago, it is a partner of vitamin D3. K2 helps keep calcium where it should be. It does not allow calcium to accumulate in the vessels, keeps it in the bones, and it also does not allow the court to become too hard. Guess which foods have a lot of fats and fatty foods. Someone in the audience will ask. What about cholesterol and all that? I have another video about this because this is a whole separate topic. In this area, there is a lot of L that you need to know. And the fourth, very important point is just as important as sleep. Giving up a high-carbohydrate diet, switching to a low-carbohydrate diet, especially giving up refined grains. If you are new here, I will show you exactly how to do this. The link is in the description. Over the course of my work, I have received a huge number of stories from people in which they share their successes. Several thousand stories, and quite often people write that their condition has improved significantly.  The work of the heart and blood vessels when they started the ketogenic diet. Another video you should watch about cholesterol. It's very important. The link is here. Watch it.