The worst thing you can do to a person is to deprive them of peanuts. I won't do that. I'll just tell you which type of peanuts you should give preference to. After all, if you buy the wrong peanuts or peanut butter, it can be harmful to your health. 80% of peanut butters contain something that doesn't belong in our bodies, but the right type of peanut butter or peanuts is unlikely to harm your health. Recently, I spent a couple of weeks just to try it. I sat on a carnivore diet and thanks to giving up nuts, I got rid of bloating. I won't eat peanuts anymore. You can eat them if you don't get bloating from them. But I decided to bring vegetables back into my diet. So now I'm half on a carnivore diet and half on a plant-based diet. Because I love greens, but let's discuss regular peanut butter and regular peanuts. As for regular peanuts, unfortunately, they are probably one of the plants that is sprayed with the most pesticides, insecticides, and especially fungicides compared to many other products. Peanuts are not nuts, they are legumes. And when they are sprayed, all this gets into the soil there.  Where are the peanuts located? Peanut shells are very, very thin, unlike the hard shells of walnuts. You should only eat organic peanuts or peanut butter. This is the first thing. There is also a herbicide called glyphosate. It acts as an antibiotic. It is found in many GMO products. Glyphosate is also found in peanuts simply because of the sowing rotation. When the Tomo crop is sown in one area in turn, then it seems that peanuts alternate with cotton or rapeseed, but I don’t know for sure. You also need to read the labels. If anything hydrogenated is mentioned, don’t eat it. You may have heard of partially hydrogenated ingredients. And these are trans fats. What is the difference between hydrogenated and hydrogenated? Although we are told that in some way hydrogenated trans fats are not. Essentially, no. This is the same process. Hydrogen bonds with something under strong heat and makes it. It is partially hydrogenated if you continue. It will become completely hydrogenated. You should avoid everything where it says hydrogenated, whether partially or not. We also  They slip oils from seeds. We call them vegetable oils, but they are from seeds. They are added to peanut butter, and these oils simply have no place in your body. This Zakraevsky paste is so delicious, it has sugar, but there is another ingredient, and it is a carcinogen. It increases the risk of developing certain types of cancer by 46%, and this ingredient is called glycerides. In one French study, they are associated with cancer. So, they have no place in our food. They are used as emulsifiers to prevent a layer of oil from forming on top. If you see peanut butter that has all this, I would look for a higher-quality paste. Here, peanuts and salt are all natural. And even better, organic peanuts with sea salt. And if you want to raise the bar a little higher, then I recommend Valencia peanuts. This product has the least aflotoxin, a toxin from a certain mold that can grow on peanuts. This toxin severely damages the liver. This product also contains sea salt, it is better than table salt. Sometimes it is very difficult not to overeat peanuts or peanut butter if I sit down and start  I eat almost the entire bag of peanuts and feel a heaviness under my right ribs as I try to digest these fats. One more thing about peanuts and peanut butter: it's better to eat them with meals and not as a snack. Especially if it's a late-night snack, because any significant amount of calories causes an insulin spike. And if you're on intermittent fasting, keeping nuts nearby, especially late at night, is quite dangerous. You're on chum. And the holidays are coming. Prepare delicious and healthy meals with the book of keto recipes: hot and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and bread, as well as a calculation of calories, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Order the book of the festive chum menu using the link below.