I warn you, this video may make you never want to eat sugar again, so you can pause the video and take your last dose. Before I tell you something very interesting, because the more a person knows about the consequences of consuming sugar, the less they eat it. I constantly see people around me who eat mountains of sugar and I think, “Nightmare!” How can you even eat this? It’s all about knowledge. People simply don’t know about the consequences. Probably everyone knows about such consequences as weight gain, tooth decay, fatty liver, high cholesterol, acne, hypertension, increased candidiasis, weakened immunity, and much more. But you also need to know about other changes that occur in the body. I’ll tell you about them and that’s all. This is due to the fact that most diseases are metabolic diseases. What does metabolic diseases mean? It’s related to metabolism. The fact is that when we talk about metabolism, we are talking about one structure in our cells called the mitochondria. Dysfunction of the mitochondria is the cause of most non-communicable diseases. It is mitochondrial dysfunction that is the cause of cardiovascular diseases and cancer. In general, with cancer, normal cells become cancerous precisely because of damage.  Mitochondrial cancer cannot occur unless the mitochondria are damaged. Alzheimer's disease, type 3 diabetes, kidney disease, liver disease. If you look closely at the common feature of all these metabolic diseases, we will see that deep inside the cell, mitochondrial function is impaired. Mitochondria are destroyed due to many factors, but the main one is sugar and foods that turn into sugar very quickly, such as empty carbohydrates, starches, bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes, muffins, and so on. As for sugar, in the US, most of the sugar is beet sugar, and most of the beets grown in the US are GMOs. So, we don't just have refined sugar, our sugar is a GMO product, which means it contains traces of glyphosate. This is a herbicide. I won't go into this further, but just for reference. People get a lot of fructose from soda and other drinks made from corn syrup, and fructose is very different from glucose. Only the liver can metabolize fructose; no other cells can metabolize fructose.  They can't. So when you eat a lot of fructose, you overload the mitochondria in the liver. So if you compare fructose and glucose, glucose is even much better than fructose. But you know that even table sugar is half glucose and half fructose. Like honey, refined sugar is a very unnatural product for us because it doesn't have the antioxidants that are found in natural sugar, for example, in sugar cane. And even in fruits that contain a lot of fructose. How is this related to mitochondria? This is what happens when you eat a lot of sugar, glucose, or anything that turns into sugar. The mitochondria are damaged. The purpose of mitochondria is to convert fuel into energy using oxygen, and when mitochondrial function is impaired, a state of hypoxia occurs, that is, the oxygen level becomes low, because of this, other oxygen molecules are formed that very actively react with tissues. Without going into details, I will say that these are the so-called ROS. I don't want to go into detail, just know when Mitochondria can't use oxygen. Many oxidative free radicals begin to appear, which increases damage. They appear due to a lack of oxygen. These are derivatives of oxygen, which are extremely active and severely damage cells. These oxidizing factors cause complications associated with glucose. They cause damage, for example, in diabetes, they cause mutations in the DNA of the mitochondria. There are 4 mitochondria. They have their own DNA. In a nutshell, the history of mitochondria is that they formed from bacteria. Once upon a time, bacteria united with cells, a symbiotic relationship arose, and it seems that after a long time, all this ended up in our body. So, mitochondria, the power plants of our cells, arose from bacteria, and we entered into agreements with them. They specialize in energy production. We feed them, eat ourselves, feed them, and serve as a home for them. They provide us with a mechanism for energy production, and they have their own DNA, but excess sugar damages the mitochondria, hypoxia occurs, a lack of oxygen, mutations occur in the DNA of the mitochondria, and the number of mitochondria decreases. Mitochondria do not produce enough fuel, which is why cells are hungry. Hello, how in Alzheimer's disease, mitochondria do not work, fuel for cells is not produced, and in cancer, in order to survive, the cell receives energy not from mitochondria, but from other places. This is a different path, it is very primitive, very crude, and it does not allow producing much energy, and to compensate for this, cancer cells need to devour as much fuel as possible, and sugar is one of the types of fuel that they crave very much, and severe domestic stress occurs, as they call it, created by these damaged mitochondria. And indeed, stress is strong oxidation with a low level of antioxidants. Therefore, when you eat a lot of empty carbohydrates, after cleaning, they have a lot of sugar, but there are no protective mechanisms that exist in nature, such as antioxidants, which can resist all this oxidation. And this means inflammation, damage to cells, and especially damage to the mitochondria themselves, sugar is associated with something else very interesting: the so-called metaphagy decreases. What is autophagy? This is the processing of old damaged proteins. And mitophages are autophagies in which  The body cleanses itself of damaged mitochondria and replaces them with new mitochondria. This is very good because it prevents cancer and complications due to damaged mitochondria, but sugar blocks the body's ability to process and replace mitochondria. You may have heard of a test done for diabetes. It's called a C test. It measures the amount of damaged protein in the blood, damaged hemoglobin. Protein is damaged due to high sugar levels. This is called glycation, and this glycated damaged protein cannot be removed effectively. When there is sugar in the blood, it creates a lot of problems, and now the mitochondria develops hypoxia. This increases the risk of developing cancer, and it is forced to produce a lot of lactic acid. And there, it can accumulate in the cells, causing a severe deficiency of thiamine, vitamin B1. B1 is perhaps one of the most important nutrients for mitochondria, thanks to which everything works as it should. The more sugar you eat, the more vitamin B1 you need, thiamine. And when you eat a lot of sugar, you deplete your B1 reserves, and the consequences of this are devastating, especially with diabetes.  A complication of peripheral neuropathy is mainly due to a deficiency of B1. This leads to severe nerve damage, so one of the best remedies for peripheral neuropathy. When numbness, tingling, or burning in the soles of the feet or hands occurs, taking B1 is a good idea. B1 quite easily eliminates this condition, while complications from high sugar levels due to B1 deficiency cause many other problems, such as anxiety, severe nervous tension, a swarm of thoughts in the head, insomnia, nerve damage in other parts of the body, as well as areas of the brain associated with memory, due to excess refined sugar in the diet, mitochondria are also deprived of zinc, and zinc is also needed. To ensure the protection of mitochondria, without zinc, mitochondrial function is impaired. So when you eat a glazed donut or a chocolate bar, think about how this sugar affects the mitochondria in cells and causes an avalanche of problems in the body. And how can you improve the condition of the mitochondria? The most important thing is to switch to a low-carb diet, it is called a ketogenic diet. Eliminate sugar and other empty calories.  carbohydrates and you will feel better immediately and you will probably stop depleting your reserves of b-1 zinc and also stop depleting reserves of other nutrients further training especially high intensity interval but other types of training are also useful for strengthening mitochondria which brings us to another question And athletes who run long distances in all kinds of marathons in triathlons they usually eat a lot of carbohydrates and a lot of sugar and you ask how they manage to do this with all this sugar well training can compensate for this and training itself stimulates mitochondria training protects mitochondria Of course, I do not recommend resorting to training to continue eating sugar I know many athletes for whom sugar causes many side effects problems and complications but the point is that training strengthens mitochondria so it usually eliminates some complications from high sugar levels Perhaps you are also thinking, what about people who lived a hundred years ago They were much healthier than we are today Yes they were healthier but not much And probably over the past 40-50 years people began to eat  They started eating more sugar, they started snacking more often in foods with more fructose, they started snacking more often, it's better to eat added sugar, and all of this is destructive. But was the food people ate healthier even a few thousand years ago? It's not a fact at all. Mummies were extracted and the teeth, vessels, and bones of some mummified bodies were studied, and they had periodontal disease, bulcaris, they had dental problems, they had arthritis, and they ate a lot of flour products, bread. So, this is not necessarily something new, it has been around for a long time. Another way to improve the condition of mitochondria is cold water immersion, this is cold therapy. It is very uncomfortable to take a cold shower or immerse yourself in a bath with cold water. But it stimulates the mitochondria much more strongly than heat therapy or a sauna because it is very uncomfortable and because our bodies were formed to survive during the winter and increase the number of mitochondria when we are cold. And today, our life has become very, very relaxed and comfortable. We constantly have food. We live in a very pleasant environment in houses and not outside in the sun. And by the way.  Under the influence of the sun, mitochondria increase. And when we eat less often, as during fasting, this greatly stimulates mitochondria. Epigenetics. Short stressful situations improve the condition of mitochondria. For example, staying or training at high altitudes encourages mitochondria to adapt and strengthen. So, a small amount of stress is beneficial, but chronic stress can undoubtedly have a negative effect on mitochondria. Due to insomnia, mitochondria in the body decrease. A good night's rest improves mitochondria, because this is restoration. And of course, alcohol inhibits mitochondria, but it is possible. What can you eat to increase mitochondria? For example, phytonutrients. There are many different plant substances, resveratrol, quercetin, phytonutrients in green tea, in garlic. They all strengthen mitochondria. Not to mention that mitochondria need basic nutrients. In mitochondria, there is the so-called Krebs cycle. Perhaps you have heard of it. I guarantee that few people understood it in the past. You need to study it properly to really understand it because  This is a very complex mechanism, but the point is that the body converts food into energy using oxygen. There are many stages in this process. The body needs B1, B2, B3, B5, coenzyme Q10, and other nutrients. These are some of the basic nutrients that mitochondria need. If you've watched this far, you now better understand how sugar affects the mitochondria, which is probably one of the most important parts of the cell. Giving up sugar will be extremely beneficial for your overall health, because by doing so, you will actually be creating your health by strengthening your mitochondria. This is not what our healthcare system does, which I still don't see as healthy. Its essence is to take diseases that actually arise from metabolic problems and treat them with drugs that inhibit mitochondrial function. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't return. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and have achieved very stable results. Join us too.