Today we'll talk about what to do if you're starving but not losing weight. This topic comes up quite often on my Friday streams, so I decided to make a video in which I'll tell you the very basics. The human body has evolved for hundreds of thousands of years in terms of its response to hunger. Hunger is a risk to survival. The human body has been exposed to hunger very often and has developed certain adaptive mechanisms that help it survive. So, these mechanisms are already in your body and they're waiting for you to stop eating. When you start starving or have been starving for some time, they send a signal to the brain that there's not enough food. Hormonal adaptation begins. Cells become more efficient and a process called autophagy is launched. When your cells effectively process damaged proteins and give you new proteins, the body uses its available resources, becomes very frugal and efficient, you lose fewer nutrients. Certain substances are produced that protect muscles so that the body itself doesn't eat them. The body will begin to use up its fat. When you decide to lose weight, if you want to lose weight, this goes against survival because the body doesn't like to lose something, and this is a problem. You need to know how to do it.  This is correct and of course they will tell you that there are 7700 16 calories in one kilogram of fat supposedly all you need to do is eat fewer calories and exercise more and you will lose weight but we know that this does not work because hormones begin to slow down metabolism the rate of fat burning varies in different people you probably know someone who eats far differently than you and they lose weight but you don't what to do about this the first thing that happens when switching to a low-carb diet or fasting you begin to lose glycogen stores this is sugar stored in the liver and along with this sugar a lot of water is stored so you will immediately lose three or four kilograms do not confuse this with fat loss it will be water especially in the beginning the key to overcoming the stuckness or fee a full understanding of what you are doing the main hormone inhibiting weight loss maintaining fee that is exactly insulin insulin is a switch if it is high you do not lose fat if it is low you burn fat that is what we need to focus on in other words of all the things that can be done the first question what can lower insulin the most and what is in second or third place  In the fourth and fifth I have arranged them by priority so that you can use this as a checklist. What is the easiest way to understand that insulin decreases appetite? If your appetite goes away, then insulin is decreasing. If you still want to eat something, then you are not burning fat. This is a very simple way, even better than doing tests. Look at your appetite. If you cannot last for some time without feeling hungry, insulin is definitely still elevated and you still have insulin resistance. If you haven’t seen it yet, be sure to watch a video about insulin resistance. You need to understand this. What is the most important thing to do to overcome this problem? Fast longer, increase the time of fasting, and when you eat, eat more fat to feel full. To last longer, the longer the time of fasting, the less you stimulate insulin. So, insulin is stimulated not only by carbohydrates, but also by the very fact of eating. Fast longer, but work on this longer. The main rule is don’t eat. If you are not hungry, people eat without hunger. You can’t fast longer. I always recommend taking it internally and during fasting, this is very important. You don’t know if there is a deficiency. Almost everyone has a nutrient deficiency if you take vitamin supplements.  Supplements with nutrients without calories, you will get the benefits of fasting without the side effects. So, I recommend number 2. The amount of carbohydrates is even lower than now. Try to reduce it as close to zero as possible because it is carbohydrates that keep insulin high. Look for hidden carbohydrates in some foods. There is glutamate, it can affect insulin. It is not a carbohydrate, but this chemical can stimulate insulin. Also, many ketogenic treats and those products contain maltodextrin or dextrose. Avoid them. Some sugar alcohols can affect the digestive system. Although they have a low glycemic index, they can cause bloating. Just don't eat everything. Etiquette: Cool down and reduce carbohydrates even lower than now. Number three: Reduce stress. The environment is very important. There were many people with whom I worked in my practice, and all we did was find the cause of stress and completely neutralize it, and they finally began to lose weight. Why? Because stress raises cortisol. Cortisol begins to increase not only the consumption of muscle protein for sugar, which becomes fat and increases insulin, but also  It also causes the liver to produce sugar from ketones and fat, so we definitely need to reduce stress. Definitely stop watching the news. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type due to stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, get back a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. I am waiting for you on the course. Next, number four: start sleeping more. Every time you don't get enough sleep, it affects your blood sugar. You will feel hungrier, which will increase insulin. So, sleep is vital. Do everything you can. Dream more often. Lie in bed more. It also helps with stress. Number five: less dietary fat. No matter how much you eat now, limit yourself to seventy-five grams, but not less. Limit fats. Don't add M-City oil. Don't add Tetta Bombs at this stage. Sixth, train during fasting. You need to increase the volume of training, but gradually. Don't overdo it, but be sure to train more because it will help. It will add 15 percent to the result. Not much, but something. Number seven. I don't advise stopping medications, I'm just saying that medications can easily interfere with progression. Consult your doctor about medications. Maybe you should choose some analogue with fewer side effects. You'll be surprised how many different medications lead to insulin resistance. Number eight, if you have insulin resistance, try to get rid of it so that insulin does not cause resistance. How to do this? There are good ways. Berberine is a very powerful phytonutrient from some plants. It is comparable in effectiveness to metformin, which is prescribed for diabetes. It has been studied in detail. It is a good remedy. You get more potassium. It is useful for insulin resistance. As well as B vitamins, especially B1. Fiber. Be sure to get enough fiber from vegetables. Why? Because intestinal microflora converts fiber into lactic acid, otherwise it reduces insulin resistance. It is also very good against tumors. It protects very well from some things. Chrome is a trace element that is beneficial for blood sugar and insulin resistance. Bile salts are curiously purified. Bile salts help not only get fat-soluble vitamins and essential acids from fats, but also improve the health of the inner lining of the intestines. They will also help from  fatty liver, they also help reduce insulin resistance and blood sugar, garlic is another powerful natural remedy against insulin resistance, okay, let's move on to the next slide, let's talk a little about the fasting process, if you fast for a long time, say you fast for two days or three days or even 7 days or more, then when you fast, you try to avoid macro carbohydrates, proteins and fats, but there are also micronutrients, for example, vitamins, macro and microelements, amino acids and essential fatty acids. There are no essential carbohydrates, so what benefit do we get from carbohydrates, but some carbohydrates, for example, vegetables, give us vitamins, macro and microelements. When fasting, you can find various natural concentrates that will give you natural vitamins, macro and microelements instead of carbohydrates. In this way, we get nutrients without getting calories. Now, proteins have one difficulty, especially during long fasts. When fasting for a week, a month, and so on, people worry that they can lose proteins from muscles or even from organs, so it would be a good idea to try taking certain mixtures of amino acids from time to time. Not protein as such, but a combination of certain amino acids will give you protein.  Amino acids as well as vitamins and microelements, but you are already taking them. What about amino acids? Will they break fasting? What is the total nitrogen digestibility indicator? It essentially shows what percentage of nitrogen is consumed as a by- product of protein digestion. In other words, when you eat, for example, eggs, you digest only about 48 percent of the amino acids that your body uses to reconstruct muscles and other proteins. The rest becomes waste and fuel in the form of glucose. Therefore, consuming protein during fasting will not work because more than half of it will turn into sugar. This will not work if you eat fish or meat. You digest only 32 percent and the rest goes to waste or glucose. If you eat soy protein, you digest only 17 percent. The rest is waste or converted into glucose. Whey is even worse than soy; only 16 percent is digested; the rest becomes waste or glucose. Therefore, whey protein has the worst insulin index. insulin is very strongly activated when you consume it.  whey protein why did I mention this because there is a mixture of amino acids that you can take that is 99 percent absorbed the research was conducted by professor Lukom Orite he researched essential amino acids what exact form they are needed by the body to use them to the maximum for building or renewing muscles for use primarily in protein synthesis only one percent of this mixture goes to waste or sugar and although even these amino acids activate insulin there is nothing that could be deposited as fat there is nothing to produce fat from compared to this if you are on a long fast and want to maintain muscle or increase muscle strength this thing can be taken because you are not taking protein amino acids that do not require digestion and you are taking a mixture of them that almost does not turn into waste for example amino acids with branched chains from which sugar will jump if you consume amino acids with branched chains the next day you will find that your appetite has increased because they affect sugars but from such a mixture there will not be such an effect if you want to know more about this the link will be in the description okay now let's discuss fat we mainly need fat as fuel but also  To extract fat- soluble vitamins and obtain essential fatty acids such as maidenhair and peanut oil, these are omega-3 fatty acids. When you fast for a long time, you definitely need fat-soluble vitamins, as well as cod liver oil or other fish oil. Cod liver oil is best because it contains maidenhair and peanut oil, vitamin A, and vitamin D. So why am I telling you all this? Because if you get all the nutrients during fasting, you maintain your health. This is the main goal. For health, it is important not to drop the level of nutrients necessary for the body. Thank you for watching and use this information.