It's hard to believe, but some people don't like vegetables or eat too little of them. And they want to find another way to improve their diet. There's one smoothie I can recommend to them. It's a vegetable substitute, and it 's definitely a green product, but it's not plant-based. I wonder if you'll guess that NASA conducted an extensive study of this green product, and here's their conclusion. The nutritional value of 1,000 kg of fruits and vegetables is equal to the nutritional value of one kilogram. The name of the product, you guessed it. This product contains vitamin B12. In fact, it contains all the B vitamins. It's a good source of iron, it has a lot of vitamin E, and also beta-carotene. The vitamin A content is 55-70%, it consists of protein, and 18% is essential fatty acids. That's what Spirulina is. What is Spirulina? It's blue-green algae, it's bacteria that can convert sunlight into chemical energy. Spirulina carries out the process of photosynthesis 10 times more efficiently than plants. Photosynthesis is the process of converting solar energy into chemical energy.  So this is the most superfood, it is also used in the treatment of radiation sickness, people use it to increase energy. In addition, Spirulina is one of the first organisms that began to produce oxygen. When buying spirulina, make sure that it is without Malta dextrin and without soy. Of course, I am unbiased about my products, but just in case, I will leave a link. In general, of all green products that are not vegetables, Spirulina is an excellent alternative. You don’t know what to drink if you are in doubt. A fasting drink. Diversify your diet with the help of a book on healthy drinks. Delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar and harmful additives, as well as designers for creating original recipes. The benefits are in each ingredient. Order the book on healthy drinks using the link below. Take one scoop of spirulina and half a glass of berries. I recommend blueberries plus half a liter of water. Mix in a blender and drink this spirulina drink. It will improve your diet, but I still recommend eating enough leafy green salad leaves. This should become part of the diet. If you have n’t watched my video yet,  How much salad do I recommend eating daily? You can see it here.