There are five reasons why you might not lose weight when fasting. What exactly is this video about? It's not about intermittent fasting, but simply about fasting for a long time. By the way, since we're talking about intermittent fasting, if you're on it and on chum and you're not losing weight, it usually means you're eating too many carbs. There are already a lot of videos about this. You need to reduce your carb intake, sometimes even to 10 grams a day or less. It could also be that you're just not fasting long enough. You have a slow metabolism and you're fasting for 16-18 hours. Perhaps you need to go longer, or you're simply eating too much fat and your body is converting fat from your diet into ketones. They're your own. These are three points worth paying attention to, but this video is about something else. Let's say you're fasting for a longer period of time, 2 days, 3 days, and you're not losing weight. Why is this possible? There are a couple of reasons for this. In my 29 years of practice, I've met people who fasted for a very, very long time and practically didn't lose weight. I'll tell you what we found. These people usually had extremely  Slow metabolism, let's say, at birth they were overweight. Sometimes children have infections, they are given steroids or pills or antibiotics and greatly impair their metabolism, and then parents put them on diets one after another, this slows down the metabolism, this can be the reason. The second reason is constipation. If you are constipated, you may have two to two and a half kilograms of excess weight in your stomach, and this can interfere with weight loss. The third reason is stress. Stress activates the hormone cortisol. Cortisol breaks down muscle protein and turns it into sugar. This sugar increases insulin, which prevents you from losing weight. This is a serious problem. Infections also come into play here. So, if you are fasting and you have a serious infection, you may not lose weight due to high cortisol levels, although fasting is necessary during an infection, this helps the immune system. The fourth problem is lack of sleep, which also increases cortisol. Stress increases blood sugar levels, which will definitely interfere with weight loss. Fluid retention can also occur for many reasons, which can also interfere with weight loss. I recommend a couple of things: you should always take nutrients, electrolytes, B vitamins, and trace elements.  Vitamin D, they are all very important. Why do you need to get rid of insulin resistance? Because it slows down metabolism. This will speed up all this. Take bile salts 3 times a day. Here's a real example. A woman came to me. She fasted for three whole days and practically didn't lose weight at all. She was constipated. It turned out that her liver was compressed and the ducts were n't working properly. When you take purified bile salts on an empty stomach, you fast, so on an empty stomach three times a day, they open the ducts, bile ducts, pancreatic ducts, and ducts through the liver for cleansing. I'm not even mentioning that bile itself helps burn fat. We recommended this to that woman and everything worked out. The fence passed, she finally started losing weight. It was amazing to see how a person at first did n't lose weight at all and then began losing weight very well. Next, improve the quality of sleep. I'll leave a link to a video under the video where I talk about what to do with sleep and lower stress levels. Improve your sleep and bear stress. If you are stressed and you don't sleep, this will seriously affect your ability to lose weight during fasting.  And the last piece of advice, just wait, especially if you have a slow metabolism, try all of this and leave comments. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.