Let's discuss What mistakes people often make When taking vitamin D Vitamin D is the most important vitamin because it is associated with the work of 10% of our genes It is a fat-soluble vitamin and therefore is better absorbed in combination with fat MCT oil olive oil or something similar The main thing you need to know about vitamin D is that it does not work with a lack of magnesium Magnesium is the second most important nutrient it is associated with hundreds of different enzymes Magnesium eliminates excess calcium deposits in blood vessels, but not every compound with magnesium is worth taking For example, you do not need to drink magnesium oxide its absorption is 3-4 pro and large doses usually lead to diarrhea is much better Magnesium glycinate if taken at night It improves sleep absorption 80% Another form magnesium citrate is also suitable And here's what else I want to say about magnesium The more vitamin D you take the more magnesium You need Some people Taking vitamin D experience symptoms nausea sensation of heart palpitations muscle spasms headache The most likely cause of all this is Deficiency  magnesium because the more vitamin D you drink without magnesium, the more magnesium the body needs to take from reserves if you have little magnesium, the deficiency will become even worse and the symptoms will be even more severe, they can appear most strongly in the morning at this time of day, magnesium levels are the lowest, another mistake people make when taking vitamin D They drink it without vitamin K2 vitamin K2 is another important cofactor The fact is that vitamin D helps calcium enter the blood and vitamin K2 takes this calcium from the blood and transfers it to bones and teeth It does not allow calcium to accumulate in soft tissues what type of K2 We need the MK7 form works well When you have calcium deposits in blood vessels and it is also very useful for cancer The dose that I recommend is 100 micrograms for every 10,000 IU of vitamin D3 The next cofactor is zinc One of its functions is to help convert cholesterol into vitamin 100,000 vitamin D3 take 20 mg of zinc By the way, zinc is a cofactor of all sex hormones The next mistake in taking vitamin  D3 in too small doses If you drink the recommended 600-800 There will be no effect The daily dose of vitamin D3 should be at least 8 every day without exception Investigators do not understand this and when conducting their studies they give people vitamin D once a week, once a month or even once a year So you will not see the results In addition, they do not like to publish positive things about vitamin D because you can get it for free from the sun Dr. Michael Holick, one of the pioneers in this field, recommends per day and he says that it is completely harmless Dr. Bruce Holick also takes 10,000 vitamin D daily Many doctors scare people by saying that large doses of vitamin D3 create a toxic effect a little fear and a person no longer wants to take vitamin D But if you look at the facts And I seriously studied this topic, you would have to take hundreds of thousands of IU of vitamin D3 daily for many months in a row for signs of poisoning to appear when we are talking about 10,000 IU and even 50,000 IU Plus you drink  All cofactors, magnesium, vitamin K2 and zinc, they all protect against toxicity by helping to control calcium. I can also add that if you drink D3 in high doses, drink water and take cofactors, you can also play it safe by not taking calcium supplements and not eating calcium-rich foods like dairy products. These are all precautions in case you take vitamin D3 in high doses. When I say high doses, I mean doses higher than 30, 40, 50,000 IU and up to 100,000 IU. Daily. Note that I did not say toxic doses. I said high doses, this is something completely different. Of course, I'm just giving information and am not advocating for anything. Consult your doctor before doing any of this. Another possible mistake is taking vitamin D2. The effect of D2 is not even close to the effect of D3. You need much more D2 to get the same results as D3. It is also important to get tested for vitamin D. You should not drink vitamin D for 3 days before taking the test. So you are more accurate.  Find out your D3 level in the blood Vitamin D in the blood is not in the active form That is, you can have a normal level in quotes, but at the same time there may be a strong deficiency of the active form of D3 inside the cells Another important point is if you take statins or steroids These substances will reduce the body's ability to synthesize vitamin D and interfere with its work, for example, statins lower cholesterol, but vitamin D is produced from cholesterol If you get it from the sun, remember that you need to be in the sun from 10 am to 2:00 pm, and in the summer you will not get much vitamin D early in the morning or evening hours and you need to expose a fairly large part of the body If everything is done correctly, you can get 10,000 D3 in 20-30 minutes, just do not allow the skin to burn, it turns pink Go into the shade and continue to do this until you tan A tan is simply more melanin in the skin, a pigment that protects against ultraviolet radiation Also, along with vitamin D, you do not need to drink iron, they interfere with each other, drink iron at another time Also, sunscreen The fact is that most of these creams block part Ultraviolet B. But it is precisely this that is needed for the production of vitamin D. At the same time, these creams do not protect against ultraviolet A, which ages the skin. So you use sunscreen trying to protect your skin, but it does not protect you from the entire spectrum of ultraviolet radiation. It only blocks the production of D3. Unfortunately, now you know what mistakes people make when taking vitamin D3. If you haven't watched my interview with Dr. Bruce Hollis, you'll find it interesting. Here it is.