You've only been on the test for a while now, and your cholesterol is already off the charts. What should you do? You need to know a couple of important things. First, in 2018, new recommendations from the American Heart Association came out hot off the press. They say total cholesterol has no significant link to heart disease. This is a new discovery. We just learned that the total cholesterol level won't say much in terms of predicting heart disease. That's clear. Second, three-quarters of cholesterol is produced by the body, only a quarter comes from food. Why do we need it? Why does the body produce it? To produce hormones? Sex hormones, cell membranes, bile for digesting fats, and vitamin D, which is vital. That's why when people take cholesterol-blocking medications, for example, statins, they have a lot of side effects because of all this. But let's not go into detail. Here I have a countdown with the test results of my wife Karina. I'll show you and go over it in detail. This is a real analysis. From November 15, 2019, we measured total cholesterol, LDL, and HDL triglycerides, and we noticed something else. I always recommend taking an extended cholesterol test when testing for cholesterol.  A lipid profile is an advanced analysis measuring two different types of LDL. We'll come back to this later and look what we got. Total cholesterol turned out to be 261. The norm is considered to be no higher than 200. It's a bit too much for you. This might probably scare you, but only if you don't understand. This total cholesterol is not the cholesterol that floats in the arteries. It ca n't because it doesn't mix with the blood. It must be packaged inside a protein. Total cholesterol is simply the sum of all the other types. We have LDL, which is low-density lipoprotein, because it needs a kind of protein container to move through the bloodstream. And there are high-density lipoproteins. So take the word cholesterol and just put it aside. We know that cholesterol is high, we also know her LDL level. Look, the norm is no higher than 100, and ours is 195, twice the norm. HDL should be above 50. The higher the better, because this is cholesterol going from the cells back to the liver. Unlike LDL, which goes from the liver into the cell, this one goes in the opposite direction. Her level is very good, 71.  Triglycerides are no higher than 100, and she has 66. That's where this figure came from. But our analysis was more detailed and we measured two types of LDL. One is a large floating type of LDL in the arteries, it is large and kind of loose, and the second type is small dense LDL particles. Let's focus on this small dense LDL in the analysis results, it is designated like this with d LDL hyphen c sd means small dense. So, here is Karen's results form, here is her name and date, and we see total cholesterol. Here it is 261. Look here and the second high number in the ldlc line, that is, LDL cholesterol is 195. We are pleased to present to you the online summit healthy chum 2000 2013 speeches. 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of health in China intermittent fasting. Watch online at a convenient time exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of chum fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. China yourself 2020  In Russian, it's waiting for you. Write it down now. Now let's look at the second page. Here it is. Look, LDL 2128. Well, let's look at the indicator with d LDL hyphen. These are small, dense, low-density lipoproteins. They are the ones that are dangerous. Her indicator is 26. This is the normal, optimal range. What does this mean? Karen's high LDL level is not due to small, dense particles, but to large, loose ones. And it is the small, dense ones that cause harm. This is a much more accurate marker for predicting heart disease. This is one of the best indicators for detecting inflammation deep inside the arteries. Let me explain what happens in the arteries. I found an excellent analogy from Dr. Sanjay Ogup. In one of his videos on YouTube, it's like a frying pan. It perfectly shows what's happening inside the arteries. So, we have a non-stick frying pan. You fry something in it and pour in fat, and it doesn't stick. Then you wipe it, fasten it, and scrape off the protective layer, and the fat begins to stick. That's what you need.  Understand that cholesterol doesn't affect the artery walls until some damage appears, some erosion on the inner wall of the artery, where small dense LDL particles can penetrate because they are small and begin to form. The question is, why did Karen have such high cholesterol and such high LDL, and why did she have more large, loose particles? They are small, dense, and the answer is very simple: the source of the small, dense type is a high-carbohydrate diet, consuming the wrong foods. When you are on a healthy ketogenic diet, which provides a lot of fat, few carbohydrates, and a moderate amount of protein. Imagine you enter ketosis and the body begins to burn fat. A fat cell consists mainly of triglycerides and cholesterol. This cholesterol needs to be released; it must be mobilized. You will have transition periods when cholesterol is embodied below, but if you ensure that your diet is low in carbohydrates, you will have more large, loose cholesterol. That's why I always recommend taking an extended lipid profile, an unusual test that doesn't provide much information. So, returning to the arteries, inflammation has various causes besides glucose in the sugar composition. Most people know about it, oil from the seeds of many oils: corn, rapeseed, soy, cottonseed. They are found in so many different products, including mayonnaise, salad dressings, restaurant food, and fast food. Smoking causes inflammation, junk food also causes inflammation, and there is also vitamin E deficiency. Vitamin E deficiency develops when consuming products made from refined flour, such as bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, and cookies. All of this depletes vitamin E, and it is an antioxidant that protects artery walls. By the way, if you have any problems with artery walls, it is better to take not only fi rolls as vitamin E, but tocotrienols, which are what you need to protect the inner layer of artery walls. Now let's look inside the arteries and visualize what can happen. So, we look at an artery in section. This thin layer of the inner wall is called the endothelium. The tone of blood vessels depends on this layer. It can increase blood pressure, lower blood pressure, and can make the artery stiffer.  or more elastic, but it is very sensitive to sugar, especially to the constant presence of sugar, that is, glucose. The average American consumes 250 to 350 grams of glucose per day, which is at least 13 to 15 times higher than normal. When such a mass of glucose acts on the inner wall of the artery, oxidation occurs. It is as if the inner wall of the artery is rusted. What happens then is the body reacts to the damage. Inflammation occurs. An influx of calcium occurs, which begins to accumulate, acting as a kind of band-aid. Cholesterol appears, which also acts like a band-aid. Scar tissue appears, and it acts like a band-aid. All together, this band-aid, consisting of calcium, protein, and cholesterol, will begin to form a thrombus. Since such a partition appears in the artery, blood flow slows down and blood supply insufficiency develops. What does blood do? It carries oxygen and nutrition. Now we deprive tissues not only of oxygen, we deprive them of nutrition. If this blood vessel ends up in the capillaries in the lower legs, you will have peripheral neuropathy, and no less burning and tingling if this artery is coronary and  It supplies blood to the heart. Your heart will begin to suffer from angina and eventually a heart attack. If this clot breaks off and goes to the brain, blocking oxygen supply to the brain, a stroke occurs. All of this can be completely avoided by simply eliminating sugar from the diet. We are pleased to present the Healthy Chum Salt 2000 2013 Online Summit. 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of health and intermittent fasting. Watch online at a convenient time, exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of chum salt fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. Who spoke at this chum salt summit? Author and popularizer of chum salt, Dr. Eric Berg, will share amazing information about nutritional deficiencies that arise during intermittent fasting. Dr. Jeff Gerber, a qualified family physician and renowned nutritionist from Denver, will also visit us. He will talk about the rejuvenating effects of the ketogenic diet and much more. Dr. Gerber also annually hosts major conventions on low-carb diets in Denver. Author and researcher Dr. and Request Man, director of the Duke Lifestyle Clinic, will share with us his practical knowledge of ketones, which he gained working with thousands of patients. Professor Stephen K. Nasher of Brooks University in Montreal will give a presentation in which he will share information about the effects of ketones on the aging brain and how ketones help cognitive function. Cynthia Turnul, a functional nutritionist who has spoken twice on EX, will talk about intermittent fasting strategies and present solutions to potential problems. We invited Dr. Ali Al-Nah Wat, a therapist working in Oman in the Middle East. He will talk about how it affects the endocrine system and how he uses this diet in his practice. Aivar Cummins, author of books and a biomechanical engineer, will present his report and explain the effects of ketones on the cardiovascular system in simple terms. He will explain the latest results of coronary calcium research. Dr. Nadira Lee, a specialist in invasive cardiology, will share new information on cholesterol.  LDL and chum salmon are a must-know for anyone starting this diet. Stephanie Person, a consultant and chum salmon trainer with an army of fans, will be there. She has met thousands of people around the world and will talk about accessible ways to take your results to the next level. We will have him for 7 years, author of books, researcher, and biohackers in Estonia. As an expert in intermittent fasting training, he will share interesting discoveries about longevity and body composition, described in his book, Metabolic Autophagy. Finally, by popular demand, Nikolas TCA will return to us from Greece. His story is simply a parasite. He will tell us how he became the first chum salmon athlete to compete in the Ironman competition in Europe and how he changed his life. Those are the ones who are waiting for you. 2020 in Russian is waiting for you. Sign up now.