Today we'll talk about the need for microbes. People have evolved to live with microbes for a very long time. Microbes have existed on this planet for much longer than humans, and we have a mutually beneficial relationship with them. They give us some things, and we shelter them inside ourselves. Let's talk a little about this. There is the so- called hyena theory. I think this is not a theory, but the truth. After all, if you place, say, a child in a sterile environment, he may develop allergies and even autoimmune diseases. That is, microbes play a very important role in the formation of our immunity. So, we need to allow children to play in the dirt, and children growing up in sterile food do not have the same health. They have a higher risk of developing asthma, allergies, and many other problems. A child is born with innate immunity, received from the mother. The strength or weakness of the immune system formed by the mother is passed on to the child, but there is another part of immunity, acquired immunity, at birth, it is almost a blank slate, it is neutral, it needs to be developed, and this takes time. You develop acquired immunity when you are exposed to microbes. Our body produces antibodies and other immune cells and forms immunity. I think that doctors and Many other people ignore the vital importance of strengthening the immune system and try to strengthen it in other ways. 100 trillion microbes grow inside your body and on its surface. You can say that the skin is an important immune gland. If you clean your face, removing all the dirt from it, make it very clean, you will destroy the flora, that is, the microorganisms on your face. Your immunity will weaken and acne, redness, rashes, and so on will begin to appear. After all, you simply removed this friendly flora. In a word, let's talk about how this is related to agriculture. Today, in agriculture, pesticides and herbicides are widely used, fungicides are used, fertilizers such as nitrogen, phosphorus-potassium fertilizers are widely used, but there are not 3, but much more minerals, and so EFCO fertilizers are added to the soil so that the plant receives essential minerals. But you need to understand that the root system is what surrounds it. It is not only the digestive system of the plant but also the immune system. Therefore, in natural farming, attention is paid to microbes, they are strengthened. I am talking about bacteria.  Fungi and many other microorganisms. When there are microbes in the dirt, it is called soil. When there are no microbes in the dirt, it is called mud. In conventional agriculture, the flow of communication is directed only in one direction. We throw nutrients into the soil, they are absorbed by plants and we harvest. In natural farming, the communication is two-way. Plants absorb sunlight and CO2, carbon dioxide. As a result, photosynthesis occurs in the plant, it produces carbohydrates. 25 percent of these carbohydrates are sent to the roots of the plant, where they serve as food for microorganisms. Microbes are not on you, Gennady. These microbes love sugar. In exchange for these carbohydrates, microbes, with the help of enzymes and acids, begin to break down minerals to help use minerals from rocks, and so on. They help the root system absorb minerals, and thus create a two-way flow. That is, minerals go up thanks to microbes, and carbohydrates go down. This is an ideal exchange. So, in natural farming, the plant has many more nutrients and fewer weeds. After all, the plant's immunity is stronger. In conventional farming, there is no immunity, so it is necessary.  Killing weeds with chemicals, Roundup herbicide, etc., with natural farming, immunity is better, food tastes better. So, store-bought vegetables, which essentially have no taste, don't contain even a small fraction of the nutrients or phytonutrients found in garden-grown vegetables. But the whole point is that these microbes are very important for the formation of a healthy immune system. So, healthy soil, healthy plants, healthy food for people and animals. And if we eat healthy animals, we will be healthy. So, our health really depends on these microbes. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.