 Alleminainafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinafinaf We have a record for answers. The question is Zoi Anna Sramble. Do you need to take a more salt if I have hyperlone? If I say yes, I will have problems. So I will ask you to ask the doctor. But one of the strategies for you is to take more salt. Because we need a certain proportion of salt and salt. Maybe you have a little salt. And maybe you have a little salt. I don't know. So just by getting more salt, you need to balance the acid. If you start cutting out the acid, you will start to balance the acid. So as soon as you do, you start to balance the acid, fatigue, weakness, stress on the postage. So we need to get more salt. So I don't know how much you get. But you get more salt and, возможно, even even magniac. And you will see what will happen. Very good. I hope it helps. I wonder if it helps. Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl and the mass of other problems. So I would do it with the use of the natural methods. Very good. Question from the red list from YouTube. Is it okay to take DIMM with active ghexazamina-correliered? Yes. It's a food source. It's a lot of features, but it really does help. If I'm not mistaken, it works similar to a phytate, which is something that has a very powerful antioxidant for certain cases. It's also a phylator. But I think that DIMM with this can be done. DIMM is a natural regulator of estrogen. I think it will be fine. I would not be worried. Good. I hope it helps. And now we have a question of Victorina. What's up, Doc? Why do we have an appetite in the morning, and others are hungry before breakfast? What's the difference between them? Drina Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine Glavine We have noticed that in many answers there is a lot of discussion about the diet. But there is another powerful nutrient. It's zinc. Zinc helps in the middle. And then, vitamin D. And it's also a lot of water. Very good. Now we'll talk about a bit more with a day. With us on the phone, Alexandra from Morrow's Chicago. She has a short question. Alexandra, ask a question to Dr. Berger. Good morning. Good morning, Dr. Berger. Thank you for your opportunity. My daughter was 12. In 5 years she was diagnosed with Hashimoto's disease. She has a lot of water. I know you have a lot of videos about the problem with щитовидкой, but there are no videos about these problems with children. Can you tell us something about her problem with щитовидкой? I know that they have to take care of her life. But I know they have to take care of her. I know they have to take care of her. I'm glad that you have to ask that. Because the protocols for adults and for children work. I think that one of the most important factors for Hashimoto's disease is for Hashimoto's disease. It's not a problem with щитовидкой. It's not a problem with щитовидкой, but an immune problem. So, one of the biggest and most important methods for her will be the treatment of selen. Selen – it's a micro-element. It's not a big element. But you need a lot of information. Because it's a big amount of blood. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. And it's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. And it's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It needs a lot of blood. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. It's a big concept. and then you need a low-car diet. I think it will cause a huge improvement. Very good. Thank you, Alexander. I hope this helps. Let's go back to social media. It's a question from the L.P. from the United States. How to reduce the day of the day of the day? Excuse me, what? I'm kidding. I think a little bit of a problem is okay. But if you have a chronic disease, it usually comes from a nose or a nose. NAC is a wonderful method of mokrota. You can use less milk products, maybe you need to increase the amount of milk. And you also have a really good immune system with vitamin D, especially in the winter, and a two things. I think many people are afraid of these nutrients. And I think that I'm BADs. I'm not that I'm BADs. I'm not that I'm BADs. But I always ask them, you know, do I have BADs. If you go to Amazon or even in the description of this video, you find something that will help you, if you find BADs. You be OK. How often and how manybajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbajbaj He gives energy like fuel, even though it's not the same as hydrolysis, but it's not the same as hydrolysis, so I think that it's a lot of useful and I really appreciate it. Guys, now subscribe to the channel and click the bell, to click all notifications. If you choose all notifications, YouTube can't forget about new videos. This simple action will help you to continue to develop the channel. And we continue. Good answer. We have answered the question of Vectorina. Why do people have no appetite in the morning, and others are hungry before breakfast? 57% said that it's a deal in insulin resistance. 23% said that it's a low quality sleep quality. 10% said that it's a high quality cortisol. And 10% said that it's a good answer. I think that you have answered correctly. I think that you have a good answer. And you think that you have a good answer. And you have a good answer. And you have a good answer. And you have a good answer. And you have a good answer. So where does it come? It comes from the stomach. Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl Gl If you eat a lot of carbohydrates, then in the morning you will definitely be hungry. A very good sign of the fact that you are in ketosis, that is, you are in the brain, is if you have no appetite in the morning. In the morning there is a spike of cortisol, which causes a cold, which causes a cold, which causes a cold, if you ignore it. But most people eat by the way. I would recommend that if you are not hungry, you don't eat anything. Wait until you eat your stomach, because in the morning you eat your body, and you will feel better, you will be able to eat longer, and you will be able to eat faster. It is a paradox. It is a paradox. We are better than we eat, at least for a while. We are poor, if we eat too often. It is a problem of our time. Our food is too much, we eat too often, and it doesn't matter what our calories are designed to be made. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr I was in the hospital, unfortunately. I had to take my food, but I didn't have it. I was in a car accident, and I was in a hospital. And there was nothing to eat, and I had to eat something. I'm talking about milk. In the case, it was all the ingredients, all these things, all these things, all these things. Oh my God, I literally died from the hunger, because the sugar in the blood is gone, and I was in the blood, and I was in the blood. Before the operation, it was better to eat, but you don't take a lot of vitamin D. I would take no less than 50 000 E before that, like three days after the operation. That way, in the surgery, your outcomes will be better. So I hope that the supplement will be in the new recommendations for the food, which will soon be. Because it's a slowdown thing to do. Take a lot of vitamin D before any operation, and keep your body in ketosis. You will get better, you will get better, you will get better, you will get better, and your body will be comfortable. So it will be comfortable. You will get better. Прекрасно. Спрашивает Джон с Ютуба. Какие продукты и БАДы лучше всего помогают избавиться от псориаза? Я думаю, проблемы с кожей головы, да и с чем угодно в организме, вызваны проблемами с кишечником. Аутоиммунные болезни, такие как псориаз, чаще всего начинаются в кишечнике. Вам надо исцелить кишечник. Для этого, во-первых, принимайте высокие дозы витамина D3 с магнием. Это обязательно при любых аутоиммунных болезнях. Особенно важно избегать любых злаков. Избегайте всех злаков. Голодайте интервально. И периодически голодайте длительно. Употребляйте продукты с пробиотиками. Квашеную капусту, сок квашеной капусты. Я буквально... Мне нравится квашеная капуста марки Бабис. Можно взять и другие бренды. Я ем их квашеную капусту и пью ее сок. Я ем их квашеные огурцы. Но берите без добавленного сахара. Ешьте их регулярно. Вам надо кормить микрофлору кишечника, ведь большая проблема именно там. Приглашаю вас на свой мини-курс «Диагностика здоровья по коже». У вас акне, папилломы, сухая кожа, перхоть или другие кожные проблемы. Это не просто дефекты кожи. Такие сигналы говорят о проблемах внутри организма. На своем курсе я покажу, как диагностировать проблему и исправить причину. Записывайтесь по ссылке внизу. До встречи! Продолжение следует... Продолжение следует...