Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about zinc deficiency. What is zinc? Zinc is a trace element, an element needed in small quantities, and if the body lacks it, various problems will arise. The first problem is your sense of smell. You'll have a worse sense of taste, your hunger will be dulled. These are common symptoms. White spots on your nails. There are such spots on your nails. This usually happens because you've eaten a lot of carbohydrates, thereby reducing the zinc supply in the body. Because a large amount of sugar or carbohydrates deprives your body of zinc. If you had a white spot in the center of your nail, by the way, your nails are renewed every six months. This means that three months ago you were at a birthday party and ate the entire cake. This is the first indicator. Next, skin problems, eczema, all other skin problems like dermatitis can be associated with zinc. There may be other causes of skin problems that can mimic zinc deficiency, for example, a deficiency of vitamin A, vitamin B2, or B6. Therefore, you need to look at the whole picture to understand what you have. But I will say that if you don't have enough zinc, you cannot absorb or utilize vitamin A and trace elements.  They always work together with vitamins and zinc, a key element that is part of more than 300 enzymes, participates in many chemical reactions in the body, for example, with proteins, and this leads us to the next problem: hair alopecia is when hair falls out in clumps or thins. This could be a deficiency of vitamin B, biotin, but it could also be a deficiency of zinc. They work together. Next, rhinoviruses. As a microelement, it helps send viruses into remission. If you think about it, a virus cannot be killed because it is not alive, it is a set of genetic material in a shell that can activate your energy from cells and launch a series of immune actions. Specifically, zinc is able to keep rhinovirus under control. If you start to get sick, if you take zinc, when it starts to get sick, it can speed up the recovery process or even prevent the disease itself. When a virus occurs, post-nasal drip, nasal congestion, sore throat, sneezing appear, so you need more zinc. Next comes low testosterone levels in both men and women. When testosterone levels decrease, it decreases or troubles. This could be due to zinc deficiency, and finally, ulcers.  In the mouth, again, this could be due to other reasons, but a small sore in the mouth, which is usually caused by viruses like herpes, which can go out of remission if you are stressed because you lack sugar, and stress depletes your zinc reserves because more and more cortisol is produced, and the immune system needs more zinc, and thus zinc reserves are depleted. It is part of many enzymes. A lot of zinc is found in oysters, in seafood, of course, it is also found in beef, pork, red meat, it is also found in seaweed, it is found in many places, but most of all in these products. Zinc also helps create white blood cells. The adrenal glands control white blood cells by suppressing the immune system, and this whole process occurs with the participation of zinc, so when you are stressed, you need to take trace elements to keep the immune system strong. And finally, I want to talk about other countries and about third world countries, where many children and infants die from zinc deficiency because they have diarrhea. You know, unfortunately, they do not enrich themselves with zinc.  The soil and this can cause a deficiency. It is not present in food because it is not present in the soil, or perhaps they are trying to get zinc from grains, but grains contain a substance that blocks zinc, namely phytic acid. This substance, which is originally present in grains, interferes with the absorption of trace elements. Also, if you have low gastric acidity, you will not be able to fully absorb this zinc. Therefore, if you have heartburn or GERD or indigestion, then most likely you have a zinc deficiency. A lot can be said about the assessments. I have only talked about some of its aspects, but there are many more. I hope this helps you. See you again.