There are three very important things to know if you drink a lot of tea. Tea is usually considered quite healthy. But it's better than coffee, and people drink a lot of tea. A very large part of the world's population drinks tea, but there are three things that are very important to know. If you like tea, some teas contain a lot of substances such as tannins, especially black tea. For example, English breakfast tea contains a lot of tannins, but green tea contains very few tannins. Under the influence of tannins, the following occurs in the body: firstly, they bind us, that is, they hylot iron, zinc, and calcium. If you drink a lot of black tea, you bind iron, zinc, and calcium in your body, and you may begin to experience symptoms of their deficiency. But in addition, tannins block the absorption of thiamine, vitamin B1, and B1. In my opinion, one of the most important vitamins. I have a lot of videos about it. With a deficiency of vitamin B1, anxiety and nervous tension develop at night. You may have vivid dreams or even nightmares and restless legs syndrome. A deficiency of B1 is associated with many problems with the nervous system and Raz  We've already touched on sample 1, I think it's important to understand what other foods can deplete it. Let's go down the list: caffeine, which by the way is found in tea and coffee, and coffee also contains tannins, sugar, refined grain products, sulfites, alcohol, metformin, which can cause a symptom called lactic acidosis, which is quite dangerous. So, when taking metformin, you should also take B1 and B12 because both of these vitamins are depleted. Raw fish depletes B1, for example, sushi, antibiotics, antacids, diuretics, birth control pills with iodine deficiency, that is, anti-anxiety drugs and antidepressants, anticonvulsants, the HPV vaccine, chlorine from tap water, if you chew palm nuts, your B1 is also depleted. Number two, the second problem with tea: some teas contain a lot of heavy metals such as aluminum, lead, and arsenic. I must say that the presence of heavy metals depends on the type of tea. For example, if the tea is Chinese, there are studies (link below) that show that many of those from China contain not only heavy metals.  but also a lot of pesticides, one study found 29 different pesticides, most of them were banned. When buying tea, you need to pay attention to its source. Tea from Japan, for example, is much higher quality. Tea often contains the toxic element fluorine. The soil in which tea is grown makes it clear what will be in its composition. Tea should be grown in acidic soils. In such an environment, a lot of things get from the soil into the plants, which can be not only useful minerals but also toxic metals. So, the source of the tea matters. Don't chase cheapness. Find tea from a good, healthy source. Third, the bags themselves. Some tea bags are bleached with a substance containing chlorine, epichlorohydrin. This substance is a carcinogen. You don't necessarily have to quit tea completely. Just try to keep 4 points in mind. Buy organic tea. If you drink a lot of tea, take vitamin B1 at the same time and also take minerals because tea depletes both B1 and minerals. Finally, it's probably better to buy loose tea and not tea bags. And if you buy tea bags, make sure they are not  Bleached and be sure to read the packaging to know where the tea was grown. The source is important. If you're not sure what to drink, Nateto is unsure whether a drink will break your fast. Diversify your diet with the book: healthy drinks, delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar or harmful additives, as well as recipe builders for creating your own recipes. The benefits of every ingredient are found in the book. Order the book: healthy drinks using the link below.