I want to discuss some interesting facts about selenium that you may not have heard of. When it comes to the trace element selenium, by the way, it is abundant in Brazil nuts. You may know that it is necessary for the thyroid gland. It helps convert T4, the inactive version of the hormone, into T3, the active version of the thyroid hormone. You may also know that it helps remove mercury. That is why fish rich in mercury are also rich in selenium. Flax binds to mercury and it becomes inactive. Another fact that people usually know is that Selenium is a powerful antioxidant. It helps in the fight against cancer and in the prevention of cancer, especially prostate and lung cancer. It is also very important for the health of the heart and blood vessels, the prevention of strokes. And also for the prevention of dementia simply because it fights free radicals and inflammation that occurs in the brain. It is good for the prevention of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and other types of degeneration of the nervous system. Here are some facts that you may not know about Selenium. Why is there a lot of it in Brazil nuts? Brazil nuts are the fruit of a tree. Berthollet growing in South America, the soil in which this tree grows is unique in that it is practically devoid of sulfur, chemically sulfur is very similar to selenium. This means that Selenium can bind to certain amino acids just like sulfur and be a functional substitute for sulfur. From one Brazil nut you can get about 96 micrograms of Selenium, this is more than enough, we do not need a lot of Selenium. Just a little is needed because, on the other hand, excess Selenium can cause problems and provoke poisoning, which can cause hair loss, neuro tremors, other neurological problems, heart problems. Excess Selenium causes many problems. The fact that many people have about a billion Selenium deficiency does not mean that you need to start throwing selenium into your body. Especially considering the balance of all trace elements, we need about 50 to 70 micrograms of Selenium per day, but here is a big question that people rarely know the answer to. Why are so many people Selenium deficient? They eat few Brazil nuts. Selenium is found in many other foods in meat and red meat. It is found in meat, offal, even in chicken, turkey, pork, lamb, egg yolks, nutritional yeast, and in some plants, but in small quantities. Where do animals get Selenium from plants? Rauch on the ground. And where do plants get it from the soil? Here's some information that will be new for most people. Selenium isn't just passively sitting in the soil, waiting to be absorbed. Usually, it's in a form that's difficult for roots to get it from. They need help, and they get it from microorganisms. This is actually new information, and right now I'll show you a picture that shows, in high magnification, how exactly plants get most of their nutrition. You see the little things near the root. The exchange occurs through the absorption of bacteria by the roots. In fact, the plant root eats the bacteria, extracting minerals from them. In this process, the bacteria lose their cell wall. It's still alive and gets food from the root. The root feeds it carbohydrates, but it's not nata, and then the root, like this bacterium, and this cycle repeats over and over again. This whole cycle is called Rizofadi, a two-part word.  Riza means root, Fadi means eating, that is, the roots feed on bacteria, get a lot of nutrients from them, then spit them out, and this process is repeated over and over again. What is missing in this chain of microbes and their quantity in the soil? We do not attach importance to the biology of the soil and underestimate its importance. Both the quantity of bacteria and fungi and the diversity of their species are important. Very little importance was attached to this point. And it is important for the health of the soil, the health of plants, the health of animals, and for our health. Microbes do the main work. They have the necessary acids for minerals from stones. This must be understood. Especially for farmers, unfortunately, many ordinary farmers do not understand this, so their soil does not have the necessary biology. As a result, they have to add various substances to it. Usually, these are ROS, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium to stimulate plant development. As a result, the plants are not healthy, they are susceptible to insects and pests, and pesticides have to be used. Weeds appear, herbicides are used, and what is even more wild is that at the end of this chain, we suffer. Our immunity is not as strong as it should be, and we are forced to take antibiotics. You ask, “What about?” Soil microbes suffer from antibiotics. It turns out that one of the most used herbicides is classified as an antibiotic. When you buy soil in a store to grow something, this soil is sterilized, that is, all microorganisms in it are killed by heating. The more we neglect these crucial factors of soil biology and the more we eat pasteurized, sterilized foods, prepared and canned foods, the worse it is for our health. That's why in many of my videos I advise at least starting to consume fermented foods and not buying products from farmers who care about their soil and grow produce with a diversity of microorganisms. I took the time to make this digression because it is very important. And here are a couple more points: it is possible that you have a genetic mutation affecting proteins or enzymes with selenium. In this case, it is even more important for you to get enough selenium to produce enzymes such as glutathione, which is absolutely necessary for the liver to remove toxins and even mercury from the liver when taking statins, cholesterol-blocking drugs. Muscular neurological symptoms often occur, and it just so happens that these symptoms are similar to those of selenium deficiency because statins interfere with the work of enzymes containing selenium. Muscles are sufficiently protected, apparently, which is why animal proteins in red meat and other types of muscle proteins are rich in selenium. There is also interesting data that selenium can directly increase the species diversity of your microbiome and increase its quantity. Apparently, microorganisms love selenium, especially if you have dysbiosis or the balance of microorganisms is somehow disturbed. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists - everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.