Let's talk about the relationship between a low- fat diet and sex hormones. These are n't just hormones released during sex, but also those produced by the sex glands, ovaries, testicles, and adrenal glands. The body contains many different hormones, but sex hormones are produced from cholesterol, a terrible substance that everyone fears because someone once said it was bad for the heart and arteries. In fact, it has a very important function. The body produces it in huge quantities. 75 percent of all cholesterol is produced by the body itself, and only 25 percent comes from the diet. It's found in egg yolks, butter, meat, fish, and seafood, organ meats, and dairy products. There's no cholesterol in coconut oil, coconuts, avocados, and nuts. Only animal products contain cholesterol. Hormones produced from cholesterol include estrogen, that is, estrogen, and because there are three of them: progesterone, androgens, androgens. There are also several of them, one of which is testosterone, then cortisol, or more precisely, a group of steroid hormones of the adrenal glands. There is also aldosterone, it is also produced from cholesterol and helps retain sodium in the body, this is its function, and so these are sex hormones that are produced from cholesterol. You may not know, but with a lack of cholesterol in the body, for example, when taking an article on fillet, sitting on a low-fat diet, some complications and side effects may arise. I have a video about stotinok. Muscle problems, pain, inflammation and muscle dysfunction, as well as side effects associated with the heart, with a cholesterol deficiency, a number of side effects can occur: low libido, depression, a feeling of stress, low stress resistance, insomnia, irritability or anxiety, gallstones, where gallstones come from if there is little cholesterol, bile produced by the liver is made from cholesterol and when there is a shortage of it, gallstones are formed with bile. Cholesterol passes through the bile ducts and enters the small intestine. Lack of vitamin D, how is its deficiency related to cholesterol? Vitamin D consists of cholesterol, and bile, which, as I already said, consists of cholesterol, is necessary to absorb this fat-soluble vitamin, as well as vitamins A  Another symptom that occurs with low cholesterol is bloating. Food passes through the digestive system faster than usual without cholesterol and fat, which means that enzymes often don't have time to fully digest foods high in fat. Therefore, enzymes and other digestive juices have more time to digest food without creating bloating. Among other symptoms, there is anxiety, brain atrophy because most of it consists of fat and cholesterol, and the nervous system also mainly consists of fat. Further, there is a decrease in cognitive function and an increased risk of suicide. Otherwise, everything is fine. If you are new to my channel and not yet naked, which includes products from this list, I will leave a link. Watch. There is no need to be afraid of cholesterol, of course, provided that you consume minimal carbohydrates. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.