There are five critical symptoms that should never be ignored. Many people have one of these five symptoms and they consider these manifestations to be normal, but believe me, these five symptoms should not be ignored. Usually, something can be done about all of this if you don’t waste time. Doctors too often essentially treat just a symptom. What causes hypertension? The causes are different. Here are your pills. High cholesterol. Here are your pills. Arthritis. Here are your pills. I want to identify the root cause of the problem so that I don’t have to take pills for the rest of my life. So, let’s get started. Number one: chronic fatigue. There can be many causes of chronic fatigue. If you have anemia, it can be caused by low B12 or iron levels. I had chronic fatigue for many, many years and I took vitamins by the handful, thinking that they would help me. Sometimes I’m driving in the car with my wife and I say, “Give me a loan here.” Maybe they can help me here. We go into the store. I ask the salesperson. What vitamins should I take? Here’s what I’ll tell you. Vitamins won’t eliminate the symptoms if you don’t correct your diet. There is a basic diet that I recommend. It will eliminate many problems and you may not need vitamins at all only after that.  How I started eating protein For breakfast, I really realized Wow, I need this protein. This opened my eyes. Another reason for fatigue is low vitamin B1 levels. When there is a lack of vitamin B1, thoughts swarm in your head. You think about problems before bed. You have restless leg syndrome. You have a lot of nervous energy. Chronic fatigue can be caused by a tick bite. Ticks contain microorganisms that impair the functioning of our vitamin D receptors. This insidious strategy deprives a person of the benefits of vitamin D3. If you have liver disease, heart disease, an autoimmune disease, which is accompanied by a lot of inflammation. But let's say you've ruled out all of this and chronic fatigue doesn't go away. There is a small chance that it's more serious. Although this happens rarely, it could be cancer. Probably not, but you can always get examined to rule it out. Number two, sudden weight loss can have many causes. It could be hyperthyroidism. In this case, the thyroid gland speeds up and weight decreases. Weight can also decrease due to diabetes. Adrenal disease, when they seem to shut down, is a disease called Adis. Weight loss can also be caused by  Caused by parasites, number three is constant weakness. Iron deficiency can be the cause. Anemia can also be the cause. Just a lack of sodium. Sodium deficiency causes weakness, but weakness can also occur with a lack of magnesium. Vitamin A deficiency can also cause weakness. Number four is chronic diarrhea. Diarrhea is most often caused by food poisoning or food that your body does not accept. Zinc deficiency can also be the cause. One of the symptoms of this is diarrhea. I think diarrhea is often a side effect of medications. So, this is also something to pay attention to. Many people have irritable bowel syndrome. They eat a lot of cereals. And they literally tear the toast apart, hence the diarrhea. I think a common cause, especially for those who travel to other countries, is parasitic infestation. They can cause diarrhea. In this case, upon returning home, you need to take a powerful probiotic for a long time to fix this. Number five is constant abdominal pain or pain in the abdominal cavity in general. I would improve my diet and not eat junk food. In 95% of cases, this should eliminate the problem immediately. Otherwise, you need to think about other reasons.  A possible cause is gallstones or kidney stones, and you can only find out what you're dealing with with an ultrasound or other tests. If a kidney stone doesn't always hurt in the back, it can also hurt in the front. There's also a bacterial overgrowth syndrome when microbes are in the small intestine and should be in the colon. Intermittent fasting can help here. Garlic and betaine hydrochloride are also helpful. But all this is caused by the fact that a person is very, very sick. Possible causes of abdominal pain include appendicitis, parasites, or cancer. But this is rare. It could be an ulcer or sediment in the gallbladder. What happens more often than you think: bile in the ducts becomes thick and can enter the pancreas and cause inflammation. This is called pancreatitis. The remedy for this is Tutka, it liquefies and brings great relief. Don't ignore these symptoms. I had an extremely low level of awareness regarding food nutrients and diet. But over time, I have completely changed in this regard and now I devote most of my time to studying this topic. If a doctor examined you and said that you are making everything up, do n't  Listen to him. Go to another doctor and understand. If you are given a prescription or even some kind of remedy for such symptoms, you should ask whether this is eliminating the root cause or simply suppressing the symptom. Why will the problem persist longer? Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements should you take? How and when? In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.