There are five signs and symptoms that I believe should not be hidden with medications and of course, before doing anything with this information, consult a doctor. Symptoms are what your body uses to tell you something and by suppressing a symptom, you are simply suppressing this communication. Sometimes medications do more harm than good. And regarding these five symptoms, there are much better natural remedies that I will also tell you about. But you must realize that a symptom is not a cause. It is a symptom. It is a sign that there is a problem. You need to study the situation and understand the cause of the problem. Let's start with number one, a stuffy nose. Many medications for sinus problems actually cause constriction of congested blood vessels. The problem is that they usually only work for three days, then you get used to the medication and either you need to increase the dose or the effect stops. Not to mention side effects such as insomnia, high blood pressure with nasal congestion. I would definitely try natural remedies first. There are certain formulations for rinsing the nose with sea salt. I recently made a video about using an inhaler. The link is below. A very important video for respiratory problems. The inhaler turns the liquid into  aerosol so that it can get into the sinuses in the lungs and penetrate much deeper, there is an excellent combination of garlic oil, iodine, black cumin, sea salt and colloidal silver. Next, a cold or flu is caused by viruses. If you treat a viral infection with antibiotics, you are wasting time and creating many side effects because a huge number of people develop resistance to antibiotics. 35,000 people die a year in the US due to antibiotic resistance. With the overuse of antibiotics, microbes adapt and become stronger. This is very similar to what happens when treating plants with pesticides. Pests and weeds develop resistance and pesticides no longer work. Because nature always strives to evolve, survive, counteract and create mechanisms for better survival. So, with a cold or flu, it is absolutely necessary to start with vitamin D. I think that many cases of flu in winter are actually vitamin D deficiency because one of the symptoms of vitamin D deficiency is increased susceptibility to viral infections. In the vast world, it weakens the immune system, for example, regular chicken broth. It can suppress neutrophils and increase their concentration in certain places in the body. This strengthens the immune system and allows you to overcome some viral infections. Neutrophils are the main type of white blood cell to fight any infection. Neutrophils are in any mucus produced. So, chicken broth is a simple natural remedy that can be used. I also advise taking vitamin D3 at least 20 thousand international units, zinc at least 40 mg. I would eat garlic. I would take vitamin C. Natural vitamin C at least 500 mg, and regularly. It is very useful for viral infections. Let's talk about constipation. One day, a woman came to my office alone. Many years ago, she had such constipation that she had a bowel movement once a month. I'm not kidding, but she didn't even come about constipation. And to lose weight, I said no, we must deal with constipation because you won't lose weight if you don't go to the toilet. Even over-the-counter laxatives stopped helping her. One of the problems with laxatives is the side effects, loss of electrolytes and new constipation. They can deactivate muscles.  nerves in the intestines in the colon and can develop dependence on a laxative, especially medicinal ones, and a natural herbal laxative works completely differently. There are natural remedies. I would always start with them. One of them is a prebiotic, for example, vegetables and a probiotic, these are beneficial bacteria. Both of these components are found, for example, in sauerkraut, fermented vegetables. They are very, very useful for constipation. Your microflora helps break down fiber, it helps break down food, it helps create vitamins. But if you do not have the necessary diversity of microflora, constipation can easily occur. Think about what happens after taking an antibiotic. It destroys your beneficial bacteria and a large side effect of this is constipation. A large amount of potassium also helps with constipation. MCT oil also helps, it has a laxative effect, as well as purified bile salts. Bile salts are one of the signs that you are taking too much of them. This is a laxative effect, but often constipation occurs simply due to a lack of bile. Bile helps lubricate the colon. Vitamin B1 also improves peristalsis, the ability of the colon to move contents, as well as interval fasting If you eat often, snack and just push all this food into this tube, which is about 10 meters long, then perhaps the colon does not have time to cleanse itself. Intermittent fasting is very important for rebooting the entire system and many people have constipation thanks to intermittent fasting. Insomnia. Over-the-counter sleeping pills. Drugs often use repurposed drugs like antihistamines. They were used for allergies. But it turned out that one of their side effects is drowsiness and now they have been repurposed into sleeping pills, but they have serious side effects, especially after waking up. I remember how in my student years I worked in the publishing house. It was hardly a Kinoshi newspaper, more likely Kinoshi news. I had to come there for the third shift and help pack newspapers for morning delivery. I will never forget. It was winter. 20 degrees below zero and I had to drive at -20. I brought the battery into the house and then installed it back in the car to get to the construction site at two in the morning. The problem was that before that I had to  I was trying to sleep, I took an antihistamine to fall asleep, but I only ended up being completely sleepy when I tried to work. It didn't help me fall asleep at all. But many sleeping pills are repurposed drugs, for example, sedatives, antidepressants, etc. The side effect is fatigue. That's what people take to fall asleep. These drugs have serious side effects, slowing down the central nervous system. Addiction is possible. So, there is a much better remedy, for example, vitamin D before bed. I take 20 thousand. It's an excellent sleep aid. Doing physical work so that the body gets tired, especially if you were an athlete. If you were an athlete, say, in school or college. And now you're 40 or 50 and you don't maintain the same level of physical activity, then your huge mitochondria generate only energy, which makes it very difficult for you to sleep. You need more physical work or exercise so that you can deplete this energy and sleep. In addition, infrared radiation from the sun can increase melatonin levels. If you haven't seen my very important video on this topic, the link is below. Also, celery is an excellent sleep aid. Four stalks of celery in the evening when you  When you go to bed, it's very important to calm your breathing. You can control your autonomic nervous system by regulating your breathing through your sinuses, slowing it down and relaxing. I have a very good video about this, a link to it is also below. Magnesium is also a good sleep aid. The last symptom is fever. Temperature is a normal response of the body to infection. Usually, your body realizes that these viruses, these pathogenic viruses, cannot survive at high temperatures, so the body heats up to help you get rid of them. The body's own microbes can live at high temperatures, but pathogens cannot, so this is a very good mechanism for destroying them. And when you take NSAIDs such as acetaminophen or aspirin, you essentially increase the duration of the infection, you weaken your own immune system. A high temperature is the result of acquired immunity. Acquired immunity is the result of training white blood cells. Many people simply go crazy when they or their children get sick, but illness is a normal immune response to the environment, provided that you give the immune system a chance to cope with the infection. That is, you don't need to bring down the temperature right away, so the immune system will be strengthened. The real problem is  Complications due to pathogens include comorbidities, such as insulin resistance, other health problems, and weaknesses in other systems. This could include diabetes, obesity, or heart problems. This is when problems with immune responses arise. This is another reason to strive to become healthy and strengthen your immune system. If you haven't watched my video about the immune system, which is very popular, then watch it here.