In high school, I was pumping muscles and wanted to gain weight. I went to the store and bought weight gainers in powder form to gain muscle mass and started taking them. And how bad I felt now I know why there is one rather dangerous ingredient. It is added to products of this type to enhance muscle growth. But in fact, it does not do this. In my opinion, it is very dangerous. It can increase acne, bloating, intestinal inflammation, irritability, anxiety and insomnia. It is addictive by increasing dopamine, a neurotransmitter of pleasure. In addition, it increases acidity in the mouth, which contributes to tooth decay. But the worst thing is that it causes a very strong surge in blood sugar, much stronger than regular sugar, and then a loss of strength. If you eat it regularly, you can earn belly fat, high fat, and also fatty liver. But otherwise, everything is fine with it. This ingredient is usually listed first on the packaging, which means that there is the most of it in the product. This ingredient is called maltodextrin, one of the worst additives in most ultra-processed foods, that is, in junk food they take dent corn. This  A type of corn inedible for humans is used to make cattle feed and all that stuff. They grind it into flour, then add various acids and alkalis, then heat it, apply pressure, bleach it, and remove the smell. The end result is a powder. But what's really weird is the filler. It's just a cheap material used to increase volume to make more money. There's no benefit to the body at all. It's classified as a carbohydrate, but it acts like sugar. You look at the packaging, it's great, it has little sugar, but look at the glycemic index, see how much the product raises blood sugar. Table sugar has 65, glucose has 100, and maltodextrin has 105 to 185 on this scale. That is, it raises sugar significantly higher than even glucose. A serving of 253 g. You think, okay, that's 253 g of carbohydrates, but that's not true. It's 253 g of sugar, which is equivalent to sixty teaspoons of sugar, and that's 1012 kilocalories in the form of sugar in one serving. In fact, it is even worse than sugar and you load it into the body to build muscle. One serving adds only 50 g of whey protein and at the same time 253 g of carbohydrates and sugar, the proportion is so-so, you should not mix protein. With such an amount of starch or sugar, this creates many problems in the body and when you throw so many carbohydrates into your mitochondria energy plants, your need for certain vitamins becomes extremely high. For example, you need a lot of vitamins so that the body can digest so much pure sugar. Yes, they add vitamins, but only about a milligram of B1 is a drop in the ocean compared to how much you really need and, as a result, you deprive the body of nutrients when you eat so many carbohydrates. What kind of starch is this? In fact, it is ultra-processed. This means that enzymes and vitamins and microelements have been taken from it. When you eat this, the body uses a large number of nutrients from its reserves to digest it and by continuing to eat it, you deprive yourself of more and more nutrients and in the process you also create a lot of oxidation, it’s as if your body is covered in rust. What causes inflammation and you do n't know it, not realizing that you eat so much sugar, it seems to you that it's a great product, everyone uses it and it becomes the norm. Although it can't even be classified as food, even like the ultra-Orthodox, insulin, which makes the pancreas pump with all its might, you feel weak, your blood sugar jumps, and in the morning it's hard for you to get up, but you wake up with low blood sugar because you ate sugar the day before, and this makes you want sugar again to fill the void, you continue in the same spirit for weeks and months, and eventually the body produces the so-called insulin resistance, now it's becoming increasingly difficult for you to supply your cells with energy and also to build muscle mass. To build muscle, you need training and protein, but I have never seen anyone need high doses of refined sugar for this. Yes, this increases insulin, and insulin is an anabolic hormone. But if you constantly stimulate insulin, insulin resistance occurs, and it leads to a lack of insulin, because the cells do not accept it, the body simply protects itself from excess sugar by blocking it, because sugar is poisonous if not  Watched my video about building muscle the healthy way, I recommend watching it here