Today I want to tell you more about a drug for normalizing blood sugar. This is a very good recipe. I'll tell you about the composition. This is an improved formula. I've been perfecting it all these years and now it's simply excellent. The first ingredient is a type of chromium. Nicotine from chromium increases insulin sensitivity, it fights insulin resistance. This is trace element number two, potassium citrate. With insulin resistance, it is much more difficult for a person to absorb potassium and usually there is a deficiency. Well, potassium citrate can counteract this. Any problems with sugar usually occur. Potassium deficiency occurs because the more carbohydrates you eat and the higher your blood sugar, the less potassium in the body because potassium is involved in storing glucose in the form of glycogen. Number three, bitter gourd extract is another very good remedy for reducing insulin resistance. In general, many of these components are aimed at Next, a complex of trace elements. High sugar levels are usually accompanied by a deficiency of certain trace elements. Trace elements and such a factor help biochemical reactions throughout the body, especially those associated with carbohydrates and sugar control.  So this is very important. Besides, there is zinc here. Yes, zinc is perhaps the most important mineral for normalizing blood sugar and fighting stress. Green tea extract is another very important ingredient. It reduces insulin resistance and normalizes sugar levels. Jim Nemo is a plant from India that has been used since ancient times. Jim Nemo is also called a sugar destroyer. If you take a little Jim Nemo and just live and then eat sugar, you will not feel its taste. I used to conduct demonstrations. I created an aerosol that you could spray in the mouth. It contained this herb and then made the person eat something sweet. The aerosol blocked the taste of sweets. If a person tried, say, wine, it tasted like vinegar. If a person tried yogurt with some additive, it was very sour in taste. Thus, this plant destroys the taste of sugar, while it perfectly normalizes blood sugar levels. Next, nutritional yeast is very important. It contains B vitamins for normalizing sugar. Next, goat's rue. Metformin was discovered in this plant. It is used for insulin resistance. Type 2 diabetes, of course, it's organic. Then we have number nine, one of my favorite ingredients, berberine. It's been studied so much not only in terms of sugar, but also for the heart and blood vessels, brain function, and digestion. It's very useful. 10c, lanka cinnamon, is another excellent substance for normalizing blood sugar levels. And number 11, benfotiamine, a soluble form of B1, is used as an antioxidant to prevent complications in diabetes such as peripheral neuropathy. So, this is a very important remedy. It helps resist oxidation that occurs in the myelin sheath of the nerve. It protects against oxidation. Grass-fed pancreas extract. As the body repairs itself, it recovers and returns to normal. This can provide it with substances that it may lack. As you can see, this is a comprehensive product. It contains everything you need. That's why this is an improved recipe. If a person suffers from diabetes or has problems with blood sugar or insulin resistance, for example, flax is trying to lose weight and has reached a plateau, but weight loss has slowed down. This product can speed up progress. I don't do any  There are no claims that this will help with any diseases, especially diabetes, but numerous studies on each of these ingredients have proven that they normalize sugar levels.