I want to talk about the hormonal effects that can occur during fasting. One interesting study I'll leave a link in the description compares fasting from 2 to 7 days with fasting from 8 to 20 days. Longer fasting is compared with shorter fasting. This data does not apply specifically to intermittent fasting, but at least you will get an idea of ​​​​what will happen to the endocrine system during fasting. The first thing that is affected is adrenaline, a hormone regulator. In other words, sometimes when you go to bed without eating, glycogen is released. That is, the body uses glycogen as fuel. Especially if you have not adapted to burning fat, glucose is released and blood sugar levels rise. Then insulin is released and lowers it. Regulatory hormones begin to act. Adrenaline is one of them. They are released and increase sugar levels to prevent a sharp drop in blood sugar. This can happen especially with insulin resistance. This is the main reason why people may feel like they are sleeping poorly when fasting. Understand that this is temporary. Everything will get better when you adapt better and when insulin resistance weakens. In the meantime, you can take calcium, but not calcium carbonate. It's better to take calcium citrate or lactate before bed along with vitamin B1. Nutritional yeast is a good source of B1. This should lower adrenaline so you can sleep. As you can see, with short fasting, the surge is stronger than with long fasting. Cortisol comes next. Cortisol is a stress hormone and also a hormone regulator that monitors that blood sugar does not drop too much. It has similar functions to adrenaline. Cortisol is a glucocorticoid. It releases sugar into the body to keep it normal. Cortisol increases during fasting for 2 to 7 days, but over time, when the liver adapts to ketosis, you will no longer have surges of cortisol. Leptin, what is it? Leptin is a satiety hormone. When leptin levels rise, you are full and your appetite disappears. The problem is that obese people have a lot of leptin in their bodies, but it does not work because they have leptin resistance. The body does not respond to leptin. There are obese people who are constantly hungry because they have a lot.  Leptin, but it is unavailable when you fast, the situation improves and the receptors of the clip tin begin to work better, leptin will drop to the normal range, but what I mean is that leptin resistance is caused by the high level of leptin itself. By fasting, we return all this to normal. You correct two conditions: leptin resistance and insulin resistance. I will talk about them further. When you fast, the biggest advantage is the reduction and normalization of insulin. insulin will decrease, but so many problems are associated with it: not only weight, but also inflammation, cognitive functions, mood, barrel function, vision, heart. You will get huge benefits from fasting only from the normalization of insulin. Then serotonin. Serotonin will increase both with short-term and long-term fasting. Serotonin will improve your mental state, you will be able to sleep better, and most importantly, it will bring you just good health. The following is very important: growth hormone. It increases significantly, especially during fasting from 2 to 7 days. Growth hormone is an anti-aging hormone. Most people over 50 lack it. It also protects muscles and collagen. Protects joints from sagging skin and wrinkles, this is very important, it also affects cognitive functions, next comes glucagon, what is it? It is a hormone that opposes insulin. It is produced by the pancreas, but its functions are opposite to insulin. It helps you burn fat and protect proteins. Glucagon can be increased by lowering insulin. This mechanism can be compared to a swing. Fasting activates glucagon well, as does training, by the way. Training also activates growth hormone, especially high-intensity interval training. Next comes T3. I recently made a video about T3 and I will leave a link to it in the description. Sometimes the level of T3 will decrease. You may think, oh my God, this is harmful for metabolism, but this is not true, because then the level of T3 will increase again. It is as if T3 goes into reserve because the body adapts to the new fuel and becomes more efficient. You are unlikely to experience bad symptoms, except that your T3 may slightly decrease. It may be within the normal range, just at the lower limit. Don't worry, because after eating, it will rise again. Next on the list is estrogen. Estrogen can decrease during fasting. This is not a problem with estrogen dominance, but what if you already have little of it? It would be best to take vitamin E, natural vitamin E, and specifically a complex, to balance sex hormones. Estrogen is one of them. It is very important to take supplements during fasting because you don’t know if you have a deficiency of any nutrients like potassium or vitamin A, and since you don’t eat them and don’t get them, if you have a deficiency, this will put an even greater strain on the endocrine system. If you fast and take nutrients, this will protect the endocrine system and you will have minimal problems with hormones. If you look at what happens during fasting, there is a huge benefit. The decrease led to an increase in serotonin, an increase in growth hormone and glucagon. As soon as you adapt, some of these hormones will return to normal. This was my story about what changes when you fast. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results, so join us.