Today we will talk about what the different colors of urine mean. Urine can be used as an indicator of what is happening in the body. What is urine? Urine is filtered blood. The kidneys have little magical filters called nephrons. These nephrons are very smart, useful things. They leave behind harmful substances, but filter out poisons and other harmful substances to remove them from the body. Today we will make a diagnosis or analyze a situation based only on color. If you see that your urine is completely transparent, this means that you are drinking too much water. You are diluting your urine so much that the pigments disappear. What's interesting is that if you drink a lot of water to hydrate the body, this leads to the dissolution of sodium, which, on the contrary, results in dehydration. The body must maintain the correct ratio of electrolytes and water. If the urine is transparent, drink less. I usually recommend drinking when you are thirsty, especially if you do not exercise or sweat. Excess water can even be dangerous. The next color we will consider is yellow or amber. This color actually gives a certain pigment from the blood. I will not go into it. chemistry, but when you see yellow or straw-colored urine, this means that everything is normal. The next color we'll talk about is red or pink. This usually means that blood is involved. This happens for several reasons. It could be a kidney stone. Blood can get into the urine during menstruation. It could be some kind of infection, or it could be something more serious. If you always have blood in your urine, consult a doctor. Some people who run or jog, which creates a shaking for the kidneys, can also have bleeding. And what if the urine is orange or bright, almost fluorescent yellow. This usually means that you are taking synthetic vitamins and they come out with urine. This is typical for B vitamins, which give a bright yellow color. Another common cause is taking certain medications with dyes in their composition. In rare cases, if the urine is orange, this may indicate problems with the gallbladder or liver, but this doesn't happen often. And what does it mean if the urine is bluish? Have you taken methylene blue? It will give the urine this color. This is possible.  Your medications give the color. There are also many foods with dyes that color urine in different colors. Asparagus can also sometimes give urine a green color. If your urine is dark brown, you may not have enough fluid. Drink more. When the brown color turns dark, this is usually a liver problem. What if the color of your urine is normal, but it foams as if soap was added to it. There are several reasons for this. Perhaps you eat too much protein, or you have chronic kidney disease, which also causes a lot of protein in the urine. Diabetics have this because sugar is released with diabetes. This creates corrosion in different parts of the body, especially in the kidneys, and the first cause of kidney damage is diabetes. That's why there is a correlation between protein in the urine and diabetes, as well as the presence of foam in the urine. For starters, eat less protein and see if it helps. What if your urine is simply cloudy? It's opaque. This usually indicates an infection, and most often, the causative agent of an infection in the urinary tract is E. coli. Therefore, with this symptom, it makes sense to get checked for an infection. Here's what else you need to know about infections if  If you have diabetes, all that sugar from your blood gets into your urine, becoming food for pathogens. And by the way, if a person is constantly tormented by intense thirst and/or excessive urination, this usually indicates diabetes, but it can also indicate that you have elevated calcium levels in the blood. That is, hypercalcemia. I have another video on this topic. If you haven't watched it yet, here it is.