A couple of years ago I decided to move from one state to another. We packed our things into a big truck that I had to tow to another state. I had my car, and my wife and children were supposed to fly by plane. We were supposed to meet at a certain place. So I'm driving the truck along some street. I had planned a route through small remote towns. And so I see the truck when suddenly my eyes became very dry. I can't blink. My eyelids stick together. I close and open my eyes and my cornea is torn. I can't see anything. I can hardly see the truck. I'm looking at the road with one eye and I think what should I do now? I need to stop and rest. So I pulled into some small remote town, found some motel or something like that, and stopped in NM to take a nap. I lay there for a couple of hours and thought, "Okay, it's healed, it doesn't hurt anymore." I open my eye and my cornea is torn again. I... "No, I needed to find an ophthalmologist." It was Saturday, so here I am, walking.  down the street looking for an eye doctor I'm just wandering forward I look up and see an eye doctor's office Right down the street Phew I go up to the office knock on the door and they say We can't see you until Monday there's a long line here I explain that I need to drive Since I need to meet my wife and kids soon they tell me Sorry we can't see you but I still went into the doctor's office and said Help me do something about my eye I can't see and I need to drive the doctor put some eye drops in my eye gave me some medicine it dulls and my eye started seeing I continued on my way and eventually got to the place what I had is called dryness Let's look at the tablet dry eyes I didn't know that it was caused by vitamin A deficiency the eyelids stick together and can tear the cornea and it's very annoying also due to vitamin A deficiency possibly night blindness as a rule vitamin A deficiency occurs because a person eats too much junk food And in my case it was also because of a problem with the gallbladder  bladder when vitamin A is not absorbed from food vitamin A can be obtained from egg yolks liver butter cod liver oil We often hear that vitamin A can be obtained from plants because they have a lot of vitamin A, but in fact, plants contain a precursor called beta carotene vitamin A becomes only a small part of it, so you would have to eat a huge amount of vegetables to get a little active form of vitamin A, that is, retinol And by the way, we also need zinc so that vitamin A can work Perhaps you get enough vitamin A but not enough zinc zinc is found in red meat It is found in oysters in shellfish with crustaceans in the liver, but if you eat empty carbohydrates sugar a lot of zinc you will not get the next ailment that we will discuss retinopathy Usually it occurs with diabetes this is a problem with the retina the retina is essentially brain tissue that is located in the eyeball it receives information and transmits it to the brain thanks to this we see diabetes is the main cause of retinopathy excess glucose causes oxidation or a kind of corrosion of the nervous system a lot Free radical damage causes many problems, so the antidote for this is called benfotiamine. Benfotiamine is a type of vitamin B1, its soluble form allows it to penetrate into nerve tissue. Many complications of diabetes, such as peripheral neuropathy and diabetic retinopathy, can be alleviated by taking large doses of benfotiamine. It acts as an antioxidant, it really improves the condition of the nervous system and increases blood flow to the nerves, especially in the retina. Now let's discuss spots in the eyes. When we eat protein with sugar, a chemical reaction occurs called glycation, in which the protein sticks together with sugar, forming something like glue that gets stuck in the body. This is what causes spots in the eyes. One way to get rid of spots in the eyes is to change your diet. A low-carb diet can help immediately, too, and some even need to sit on a carnivore diet for a month or two. There is also the so-called autophagy, a condition in which the body processes damaged proteins. The body processes all unnecessary substances. And to start autophagy in the body, you need to fast, so  when there are floaters in the eyes I recommend intermittent fasting and sometimes long-term fasting, this will really help get rid of floaters in the eyes. If you have them, now let's discuss the so- called macular. I've heard the term age-related macular degeneration. It's curious that this supposedly explains why age is so severe. It's caused by the fact that you're aging. I don't buy it and it's unlikely that macular degeneration develops in everyone with age. But what is the macula? It's the back of the eye, the same brain tissue that's in the eyeball. It can be influenced by many factors, such as blue light emitted by LED lamps, smartphones, laptops, and of course, the obvious factors are alcohol, smoking, sugar, but the main factor is oil from seeds. There's a doctor who specializes in eye diseases and he showed that there's a closer connection between oils from seeds and macular degeneration. Oils from seeds get into cell membranes and get stuck in them for about 3 years. The problem is that these are harmful oils and that's all. What increases inflammation. And these are oils from seeds because they contain a lot of omega-6, which increases inflammation. degeneration of not only the macula but also other parts of the eye. To avoid this, of course, you need to exclude seed oils and increase your intake of omega-3 fats. There are three natural substances that protect the eyes from macular degeneration: Lutein, zeaxanthin, and mesoxanthin. All three are carotenoids. What do they contain? Lutein, zeaxanthin, and mesoxanthin are found in green vegetables, yellow vegetables and fruits, orange vegetables and fruits, egg yolks, seafood such as salmon, shrimp, and also in grass-fed meat. I once sent my beef for analysis. I live on a farm and keep cows. Imagine, the beef from my farm turned out to contain a huge amount of carotenoids. I must also say that macular degeneration is the second leading cause of blindness in adults, and when people start eating more of these foods, their vision sometimes improves. Now let's discuss glaucoma, which is increased intraocular pressure. This pressure is  damages the back of the eye Where is the retina I recently made a video on this topic which is based on a book by an ophthalmologist there is talk about taking high doses of vitamin D to fight glaucoma It seems to give excellent results as for blood tests this doctor writes the existing standards for vitamin content in the blood are very outdated especially the idea that vitamin D deficiency occurs when it is less than 20 ngrams per milliliter According to the recommendation of this doctor the level of vitamin D should be from 100 ngrams per milliliter to 150 ngrams per milliliter there are simply many signs that glaucoma is an autoimmune disease If this is so, then you need to overcome resistance to vitamin D and for this you need to take a lot of vitamin D to break through this barrier and eliminate the problem and Let's talk a little about cataracts cataracts are a clouding of the lens of the eye in the body sticky proteins are formed that cease to perform their function because a person eats a lot of sugar and the remedy for this is high doses of vitamin D another remedy n  Acetyl carnosine in drops if you can find it, and zinc. They all have antioxidant properties that will protect your eyes. So, when you see a vegetable or even a fruit that is dark purple, what pigments are in them? These are antioxidants that can significantly improve eye health. If you haven't watched my recent video about glaucoma, you'll find it very helpful to watch it simply because I talk about vitamin D in great detail. Watch that video.