Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, I'll tell you what to do with this sagging skin. Here and here, there are ways to deal with it, but there are several common mistakes. The first thing you need to know is that at 38 years old, the body's hormonal background begins to change. The process occurs in several years from 50, the hormone level becomes minimal during menopause, which occurs at 52, although it can occur at 48 and 56. The ovaries stop producing hormones, but there is a reserve organ, the adrenal glands, they are located on top of both kidneys, and you experience a serious restructuring from ovarian hormones to adrenal hormones. If you had problems with the adrenal glands before menopause, they intensify many times over, hot flashes begin, osteoporosis, sagging skin, and the like. This is all because you lose collagen due to a lack of certain hormones, which ones exactly I'll explain now. All these hormones decrease during menopause. Testosterone, which is responsible for muscle mass, is an anti-stress hormone. It seems to be pre-  The hormone that gives all the other hormones, it is produced by the adrenal glands, estrogen, it also decreases, estrogen is responsible for fertility, the menstrual cycle and all that, and progesterone, it also decreases, it is involved in the second half of the menstrual cycle, estrogen and progesterone work in tandem, when it decreases, they should be in a certain proportion, and in women after menopause, estrogen begins to dominate, which is strange because its level has decreased, the point is that the ratio of estrogen and progesterone is disrupted, although estrogen decreases slightly, on the other hand, it decreases much more strongly, which is why, as a result, you have dominant estrogen, very similar to approximately that, if we take it above it, that is, salt and potassium, they work in tandem, if there is a lot of salt and little, there will be fluid retention, but if you, you can eat less salt or you can eat more potassium and thus get rid of fluid instead of avoiding salt, that is, you just need to observe the proportions of substances that work in tandem, but the most important thing is why these problems are caused by what is the cause of loose skin, this is growth hormone, human growth hormone in children, it is mainly responsible for the growth of a child, but when  As you get older, it no longer leads to increased height. It controls other things: fat burning, muscle tone, collagen energy, protein synthesis, protein production, hair, nails, skin, muscles, all of that, and growth hormone declines greatly with age. Unfortunately, some people take growth hormone as a dietary supplement. It doesn't work unless they inject you with real, synthetic growth hormone. Then it will work and really help you lose weight, restore tissue, and slow down aging. But there are also minor side effects. It's very expensive, about $15,000 for a six-week course. Second, with long-term use, your iron shuts down and addiction develops. You continue taking it and get the side effect of diabetes. So, there are a lot of problems with taking hormones, so I recommend taking them only as a last resort. There is also hormone replacement therapy with bio-identical hormones. Again, if you take them, your organs will be confused. Taking any hormone, you indirectly suppress the gland that should produce it. In fact, you hook it. The same thing happens with the thyroid. You take hormones and it no longer needs to produce them, and so there is growth hormone, and it decreases, it's a buffer.  This is a hormone that opposes cortisol. Cortisol is a stress hormone from the adrenal glands. It is extremely destructive to proteins. If it is too high, the body goes into a so-called catabolic state. Proteins are broken down faster than new ones are built. Muscle mass is lost on the thighs and buttocks. The skin sags here and there. The skin on the abdomen shines with flabby skin due to two things: a lack of growth hormone and an excess of cortisol. But remember, tests can show a normal level of cortisol in the blood. It is the proportion of cortisol. Too much growth hormone, even though cortisol is normal, nothing counteracts it. Nothing softens it. There is no shock absorber. Cortisol is freely released and destroys everything and everyone. There is already an excess of cortisol and a lack of growth hormone. In the next part, I will show how to cope with this situation. Look, here we have a list of things that lower cortisol, and here are things that increase growth hormone. We will analyze cortisol one by one. Cortisol is activated during stress, and all the items on this list reduce stress. The first is low-intensity.  Physical activity, for example, walking, here the intensity needs to be increased because high-intensity loads on the whole body will raise growth hormone. The problem for one kidney type is that at this stage you can’t do this, you’ll have to walk for some time, because if you have a kidney type now, this doesn’t mean that it will always be like this, you need to get out of this type and work hard and here to increase growth hormone, but first you need to get enough sleep to withstand this intense load, but ideally you need to reach the point of pain with intense loads, so first we walk, then as we progress, gradually increase the intensity. You need high-intensity short workouts for the whole body, alternating them with long rest. P90x is an excellent workout, but I would make the breaks longer if you have problems with the adrenal glands, because the main thing is not to overdo it, and especially if you train intensively every day and don’t get enough sleep, you won’t lose weight, your body will become mush. One woman did boot camp training, everything and her body literally atrophied, her skin was just light, no tone at all, she may have trained, but only once a week, but the main thing is recovery. Perry, training is harmful. We start with Low-intensity workouts with walking, long walks every day, you need space, not at home on a treadmill in front of the TV, but in the fresh air and taxon will lower cortisol and raise growth hormone. Sleep is very important. I do n’t have many videos about nutrition and sleep techniques, but this topic is other videos. The main thing is you need more sleep. I don’t recommend staying up past midnight. It’s optimal to go to bed at 10:30 or 11, but don’t watch the news before going to bed. It’s better to watch something humorous and horror films; they will ruin your sleep. Third, to help the gland, I recommend some techniques: acupressure, nutrition to support the gland, not taking hormones, so it’s better to avoid stress. Basically, some people are stressed by relationships with someone; this always harms a person. One girl is stuck on a certain person and can’t get out. She’s married and has children, and this is a big problem because he doesn’t want to change. They have constant quarrels, this really spoils everything, and add to all this and a break. You won’t envy him, but you need to somehow try to avoid people who drive stress and food situations rich in hookah is important leafy greens lots of salad no bananas and sugar B vitamins nutritional yeast is the best source of them I highly recommend let's reduce stress avoid sugar because it will also increase cortisol in this list of intense exercise sleep proteins increase growth hormone but only in small amounts if there is a lot of protein it will increase insulin and it suppresses growth hormone so not much protein 85-110 grams for each meal but proteins are necessary if you are a vegetarian and children low protein foods are very difficult to stimulate growth hormone meat and other animal products are best suited but in small quantities intermittent fasting as for this you don't have to fast all day but if you often snack between meals it harms the liver it forces the liver to work continuously at full capacity if you eat three times a day without snacks this is intermittent fasting that's what I call intermittent fasting even if you ate breakfast a big lunch and then didn't eat anything it would be intermittent fasting it will increase growth hormone but if you snack here and there yes  Why? Because the liver is the organ through which growth hormone acts. The liver is the main functional unit, it is connected to the gastrointestinal tract. Any load on the gastrointestinal tract will slow down the liver, and this hormone. If you have, for example, constipation, or problems with the gallbladder, it will be difficult to increase growth hormone, since it is produced in the brain, enters the liver, and does not always work. The following steps will lower cortisol. Following this list and eliminating sugar will also help. Growth hormone. These are the main things I look at. If a person wants to tighten the skin and lose weight, I check all these points and find out which of them is not yet being done in order to start doing it. I am looking for a way to improve what he is already doing, and this is a useful scheme that can be used, and within a month you will see that the skin begins to recover, and collagen too. Another point is related to digestion. If your stomach is not strong enough in terms of acidity, signs of this include indigestion, bloating, acid belching, GERD, which means you have a grip on acidity. Watch my videos about this. It will not be possible to break down collagen or proteins to absorb them and send them to the skin. This can also be the cause of sagging skin. You  If you're simply not absorbing them, you can somehow increase the acidity in your stomach and then direct collagen into the cells so that your skin, nails, and hair are restored. High stomach acidity will also allow you to absorb macronutrients and micronutrients. I also have videos about why micronutrients are needed. These elements are needed in small quantities to help proteins function better in the body. This dietary supplement can be very useful if you're experiencing hair loss or brittle nails. It's not a magic wand, but it can help in this area. Use this method. Leave your comments and I'll see you in the next videos.