Today I will tell you something very interesting about kidney stones. I think this is a real breakthrough. I have made a lot of videos about kidney stones, but I have never talked about one thing. This is the factor that causes the formation of stones. Judge for yourself how strange it is that stones form in the kidneys. What is the matter here? The pain from kidney stones can be terrible, simply unbearable. But this calcification does not only occur in the kidneys, it can be in the joints, as with arthritis. Because of calcification, plaques form in the vessels. And on the teeth, tartar, calcification can occur. Even in the eyes, as with cataracts, it can even occur in the inner ear and cause ringing in the ears. Tinitis, calcium deposits have even been found in synapses in the brain. In Alzheimer's disease, dementia, there is also a statement of blood vessels. What leads to high blood pressure and even stroke is associated with calcification, and even gallstones contain not only cholesterol but also calcium. Calcium can also be deposited in the mammary gland.  iron in different places with multiple sclerosis and even in the lymph nodes, for example, stones in the tonsils. So what is happening with this calcium? To understand this, I turned to nature and looked to see if there was anything similar in nature. And in nature, we find, for example, coral reefs. And this is also a calcium deposit. If you have ever seen hot springs, calcium is also deposited in them. Even if you look deep into the soil, we will see limestone there. Where did it come from? Well, we will find out more. Even the bottom of ships is overgrown with huge growths. These are calcium formations. What do all these calcium deposits have in common? Microbes create these calcium deposits. And when I could n’t, I finally found the key article I was looking for. 78 or 79 people with kidney stones were examined, and in 97.2 percent of these people with kidney stones, as it turned out, there is a tiny bacterium in the kidney stone, and these tiny bacteria are very, very small, 100 times smaller than ordinary bacteria, called nanobacteria. Nana  means very, very small and by the way, this discovery was made quite recently thanks to the capabilities of certain types of microscopes. And before, we couldn't detect them. So, inside kidney stones there are microbes, these nanobacteria. So, these nanobacteria eat calcium and then form bone-like crystalline structures that are called, just don't confuse this with appetite. Apatite is a compound of calcium and phosphorus that is part of bones, and these nanobacteria actually create this calcium compound in the form of a kind of houses to survive despite unfavorable factors like antibiotics. An antibiotic is a drug that kills bacteria. One of the main side effects of antibiotics is the strengthening of microbial films. Biofilms are colonies of microbes with protective shells, houses made of calcium. By taking an antibiotic, we force microbes to survive better because they adapt. And thus, we actually accelerate the formation of these organisms. The court won't help. Taking another antibiotic to kill microbes and achieve sterility is only Mars. Here's another given. If you don't know yet, it fits in perfectly here. Small microorganisms are also found in  in plaque in blood vessels in calcium deposits in joints You may have thought that the problem was excess calcium But in fact, this is not the case The reason is not excess calcium in the diet The reason is not that you take too many calcium supplements It is much more connected to this microbe and what it does where it lives Take a closer look at these nanobacteria You need to know a couple of things about them They create biofilms, that is, colonies held together by calcium shells to survive They are very resistant to antibiotics and even become stronger when we take them They can grow at different pH in different environments at different temperatures and under different stresses In fact, the more we suppress them, the better they grow A big complication associated with these microbes and shells is that our immune system has a hard time seeing them But it sees that there is a problem and usually some kind of immune response occurs that persists for a long time Which means that the body itself and the immune system increase inflammation Therefore, many complications arise in  gums, due to plaque, in blood vessels, due to plaque in the joints, due to deposits. Many symptoms are actually caused by the immune system trying to get rid of this deep infection. By the way, here's what's interesting: one very good remedy for reducing the number of nanobacteria and for reducing biofilms is citrate. What is citrate in lemons, specifically citric acid or Citra monon, is often used for kidney stones. Perhaps now we know why. Because citrates prevent the formation of biofilms. The mechanism of their formation is very similar to how the bacterium Helicobacter pylori causes ulcers. For those who don't know, in many cases, ulcers develop due to this bacterium, which is found in the stomach. So, many people have Helicobacter pylori, but it is asymptomatic. There are no symptoms until the environment in the stomach changes. The pH changes, perhaps the diet is disrupted, and then the partially neutral or partially friendly Helicobacter pylori decides to switch to the unfriendly side and begins to create problems in the stomach.  They treat this, of course, with antibiotics with side effects, but the point is that the vast majority of people have this microbe in their body, but it does nothing and does not create problems; the reaction to it is neutral. The same applies to any microorganism. When we take antibiotics and create stress, an excessive growth of fungi begins because initially the bacteria kept fungi and candida under control. Antibiotics only kill bacteria, they do not kill fungi, candida and yeast. We get rid of one protective factor and get an excessive growth of another, candida or thrush. The risk of these problems is much higher. I'm talking about kidney stones, but also from other problems, such as obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney problems, or kidney disease, and a weakened immune system, for example, due to HIV or taking large doses of prednisone. So, I see the situation as follows: kidney stones can occur if there is some weakness in the kidneys from a past injury, but there may be another problem, but on bacteria in the vessels, or the eye could have been damaged and the problem occurs in it or in the joints. It looks like cancer. Cancer usually  It spreads to areas where there is inflammation, weakness, or an old injury. You might be thinking, how can you kill this microbe? Well, first you need to deprive it of its shell. The problem here is that if you start to destroy this shell, a lot of these microbes will get into the blood and urine, and this can create more problems. Then these microbes can turn into so- called endotoxins. The problem is that because of this, there can be more infection in other places. That's why during lithotripsy, when a stone in the mail is crushed with a sound wave, the risk of subsequent infection increases significantly. This is probably why they prescribe an antibiotic to kill everything that was released into the body. So if you destroy these calcium shells with different means, even natural ones, you must be aware of what you are doing. Here is an example with my wife Karen. She wanted to take one remedy for biofilms because of her sinus problems. And so she took this powerful remedy and it definitely worked. It destroyed a lot of things, but then a complication arose. Karen didn't look very good; something bad started with her digestion. She couldn't go to the toilet, she had stomach cramps. She  I couldn't eat, she felt nauseous, this lasted for several days, and then researching this topic, I learned that one of the side effects of destroying biofilms is the so-called cholestasis, this is bile stagnation when bile gets stuck in the bile ducts. It seems that when microbes come out, they can harm and even interfere with the formation of bile. This is a thickened substance that can get stuck in the bile ducts. It can get into the liver and create a lot of problems, including constipation. We quickly used one remedy. I recommend it. If you decide to use any remedy for biofilms, even a natural or chelating remedy called EDTA, before you destroy these films, I advise, based on personal experience, taking dutka tutka, this is a type of bile salt that will start the flow of bile so that when you destroy these biofilms and calcium shells, the body can remove them. Take note. If you decide to do this, act very, very slowly when using any remedy for destroying biofilms. I would keep activated charcoal on hand and take it as needed because  Activated carbon can absorb a lot of toxins released into the body during this destruction. But this requires a little more knowledge and much more preparation, so I will describe to you a slightly different approach, it is simpler and has fewer complications. The first thing I highly recommend doing to avoid the formation of new kidney stones, and this is perhaps the best thing, is to drink more, about two and a half liters every day, then stones will not be able to form because stones always form in super- concentrated urine. If you drink enough, they will not form. This will probably immediately protect you from kidney stones. Number two, I would start taking calcium citrate. There are lemons. I would eat from 60 to 100 grams, that is, 2-4 lemons a day with water. This is an important point. I would also take potassium citrate, it is found in many electrolyte powders. Potassium citrate is a very good remedy for bifilms and can reduce the risk of kidney stones. Next, I would take probably one of the most powerful natural antibiotics, and this is garlic. I would take freeze-dried garlic if I could find it. Other forms of garlic are also suitable, but freeze-dried garlic is an excellent natural antibiotic that is selective.  It affects these bacteria without harming your cells. That is, you are taking something similar to an antibiotic, but without any risk of developing antibiotic resistance. After all, it is a natural remedy, and you are creating an environment in which these microbes cannot exist. Optimize the environment around these microbes, and over time, these biofilms and nanobacteria can disappear not only in the kidneys, but also in the heart, eyes, and joints everywhere. Kidney stones are just the tip of the iceberg. This is a symptom of an unhealthy environment, probably due to bad eating habits or something else. By cleansing the environment, I mean starting a healthy chum salmon diet with intermittent fasting. I recommend improving the state of the microflora. There are microbes that greatly help prevent the formation of biofilms, and of course, reduce stress as much as possible, including stress for microbes. Reduce the use of antibiotics and other medications, and do not expose yourself to chemicals that force these microbes to adapt and become stronger. I mentioned healthy chum salmon. If you are a beginner or need help getting started, pay attention to this course. I invite you to my healthy chum salmon course.  It's for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us.