You know, breathing and oxygen - This is something very important for our survival. When there is not enough oxygen, a person may experience a panic attack or anxiety. Today we will talk about difficulty or lack of air, or as it is also called, shortness of breath. Usually, people observe such symptoms with asthma, some types of pneumonia, lung diseases, COPD, or even heart problems. But what if you do not have anything from this list, but you have VS, and breathing problems. And this can greatly interfere with sleep. There are very good videos on this topic. They have two authors, Craig Stewart and Steve Gust. I will leave the link below. They have wonderful data on this topic. It could be called pseudo- breathing. It works the other way around when it gets worse during rest. But it gets better during exercise. I will tell you about the four main causes of this problem. The first reason Craig Stewart himself suffered from this is the so-called silent reflux, in which acid rises up the esophagus, and it is quiet because there is no heartburn. You may have other symptoms, but you may almost not feel them. After all, they are quiet, but they are there. What is the relationship between acid reflux and silent  Reflux has to do with breathing in the esophagus, there are many sensitive nerves that go directly to the brain, transmitting information that it is not getting enough oxygen, and this creates a feeling of not having enough air, causing you to breathe frequently and choke, and also causing you to yawn more. And when you breathe frequently, it can create not exactly hyperventilation, but you get too much oxygen and not enough acidic gas, you might think that this is even better for breathing. But there is a relationship between oxygen and CO2. You need a certain amount of CO2 so that oxygen can interact with red blood cells. If you just have oxygen and there is not enough CO2, oxygen will not be able to get into the cells in the right amount. A balance is needed here. So, increased breathing does not help the cells with oxygen. Craig's solution is to take certain medications to treat the esophagus to reduce this silent reflux. It helped him. My solution is somewhat different. It is not about taking medications. But in the use of chlorophyll, another option is juice, a type of grass in powder. You can dilute it in water and drink several times a day on an empty stomach so that this  Chlorophyll got on the inner surface of the esophagus and gradually over some time healed the tissue. This is also a good remedy for ulcers and gastritis. You must first get rid of them before eliminating their cause. Paradoxically, it is a lack of acid. Low acidity in the stomach causes the valve at the top of the stomach to open more, but it does not close. This leads to acid burps and GERD, and the acid goes up the esophagus. And most people think it is logical to take antacids. But in fact, if you take betaine hydrochloride acid or even apple cider vinegar, you can eliminate these symptoms, because then the valve will close. In other words, heartburn, and especially indigestion, as well as acid reflux and GERD, often occur from a lack of acid, not from an excess. Yes, you feel the acid going up the esophagus. But in the stomach itself, there is not enough acid. Just think logically. The cause of acid reflux or heartburn is an excess of acid or too much strong acid. And what should the normal pH of acid in the stomach be? It is at the bottom of the scale, somewhere between one and  three is a very strong acid like in a battery And what do you think, that reflux or SJO occur because of too strong an acid or from an excess of acid? Such acid is needed to break down proteins So, excess acid is an illogical explanation, if you understand What should be the normal pH in your stomach and remedies for this, antacids dilute the acid making it weaker Think about the consequences of this, you will not be able to digest protein In short, if you have difficulty breathing and you do not have enough air, be sure to find out if you have silent reflux or gastrointestinal problems If your esophagus is irritated, then of course you do not need to add acid Chlorophyll will help you But if you do not have this and you have reflux, take betaine hydrochloride five pieces before meals and possibly apple cider vinegar dissolved in water and drink through a straw But another option is also possible This is called alkalosis A condition when the pH becomes too alkaline There are two types of alkalosis: metabolic and respiratory It is interesting Both of these conditions have a direct or indirect effect on CO2 So when  The pH in your blood changes, this affects CO2, oxygen, and breathing. Why does this happen? One of the reasons is the loss of acid in the stomach. There is a condition called achlorhydria, when there is no acid in the stomach, or hypochlorite, when there is not enough acid. One of the side effects is a change in pH. The body becomes more alkaline. You may have trouble breathing due to a damaged esophagus. You may also have trouble breathing due to heartburn and a lack of acid in the stomach, which affects your pH and can cause a feeling of shortness of breath. The solution is also acidity. Betaine hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar can help. Another reason, and I see this quite often, is problems with the tubes that go from the liver to the gallbladder and then to the small intestine. They are called bile ducts. A so-called bile sediment often forms in them. It reduces the flow of bile through these ducts. Stones may not form. Yes, they may appear in the future. But while they are not there, it is usually just sediment and it is difficult to detect. But the point is that when these pathways become clogged, it does not allow bile to pass through them.  It goes back to the liver and bloating occurs near the gallbladder. This affects the diaphragm, which is located directly under the ribs, and can also affect the phrenic nerve, which runs from the neck to the diaphragm. Who would have thought that even the diaphragm creates breathing problems? That is, there are problems with the gallbladder and bile ducts or with digestion, which can interfere with the respiratory mechanism, which can significantly affect our breathing. Usually, this is easily fixed by changing the diet to a healthy one. Quito with intermittent fasting. And as a quick solution, I advise taking the Tutka supplement. These bile salts are truly unique. They help push bile sediment out of the bile ducts. Take two capsules in the morning on an empty stomach and two in the afternoon, also on an empty stomach. If this is the problem, you will soon feel much better. You can undergo functional diagnostics, but it is very expensive. It is much cheaper to buy the Tutka supplement, drink it and see if the problem goes away. This way, you will save a lot of money. So, this was reason number two. Fogus told me about reason number three. The link will be below, and this is a problem with the ribs.  where they connect to the spine, breathing problems are often associated with rib spleen, an inflammation of the chest in front that can be mistaken for a heart problem, but in fact, the problem is in the back area. We have a spine and many ribs that are connected to it, but if the connection between the ribs and the spine is somehow limited, this can easily affect breathing. What could this be due to? It could be due to an injury. I had a lot of back injuries. I remember I played American football at school and the coach completely unexpectedly crashed into my back. I don’t know why he did it. Since then, I have problems due to damage to the thoracic vertebrae. Another time, I broke a rib in my back. I also broke a rib in the front. I have a lot of injuries from wrestling and from falling from a motorcycle in the thoracic spine. If you have had such injuries, as well as car accidents, blows, falls, and so on, scar tissue forms around the joints. Even if you try to reset the rib, it doesn’t last long. Because it doesn’t stretch the scar tissue that is at the joints.  heads of the rib and vertebra, this procedure gives a result, but does not affect the spinal area. There are a couple of devices and techniques with which you can massage the spine. I will leave a link about this below, but you also need to stretch the thoracic spine, turns with stretching back and forth. I like mobility sck, an excellent tool for stretching, very good for the spine. The link is below. If you have such a problem, do stretches, stretching this connection of the ribs with the spine, which affects the lungs. If you have had an injury to the thoracic spine, or you have been in a sedentary job for many years and you have bad posture, this can seriously affect your breathing. I have such a problem. And I have to stretch my chest by stretching and using different devices. The last possible cause of this problem is COVID. Breathing problems can be a complication. If you have post-COVID syndrome and breathing problems, then the remedy for this is large doses of thiamine. Vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 is closely associated with the brain stem. Where is the respiratory center located? So, B1 is a remedy for breathing problems. In this video, I told  There's a very interesting and useful video about four causes of pseudo-breathing problems that aren't directly related to the heart, lungs, or any other disease. It's about what you need to eat to solve this problem. Watch it.