I want to tell you about a very simple remedy, one teaspoon a day, which will help get rid of chronic sinusitis. The causative agents can include fungi such as Candida or Aspergillus, which is most often found in the paranasal sinuses. If you have a runny nose or loss of smell, this also affects the sense of taste, which is 80% dependent on the sense of smell. A big mistake people make, which makes things worse, is taking antibiotics. Antibiotics only kill bacteria. And when you get rid of bacteria, this causes increased growth of pathogenic fungi. Perhaps at first there was a bacterial infection, but now it is already a fungal infection, and it is very difficult to destroy with ordinary antibiotics. So people take antibiotics again and again, but they get worse and worse. They drink antihistamines and take corticosteroids for inflammation, but they only get worse. Pathogens penetrate the Eustachian tube, leading to an infection of the inner ear. Fungi come in two types: invasive fungi and non-invasive fungi. Invasive fungi destroy the mucous membrane layer on  The inner surface of the sinuses and can corrode bones, they are capable of penetrating various tissues in the skull, and from there they can get into the joints and bladder, causing infection. You need to know something very important about aspergillosis and moisture, and it will definitely grow with a weakened immune system. If you are diabetic or HIV- infected, it can crawl out and attack you when weakened. The Aspergillus fungus can be made to grow and multiply in a Petri dish if you feed it sugar or starch. Therefore, such fungi can be seen on bread, potatoes, rice, and similar products, because they feed on sugar and starch. This means that you probably need to change your diet. Dairy products also belong here, since they contain milk sugar, food for these fungi. So, our list includes sugar, refined carbohydrates, alcohol, and even birth control pills. The Aspergillus fungus has a unique survival strategy: it disables the immune system by reducing vitamin D levels. It acts on vitamin D receptors exactly where this vitamin enters the body and impairs their function, very insidiously, and can even cause a deficiency.  Vitamin obviously knows that vitamin D is needed by the immune system, and if it is lacking, the immune system does not work. So the most important thing is to take a lot of vitamin D, 30,000 IU. Be sure to also take 300 mcg of vitamin K2 to keep blood calcium levels normal. The fact is that K2 neutralizes the surge in calcium in the blood from vitamin D. How effective is it for eradicating this fungal problem in the body? Point about garlic oil. Garlic oil perfectly suppresses fungi, yeast, and mold. Not to mention bacteria, you need five drops of garlic oil per teaspoon. Also find oregano oil, this is another powerful antifungal agent and also a remedy for candida and yeast. Coconut oil contains lauric acid, which has antioxidant properties and strengthens the immune system. Take one teaspoon daily for one month. This remedy will slowly penetrate the body and normalize the microflora. Other substances can be added to this mixture, for example, xylitol.  Kumu and also aloevera, you can also use a blue lamp. You can even find a small blue light source and place it in your nose for a few minutes a day, it may help. I really couldn't find a suitable device. Perhaps you can find one, but the point is that blue or violet light therapy is very useful in this situation. If you had surgery on the paranasal sinuses, the mucous membrane was damaged, you need red light therapy specifically for the nasal area. There are small devices for the nose that use infrared light, it has a slightly different effect; it doesn't so much kill germs as it helps heal damaged mucous membranes, for example, due to surgery. Perhaps you will breathe much better because the inflammation will disappear. There is a lot more data on this topic, and if you haven't watched my video about nasal congestion, I advise you to watch it here.