Let's discuss the best technique or method to find out if a person is breaking a diet. There are many weight loss methods that include a chat day. In my opinion, this is a mistake because it seriously worsens the results. Because if you start, it's hard to stop. By the way, I myself was once a malicious diet violator. It took me years to become consistent and disciplined. Now I am very disciplined. But before, it was terrible. I kind of followed the diet, I quit, started quitting, until, in fact, there was nowhere to go further. I think sometimes it is useful to break the diet for the sake of an experiment to see how the body reacts, so that sooner or later you can be sure that it is better not to break the diet. I like my well-being more when I follow the method than when I break it. When I had a clinic, many patients came to me who arranged days. At first, they complained that the method did not work and did not give results, and I had to extract information from them about possible diet violations, but so that they did not feel guilty about it, I very carefully asked them if they were going to eat something that maybe you shouldn't have. At first, they said, "No, I  I'm definitely following everything, well, it's true I ate some chips, but they were organic or yes I drank some wine, but just a little I remember right next to my reception area, some years ago there was a Whole Foods store. I often went there and one day I was there, Bari salad, and through the glass I saw my patient in the baking department. I saw her walking past free samples of brownies, and at some point she looked left and right, took and ate one. After which we suddenly made eye contact, she instantly blushed, turned around and ran in the other direction, I caught up with her and said everything is fine. Don't worry, I think our goal is to create enough health to take the body out of the danger zone, and then you can break the diet for a short time at will and return. After all, you have everything under control, I think our goal is this, but there is a very good scientific way to find out if a person has violated the diet. I mean the consumption of sugar and carbohydrates. A blood sugar test will not tell you much, it will only show what was on the day of measurement and the day before it. But an analysis for one day will show the consumption of carbohydrates in  On average, over three months or the absence of carbohydrates. What is 1C? This is an analysis that measures how much glucose is in the body, bound to proteins. The more sugar in the body, the higher the percentage of hemoglobin exposed to glucose. Ideally, the 1C indicator should not be higher than 5.7. If it is, say, 4.4, then the blood glucose level will be approximately 4-4, which is very good. If one c is 4.0, blood glucose will be approximately 3.6. You can say that this is hypoglycemia, this is not normal, but when you remove sugar from the diet, the blood sugar level begins to fall and drops to 3 with a tail, and this is normal, because you feel good, but ultimately, we need the 1C indicator to be at least no higher than 5.7. If it exceeds 5.7, you enter the so- called prediabetic range, and blood sugar begins to fluctuate somewhere around six and a half and can reach 7-7.5. And when sugar goes beyond 7.7, the 1C indicator will be approximately 6.5, this is diabetes. I saw people who had one c was 11, it can  climb very high and the higher it is, the more diabetic complications you have. I'm talking about the big four complications: complications in the eyes, on the inner walls of blood vessels, and complications in the heart, mail, and complications in the brain and nerves, the feet begin to experience problems, numbness, pain, burning, and all that. And you begin to have problems with memory, dementia, as well as with this, memory problems, dementia. You also need to know that with anemia, or when taking certain medications, or if there are other problems in the body with the kidneys and liver, 1C can be higher than it should be. Despite the fact that you do not eat sugar. That is, this affects the result. You also need to know that if you have diabetes, it is initially more difficult for you to bring your 1C and blood glucose levels to normal values. Why? Because the pancreas is working at full capacity. And you probably only have half of the beta cells that produce insulin left. And if you do not produce enough insulin, you also have resistance to it. And this is essentially a lack of insulin in the cells, then insulin does not lower your blood sugar as it should, and the glucose level because of this remains slightly elevated. In addition, your liver produces a lot of new sugar, this happens with diabetes in  This is one of the reasons why blood sugar remains high. Although you don't eat sugar, the body itself produces it in the morning, it is higher, this is called the dawn phenomenon. All this is due to glucanaudication, the production of new glucose. You need to understand that if you have diabetes, and one C does not immediately drop to normal, you just need to be patient and continue here. It takes more time, it can take weeks, months, usually not years, but at the end of the video, I will show you how to speed up the process. Considering all this, one of the best indicators that the process is going on, that you are in ketosis due to the reduction of carbohydrates, that you are not breaking the diet and that your sugar remains at the same level for a long time, this is a loss of appetite. In general, it means that you are burning fat. This is the best indicator that you are on the right track. If a patient came to me during my practice and said nothing works, I am still hungry. I am drawn to that and that's all I knew that his sugar was elevated, I did n't even need to check it. I think many people do not fully understand one thing. You only need a very small amount of carbohydrates or sugar to get you out of ketosis, but for quite a long time, for a couple of days, for two or even three days, even half a glass of wine will be enough. A couple pieces of bread why is this because after leaving phytosis You can't just take it and immediately go back to these, it's easy to get out of ketosis But to enter it, especially at first, you will need a period of two days or even more, so this very cheat day throws you off track and for a long time. And if a person has a day every second day or every third, what result awaits him? Not great, especially if he has diabetes or prediabetes or severe insulin resistance. It is difficult for him to lose weight. And this is exactly what happens with most people. If a person has diabetes, he should also know and this is important. If he has difficulty keeping blood sugar down and giving up carbohydrates, he should at the same time consume enough nutrient-rich foods, foods with phytonutrients, supplements based on natural ingredients such as natural vitamin B1 or natural vitamin C, such as foods such as turmeric, nutrient-rich vegetables. All the phytonutrients in these foods help reduce complications from diabetes. Although his blood glucose will be high, he will at least be able to protect himself from all sorts of side effects of diabetes. It is possible, over time, to reduce the dose of medications, which sometimes have more side effects than the disease itself. And also an analysis for  Blood glucose only measures blood glucose, but most sugars, like table sugar, honey, and corn syrup, contain both glucose and fructose in a ratio of about 50 to 50. Fructose has a very slight effect on blood sugar, but it destroys the liver, acting like alcohol without much effect on blood sugar. Glucose is responsible for this in the sugar. I wanted to mention this because some sugars contain more fructose. Glucose-fructose syrup is a synthetic processed sugar. It does not have phytonutrients and is therefore harmful. But there is an even more harmful sugar: agave syrup. It is a refined product; it is 85 percent fructose. It does not affect blood sugar. It goes straight to the liver and causes the liver to accumulate fat. The liver is forced to deal with fructose the same way it does with alcohol. Why, when a person completely gives up sugar, when he practically does not eat carbohydrates, does blood sugar still remain at some level? Why doesn't it drop to zero? For some functions, the body needs some sugar, but the liver can make all the necessary sugar itself. It doesn't have to come from food to produce it from other sources. So, there will always be a certain amount of sugar in your blood. The problem is that the average person consumes too much sugar. If you take normal blood sugar, approximately 4.44 millimoles per liter, this is 1 teaspoon of sugar, approximately 4 grams of sugar dissolved in all the blood of the whole body. So, if there is no sugar, the body will produce it. If there is excess sugar, but its level in the blood is normal, this means that your insulin is working hard to get rid of it and send it to storage, while your bad cholesterol increases and your liver becomes fatty. So, the test does not say anything about what is happening with your insulin, at least at first. And it does not say anything about sharpening during the days. After all, if you follow everything on weekdays and not on weekends, and do the test on weekdays, then you will not see the full picture. I want to note something about hypoglycemia. Low blood sugar. When thinking about low blood sugar, you can decide that it is low because you do not eat sugar. No, it is low because you eat sugar, because insulin controls sugar and noticing  Sugar increases, insulin forcibly lowers sugar. Let's summarize. First, start consuming more phytonutrients and nutrient-rich foods in your diet. We call this a healthy version of the Theta diet. This will reduce complications from high sugar. 2. Apple cider vinegar diluted in water is very useful to drink throughout the day. It speeds up the process of fighting insulin resistance. Another good remedy is the equivalent of metformin in terms of effect, but without side effects. Start following the diet more strictly. If you want to break the rules, you are breaking them. But only as an experiment to see how you feel. I hope it will take you less time than it took me to become disciplined. Be patient and you will see the results. If you haven't watched my very popular video about blood sugar, which has received millions of views, be sure to watch it. Here is the link.