This is my best weight loss advice all year.  Some people might say this is too simple, so I will explain it from different angles and also show why it is so important.  So here's the advice.  Eat only when you are hungry.  I'll say it again in other words: don't eat until you're hungry.  Do you know how many people eat not because they are hungry, but because they are upset or tired and want more energy.  Many people eat because of some emotions.  And this is a problem because they do not listen to their bodies.  Yes, food is a pleasure, but it is even more pleasant to wait until you are hungry and satisfy your hunger with good food, rather than eating when you are not hungry at all.  Moreover, when the stomach is full, people eat more, apparently checking how much they can fit.  As a result, we train our bodies to associate food with stress relief, happiness, and greater pleasure, and we end up feeling constantly bloated.  And then we wonder why we drink antagonists?  It's just that all of this doesn't fit in the gastrointestinal tract.  And the intestinal microflora has to work twice as hard: the liver, pancreas, gallbladder and stomach also work overtime.  Many people live in such a way that she controls them.  My goal is to help people manage their bodies and especially their nutrition.  What's wrong with eating when you're not hungry?  The main problem is that you raise your insulin.  insulin is a very important hormone and you need to know about it.  It is this that leads to the accumulation of fat.  It is a hormone that removes sugar from the blood.  When you frequently raise your insulin levels, you develop a protective mechanism called insulin resistance. Because of it, insulin no longer works as well as it used to.  80% of the population has insulin resistance, but doctors rarely test for it.  And, of course, this increases the feeling of hunger.  Food itself increases hunger when it sharply raises insulin.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Excess food turns into fat in the waist area and in the liver.  And when space runs out, fat accumulates around the organs.  You can easily check this by looking down.  Do you see your shoes, the result is diabetes and high blood pressure.  And by the way, the worst thing you can ask yourself is, what does my body want tonight? Ask a hungry two-year-old at the store what he wants.  He will collect the sweetest and most harmful food there.  The body is quite primitive and it often does not distinguish between healthy food and unhealthy food. You must do this.  When there is an imbalance in the body and sugar is low, it will not require healthy food.  But if you only eat when you're hungry, then let your body tell you how long to fast, because I think few people realize the benefits of fasting.  You burn your own fat, live on your own fuel.  That is, you eat when you eat nothing.  You eat your own fat.  There are many benefits to fasting. Brain cells grow better, mood improves, cognitive abilities increase, inflammation decreases.  Another positive effect is that you have increased self-control.  In other words, willpower.  Willpower, like muscles, needs to be trained.  Avoid eating until you are hungry.  Let's approach this from the other side and imagine that you are eating some unhealthy food.  Food producers are finding the so-called bliss point. This is the peak of pleasure or the peak of happiness.   That's the purpose of junk food. Food manufacturers spend billions searching for the perfect ratio of sugar, salt and fat to maximize the dopamine rush in the brain, pure pleasure. Even flavorings contain substances designed to trick your brain.  After all, pleasure does not arise in the mouth, but in the brain.  But that's not all.  Millions of dollars are spent on creating the most pleasant mouthfeel and texture possible for food.  The most important task. Sugar enhances sweetness and stimulates dopamine.  Salt improves the taste of food, while modified food starch or corn starch and maltodextrin are responsible for mouthfeel. You didn't forget to press the bell, but there's something that's missing from this junk food.  There is no protein.  What happens when a squirrel is present, but there are other ingredients?  It makes you want to keep eating and not stop.   The fact is that protein is the most filling ingredient in food.  When it is not there, you will not be able to eat enough.  Like an insect or an animal, a human continues to eat until he has enough protein.  And there is something else that is not here.  These are nutrients.  If a food lacks nutrients, you won't get enough from it either. Eat only when you are hungry.  Foods that are rich in nutrients and high in high-quality protein.  Here are the main things you need to pay attention to in order to eat enough and give your body exactly what it needs: nutrients and protein.  This is exactly what is missing from this food chain, which came up with the slogan: "You can have everything, but in moderation."  No.  After eating a little of this, you will be hungry in an hour and a half .  Their other slogan is: there is no such thing as junk food.  Another lie: there is very unhealthy food.  A few more words about the feeling of hunger.  You need to learn to be in harmony with your stomach and your body as a whole throughout the day, and to feel their condition. Upset, anxiety, boredom.  This is not hunger, this is something completely different.  Hunger is a feeling of emptiness in the digestive system, in the stomach or abdomen.   There may even be pain in the gastrointestinal tract or a headache, but don’t let it get to that point.  Don't wait until you become irritable due to low blood sugar or mental problems.  This is not necessary.  And you don’t have to wait until you run out of energy or die of exhaustion.  Just wait until you feel really hungry.  I think you understand what this means.  Then you go and stop when you are full. Don't keep filling your stomach.  But to do this you need to have a good sense of the state of your body.  Yes, sometimes you need to eat beforehand before doing something.  You just don't have to eat just for the sake of eating.  No need to snack.  Many people skip breakfast and wait until lunch.  Eating twice a day is ideal.  I sometimes change my schedule: I have breakfast, lunch, but no dinner.  Or now, for example, it’s 2:00 pm, and I have n’t eaten anything today and I’m not even hungry.  I'll be hungry around 4-5.  I'll only eat once today.  I usually do this in the winter, and the rest of the year I eat twice a day depending on my activity.  I don't need a lot of calories when it's really cold outside.  I don't move enough to burn those calories.  And a couple more tips.  During the day, do not sit idle and make sure that there is nothing around you that will tempt you. Remember that when you fast, you eat your fat and get energy from it.  I'm just trying to change the reason you eat.  After all, too many people eat out of boredom, stress, fatigue and other emotions.  Controlling your diet is a huge achievement.  This increases willpower and the ability to stick to your decisions.  In other words, self-control. Try it and write in the comments what you got.  I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed.  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail.  When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition - this is an important part of a healthy diet.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.