Why is there so much talk about the liver? Is it so important? Do we really need it so much? Yes, we need a healthy liver. The problem is that most people have a fatty liver, but many don’t even know that they have fat in their liver until they do an ultrasound or CT scan and they are shocked. I think the most important thing is to understand the functions and importance of the liver, as well as how to remove fat from the liver. There is an excellent simple way, I will tell you about it. There is a drink that you can drink daily to reduce fat in the liver and it has good scientific evidence. Below I will leave links for each ingredient that I will talk about. The first thing I want to tell you about the liver is that people do not realize that bile is produced in the liver. They think that there is no gallbladder. The gallbladder is just a sac that stores bile. But I want to talk a little about the importance of bile and because the liver produces bile, and the better you understand the work of bile, the more you will appreciate the liver. Bile is like a detergent. It helps break down fat, but what does it even mean to break down fat? Let’s say for example that this fat passes through the digestive tract, and there was fatty food in it, and now it gets into the small intestine.  The intestines and stomach have broken it down to some extent, but now we need the gallbladder to release bile so that it can act on this large clot of fat. The problem is that bile needs help to break it all down. This help is provided by the pancreas. It has the enzyme lipase. Lipid is fat, which means that the enzyme. The problem is that bile needs the help of bile to do its job. Bile, in turn, breaks down fat into small particles to increase the total surface area of ​​the fat particles so that it is easier for the enzyme. That's what bile does: it begins to separate fat into such small particles. Wait, now I'll tear all this into pieces. Now we have a much larger total surface area of ​​fat particles, and it is easier for the enzyme, or lipase, to do its job. Simply put, bile increases the total surface area of fat so that this fat can be digested more thoroughly when it enters the small intestine, where it is absorbed. And with a lack of bile, when the enzyme cannot do its job, you do not get enough vitamin A. The first symptom of vitamin A deficiency is night blindness. When you drive at night, you have poor vision. You have difficulty seeing at night in the dark.  One of the goals of vitamin A is sinus health, immune health, and if your sinuses are seriously bothering you, you probably have a vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A is needed for many other things. Vitamin E deficiency can also affect the heart, causing inflammation in the heart, coronary arteries, which manifests itself in calcium deposits in multiple cholesterol plaques. Although, in principle, all this is trivial, of course, this is sarcasm. Next, vitamin D. If you don't absorb it, this is a big problem because it is needed to relieve pain, lower blood pressure, it is needed to carry calcium into bones, and also for the absorption of calcium in the small intestine. In the absence of vitamin D, the rate of calcium absorption is much lower. With vitamin D, twenty times more calcium is absorbed than without it, resulting in a whole host of calcium problems: bone destruction, sleep problems, and what not. Next, vitamin K1 and K2. With a vitamin K1 deficiency, you easily develop hematomas and bleeding, blood clots poorly, and with a vitamin K2 deficiency, calcium begins to accumulate. There is also fat in the vessels and joints, and it seems that omega-3 fatty acids are necessary to reduce inflammation, and a lack of omega-3 fatty acids causes all kinds of inflammation, arthritis, heart problems, even dementia, since they are involved in brain function. The brain seems to need a lot of omega-3 fatty acids. What else does bile do? It helps get rid of excess cholesterol. Let 's say, for example, you decided to lose weight and started the first diet. Now the fat cells release all these triglycerides and cholesterol. This is what happens inside the fat cells: a combination of triglycerides suitable as an energy source and cholesterol, which cannot be a source of energy. So, we need bile to get rid of excess cholesterol. If you don't have enough bile, since the liver is not working at one hundred percent, you develop gallstones. Gallstones in the gallbladder arise from super-concentrated cholesterol. There is not enough bile to deal with it, so cholesterol crystallizes. When there are stones in the gallbladder, a person needs more bile; he does not necessarily need to lower cholesterol. There are also people taking statins, which  They block cholesterol production. Do you know what bile is made of? Cholesterol is why the risk of gallstones and all other problems increases significantly if a person is on a hundred rubles. Another important function of bile salts is to remove toxins, and now the body suddenly becomes toxic because it cannot remove toxins that enter the liver. The liver's function is not to store toxins, but to break them down into harmless particles. If you cannot break them down, while taking medications and living on planet Earth, it's hard to imagine how many toxic things flood your blood and your entire body. So, we need a well-functioning liver. Another sign of fatty liver is that it becomes heavy and increases in size and no longer fits in the space allotted to it. On the right side, stagnation occurs and pressure is applied to the right side of the neck, from here to the shoulder, and your shoulder hurts. Tension in the right trapezius muscle can cause a feeling of fullness on the right side under the ribs. People say I need to cleanse my gallbladder, but no, they need to get rid of fat in the liver. This is a little different from cleansing anything else. I'll explain later.  Another important function of the liver is the formation of thyroid hormones in D4 and VT3. An unhealthy liver cannot convert these hormones. You may have enough hormones, but they are not activated because they are converted. 80 percent of all active forms of thyroid hormones, T3, are made in the liver. If liver function is impaired, 70-60 or 50 percent of the hormone is converted, and you start to think, " Why do I suddenly have problems with the thyroid?" Where did they even come from? The problem is not in the thyroid but in the liver, in the conversion. This is important. Another important function of the liver is to soften the excess of some sex hormones, estrogen and testosterone. It is not healthy to have excess testosterone or estrogen. Without proper liver function, you will not be able to produce proteins to soften these hormones. Problems arise like polycystic ovary syndrome in women caused by excess androgens. Even men experience excess estrogen. All sorts of problems with the mammary glands, low testosterone, and so on arise. Since I have talked a lot about bile, I want to mention some other symptoms. Helping you understand if you have a bile deficiency 1 do you have problems digesting fats when you eat fat does bloating occur is a sign that there is not enough bile is it not light is your bile, say pale or gray, does it float does it stain the toilet this may mean a lack of bile you find that after eating you took it out and you perhaps this is because you do not repent of eating fats they are absorbed and the signal does not go to the brain well that's it I'm full this may mean that you need more bile if you feel nauseous you have indigestion or bloating these are also signs bloating and belching are also classic signs of a lack of bile now you have the basic knowledge of the liver and the importance of bile bile is very important so that fat does not accumulate in the liver and everything you do to increase bile reserves will help you get rid of fat in the liver some take purified bile salts in the description there is a link to details but today I want to discuss a very simple cocktail that you can drink to reduce fat in the liver I want you Did you know that following a ketogenic diet along with intermittent fasting can reduce liver fat by half in just two weeks? If you haven't watched the video, the link is below. I just wanted to give you the basics first because with fatty liver, it's important to follow a ghetto with intermittent fasting. But this cocktail in question is very simple. Anyone can make it to fight liver fat, and there's a serious scientific basis behind it. The ingredients are simple. Take gale, take blueberries, and take kefir. Take gale and blueberries. Take organic ones and keep them in the freezer. After freezing, they're easier to chop. Take a blender, pour in 2 cups of frozen body. You can tear it into pieces, and put 2 cups like that. The body is cold, it crumbles better and tastes better. Then add 1 cup of blueberries. Blueberries contain a substance called quercetin, and gale also contains quercetin. This is an ideal weapon against fatty liver. Not to mention that it's needed for many aspects of health, including strengthening the immune system. But quercetin is  An incredible phytonutrient effective against liver fat in the body, blueberries have many substances capable of removing fatty substances from the liver and helping it function. So, take two cups of frozen kale in a blender. Add a cup of frozen blueberries, pour a glass of water, and add a glass of whole, full-fat kefir. Don't use flavored or sweetened kefir. Use organic, if possible. Grass-fed kefir is possible. Whole, plain kefir will provide the necessary probiotics to remove fat from the liver. So, water, kefir, and blueberries. Mix everything in a blender for a couple of minutes, mix well, and drink it all in one gulp. It's very tasty and very effective for reducing liver fat. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver-type body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there. After all, this is every day in combination with a healthy keto diet. If you haven't watched my videos on how to reduce liver fat in two weeks, here's the link.