It's me again and today I want to tell you about the best weed that can potentially replace all your medications. It's cool, but of course, talk to your doctor before following these tips. This is just food for thought, but this is a very strong plant that has taken over your entire lawn and garden beds and which can bring enormous benefits even if you don't take medications. And no, it's not marijuana. The first useful property is that this plant can act as a powerful diuretic, that is, it helps get rid of fluid retention, swelling of the ankles and feet, and it helps lower blood pressure. Pressure also decreases because this plant contains a lot of potassium. You need to know that with a potassium deficiency, pressure naturally rises because potassium is a physiological relaxant for the cardiovascular system, and with a lack of potassium, all kinds of heart problems arise, including pressure. This herb contains a lot of potassium and many other minerals, especially magnesium. This herb also reduces insulin resistance. It underlies 70-75 percent of all health problems, which means this plant can remove fat from the liver, which means that it helps stabilize blood sugar. This plant can  Normalize blood pressure also because excess insulin with insulin resistance makes the vessels hardened and rigid. With excess insulin, a popliteal Baker's cyst is possible. If you have a Baker's cyst, you can say goodbye to it by using this herb. Another interesting and amazing beneficial property of this herb is that it has the potential to reduce the reproduction of one virus, namely HIV. It slows down the reproduction of this virus. This herb can also prevent liver fibrosis. So if you have a fatty liver, if you have an inflamed liver, that is, it is heading towards cirrhosis, the formation of scar tissue, this herb can slow this down. The following beneficial property I will explain what 5 alpha reductase is, but this herb can reduce the level of 5 alpha reductase, which can then reduce the level of DHT, and this helps prevent hair loss, alopecia, and also reduce the size of the septum. With excess DHT, women may experience facial hair and hair loss, so this is relevant for both men and women. I will name this herb very soon.  Inhibit aromatase, what does this mean? This is another aromatase enzyme blocker that reduces excess estrogen levels. So if you are a man and your breasts are growing, hair is falling out on your shins, or your voice is getting higher, and so on, this herb will help you cope with this. It also helps women with excess estrogen, estrogen dominance, normalizes estrogen levels. This herb also stimulates the production of bile, which helps eliminate bloating, prevents the formation of gallstones, helps get rid of constipation and many other digestive problems. So what kind of herb is this? The leaves are dandelion, not just the leaves, but the whole dandelion. The root is also used, and it can be roasted and made into coffee, an alternative coffee that tastes very similar to real coffee. The leaves are very bitter. Add them to a salad. You should probably dilute these bitter leaves with other leaves because they are very bitter. They are not easy to eat, but this is a very useful addition to your daily serving of greens. You can eat the flowers until they are yellow. You can add them to greens or brew them. I will leave a couple of recipes below for this herb. Everyone is trying to destroy it. It's interesting because it has learned to survive in a variety of conditions, and to achieve such resilience, it has created very powerful natural substances that we can use for our health. This herb is probably much healthier than most vegetables you eat. Its roots can penetrate the soil very deeply, up to 679 meters, extract minerals and bring them to the surface. If there are no minerals in the upper layers of the soil, the roots penetrate deeper and extract them from there. So, by eating dandelion greens, you get many more nutrients than from most vegetables whose roots do not penetrate so deeply. People have been using dandelions for a very long time. They were eaten by the Romans, Egyptians, and the Chinese. In many cultures, even in India, people drink dandelion tea for many ailments. Dandelions grow right on your lawn. Of course, don't eat them. If they have been sprayed with pesticides, wash them thoroughly. I even recommend growing them in the garden so that there are many of them and you can eat them regularly. Dandelion leaves are one of the most beneficial plants for the liver after milk thistle. A lot of health problems are associated with the liver, so it is extremely useful to include this plant in your diet. If you haven't seen my video about milk thistle, I think it's worth watching now. Here it is.