This alone can replace our entire healthcare system I don't mean emergency care and all that stuff I'm talking about treating chronic diseases I looked at this topic from different angles and thought that the most useful thing that can be done for health is available to everyone you will lose the most weight from this it will fix a stubborn metabolism sometimes there is a so -called plateau you lose 10 kilograms but then the body refuses this thing will fix this problem this natural therapy can help the brain and restore brain tissue it helps grow new brain cells improves mood and cognitive function this therapy affects mitochondria like training guess what it is if you thought about fasting You guessed it If you fast then your medical costs will be significantly reduced and you don't starve your body you just control when it eats and when it doesn't eat when I first learned about fasting I had no idea about this I thought it doesn't change anything it doesn't change the calories I eat until I started looking at it in more detail from a historical point of view How it developed  People are the source of more than 80% of diseases - This is insulin resistance, all you need to know is that excess insulin brings problems to the body. Fasting solves this problem. You have genes in your body that can fix almost anything, but the question is how to turn on these genes for this to happen. There are certain activators, something you can control. Lifestyle, diet, fasting. It is the lack of food that activates many of the survival genes. During fasting, the body switches to fat and ketone burning mode. There will come a time when the body adapts to burning ketones. It occurs in three days. I am often asked how women should fast. There is a good book, the link below is called Fast Like a Girl. Since women have a menstrual cycle, they need to slightly change the fasting schedule. In the book, Dr. Mindy Peltz writes that as soon as the period begins and hormones begin to accumulate, between the first and tenth days, you need to fast as much as possible because there are enough hormones in the body to be able to fast. But by the twentieth day, between the twentieth day and until the very end of the period, you should not fast. The body is already going through stress and there is no need to influence hormones with fasting. But how  Just got my period, the next 10 days are over, you can fast again and snacks, I don't recommend just eat three times a day, that should be enough. This was a brief summary of that book. Read it yourself. The link will be below. Next, hormones are one of the raw materials for hormones. Cholesterol is converted into steroid hormones. Of all the hormones, progesterone is perhaps one of the most effective and best protectors of the brain. With low progesterone levels, the brain is in danger, so you need to provide the body with enough raw materials for it. By raw materials, I mean cholesterol. A lot of cholesterol is found in egg yolks, in seafood, for example, in shrimp. The liver also contains cholesterol, as does fatty cheese. You also need to monitor your stress levels. Because if it is high during menopause, the adrenal glands will begin to steal raw materials from progesterone and other hormones. Therefore, it is very important to reduce stress levels. There are two cofactors that are very important and which many people receive: magnesium and zinc. What you need to know about magnesium is that most people have a deficiency. It cannot be measured by tests because it is not in the blood. It is in the cells. Of course, it can be measured.  Sophisticated and expensive methods, but most doctors, if not all, do not use them. You need to take magnesium glycinate before bed. Take at least 400 mg. As for zinc, you need at least 50 mg, but zinc can be obtained from seafood, especially from oysters. A couple of rules for fasting: the main rule is don't eat if you're not hungry. Hold out a little longer. If you fast for 36 hours or even three days, the body will begin to produce immune stem cells, and that's great. So, first, let the body itself tell you how long to fast. If you're fasting, it's time to eat. Everyone can handle intermittent fasting. But with long-term fasting, let the body tell you whether it works. It all depends on your goal. If you want to lose weight, you need to fast longer. There is also an opinion, and you may have heard about it, that cortisol increases on low-carb diets, but there is no convincing evidence that cortisol increases during fasting or on low-carb diets. There is a study on rats. Yes, if something worked on rats, it can work on people.  but this is already from the realm of opinions and not facts. I have more than 8,000 success stories on my site about how people did this and got rid of drug addiction, lost weight, improved sleep, got rid of inflammation. How can I explain this? I talked to people who have been on ketogenic and intermittent fasting for years and not a single one told me that their stress level suddenly increased and related problems arose. Fasting, by the way, makes cells sensitive to insulin. This alone will not allow cortisol to grow because insulin now works and becomes effective. There are two types of fasting that I want to talk about. This is water fasting. When you simply do not eat food and dry fasting. When you do not eat food and do not drink water. I read about dehydration genes. When you dehydrate yourself to a certain level, a chain of certain genes is activated. I began to study these genes. Many of their functions are associated with hydration, providing the body with water and preventing the removal of fluid, but they also allow you to lose weight intensively. It may be hard to believe, but fat can be converted into water if you take half a kilo of fat and burn it with oxygen. half a liter of water does not mean that fat is saturated with water, it’s just that fat turns into water when burned, this is very strange, but it’s true, read it yourself, the point is not to dehydrate the body, but to control it. When you drink water, thanks to this, more antioxidants are produced in the brain, autophagy and cellular cleansing are enhanced, toxins are better removed from the liver. What I do now? I change the types of fasting from time to time. But before, I fasted from dinner until the next day, skipped breakfast, ate lunch at 2 or 3 o’clock in the afternoon, and then I ate dinner. Now I eat breakfast in the morning, sometimes at 9:30, sometimes at 10, sometimes at 11. Then at 1 o’clock I have lunch, sometimes I have lunch at 2. I also eat more when I need more energy, that is, in the first half of the day, at night I don’t need this energy and I don’t want to go to bed with a full stomach. If you are fasting and your hair is falling out or your period is delayed, then you need to carefully check your diet. Perhaps you don’t have enough protein. I mean high-quality protein. It is found in grass-fed red meat.  When fattening, focus more on it so that the body receives amino acids, as well as B vitamins and trace elements, everything necessary for hair growth. If you do not consume sea salt during fasting, your sleep will worsen. Don't forget about salt. Most people need about a level teaspoon of sea salt a day. Sleep is very, very important. If you don't get enough sleep, you will feel hungry. Other people cannot really sleep during fasting. In this case, you can take Melatonin. Increase the dose gradually to 5 and then to 10 mg per day. Take it at night. Now you know a little more about fasting. If you want to know what you need to eat, you are invited here to a program on healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn't matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down. This program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available. There are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are lots of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter  Barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition, it is an important part of a healthy whale. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It is not only about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life. L