Today we'll talk about the most dangerous carbohydrate in the world.  And this is not sugar, it is much worse.  This carbohydrate causes a very strong rise in blood sugar, much stronger than sugar, but it is not even considered a sugar.  It is a carbohydrate, but not a sugar.  It can lead to type 2 diabetes: fatty liver, insulin resistance, a precursor to type 2 diabetes. This carbohydrate creates major problems with blood sugar, leads to the accumulation of visceral fat, fat around the organs, harms beneficial microorganisms and at the same time feeds pathogens in the intestines. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. This carbohydrate has a powerful inflammatory effect.  It creates inflammation not only in the joints, but also in the intestines. If you are concerned about bad cholesterol, small LDL particles that can damage blood vessels from the inside, then this carbohydrate accelerates this process.  The advertisement says that it contains zero sugar, and it costs only 45 cents per kilogram.  Here's a whole bucket of this stuff, 11k, pretty heavy.  The price is 5 bucks because it is subsidized.  That is, taxpayers pay for it in advance in order to then buy it at a low price.  OK.  And why do we need this carbohydrate anyway?  It has no health benefits.  This is a filler.  It increases the volume and mass of products.  People consume on average between 30 and 110 kg of this stuff annually. It turns out that it is produced in quantities of 9.5 million tons. every year.  It is found in many gluten-free products, in baby food, in various baked goods, and in the diets of many athletes.  Guess what it is? This is starch.  But not just any starch.  This is not the potato starch your grandmother fed you.  We are talking about industrial starch. These are modified food starch, corn starch, maltodextrin. But what is starch?  Look, this is starch.  I have some sugar here.  And starch is sugar molecules that are linked together in a chain.  But when it was modified in the lab, its protective shell was removed, it was refined, and it was damaged so much that those bonds between sugar molecules became very weak.  As a result, when you eat it, it quickly turns into sugar.  It's even worse than glucose. Industrial starch is not starch from potatoes or other vegetables.  This is the powder. And this powder is extremely highly refined.  What does it mean?  It was mechanically ground to become very fine and then bleached.  But if you try to eat it with a spoon, you probably won't like it. It's not very sweet, unless you live on it.  After all, if you live on it, the same can be said about bread.  It's not sweet until you chew it a little.  Then the bonds break, the sugar comes out and the sweet taste appears.  I will name the chemicals that are used in starch modification.  You need to know this.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com.   The first chemical is called sodium metaphosphate.  It is associated with kidney stress and vascular calcification.  It can accelerate bone demineralization and speed up the aging of blood vessels.  Another vinelocitat.  It is considered a probable carcinogen.  Next is sodium hypochlorite.  This is bleach or chlorine. Interestingly, its use in tap water, which is a carcinogen, is regulated, but its use in food starch is not.  Overdose leads to damage to the kidneys, tooth enamel, and mucous membranes. And here's another chemical.  It is widely used in baby food and drinks.  When there is too much of it, it can disrupt mitochondria function.  So the point is this . All of the listed chemicals are subject to self-regulation. They are labeled as GRA, which means generally recognized as safe (GRS).  But how can they be safe? After all, they haven't even undergone long-term testing.  It's no wonder we have chronic diseases.  Look at this packaging.  Carbohydrates 16 g, of which 1 g is fiber and 0 g is sugar.  Where is the rest?   The 15g carbohydrates are not indicated on the product packaging.  This is why starch is sort of invisible.  You don't see it. Unless you just read the ingredients and realize that modified food starch, corn starch, and wheat starch are all industrial starches.  These are precisely those highly modified carbohydrates.  They are directly responsible for the complications of diabetes, plaques in the brain in Alzheimer's disease, and fibrosis or scar tissue in the liver.  And one more important point, I won’t name this term, I wrote it down here.  It is a by-product of glucose, which is extracted from starch.  It is classified as an aldehyde.  You may have never heard of it, but it is used to embalm corpses.  And there is one more substance that I will not name.  You just need to understand that it is a toxin.  And it forms after you drink.  The next day during a hangover, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. Take junk food.  What does it consist of?  These are sugar, starch and seed oils.  Right?  But when you heat a mixture of starch and seed oil, you get what amounts to a toxic soup that is lethal to body tissue.  Few people eat starch in its pure form.  It comes to us from various products, such as chips.  Potato chips are seed oils plus refined industrial starch. If you go to the snack aisle at the store, you'll see different varieties of chips and other crunchy snacks.  All of these are essentially seed oils and starch.  The chips contain 65% starch and 30% oil.  What about crackers?  For example, these contain 70% starch and 25% oils from seeds.  Flakes 80% starch.  Sometimes there are seed oils in there , but mostly sugar.  However, oils are also used.  What's in our bread? 75% starch, maybe a little sugar and 15% seed oil.  Pasta also contains starch and 15% oils.  French fries.  80% starch and 15% oils.  It's amazing how long many of us have focused on sugar.  But starch is actually consumed in much larger quantities, and it is even more deadly. Let me remind you, I am not picky about any starch.  I don't mean potatoes from the garden or other starchy vegetables. We're talking about industrial starches, like those in mashed potatoes, that are heavily processed.  These are two very different things. Boil the potatoes or add boiling water to the potato flakes from the box.  Someone will say: "But I don't eat cornstarch." But at the same time, they have cookies or something similar on the shelf, and they have modified corn starch in them.  But they don't read the ingredients and don't know about it. And someone will say: “But it’s all organic.”  But look how much starch and seed oils there are. Equivalent to inorganic. It's amazing, I recently bought sausages like these at the store .  The third ingredient is modified food starch.  in sausages.  Why is he here?  This is a filler.  It adds volume. The dictionary says that food is something that is eaten to maintain life, to promote growth, and to repair tissue.  But do the ingredients in ultra-processed foods, junk food, and industrial starches do this?  No, they do not correspond to the biological meaning of the word food.  They are not food, but they are considered food because of all sorts of loopholes, such as the legal meaning of the word food.  This is a separate conversation.  I'll make another video about this .  So all this is sold and called food.  The three main ingredients in most junk food found in ultra-processed foods.  It's sugar, usually artificial.  Its share is from 5 to 20%. seed oils from 20 to 35% and starches 55-75%. This is a large part of ultra-processed food.   Did you remember to press the bell? Unfortunately, children get 65% of their calories from ultra-processed foods.  And 25 kg of this is industrial starch.  Teenagers get 70% of calories.  from ultra-processed foods.  This is 48 kg of industrial starch. And this is a very conservative estimate.   Most likely, these values ​​are higher.  I only found one reference to this. Adults get 55% of their calories from ultra-processed foods, including 30 kg of industrial starch.  It's hard to believe that we get most of our calories from ultra-processed foods.