Today we'll talk about the best herb that you can find in your yard and which can help the liver get rid of inflammation and potentially even cope with cirrhosis, but first I'll show you the liver, this is a healthy liver. This is a fatty liver, fat becomes inflamed and turns into scar tissue. This tissue is called fibrosis. Fibrosis, if left untreated, turns into cirrhosis. Then comes the last stage of liver disease, cancer may occur, requiring a transplant. Whatever the stage of liver disease you have, this herb can help you greatly. It's free. It has been used for thousands of years. It was known in ancient China, Egypt, and Rome. It is a very powerful weed. By the way, this is also an herb. This herb that I'll tell you about today has many properties that can help not only the liver. In England, people called this herb " wet the bed" because it is an effective diuretic. This herb can significantly reduce fat deposits in the liver. It suppresses the accumulation of lipids. I mean triglycerides and cholesterol. It can lower blood glucose levels and also lower insulin levels and help with insulin resistance. It improves the insulin sensitivity index, which is called ho and if your liver is damaged, for example, due to oxidative stress, then this will turn into inflammation and you need to get rid of it before it turns into cirrhosis. This herb also improves the outflow of bile from the liver. The liver produces bile and therefore this herb can prevent the formation of gallstones. If you have more bile, you will have fewer digestive problems such as bloating and bacterial overgrowth syndrome. You will also be able to better absorb fat-soluble vitamins. These are vitamins A, D, E, and K. Well, can you guess what kind of herb this is? The answer is Dandelions. Damn. Dandelions that have filled the entire garden and vegetable garden and even break through cracks in the asphalt. Dandelion greens can be bought in the store and added to salads. They are quite difficult to chew. I recommend adding them little by little to other greens. No need to do Seven glasses of salad made purely from dandelion greens. You can even eat the flowers of dandelions, they can also be eaten, of course. Dandelions are bitter and sometimes people stew them to soften the greens and remove the bitterness.  My advice is not to cook them for too long, just steam them a little and add them to a salad. Sometimes people fry them and make something like coffee. In general, dandelions are worth keeping in mind, especially if you have liver problems. Dandelions are one of the best remedies not only for problems associated with the liver, but also for many others, for example, kidney stones, inflammation and problems with blood sugar. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestion problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.