Let's talk about why salt is good for the immune system. There is one interesting substance.  This one is called sodium hypochlorite.  This is the chemical name for chlorine.  I don't know if you know, but two types of immune cells produce chlorine to kill germs: neutrophils and macrophages.  Both of them belong to phagocyte cells.  This means that they eat bacteria, viruses, fungi, mold, and candida.  This is what's happening.  They suck in the microbe, envelop it and fill it with chemicals, including bleach.  Do you know what the body produces it from ?  From chlorine, which it takes, including from sodium chloride, that is, from table salt.  If there is not enough salt in the body, this mechanism, which is part of the immune cells' arsenal, becomes very unreliable, meaning your defenses become weaker.  Hypochlorite or bleach is a broad-spectrum bactericidal agent. Basically, it poisons the microbes, killing bacteria in milliseconds, and it's much more powerful than the other chemical these cells use, which is hydrogen peroxide.  And by the way, if immune cells encounter a harmful form of Candida, they will start flooding the body with hypochlorite to kill the Candida.  By some estimates, they can use 70-80% of their chlorine supply to produce more hypochlorite.  And here's what's interesting.  When I was practicing, I noticed that patients who had candida or candida overgrowth would have a very strong odor, similar to bleach.   Most likely, the immune system was trying to destroy Candida. And by the way, if you have Candida, the most important thing, of course, is not to take chlorine, but to eat salt so that the body can produce more chlorine.  It is also very important to reduce carbohydrates to a minimum, or even to zero, because the candida lives off sugar and glucose.  Now let's look at what leads to salt deficiency.  Of course, the first thing is a lack of salt in the diet. You need from one to one and a half level teaspoons .  That's how much salt you need per day if you don't exercise.  If you sweat a lot , you need more salt, because electrolytes, especially sodium and chlorine, are excreted with sweat.  On the tetogenic diet, you need more sodium to avoid keto flu.  Sodium deficiency can cause many flu-like symptoms, but it is not actually the flu.  There is no infection, but sodium deficiency leads to weakness and muscle pain, headache, lethargy, and dizziness.   There may not be a runny nose, but everything else is fine.  And when you switch from burning sugar to burning fat and producing ketones, you lose a lot of water weight, and with that water comes sodium.  As for immunity, it needs the second component of salt.  He needs chlorine.  I think chlorine is rarely emphasized. They talk about sodium all the time.  But chlorine cannot be ignored .  It is also needed to produce hydrochloric acid, which kills pathogens that enter the stomach. And, of course, chlorine is needed by the immune system for the functioning of phagocytes. You may experience salt deficiency if you have diarrhea, vomiting, take diuretics, or consume large amounts of potassium without salt.  Even if you eat 10 cups of greens, you may still have a strong craving for salty foods.  It is certainly necessary to maintain a balance of salt and potassium.  If the adrenal glands are depleted, a little more salt is needed.  If you drink too much water, you dilute the electrolytes in your body, particularly sodium chloride, which is salt.  There is a condition called hyponatremia.  This is low sodium in the blood.  This happens because you guzzle water by the liter. You need to drink enough, but if you overdo it, you will experience a lack of sodium and even chlorine.  If you do endurance sports, participate in marathons, triathlons, and so on, you definitely need a lot more salt.  An American football player can sweat out six teaspoons of salt in a single summer practice. So the amount of salt depends on the level of activity and sweating.  In general, I wanted to talk about how important salt is for immunity and for preventing keto flu.  I always recommend using sea salt, and preferably pink Dimalay.  Thanks for watching.