One cup of this drink before bed will reduce your waistline.  If your waistline isn't getting any smaller, despite following a low-carb diet, exercising, or doing other things, then this video is for you.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. Many people focus on dieting to lose weight.  They reduce the amount of calories and carbohydrates in food, but sometimes it doesn't work.  I want to tell you something interesting.  Humans have seven fat-burning hormones.  They are activated by things like exercise, diet, and so on.  But there are two more hormones that counteract them.  These two hormones are dominant.  In the presence of these two hormones, no fat burning hormone works, because these two hormones are much more powerful and their influence is much greater.  The first one is called cortisol.  People think of cortisol as just a stress hormone, but it's actually a fat-storing hormone as well. Especially at night.  Yes, that's exactly it.  When you sleep at night , you typically go through four waves of sleep.  These are circadian rhythms.  You fall asleep first in light sleep, and then in the deep delta sleep phase. It is in the deep phase that most people burn fat.  By the way, the lowest level of cortisol, the stress hormone, is observed at 2:00 a.m., in the middle of the night.  This gives the body the ability to burn fat, repair and heal.  If cortisol is too high at night, then no matter how many fat-burning hormones are released , they will not work.  In other words, cortisol undoes everything you do to lose weight, especially around your waist.  But today I will give you a very simple remedy that you need to drink before going to bed.  And you won't have to go to bed with high cortisol levels after a stressful day. It will go down, you'll be able to burn more fat and wake up with a smaller belly .  After all, most fat is burned while you sleep.  If you sleep, so you understand, during training or dietary nutrition, fat is not burned.  You send signals in the form of hormones to the body, which creates this effect.  But only after a day or even two days, and provided that you are in deep sleep.  I knew one woman, she ate perfectly.  And in the gym over the course of a year, I lifted a total of almost 1.00 tons.  And how much weight do you think she lost in a year?  Half a kilo. Why?  Because high cortisol was preventing her from sleeping and getting the benefits of all this, from training and proper nutrition.  So it's not just about diet and hard training. It is necessary to have a good understanding of how the hormones that interfere work.  progress.   The second hormone you most likely already know is insulin. insulin is a fat-storing hormone.  In the presence of insulin, all these fat-burning hormones will not work.  These two hormones can be said to work together and sabotage your progress if they are elevated.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. As for cortisol, when it rises, it mobilizes sugar.  Sugar begins to be produced from protein.  Sometimes this protein is taken from the muscles of the legs or buttocks and converted into sugar, which is fuel.  This is a survival mechanism.  As a result, insulin also increases.   An increase in one hormone leads to an increase in the second.  Another problem with high cortisol levels that aren't reduced before bed is that sleep deprivation can lead to cravings for unhealthy foods the next day.  You wake up with high cortisol, you haven't gotten enough sleep and you feel stressed.  The next point is very important for you, so if you get distracted, come back and listen carefully.   It often happens that people tell you: “You just need to have willpower, you need to be disciplined.” Well, willpower and discipline are empty words when you are stressed, you know this from those around you and from yourself, when a person is stressed, both willpower and discipline are completely switched off. Therefore, it is very important to reduce stress and keep cortisol levels as low as possible if you want to lose weight around your waist.  It is also important to get a good night's sleep.  Now let's move on to what needs to be done and what kind of drink it is.  Our goal is to lower cortisol as much as possible before bed because cortisol is the hormone that keeps you awake and also prevents you from burning fat.  But you need the right hormones to work and nothing to interfere with them.  So, let's move on to the action plan.  Here's what you need to do.  An hour before going to bed, drink a cup of lemon balm tea .  Melissa tea is an amazing drink.  This is how it is useful.  It contains a phytonutrient, rosmarinic acid, which increases what is known as GABA.  GABA is a substance in the brain that inhibits the sympathetic nervous system and has an anti-anxiety effect. When I drink this tea, I feel much calmer, as if I have finally exhaled and calmed down.  And it helps you sleep soundly.  If you want to enhance this effect and make the drink more powerful, take one scoop of magnesium glycinate powder and add it to this drink.  For what?  The fact is that most people are magnesium deficient, to the point of experiencing muscle tension and spasms or restless leg syndrome, and they sleep poorly due to a lack of magnesium.  Magnesium has a calming effect. It can directly lower cortisol and increase GABA levels.  I have already spoken about her role.  Magnesium glycinate can also increase insulin sensitivity. After all, problems with insulin are also possible due to cortisol or other reasons. So, at least drink lemon balm tea. To enhance the effect, add a measuring spoon of magnesium glycinate to it and drink it an hour before bed.  This will lower your cortisol levels and allow you to not only sleep more soundly, but also get better quality and longer sleep, 7-8 hours or more to get the full benefits of sleep.  And by the way, that woman who lifted 1.00 tons but slept poorly, as soon as she solved her sleep problem, she started losing weight.  I also convinced her to cut down on unnecessary training.  I had to convince her that it wasn't just about training and proper diet. You have to look at the whole picture.  Number two. No snacking, especially before bed and at night. Not only will this disrupt your sleep, causing you to get up more often during the night to go to the bathroom.  The thing is that when you eat something, your insulin levels rise, and you don't need that.  You need intermittent fasting.  This is extremely important.  And no more liquids an hour and a half before bed, except for the drink I told you about. Otherwise, you will be running to the toilet at night and won’t get enough sleep.  Try to get your fluid intake in the first half of the day. Number three, of course, reduce your carbohydrate intake.  After all, we want to lower the level of insulin, both hormones, cortisol and insulin.  Number four.  Daily walks in the sun. This will help relieve stress, and the sun will bring many benefits, increasing serotonin, reducing stress, and providing vitamin D. And the infrared light from the sun will help you sleep better by increasing melatonin levels.  There are many benefits to this fourth point.  I do this even in winter, every day without exception, because it is very important.  And number five. You write down all your problems and unfinished projects.  on a piece of paper or in a notebook before going to bed.  After all, you don’t need to go to bed and solve all these problems in your head.  This is also related to cortisol. Most people spend all day solving problems, but when they go to bed, they need to turn it all off.  Sometimes it's better to get it all out of your head and onto paper. If you have done this, but continue to think about problems, take your notebook again.  And write more until all this leaves your head.  All this will turn off and you will be able to fall asleep.  Sometimes it's worth taking B1, natural vitamin B1. It helps too, but generally if you don't eat a lot of carbohydrates, your need for B1 will be much lower. So now you have a plan.  It will help you wake up in the morning feeling a little thinner.  I also suggest you download a one-page document with my daily activities.  I worked on this text for a long time.  Print it out, put it on your fridge and do it all. This will help you.  Finally, I want to show you what else you can do to reduce cortisol and stress levels in your life.  Here is a course where we go into detail about this. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is linked to cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be a cause of excess weight.  In this course, I will show you how to remove stress from your body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity, so there's a gift waiting for you in the package.   A unique course on how to strengthen your immune system. I'll tell you how immunity works and what reduces it.  I will also give a list of the best means to strengthen it.  I'm waiting for you on the course.