There is a belief that fatty liver is an isolated problem, as if it is a local phenomenon not associated with other organs. In fact, this is not true. If you have a fatty liver and other organs are also susceptible to it, it would be better to call fatty liver obesity of internal organs, since fat spreads to the muscles, the heart and blood vessels, the pancreas, the kidneys and other organs. What are the consequences of this? The more fat you have in your organs, the worse they function, and they can also become inflamed. For example, the more fat in the liver, the less it can produce bile, the worse the liver can convert harmful substances into harmless particles. It will send less of certain proteins into the blood, which will lead to severe attic inflammation. There will be a shortage of coagulating factors in the legs. Bleeding and complications will occur with minor bruises. One of the best indicators of fatty liver is an ALT enzyme test in the blood. If the ALT is high in the blood test, you most likely have a fatty liver. Also, pay attention to high triglyceride levels. With fatty liver, the body does not have the required amount of bile salts and the resources to produce them in order to send and  Break down triglycerides, get rid of them. Another serious problem. 20 percent of people with fatty liver disease eventually develop cirrhosis. This is tissue scarring, a very serious disease that creates many problems, including even the need for a liver transplant. Is it possible to get rid of fatty liver disease? If you haven't seen my video on how to reduce liver fat by half in two weeks, I'll leave a link below. You need to switch to a low-carb diet. It's not the insulin level that matters. When insulin decreases, another hormone, glucagon, comes into play. Glucagon quickly burns fat by converting it to ketone, and glucagon is activated by a decrease in insulin. For this, you need a low-carb diet. Thank you for watching. See you in the next video. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems. Then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.