 az Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra Terra 43 kg. 40% of the weight loss is not fat, but fat. So you have to break 14 kg of fat, but also 9 kg of fat. With the loss of 9 kg of fat, you will not be able to get less fat, but your 8-cylinds will become a engine of gas. So, after 68 weeks you will stop to kill a Zempik, but in the months, as shown in the test, you will get 2 3 of the weight, which you will lose. But what should you be afraid of? What comes back is almost one only weight. The weight loss is not back. You weigh 105 kg. Your weight is up on 8 kg. But all these kg of weight loss, not weight loss. So that's how much the result of this? The weight loss of a human body becomes even slower than the beginning. So they say that they will now be able to kill a Zempik to life. And it's 1000 dollars a month. A Zempik, in the same way, is using a system that already has in the body. It should work but it doesn't work. I will show you how to activate this system that you already have. But before we talk about this system, I want to show you a very simple and powerful method. You can start to do it already with the following method of eating. So, first thing you can do is start to eat the blood with a clenet, with a five-footer, and then the four-footer. You can start to eat the blood with a five-footer. You can start to eat the blood with a five-footer, and then the five-footer. You can start to eat the blood with a five-footer, and then the two-footer. You can start to eat the blood with a five-footer. You can start to eat the blood with a five-footer. I don't know any additional additional, which would give it like this effect. It's a simple way. And it's useful to anyone else. Now I'll show you how it works with a system called GPP-1. In our system of the system, there are special cells called L-clets. And these cells are small keys or buttons. And they can press different things to create a increase of the production of the hormone GPP-1. The cellulose is called GPP-1. The cellulose is called Zempic. It's a simple use of the hormone GPP-1 in the system of the body. And it's not just a presser on one of these buttons. It's a maintainer of the body in a single day. And the hormone GPP-1 is one of the main functions. It's one of the main functions. It's one of the main functions. It's one of the main functions. It's one of the main functions. So if there are problems with the blood with a sugar in the body, it helps them to be able to get rid of it. And the third function is to be able to get rid of it. So the food is not so fast. It's one of the main functions that the body uses to maintain the weight. But here is what the problem is. In our time, most people have broken the system. People have problems with insulin. And food is too fast. It's a good thing. You will become a good guy. You will become a good guy. You will become a good guy. If you will become a good guy, the platform will not remind you of the new videos. With this simple action, you will become a future generation of the channel. And we will continue. A Zempik makes a very powerful effect. The system is very powerful, and he is very powerful, and he is very powerful, and he is very powerful, in which the organism never would have been able to produce. So, he has a lot of effect. So the question is, is there a way to fix this system? The answer is yes. I will show you what exactly you need to do. All this is scientific data. The company of Azempica and Vigov has been generated over 20 billion dollars in the same year. There is a lot of money in their actions, but their strategy is not to be treated as a disease, but to be created of a patient. So, the company of the support of Minstrav now recommends people to take these drugs all day. Maybe it is better to take your own body and not pay for 1000 dollars a month for a drug. So, let's see how to activate this system without Azempica. I do not use the scientific name of all these receptors. In this case, I will show them the numbers. The first two receptors, which are called the name of which you need to know, are called short-factor-caps acid cells. The bacteria in the stomach will be fermented and turn it into an acid acid, and this is why the sugar and some short-factor-caps acid cells have the ability to activate these two first buttons. сравнимо ли это со всей системой GPP-1? Нет. This effect is crotchety. But if you have a whole list of the number of cells, you can create a more powerful effect. In this category входят fermented products, fermented foods, such as and salt salt but if you have a salt it will be just a short-factor-caps on one of the buttons. In this category, it is better to eat clenact with every! because the clenact acid cells are much more from the! We will return to the clenact. But we have the number 3, 4 and 5. They activate certain fat, and omega-3. This the is also a salt and salt and also the one of these buttons. Yes, very very very but when I tell you how to press the number 6 and 7, it is a healthy and the and the and active GPP-1. the also GPP-1. And also I found out, that not only active they have the ability to become more in your digestive system, which makes more more to GPP-1. I looked at and found that this is a cell that is a cell that causes significant effect. You don't have to take a cell, but if you decide to take it, take them with the food, so they can activate. Now we will discuss, what exactly the clutches you need to be more short-to-chews and carbohydrates. Can you make bacteria from the salad? Unfortunately, not very much. I'm not saying that you don't need a salad, but it will not give them a number of calories, to activate enough L-cell cells. Why? Because this is a suitable type of bacteria for those bacteria, which create a cell that creates fat cells. This is a food for the cells. But we will return to microflora. It brings a lot of useful for our health, even helps to get a healthy. So many questions, what do I recommend? Of course, I have no clue about the health. I will release my products. But I will release a quality of the ingredients. In the description, you will need a link to the channel. You don't need any any clutches, but a clutches of specific type. Okay? So let's go ahead and go to the list of types of clutches, which can help with these types. So, number one. Inulin – this clutches in the clutches of the clutches and lus. It's a source of the clutches of the clutches of the clutches. Right here. just simply add luk and garlic in the food. So we have this garlic, garlic, garlic-fumper, sparge, artychop, some of the leaves, some of the chia seeds, you can add them in the shake with a kefir or something else. And finally, it's an avocado. But instead of the salad, what do you recommend to use a cup of! One of the way of the cup of may be much more than a large portion of the cup of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of slums of sl Kletchatka kapusty also fits for activation of GPP-1. So I'm going to get a good effect. I would have a minimum of a стол of a cup of kvashenka kapusty with any food. And remember, you eat the milk with kletchatka. So, for example, how do I do? If I eat, say, a pot, I put a pot, I eat them together. Or you can put a pot on the pot, or you can put a pot with a luk. Or you can put a pot with a luk. Or you can eat a pot or a pot with a avocado. Let's see what makes this whole system. Here's what makes this broken system. We have a diabetes, a liver, a liver, we all want to eat. And we have a lot of problems with sugar. But all these things are already past the consequences. They are in the end of the process. And this is what is medicine. This is an incredible deal ofаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєає It is not possible in the cycle of events. Unfortunately, medicine doesn't look at the first reason. It doesn't look at the change of life. And this is a problem with Zempik. He is on the way that is located in the cycle of events. It requires 10, 15, 20 years before he has been developed. So insulin resistance has been used for many years, before you get to the end of this. If we go to the beginning of thisаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєає Plus, thisаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєає Also, I recommend you go to a walk every time after eating. This is not only helps to burn the excess of the sugar, but it also helps to reduce stress. The walkers reduce stress, which means that they help improve the sleep. Fourth and, perhaps, the most important point is only one or two meals of food in the day, and no food for them, especially after the evening and night. After dinner, put a table on the refrigerator, as the kitchen is closed. And finally, if you are ready, it is the training. The training is the best way to maintain the mass mass with age. Remember that the muscles are a metabolic machine. It is your metabolism. If you have good muscles, and they have enough, you have no atrophy, your metabolism will be much healthier, especially with age. So, many people have a muscle mass mass and in the end, they have a basic basis. So, now you have a basic basis. I have more information about intervalling. Here in this course.аєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєаєає So that's what you need to be able to avoid. When you're trying to get a healthy diet, you often have barriers like such as holidays, social gatherings, social gatherings, social gatherings, food, and I'll give you a decision, which will help you. Next point is the important part of your diet. This is a big part of your diet. And this is important to learn how to learn about food, when we're dealing with food. This is the same food, because the food is the same food, which is built in your health. And it depends on the first time on how much this food is filled with nutrients. It's not only in the increase of calories, but also in the nutrients. I give you a lot of information and knowledge about how to understand, how to do I do it, what to do with it, and what to do with it. So this program increases your chances to achieve success. It also demonstrates how to do it correctly, to get healthy and healthy habits for the rest of your life. And here, I'm glad to give an incredibleає Thank you.