Hello everyone, Hello to you too, I have a cool new microphone, I was saying I can hear myself, over, over, how can you hear, awesome recipe from Karen and Eric what are we cooking today, how can you hear, Dr. Berg, over, what are we cooking, we have a lot of recipes with cruciferous vegetables, a very interesting color, perhaps the children will like this dish, these are broccoli pancakes, and on St. Patrick's Day, yes, it's green, nothing can be done about it when you cook something with broccoli, it will be green, yes, you can, you can add something on top, for example, put it on sour cream, let's try it, although Dr. Berg won't try it, I'll see, okay, he doesn't like broccoli, no, I like it, but for some reason I can't eat it, this vegetable, I just don't like it, oh, very tasty, excellent, I really like it, there's a little bit of measles here, a subtle note, broccoli is very healthy, cruciferous vegetables, don't look at me, that's all the microphone, no, no, everything is fine, you said it well, just like a doctor, broccoli is very healthy, a powerful anti-cancer agent, I'll eat more, it's really delicious, but okay  Looks like pancakes, but I'm from Pennsylvania, my family is Pennsylvania German. We've always had a lot of German food, potato pancakes and all that. You can pour syrup over them, but I wouldn't use sour cream and vegetables, so sour cream. If the alodi are warm, they're already cold, but if they're warm, sour cream would be best. Great. In general, boucle pancakes are good. Let's move on to the recipe. 150 grams of steamed broccoli, chop well. 2 eggs, a quarter teaspoon of sea salt and pepper to taste, half a teaspoon of curry powder, pulse, and mix. A teaspoon of coconut flour. Beat until smooth. Transfer the batter to a bowl for ease of use. Heat a cast iron skillet well. Always heat first and then add oil. 2 tablespoons of batter per piece. Turn over when the bottom side is golden brown, cook until browned. Thank you so much for watching, hit the subscribe button and see you in the next video.