Today I talked about the restorative properties of olive oil. During one study, a link is under the video. Human blood was exposed to the destructive effects of hydrogen peroxide. This is a very strong oxidizer. With or without the addition of olive oil, the result of exposure to hydrogen peroxide on anything will be oxidation. But as it turned out, olive oil contains phenols, which are a phytonutrient and a powerful antioxidant. The study showed a significant reduction in oxidative damage to human DNA. With age, genes are destroyed, become more susceptible to damage and are not as good at restoring, and the actual length of chromosomes is reduced. Telomeres are proteins that protect the ends of chromosomes, and when the length of telomeres is reduced, this affects life expectancy. The shorter the length of telomeres, the shorter the life, and this is logical, because the more damaged the genes, the more severely and often a person gets sick. Telomeres are very powerful antioxidants that neutralize the action of oxidants. What is oxidation? According to the original definition, this is when, under the influence of oxygen, an electron is lost. A free radical is an unpaired electron. Well, let's say an atom has two electrons and it rotates. It will remain symmetrical and very unstable, but if we exclude  We pair the electrons and leave only one, and then it rotates differently than before. The rotation becomes chaotic and it begins to look for other electrons to stabilize. In other words, it begins to steal electrons, taking them from idle tissues, and there are a huge number of them. Therefore, as you understand, free radicals are extremely harmful to tissue. For example, when oxygen affects iron, rust occurs, that is, oxidation occurs. Oxidants are formed in the body, in fact, and they also come from the external environment. In the same way, antioxidants are formed, and they also come with food. However, phenols, that is, phytonutrients in olive oil, create a protective barrier for your DNA, especially in the mitochondria. Why are mitochondria unique in that they have their own DNA? In other words, we have DNA in the nucleoli of cells. There are external mitochondria with their own DNA. They use DNA from the nucleolus. They can also create their own DNA. There is some interaction between these two, which indicates that mitochondrial DNA exists outside this, so to speak, safe, nucleolus, cell.  This in itself makes DNA more susceptible to harmful effects, especially as a result of oxidation. Since the mitochondria is the cell's powerhouse, where all this burning of fuel and oxygen occurs, more intense oxidation and the formation of free radicals occur in it. This is why many chronic diseases, including cancer, probably originate in the mitochondria. This is the problem. Most oils, I'm talking about vegetable oils, are not antioxidants, but rather oxidizers, which are very harmful to the body. These include soybean oil, corn, cottonseed, and rapeseed oil. But olive oil is the complete opposite. It is rich in antioxidants and has anti-inflammatory properties, so feel free to add olive oil to your salad. The most important thing is extra virgin and premium olive oil. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.