What is the difference between a heart attack and sudden cardiac death or sudden cardiac arrest? With sudden cardiac arrest and cardiac death, people die immediately, but in a non-cardiac attack, you may not die immediately. It is usually associated with a blockage of the coronary artery leading to the heart muscle itself. And in the other two cases, the heart's electrical system simply shuts down; they often say that this is an idiopathic case. That is, their cause is unknown. I want to talk about the connection between omega-3 fatty acids and the heart's electrical system, as well as how to use fish oil to reduce the risk of sudden cardiac arrest and cardiac death. What is so special about fish oil with omega-3, which we hear about literally from every iron, and how they help the heart work. Firstly, they have properties related to the heart; they fight arrhythmia, that is, they help the heart not to lose its rhythm; they reduce inflammation, and reducing inflammation always improves heart function, and if inflammation lasts too long, cardiac fibrosis is possible. It also turned out that fish oil  activates genes that stop the development of cardiac fibrosis. In addition, fish oil prevents the formation of blood clots or thrombi. That is, it thins the blood so that unnecessary blood clots do not form. Although clots are necessary if there is damage in the vessel, fish oil prevents the formation of unnecessary clots. Fish oil improves the condition of the endothelium of the inner layer of the vascular wall. And this normalizes blood pressure and also prevents the formation of calcium and cholesterol deposits inside the vessels. But still, I think that the biggest benefit of fish oil for the heart is that it makes cell membranes very flexible and less rigid. The opposite of omega-3 fatty acid is omega-6 fatty acids. And these are all seed oils of vegetable oils: soybean, cottonseed, safflower, sunflower, peanut oil. All these oils invade cell membranes and make them more rigid. It is extremely important that the omega-6 to omega-3 ratio is correct. It should be one to one. And for the average person in the US, the omega-6 to omega-3 ratio is  somewhere 15 to one can you imagine these hardened vessels and all the other problems due to omega-6 increased insulin resistance obesity destruction distortion of the liver and much, much more here you may think I use fish oil and the dietary supplements that you mentioned I'm fine But you might not know that there are many hidden sources of omega-6 fatty acids and you might not know Here's what omega-6 fatty acids compete with omega-3 that is, the more omega-6 in food, the less omega-3 you get So by consuming omega-6 together with omega-3 you negate the benefits of omega-3 this is important to know let's look at some products or hidden products that are high in omega-6 these are products from all animals that are fed grains these are store-bought chickens eggs from the store beef not from grass-fed grain feed there is a lot of omega-6 in all of these all grain products bread pasta cereals crackers they have a lot of Omega-6 Most nuts have a lot of omega-6, with the exception of walnuts, they contain a precursor to omega-3 fatty acids. What about salad dressings? Try to find a dressing without vegetable oil. Replace them with extra virgin olive oil with balsamic vinegar. Next, mayonnaise. It is usually made with soy oil. Try to find mayonnaise without oils with omega-6. What about hummus? You buy hummus to dip cucumbers in it. It is very difficult to find hummus without oils with omega-6. For some reason, they don’t add olive oil to it. Well, I know why it is so expensive. But you need hummus with extra virgin olive oil, not soy or safflower oil. By the way, farmed fish has more omega-3 fatty acids than commercial fish. However, it has six times more omega-6 fatty acids than restaurant food. There are a lot of omega-6 fatty acids and such oils. Especially in fast food, French fries are usually deep- fried with all the omega-6 oils. So this is a very important video. If you didn't know all this, start consuming more fish oil. Cod liver oil is even better because it contains not only omega-3 fatty acids but also vitamin D and vitamin A, which are not found in regular fish oil, but fish oil is quite suitable and is a must. Eat salmon or other fatty commercial fish regularly. But more importantly, really start avoiding omega-6 fats that creep into our diet so often. I'm really touched by the so- called nutrition experts who tell us to consume omega-6 instead of saturated fats. Although there is no evidence at all that this will somehow improve heart health. If you haven't watched my video about the balance of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, go here.