If you watch my channel, you know I have a lot of videos about insulin resistance, because so many diseases are associated with it. Besides, it is present in most people, so it is so important to talk about ways to improve the situation. I think you know that reducing carbohydrates and fasting can help here, but you can safely add omega-3 fatty acids to this. There are very interesting studies of these acids, maidenhair and drink this 2 mega 3 fatty acids. Both of them improve insulin sensitivity and help with type 2 diabetes. The question is why they work. I have always been interested in why they work. Firstly, they have an anti-inflammatory effect. Whenever there is inflammation, there is insulin resistance, which provokes it, and anything that reduces inflammation will reduce insulin resistance. Omega-3 fatty acids have a positive effect on its modulation, that is, on the control of immunity. There is an excellent property between inflammation and immunity. Omega-3 fatty acids have a positive effect on mitochondria in muscles. The study I refer to is a fairly reliable double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. We tested the effect of fish oil on insulin resistance and found two trends: a significant decrease in fasting insulin levels and a decrease in insulin resistance. Now the question is, which foods contain omega-3? First, where is the next? In descending order, the amount in milligrams per serving is mackerel, a fatty fish, 4107 milligrams. Salmon is a real treasure trove, 4123 milligrams. Next, my favorite is cod liver oil, 2680 milligrams. The beauty of this oil is that it can be taken as a supplement. It also has a perfectly balanced vitamin A and vitamin D. Also, for children, drink 2 mega-3 fatty acids. Sardines have 2205 milligrams per serving, and there are more than 1000 milligrams in the game. Anchovies can be added to pizza. Just kidding, of course. Tuna has 951 milligrams, 700 milligrams, and oysters have 370 milligrams. Now you know another way to reduce insulin resistance. If you liked the video, please subscribe. to the channel to not miss new videos