In this video, I want to give some simple tips to slow down the aging process. Some of the information that I will give is taken from this book. I will retell it in simple words. The book is called Oxidants in Biology. It is extremely fascinating and you cannot do without a medical dictionary. There are a few terms, but something in this book is a real find. It talks about the balance of antioxidants and oxidants in the environment. The body is in a constant struggle. You are exposed to oxidation. This can be compared to rust on a car. It is strange that oxygen can be harmful, but its excess can be very harmful to cells. Mitochondria are the basis of metabolism. These are the power plants of cells and they have an engine that uses oxygen to break down fuel and it releases oxidants. Some of them are useful for the body. They are produced to kill microbes, but when mitochondria and other parts of the cell are damaged and too much oxidation occurs, it can destroy the cell itself and create all sorts of problems, including cancer. Oxidation has positive and negative sides. The same applies to antioxidants that resist oxidation. Antioxidants can be obtained from food, as well as from the body itself.  The body can produce them, such antioxidants are called endogenous, these are antioxidants that are produced inside the body, and exogenous antioxidants enter the body from the outside, for example, from vegetables. A very important but not fully understood area is the creation of an antioxidant network and stimulating the production of antioxidants in the body. I will share things that will help build this network without the use of antioxidants from the outside. The hormone melatonin is a very strong antioxidant. It is produced during sleep when it gets dark outside and less light enters the eyes. A whole series of events occurs in the brain and one of them is a surge of melatonin. Melatonin rids the body of hydrogen peroxide. Perhaps you once used it, you cut yourself and need to treat the wound to kill bacteria. You wipe it and hydrogen peroxide bubbles and kills germs. The cells themselves produce hydrogen peroxide to kill germs and sometimes produce too much, which is toxic to the body due to too much oxidation. If there is enough melatonin, it can resist this and this is only one of its functions, but I do not advise going to the store to buy melatonin. I advise  Get a good night's sleep or take a nap during the day. The second thing that's being discussed here is the difference between pink exercises and regular exercise. Regular exercise on a consistent basis will build an endogenous antioxidant network. At first, when performing an exercise, let's say it's an intense workout, strong oxidation will occur, which destroys muscle tissue and is also bad, yes, but over time, the body gets used to this, it begins to adapt and produce a huge amount of antioxidants to resist stress or damage from oxidation during exercise. Regular exercise on a consistent basis helps produce antioxidants and protect the body from oxidation, while you will look younger and this can be ordinary daily walks, but constant and regular exercise is what is important. Good regular sleep and regular exercise are necessary for now, everything is simple. The following fasting I'm talking about regular goals. They are like with intermittent fasting, you cannot fast for a long time. Once you need to eat regularly, intermittent fasting combines fasting and meals and this causes a huge surge in the endogenous antioxidant network. The ideal scheme is a 20-hour fast and  A four-hour window for eating, let's say you ate at 3 and the next meal will be at 4, 5, 6, 7, that is, after 4 hours, this is the window for eating and then fasting for 20 hours. This is very useful if you are new to my channel, I will leave a link in the description. The benefit of fasting is autophagy. Autophagy means eating itself. The body processes its own tissue. One of the negative consequences of oxidation, which also causes premature aging, is its effect on proteins. It creates improperly packaged proteins. These proteins accumulate, get stuck in the body, and are excreted. They clog the space between neurons, creating memory problems and ultimately provoke Alzheimer's disease. They clog the heart, harm the eyes, kidneys, and nervous system. Incorrectly packaged proteins are formed from oxidation. They also cause oxidation and a toxic effect in the body. It is difficult for the body to get rid of them because they are not functional, but with the help of fasting, through out-of-a-due, you can send these improperly packaged proteins to waste and begin to destroy them. Some enzymes have a kind of detergent and the body uses  They are used to break down this protein and the body receives new amino acids which are used for recovery, so fasting slows down the aging process and stimulates genes that help recovery. Here we have sleep, regular exercise, intermittent fasting. This trinity is extremely powerful and therefore I draw attention to them. Next, you need to avoid excessive amounts of oxidants. The body produces enough oxidants even without external intake, for example, iron. Let's say you take a pharmacy multivitamin. Make sure that the composition does not contain iron, otherwise you will get the wrong type of iron. It is very difficult to get rid of iron if there is too much of it. For example, avoid cooking on iron pans and do not take iron supplements. This is only possible if, for example, you have been diagnosed with anemia and low iron levels. Then you can take dietary iron from the liver of grass-fed cattle. And of course, the main thing that creates oxidation is too much sugar in the diet and even high blood sugar levels will oxidize the eyes, kidneys, nerves, brain. Sugar is a very serious glycation, what is it? It is a combination of sugar and protein. If you eat food that contains both sugar and  Protein is very bad, or food in which fat and sugar were heated together is very harmful, it creates serious oxidation, food such as ice cream is made from fat with sugar, hence the high level of glycation, glycation also occurs in the body, high blood sugar and a body temperature of 37 can cause glycation of red blood cells, the test to diagnose this is called A1c, this is glycated protein in the blood, glycation needs to be reduced by simply removing sugar, then vegetable oils, especially corn and soy, they contain a lot of omega 6, they cause strong oxidation, frequent meals increase oxidation, so you need intermittent fasting, imagine you go to the gym and there are daily CrossFit classes, and you are 55, everything will turn out badly, you train too much and almost no recovery, this will lead to strong oxidation, then cortisol is constantly elevated cortisol without sufficient recovery, this is very harmful, it is associated with stress, in addition, if you take prednisone, cortisone or other medications, this can lead to serious damage, namely, oxidation, stress in general causes strong oxidation in the body, but regular exercise and  Good sleep can easily counteract stress. You need to look at the big picture and balance antioxidants. You need to create an endogenous antioxidant network. There are also trans fats, which should be avoided, along with many other things, such as chemicals, pesticides, and GMO products. All of this creates oxidation. The last thing I'll focus on is exogenous antioxidants. Raw cruciferous vegetables are usually steamed, but you can also eat raw cruciferous salad. Cruciferous vegetables contain a lot of phytonutrients that are beneficial for health, not just vitamins and microelements. Well, that was the tip of the day. Now it's up to you to put it into practice. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.