We are pleased to present the Healthy Chum Salt 2000 2013 Online Summit. 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of health, intermittent fasting, and China. Watch online at a convenient time, exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of chum salt fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. Who will speak at this chum salt summit? Author and popularizer of chum salt, Dr. Eric Berg, will share amazing information about nutritional deficiencies that occur in China and intermittent fasting. Dr. Jeff Gerber, a qualified family physician and well-known nutritionist from Denver, will also visit us. He will talk about the rejuvenating effects of the ketogenic diet and much more. Dr. Gerber also annually holds large conventions on low-carb diets in Denver. Author and researcher Dr. and Request Man, director of the Duke Lifestyle Clinic, will share with us practical knowledge about chum salt that he gained working with thousands of patients. Professor Stephen K. Nasher of the University of Montreal will speak.  A presentation in which she will share information about the effects of ketones on the aging brain and how ketones help cognitive function. Cynthia Turnul, a functional nutritionist who has spoken twice on EX, will talk about intermittent fasting strategies and present solutions to potential problems. We invited Dr. Ali Al Innovations, a therapist working in Oman in the Middle East. He will talk about how it affects the endocrine system and how he uses this diet in his practice. Aivar Cummins, author of books and a biomechanical engineer, will present his report and explain in simple terms the effects of ketones on the cardiovascular system. He will explain the latest results of coronary calcium research. Dr. Nadira Lee, a specialist in invasive cardiology, will share new information about LDL cholesterol and ketones. Everyone who starts this diet should know this. Stephanie Persona, a ketone consultant and trainer with an army of fans, who has met thousands of people around the world, will be there. She will talk about available ways to take your results to the next level. We will have 7 of them.  For years, he has been an author, researcher, and biohacker in Estonia. As an expert in intermittent fasting and training, he will share interesting discoveries about longevity and physique, as described in his book Metabolic Autophagy. Finally, by popular demand, Nikolas TCA will return to us from Greece. His story is simply a parasite. He will tell how he became the first whale athlete to compete in the Ironman competition in Europe and how he changed his life. This is the 2020 edition in Russian awaits you. Sign up now.