Today I will interview a man who should have died 6 years ago but is still alive we will discuss why he is still alive he had stage 4 cancer What is stage 4 cancer stage 4 cancer is also called metastatic cancer this means that metastases have affected at least one organ and in his case they affected bones and the thing here is in the world championship stage 4 cancer people live from a couple of weeks to several months and in rare cases from several months to a year but it has been 6 years since the GI said that he had cancer and he is still alive Hello GI Good to see you Hello Hello Eric good to see you again Believe me it is mutual So we will talk about this first disclaimer this video does not replace a doctor Talk to a doctor before using what we tell you about we do not claim that we have an absolutely reliable sure cure we are not saying that However, if I had cancer I would like to know what I am going to tell you about Because there is very interesting information I want you to know about it  and thought about it in this video We want to cover this topic very rationally, as sensibly as possible and make it as easy as possible for you to apply all of this After all, when a person has cancer, he hears a lot of different opinions Therefore, in this video, we will strive to accomplish several tasks at once and not just one, just to cover all the details Because there are conflicting theories One theory says that if you starve cancer by depriving it of glucose with the keto diet, it will kill Cancer, and the other theory says that cancer can feed on ketones So this contradicts the first theory, so we want to cover both sides of the spectrum, including medical treatment If someone wants to resort to it, we are not telling you what to do, but there is something worth looking at and thinking about There is very interesting information and today we will present it to you So, the protocol that we want to talk about today is suitable even for those who are receiving chemotherapy So, we worked on one study together with a very well-known competent doctor and researcher We published the results of the study All the links will be below We could devote a whole hour to the technical details, but you would fall asleep, so we will not do that, but  we will state the essence of the question in very simple language. A cancer cell comes from a normal cell. What happens is that the mitochondria is damaged and then the body activates Plan B to survive. The cell begins to use a more ancient pathway for fuel. The cancer cell loses the ability to programmed death and can live forever, but uses another source of energy outside the mitochondria. This is the essence of cancer in simple words. Cancer can also live without oxygen. It can spread and create a lot of problems. But today we will tell you about unique things and they are very important if you have cancer. So, I want you to tell us in a very few sentences about the following. When you were first told that you had cancer 6 years ago, what did the doctor tell you to do about it? Absolutely nothing because he told me it was too late, enjoy the rest of your life, and that's all. The doctor did not offer me any treatment because the question of treatment was not even an issue. I already had too much cancer everywhere, it was already too late. So it spread to the bones and other bones. In the bones, in the lymph nodes, it also spread to the lungs. A little in the lungs, there was not as much of it as in the lymph nodes, and of course, in the bones, there was probably  scary and then of course you didn't agree Think he survived he actually contacted everyone he knew started collecting information and it seems you flew around the world to find someone who could help you And who helped me was you and your videos I already told you about this and also Thomas Seyfried because I went and met with him I fasted a lot for a long time and I was at the moment I am absolutely sure that ketones can help kill cancer cells and okay I realized that it works it works because I'm still here and little by little I added a lot of things because what I still what still scares me is the possibility of a relapse After all, many people have a relapse if we don't change the approach to how we try to fight cancer then we will be dead dead and one more thing it seems you didn't receive any chemotherapy yes yes Absolutely no chemotherapy Clearly no radiation because I was not offered it After all, I was no different from other patients if they told me that chemotherapy could prolong my life or save me I would have undergone it of course but  I was lucky my cancer was too much it had spread too much so that the doctors didn't have a solution for me so I started reading articles I searched in the memory at the National Institute of Health in the journal Nature in all the known scientific publications I had absolutely no knowledge I didn't know anything about it but I had to try to study it all and understand and when I understood what cancer is I saw that I could probably save my life I went and met Thomas Seyfried he helped me a lot he explained a lot of things to me and today I want to continue being his guinea pig He offered me to participate in the study and guinea pig understood Oh yeah yeah guinea pig yes Yes yes I want to continue being his guinea pig Okay good that's great because you've obviously done something very successful and I want to describe in detail what you did So I think probably the big difference the big difference the most obvious thing that catches the eye was your long fasting so you have the ability obviously to fast for a long time it seems you fasted up to 40 days and you regularly fast for 7 days you also fast for two days and sometimes three  You don't have a regular fasting pattern for days. I think it's wise because cancer can figure out our tactics. So we need to make changes. Yes, I don't want that. Hurray, that's right. That's right. So I didn't know in advance what I would do the next day. Yes, it's possible that my cancer cells can read my thoughts. That's right, that's right. But it seems to me that no, yes, cancer is very, very smart. It adapts and survives like a possessed person. However, the important thing was that you fasted for a long time. So, if the theory that cancer can feed on ketones is true, then the question arises. Due to the fact that when we fast, we feed on ketones, but at the same time, there is evidence that the ketones that cancer feeds on are different from the ketones that are formed thanks to food. During fasting, a lot of other things happen that are related to survival. Many genes that suppress tumors are activated with proteins. During prolonged fasting, a lot happens. The immune system is strengthened. If a person receives chemotherapy, thanks to fasting, he tolerates chemotherapy better, he has fewer symptoms. So, about you and me, people ask a lot of questions about  rati by email And we just wanted to respond to Many of them in this video Although I had to delete 99.9 of my rati videos and post them on the ml platform But this video is quite conservative We will just discuss some ideas Here is one normal process that occurs in the body If the mitochondria are strong, such an interesting thing happens If a cell is damaged, it eventually commits suicide to eliminate itself Amazingly, this requires a lot of energy And if the mitochondria is damaged, there is not enough energy and apoptosis partially stops working This is closely related to the transformation of the cell into cancerous But I will not delve into this Wilds But the thing is that there are people who can fast, there are people who cannot fast, there are very, very fragile thin people if they fast for a long time and do not lose all their muscles And someone can lose a little muscle mass during fasting Here it is individual, so we recommend the following If you cannot fast You can follow the so- called pseudo-fasting diet The author of this diet is Voltaire Longo, he developed it We do not recommend the version in which you need to take nutritional supplements  We recommend the version of this diet that is its original program. Essentially, you need to follow a special diet plan for 5 days. It simulates fasting without complete fasting, because it is much easier to simulate fasting than to fast. Realistically, if you can handle 5 days, then when you fast, he feels good. He can fast, yes. But others felt terrible on a long fast, they haven't adapted yet. It's just more difficult, so we will give you different options. So, on the pseudo-gothic diet, perhaps 1000 kilocalories a day on the first day and then 4 days of 800 kilocalories for maximum simplicity. We recommend the following: Eat only vegetables, greens, steamed vegetables, cruciferous vegetables, high-quality olive oil. Thanks to this, you will get something that will satisfy you, as well as a lot of phytonutrients from plants with anti-cancer properties. So, you can eat herbs. All the details will be in the document that you can download. Eat herbs, sea salt. There will definitely be a protocol with the dietary supplements that we recommend. We do not sell any of these dietary supplements. If anything, they  will have a certain effect regarding food, essentially, these are vegetables, extra virgin olive oil and herbs, you can drink teas, you can make soup out of all this, but all this we do not recommend eating a lot of protein or eating protein at all, as well as additional fats, because we need to cause a hormonal shift to cut off the cancer's fuel, to make it so that the cancer does not have any fuel and it simply has nothing to eat, so that it decreases and disappears, and this needs to be done for 5 days, let's say you are receiving chemotherapy, and it is usually given every 3 weeks, then according to this scheme, you need to eat once every 3 weeks right before chemotherapy, during and after it, because thanks to this, there will be much fewer complications and symptoms from chemotherapy. But if you do not have chemotherapy, you can eat like this once a month and we will explain what you need to do on other days. You need to eat right, you need to get enough protein and other nutrients, that is, in fact, you will have a non-strict long-term fast once a month or once every 3 weeks. So, the more severe the cancer, the more often this needs to be done, and if you can fast, you probably need to fast and do what gi does, because it has already passed.  6 years ago when he found out that he was no longer cancer do you think he stopped following this protocol No he just started fasting for 21 days days That is, in other words, we can learn a lot about those who have achieved success and we want to give some people the opportunity to learn something from others, especially from those who have achieved success and I have friends who are sick with cancer and are on different paths The point is that I like to follow people who achieve success and struggle and here is a person He is alive and should have died 6 years ago this is a real miracle and many people are carefully studying its effects as if under a microscope fasting is important if you can't fast, follow a pseudo-fasting diet once a month for 5 days and on the other days, if you can, eat once a day It's called omat everything will be great so get all the calories and nutrients and of course there are several important foods such as sardines cruciferous cruciferous vegetables lots of garlic and so on green tea green tea Let's move on to the next part in the World Championship is a protocol based on our research under the guidance of Maris Israel  You know, there was a long series of studies, but we will present all this in very simple language, the theory that cancer can survive due to ketones, we will take a minute to this, some disagree with this, some agree, but we conducted an experiment on mice, we transferred them to a protocol, a natural protocol to block a certain enzyme, thanks to which cancer could not receive ketones, this is the enzyme ketone, we will make do with such a short name ketone is an enzyme thanks to which a cancer cell can receive ketones, many experiments were conducted to understand what blocks best, use available natural remedies that do not have a toxic effect, and during our research, significant improvements were obtained, and you can read for yourself what happened, but these experiments were conducted on animals, not on people, but it is still very interesting and this is just the beginning. So, in this protocol, blocking ketone is used, I would say, seven or eight natural remedies, we will not list them together with the doses, we will write it down, and you can read and download. So, some of these remedies are aimed at ketones directly, some affect various aspects associated with it, one remedy blocks glutamine, this is a natural inhibitor of Don  This is exactly what Dr. Seyfried included in his protocols. We use it. It is in green tea extract, for sure. This is an excellent protocol. Another remedy is garlic extract. It acts on a different pathway used by cancer. In other words, we believe that a reasonable approach is to try many different remedies at the same time. Many remedies reduce the tumor, but how can we actually influence cancer from different angles? We also need to take into account the fact that cancer returns if we combine pseudo-fasting or real fasting with inde bitters, cattle, and a couple more things. We will say that I think this will be the most reasonable way to fight cancer. Here's what I learned. Although I discovered. It's not me who has cancer. There is always a loophole. When you find some remedy to fight cancer and it works, then after a day or a year it no longer works, and that's why I'm trying to find a way to avoid relapse. I know that ketones saved me the first time. A friend of mine, his name was Fred, developed cancer, he was cured of cancer, but he had a relapse, and a year later he died. So, this worries me a lot, and I must say that I acted exactly the same way as he did, and that's why I started. look for another way to heal from cancer in case the cancer tries to find another loophole if the cancer finds a way to feed on ketones then what will I need to do to cope with this So we are looking for a way We study the results of many people who tell me about them they talk to me they call me asking me and we found that perhaps there is another way to heal from cancer we know that there are many things that cause it and we are sure that there are many things that can heal from cancer and we need to have many protocols of different protocols in case one of them does not work this is very important but if you do not find them in advance then it will be too late So I'm trying to get an idea of what I will need to do if it turns out that today what worked before no longer works Absolutely right and in addition to this there are several things that are very important to avoid If your cancer number one is iron do not take supplements with iron cancer can definitely feed on iron it loves iron and uses it calcium do not take any supplements with calcium if you have cancer this is another element that is not recommended perhaps not  you need to eat dairy products because they act like anabolic steroids accelerate growth do not eat dairy products as for vitamin D I think it is extremely important to take it because vitamin D nourishes the immune system and you need it to be very, very strong there are many different types of cancer the occurrence of which is associated with vitamin D deficiency with a weakened immune system this increases the risk the fact is that cancer patients almost always have low levels of vitamin D as for training probably walking will be useful but do not train intensively when fasting for a long time unless only you are in good health or if you do or if you are not too lazy long walks in the sun are definitely useful because the sun will give you more thanks to infrared light this is very important it reduces stress levels but do not train intensively because you need to conserve energy especially if you are fasting a pseudo fasting diet I would like to say about something that is very important to me Thomas Seyfried Professor Thomas helped me a lot he explained to me a lot of things to save my life and that's what I'm trying to do today I'm not trying to say that I am a better biologist than Thomas Seyfried I have no knowledge at all but I think about  what if my cancer comes back what will I need to do to save my life if cancer finds a way to feed on my ketones what will I need to do I have only one way out only one way out I have to be ready for this all like this and we will leave a link below where you can download a summary of our conversation If you want to study this and pass it on to someone I would like to inform you that if I had cancer I would like to know this data We have a lot of interesting things happening now we are continuing the research but we will not talk about them yet we will wait until we complete them I want to thank you gi for your participation Thank you for watching Until the end of the link below and expect more information on this topic Thank you Dr. Berg I am sure that we will continue the fight to find the best solution against cancer excellent