Today we will talk about the dangers of vitamin D and this is not the same as vitamin D toxicity, these are different things. Vitamin toxicity is an extremely rare phenomenon and its symptom is actually an excess of calcium in the blood. I spoke with Professor Bruce Hawley, a pioneer in the study of vitamin D. I asked if he had ever observed problems due to vitamin D toxicity. He said Never, and this is after many studies. You would have to take hundreds of thousands of international units of vitamin D3 for months for toxicity to occur. Sometimes even the figure 10,000 IU scares people. It seems like a lot. I want to show you something. This is a book called Pharmacological Principles of Therapy. Page 1687. The prophylactic dose is usually from 50 to 250 daily, but after a few years, textbooks began to recommend from 400 to 600 IU. Why vitamin D helped too well, I don’t know. For vitamin D to work, magnesium is also necessary. If you have a magnesium deficiency and you take a lot of vitamin D, this will only increase the magnesium deficiency, because the more vitamin D you  The more magnesium you drink, the more magnesium you need. They work in conjunction with each other. Let's take the main problem of vitamin D toxicity, excess calcium in the blood, and look at the results of one study. Magnesium prevents calcification of blood vessels. Magnesium is a natural calcium channel blocker. Excess calcium can lead to a blood clot, and magnesium helps control this process. Number two, zinc is needed for the vitamin D receptor. If you drink vitamin D, but you don't have much zinc, this deficiency can worsen because taking vitamin D3 increases the need for zinc. Symptoms of zinc deficiency include distortion of taste perceptions or smell, acne may appear or the skin may begin to peel, testosterone levels may even decrease for its synthesis. Zinc is needed. You also need to take vitamin K2. What is its role? It protects against calcium deposits and also transports calcium to bones and teeth. The last nutrient and cofactor of vitamin D3 is vitamin A, and its active form is Retinol. Receptors to vitamin A are actually sometimes combined with receptors for Vitamin D forms a complex and works together if one part is not present, the other does not work optimally. Vitamin A also helps remove calcium from blood vessels. With a vitamin A deficiency, you begin to see poorly in the dark, dry eyes and skin may occur, immunity will decrease, and even acne will appear. And three more points on this topic: first, I always recommend drinking vitamin D3 and not D2. D2 is weaker, it is synthetic. I would avoid it. I would definitely not drink synthetic vitamin D3. You need a natural source of vitamin D3. And lastly, many manufacturers contain hidden maltodextrin in vitamin D3. They can also add glucose syrup to it. Starches serve as fillers because they are cheap. D3 uses such fillers. There is a very simple way to check this: open the capsule, dissolve the contents in water and add a few drops of iodine. If you get a dark purple color, this indicates starch. This is how you can identify hidden maltodextrin and other starches in supplements. If there is no starch, the color will be yellow or slightly transparent. Let's return to magnesium. What foods are rich in magnesium?  Leafy greens contain chlorophyll A in the center of the chlorophyll molecule. Magnesium can also be obtained from chocolate, but take sugar-free chocolate. It is also found in some nuts. But you shouldn't eat them. Pumpkin seeds contain a lot of magnesium. As for supplements, I would take magnesium glycinate. It is well absorbed and I would take 800 mg or more. I knew people who had to take 2400 mg of magnesium to get rid of cramps. Zinc. Where can I get it? Red meat. Crustaceans and mollusks are excellent sources. Zinc should be taken in combination with other micronutrients. To avoid, for example, copper deficiency from long-term zinc intake. Vitamin K2. Let 's say you take 10,000 IU of vitamin D3. In this case, I recommend taking 100 mcg of vitamin K2 for every 10,000 IU of vitamin D3. I recommend the MK7 form of K2. It is found in grass-fed butter, kimchi, sauerkraut, grass-fed beef.  eggs and finally vitamin A. Vitamin A is not beta-carotene, which is found in plants and vegetables. Don't even try to get vitamin A from plant foods, but I do n't recommend supplements either. Get it from other foods, such as egg yolks or liver. My favorite source is cod liver oil, because it contains not only omega-3 fatty acids but also an excellent complex of vitamin A and vitamin A. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.