Yes, of all the diseases that people can suffer from, shingles can have the strongest impact on a person's life and drives some people almost to suicide. Shingles is caused by a virus, they say, lasoster, this virus is latent or dormant in the human body. In some people, this virus can come out of dormancy and cause extremely painful shingles. I will tell you what can be done to quickly get relief and, more importantly, to keep this virus in a state of remission, but to do this, you need to understand a little about the nature of this virus, so first, I will tell you about something that is perfectly consistent with the approach that we will use. Firstly, you know that this is associated with some weakness in your immune system. Well, you can control it. You can control the virus. If you know something about the immune system, first of all, you need to know that there are factors that bring this virus out of remission. Some medications do this. Prednisone does this, although it is sometimes used in treatment. But if this treatment lasts too long, weakness occurs and the virus comes out. Prednisone is like a synthetic version of cortisol, a hormone activated by stress.  and stress, because it can paralyze the immune system, weaken your defenses, and lower the level of white blood cells can create all the conditions for the virus to come out of remission. Anything that weakens or suppresses the immune system causes reactivation of the virus, so radiation also causes reactivation of the virus. Let's consider radiation. I'm not talking about just one genius, although it can lead to this. I also talked about the sun. I do n't just mean sunburn, excess solar radiation. This can reactivate the virus due to excess ultraviolet radiation, but the sun increases melatonin, and it is very useful. Pesticides in food and the environment can also activate the virus, but there is a much more powerful factor that causes the activation of this virus, and this factor is. Are you ready to hear what you're sitting here about? Low vitamin D levels greatly increase the likelihood of this virus coming out of remission. Let's take a deeper look at the relationship between vitamin D and this virus. Here's the first thing: shingles is aggravated by low vitamin D levels. People living farther from the equator have a higher risk of shingles. This is also associated with vitamin D. People who receive vitamin D have a much lower relapse rate.  Shingles in people on dialysis are 16 times less likely to develop shingles if they take vitamin D Another huge risk factor for shingles is high blood pressure and 90 percent of high blood pressure cases are essential This means that their cause is unknown In addition, shingles often occurs in people with multiple sclerosis and with multiple sclerosis, probably one of the best treatments is high doses of vitamin D Vitamin D undoubtedly helps the immune system controls it in hundreds of ways Vitamin D increases the levels of all kinds of compounds or weapons with which the immune system kills viruses Vitamin D directly suppresses viruses Not only shingles but many other viruses including Epstein-Barr tuberculosis and respiratory viruses White blood cells even have the ability to produce vitamin D You will probably hear many times what I'm about to say this is called polymorphism What is it This is a change in certain genes that can affect various things in the body Now more and more people are getting their genes examined to  identify possible weak points in them and often there is a genetic weakness associated with the vitamin D receptor and its ability to absorb vitamin D. If you have a vitamin D receptor polymorphism, then normal doses of vitamin D simply will not bring you much benefit. You probably have a vitamin D deficiency, while normal doses do not work on you, and this problem also creates a risk of shingles. Here's what's interesting about vitamin D: it's not actually a vitamin, it's a hormone. It's very similar to cortisol in terms of reducing inflammation and strengthening the immune system, but it does not suppress the immune system. Cortisol suppresses the immune system, and vitamin D only restrains its violent reaction. Vitamin D strengthens a weakened immune system. And it reduces its excessive activity to the desired level. So, everyone who would be treated with cortisol or prednisone will benefit from vitamin D, and people with shingles are three times more likely to have low levels of vitamin D in the blood than those who have never suffered from this virus. But once again, a genetic weakness in the receptor is a possible cause. Shingles, all this is very interesting, but now let's discuss what to do with it. I recommend three things. Number one: Get a topical vitamin D cream, apply it directly to the shingles rash and rub it in. Apply vitamin D to the affected area at least three times a day. Then start taking vitamin D. It should also contain magnesium and possibly other factors. For it to work better, you need to take at least 40,000 IU of vitamin D every day to increase its levels and drive this virus back into remission. My third piece of advice is to really improve the effects of vitamin D. Buy geranium oil. This essential oil applies it to the lesion as well. Wherever they are, this oil not only kills viruses but also relieves pain perfectly. You will notice that within five minutes the pain will greatly decrease. The attack on the virus is both external and this is the best strategy. The whole goal is to maintain your resistance at a very high level, and the most powerful means for this is maintaining the required level of vitamin D. You can do much more, but now vitamin D is the most reliable remedy, especially for an acute problem. The presence of Shingles means you should take care of your immunity. I tell you how to do this in this video. Watch it.