I was asked why everyone has shingles these days. This is an exaggeration, but the number of people with shingles is clearly increasing. What is shingles? It's a virus called herpes zoster. This virus remains dormant for many years but can activate and cause a lot of pain and suffering. It especially spreads under the skin along the nerves. It encircles the chest and can go down the back and chest. The pain can be so severe that some even think about suicide. So, it's very serious. Usually, there are one and a half to two and a half cases of shingles per thousand people. But from 2000 to 2007, it occurred in three people out of a thousand. That is, the statistics are growing. There are even areas where the incidence of shingles is even higher. We'll talk about this later. So, this is what's happening. This virus is dormant. It just waits. It does nothing. It just waits for the right conditions to activate and cause a lot of trouble for a person. This has to do with how healthy your immune system is. If something suppresses the immune system, then  the virus is activated again the topic of viruses comes down to your immune system is it healthy or weak only a few emphasize the importance of this but only when the immune system is weakened or suppressed this virus comes out and creates a problem and so let's consider what can bring this disease out of remission the first drug for cancer asthma drug prednisone drug for autoimmune diseases they all suppress the immune system number three radiation is a powerful factor that brings the virus out of remission how are we exposed to radiation when we get an x-ray and what about the sun why most cases of shingles happen in the summer the reason for this sun and so more sun more radiation more cases stress is an important factor that can bring the virus out of remission poor nutrition lack of nutrients lack of sleep and number 7 and that's why I'm filming this video this is new information that I didn't know I found interesting data and I want to tell you about them pesticides and insecticides yes they directly weaken our immune system and guess what unfortunately in recent years we are increasingly exposed to pesticides and insecticides, so we will supplement the list to help you remove pesticides from the body, and so number one for shingles, practice fasting, this is very, very important, this will help you. Number two, vitamin D, the dosage is probably 40,000-50,000 international units, because you need a very powerful natural substance that acts like cortisol to drive the virus back into remission, but not the sun, although the sun helps activate vitamin D. I recommend getting it from a supplement and at the same time avoiding radiation, because vitamin D helps, but in this case, we don't need radiation. Number 3, vitamin C, I would take more, say 1,000 milligrams 3 times a day. Number 4, zinc, I would probably take 50-100 milligrams of zinc. Number 5, l-lysine. Number six, melatonin. Number seven, to remove pesticides, I would start eating more cruciferous vegetables, and in the largest quantities, I would eat radishes. Radishes are very effective at removing toxins and poisons, which you really need to remove pesticides and insecticides and of course, switch to organic products, this is vital, thanks for watching and see you next time