Today I will share very important information about chronic kidney failure. Chronic kidney failure occurs with several types of problems. First, chronic kidney disease in general is usually caused by diabetes. There is another type of kidney disease called polycystic kidney disease. I will also talk about this. There are also problems caused by kidney stones. We will discuss them too. If you have any of these problems, then this video is for you, be sure to watch it because I will tell you something new about new research on this topic. The last stage of kidney failure in 10 percent of cases is associated with polycystic kidney disease. With this disease, the kidney is covered with fluid-filled bubbles. The disease progresses and the more cysts there are, the weaker the filtering function is. They can almost no longer filter protein. Total blood protein increases, fluid retention begins and a lot of problems begin. Polycystic kidney disease is considered mainly hereditary. Until recently, until 2019, it was believed that nothing could be done about genetic diseases. But in fact, it is possible. This is really amazing. Because if a person has kidneys  Cysts overgrow, he is forced to simply wait until he needs dialysis or a kidney transplant. There were simply no non-toxic solutions. This problem is relevant for the kidneys and especially for the liver. The medication only increases the toxic effect on these organs. They have too many side effects with polycystic kidney disease. There is an increased risk of infection. There is sometimes blood in the urine. The kidneys are slightly underweight, because the kidney is a filter that filters blood and hypertension usually occurs. And in 2019, a study was conducted and found that a ketogenic diet stopped and cured polycystic kidney disease in mice. If you have a pet mouse, a gerbil or rat, that suffers from polycystic kidney disease, put it on a low-carb diet. It was also found that time-restricted eating, that is, essentially intermittent fasting, also had a similar effect. The development of cysts and accompanying fibrosis in the kidneys slowed, that is, scar tissue replacing the cyst. It was also found that a ketogenic diet reduces the risk of kidney stones, provided that the person's diet  Low levels of oxalates contribute to the development of stones. They are found in spinach, almonds, and chocolate. By avoiding these foods, eating a diet rich in oxalates and drinking enough water, namely at least two and a half liters of fluid per day, you will be in good shape. This is what this study found. I want you to understand this point: these cysts growing in the kidneys absorb glucose. And of course, glucose is accompanied by water, that is, these cysts are sacs of liquid, namely water, and of course, absorbing water, they increase in size. But something unexpected was discovered. If you got distracted, come back now. The most important thing is to listen. These cysts not only absorb glucose, but they are completely dependent on it. In other words, they can only grow if they receive glucose. And since this was a medical publication, they suggested that pharmaceutical companies create drugs that block it immediately to combat polycystic kidney disease. Of course, I think differently. Why not stop consuming glucose? Avoid carbohydrates. After all, it has been discovered that the keto diet can help here. What's interesting is that if you block sugar, don't eat it, you can reduce these cysts and, of course,  I thought that cysts can be in other organs, there are cysts in the liver, there are 100 Baker's cysts under the knee. And in my experience, if you exclude sugar, they disappear, but then I paid attention to cysts in the liver and it turned out that one of the drugs here is informin, and what does metformin do? It regulates blood sugar by correcting insulin resistance. Another interesting relationship with cysts. You can even fight it. Taking ketones seems to be very good at fighting cysts. It is logical if you know that cysts depend on glucose. And the body can produce ketones only if you reduce insulin and glucose consumption. But it seems you can even take ketones, which I do not recommend, and thus reduce cysts. There are three ways to get ketones. The first is a low-carb diet. The second is taking ketones, and the third is fasting. It forces the body to produce ketones from its own fat. It seems that fasting greatly suppresses fibrosis, scar tissue associated with cysts, and also suppresses something called mTOR. What is mTOR? It is a thing in the body that is capable of provoke the growth of cancer tumors and even a hand, anything that reduces enteroprotein is very useful, especially for kidney problems. Fasting greatly reduces enteroprotein, but there are other means. Curcumin also reduces enteroprotein, resveratrol also reduces it, and galactose and pygalococci in green tea also. And also quercetin and berberine. These are all powerful natural remedies that reduce enteroprotein, they are good for kidney cysts. And what about other chronic kidney diseases? Most of these diseases are caused by the same glucose, because their root cause is undoubtedly diabetes. So, anything associated with high sugar, whether in diabetes or even insulin resistance, can contribute to deterioration of kidney function. There is an interesting protein. I will not give its name, but this protein activates another protein, and then another protein, and so on in a circle, this leads to kidney damage. Below I put a link to a new discovery. An inhibitor of the entire protein itself was discovered. A drug is used for this, which allows you to stop the progression of kidney disease. Since I promised not to give the name of the protein that they are trying to suppress, here it is on the screen. But don't remember  But I looked to see if this protein has inhibitors and found that they are curcumin and resveratrol, that is, for chronic kidney disease, regardless of its causes. This is what I would do: I would get these plant phytonutrients. I would also switch to a low-fat, salad-like ketogenic diet and not eat a lot of almonds, spinach, or almond flour, or, you know, kiwi. And if you add intermittent fasting, you get a very good program that allows these cysts or any other kidney problems, if you are lucky, to be cured. In general, I wanted to share this information with you in case you or someone you know has kidney problems. And if someone tells you that the ketogenic diet is harmful to the kidneys, now you know that this is not true and I think you should watch this video.