Let's talk about non-stick cookware, specifically Teflon. There are many things we've always thought were safe, and then suddenly it turns out they're terribly harmful. Teflon contains many different toxins. When heated, certain elements in the coating of pots and pans break down. Six toxic gases are emitted. Two of these are globulins. One is even lethal in small doses. At high temperatures, this chemical breaks down. I'm not kidding. This can lead to liver damage, immune dysfunction, thyroid dysfunction, chronic kidney dysfunction, infertility, and much more. One thing I don't understand. Teflon has been used for 70 years, and only recently have carcinogens been discovered. Thoracic acid persists indefinitely in the environment. What does this mean? It means it does n't break down, but remains forever. It was found in the blood of many people living in the United States. The rate is higher in chemical plant workers and the surrounding population. The concentration has decreased by 70% since 1999.  by 2014, which coincides with the end of production and the phase-out of the use of perfluorooctane, but you have a question how this substance can be in the blood of every person, but how the armed forces population was exposed to PFOA as a result of the massive dumping of C8 waste into the ocean and near the Ohio River Valley, thus these chemicals entered the environment. Then into our food and into our bodies, what to do about it? Biotransformation. I will explain this is the body's ability to convert toxic substances into harmless particles with the help of the liver. To help break down these toxins and even plastic in the body, you need to eat certain foods. You need to regularly consume cruciferous vegetables such as kale, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, arugula, and radishes. If you are not familiar with these products, I will leave a link under the video. Cruciferous vegetables are able to neutralize toxic substances. Getting rid of them slowly without a detoxifying effect is almost impossible. Avoiding toxins in the environment. Therefore, you need to act and constantly cleanse these poisons from the body. Sorry for the bad news, but now you are armed and know what to do to remove these chemicals from the body. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.