If you or someone you know has an autoimmune disease, then this video is vital for you. I think you often get advice on what to do, even from doctors and others, based on some research, they tell you that if you do this, the risk of an autoimmune disease will decrease by 50 percent, something like that. Well, that's great, but I want to know why, and this video is dedicated to answering that question, and it has to do with the pathophysiology of the mechanism by which the disease occurs. Several factors influence this, but vitamin D deficiency is at the root of this problem. Some even say that an autoimmune disease is impossible. Unless there was a vitamin D deficiency first, this amazing disorder is associated with the so- called perfect storm. Several events must coincide in time. Vitamin D deficiency is the first such event. The second is usually triggered by a virus, bacteria, or some other pathogen. Something can weaken your immune system, for example, a certain vaccine. Some stress can also occur, and the worst stress is loss. That's why the loss of a loved one is closely linked to subsequent autoimmune disease, and we know that the gut plays an important role. An improper diet.  triggers this whole mechanism and besides all this, you may have a genetic weakness or predisposition to diseases or you may have a genetic weakness that does not allow you to absorb vitamin D or convert inactive vitamin D into its active form and this is just my case, I found out I have this problem I have difficulty converting inactive vitamin D into its active form this largely explains the various inflammatory ailments in my past But thank God Now I know enough to use my lifestyle to prevent certain genes from turning on and that's the beauty of epigenetics If you really understand epigenetics and I talk about it more and more often in my videos then even if you have genes that create a predisposition to diseases you can prevent all these diseases by completely eliminating the activation of these genes for this you only need knowledge this is what this video is dedicated to So it is vitamin D deficiency that is the most important factor when it comes to autoimmune diseases it is difficult to get vitamin D for many reasons besides the genetic problem which as I found out I have makes it difficult to absorb vitamin D insulin resistance makes it difficult to absorb vitamin  D People with darker skin need more vitamin D to overcome this barrier And in the winter we don't get vitamin D all the time being indoors getting vitamin D becomes more and more difficult plus with age the skin becomes thicker and we don't get enough vitamin D So how is vitamin D related to overactive immune system in autoimmune disease there is a crazy immune reaction the body attacks itself it produces Antibodies these are certain immune cells targeting the body's own tissues this is crazy Why do they do this there is probably some big confusion well when we talk about vitamin D vitamin D is unique in that it controls our very immune system it can increase activate or decrease suppress certain parts of the immune system hearing that vitamin D suppresses the immune system you may think I don't want this because it will weaken my immune system but just listen I have never seen a person whose immune system was weakened due to taking vitamin D and you will find out Why to explain this I want to use new terms for you but I will explain them So stay tuned Because I'm going into detail, I think it's very important for you to understand that when there is inflammation, inflammation is a characteristic feature of an autoimmune problem. That's why the best-selling drugs in the world are anti-inflammatory. This only means that many people have autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. So, with immune inflammation, several things are turned on, and the first of them, which I'll talk about, is called nuclear factor Kappa B, without going into details. This is something that triggers severe inflammation, and this part of the immune system's defense mechanism. This inflammation should help us, at least theoretically. So, with any infection, any autoimmune disease, this nuclear factor is in active mode. It is always turned on in an autoimmune disease, as well as in cancer. Cancer usually spreads in areas of inflammation. It's interesting, in fact, one of the new strategies for treating cancer involves blocking nuclear factor Kappa B. This factor is activated by pathogenic heavy metals, stress, and other things such as oxidized LDL. This is a kind of bad cholesterol that can penetrate into blood vessels. And this is associated with inflammation and leads to the formation of plaques and blood clots in the vessels. But here's what appears.  There is more and more data that plaques in blood vessels are biofilms filled with microbes. So, the immune system is probably trying to kill these microbes, which is why plaque occurs. So, nuclear factor kappa-PI, which causes severe inflammation, is secreted by a large cell called a macrophage. The macrophage is like the first line of defense. The macrophage moves throughout the body and literally eats pathogens and cancer cells. It also signals other parts of the immune system to turn on defense mechanisms. One of them is inflammation. Thus, with nuclear factor kappa-BI, this whole immune process begins. Inflammation occurs. And this is followed by a queue. Yes, other phenomena, and most of them increase inflammation. I'm not sure if you've heard the term cytokine, but I want to talk about it because it is related to the inflammatory process. Cytotins are signaling particles associated with inflammation. There are several cytokines that I want to talk about because they are directly related to our topic, vitamin D and autoimmune diseases. First, I'll explain another term, interleukin. Inter means means of communication. Aleukin essentially comes from the word leukocyte, that is, white blood cell.  cell and all this means directed at the leukocyte, that is, interleukin, this is essentially communication between leukocytes. That's all you need to know here. There are many different types of interleukins. It seems there are 50 types. I'll tell you about two of them. This is interleukin l1b. Simply put, it attracts other components of the immune system. It seems to say, Hey, I need help with this immune response. That's what el-1b does. That is, interleukin 1B. There is another interleukin, IL-6, that is, interleukin 6. It also attracts additional immune support. It is associated with the so-called reactive protein. This is another inflammatory protein. What's interesting is that, in connection with IL-6, an analysis of my genes revealed a problem with this protein. According to an analysis of my genes, I have a hyperreaction, that is, when I have an immune response, it is much stronger than the average person, and this is not good, but it's good that I know what to do about it. And this explains a lot of what happened to me. For example, with excessive training, I get severe inflammation if I eat wrong. I just  Everything gets inflamed when in contact with poison ivy. My reaction is much stronger than the average person, but the beauty of this and this is the point of this video is that vitamin D turns off this reaction like a switch. And since I don’t convert vitamin D, I need much more than others, at least 10-20 thousand euros a day, and maybe much more. But of course, I don’t have autoimmune problems. So I don’t have to take 40 or 50,000 IU, but 10-20 thousand is a good dose for me. You can do something else to turn off the inflammatory process. After all, if you have an autoimmune disease, you need a multifaceted approach to the problem. So, omega-3 fatty acids. Cod oil is a must-have for this reason. It’s a very, very important natural anti-inflammatory, but omega-6 fatty acids compete with omega-3. So if you just consume omega-3 fatty acids but have n’t eliminated omega-6 fatty acids from your diet, it won’t work. You need to do both. This means that you need to avoid certain fast food restaurants, do not fry with omega-6 fatty acids, corn, rapeseed, soybean oil, you can use olive oil, coconut butter instead, but be sure to consume plenty of omega-3 fatty acids. Many people have this misconception about omega-3 fatty acids. They think that if you take a little of them, inflammation will quickly go away. If you have an omega-3 fatty acid deficiency, their ratio to omega-6 is not one to one, and for many people, this ratio is somewhere around 26 parts omega-6 to one part omega-3, this is a severe imbalance. It will take several months, and maybe even years, to restore sufficient levels of Omega 3 in the immune and nervous systems. Just include this in your new lifestyle and just regularly take a couple of tablespoons or, if you take capsules, take quite a lot of them every day. A couple of other things: curcumin is very important for reducing inflammation, and even a couple of blueberries a day, as it turns out, reduces interleukin levels.  6 There is another cytokine that I want to talk about and it is interesting that this cytokine is called tumor necrosis factor, in fact, it is an immune protein that destroys tumors and viruses. As soon as the virus penetrates the cell, this tumor factor gets to work and this process is accompanied by severe inflammation, and in an autoimmune disease, a lot of this tumor necrosis factor is produced and you know that when there is no pathogen, as in an autoimmune disease, when the pathogen is no longer there, and there is only an immune reaction. Thank God that we have vitamin D, which turns all this off, and another cytokine that I will talk about is called juice 2. Perhaps you have heard of TsOK inhibitors such as Aspirin, this is a TsOK inhibitor, it turns off this inflammatory signal in the body, and again, the original goal of juice 2 is to fight pathogens. This is a protective mechanism, so aspirin can always be easily replaced with large doses of vitamin D and turn this off. You need to know about other excellent products that block this reaction: TOK-2, a natural TsOK-2 inhibitor, omega-3 fatty acids such as oil.  from cod liver are also an inhibitor Top 2 hyperfarin - a substance contained in St. John's wort is also an inhibitor of 42 According to certain studies, it is 18 times more effective in relieving pain than aspirin. You may know that St. John's wort helps normalize serotonin in the fight against depression. But it also has a powerful analgesic effect, but don't forget about vitamin D. If someone has an autoimmune disease and does not take a lot of vitamin D, then they are simply completely ignorant and need to watch this video. If the doctor who is treating you for an autoimmune disease does not offer you vitamin D, then he has a huge gap in knowledge about the connection between vitamin D and the immune system. Let him watch this video. I talked about the fact that vitamin D turns off a certain part of the immune system. There is another switch that turns off T cells and B cells. This is another part of the immune system, and this is very good in the case of an autoimmune disease because the receptors for vitamin D are everywhere on T cells and B cells; there are many more of them than on Until now, I have talked about the suppression of the immune system in phagocytes. Now I will tell you that taking vitamin D activates and strengthens there are very powerful and at the same time very ancient defense mechanisms that arose a long time ago. On the evolutionary path, these three objects usually surround the pathogen and literally pierce thousands of holes in it, completely destroying it. That is their name: deficiency. Although the name is not important, you just need to know that this is another part of the immune system that is strengthened. Think about this: when you take a steroid for an autoimmune disease, you simply suppress your entire immune system, and vitamin D selectively turns off some parts of it but selectively turns on others; it does not weaken our immune system. Now you know how important it is to take vitamin D for an autoimmune disease. Undoubtedly, it is capable of more than just this. You can learn more about this most important vitamin on this course. I invite you to my course: vitamin D, a vitamin of health. Vitamin D deficiency occurs in 90 percent of the world's population. It causes many diseases. On the course, you will learn how, thanks to vitamin D, to get rid of these diseases and symptoms, to strengthen health and maintain youth. You will receive my speeches as a gift: longevity and  Health at the Keto Summit 2019 is all available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you at the course.