I think most people would agree that sugar is n't very healthy and that sugar is a carbohydrate, but there are other carbohydrates. There's fiber, which is a carbohydrate. We know that fiber is quite healthy for us. That is, there are healthy carbohydrates and harmful ones. But why is something healthy and something harmful? It's about the effect on blood sugar. Sugar is absorbed very quickly and increases blood sugar levels, but fiber. No, we'll discuss that. I'm happy to tell you about my new product, magnesium powder. I prefer magnesium powder. Since I don't like taking four or five capsules of magnesium, it's easier to mix one scoop of magnesium powder in water and drink it. Last night I tried it and slept like a baby. This form of magnesium is called glycinate. Glycine in its composition helps you calm down and improves sleep and absorption of this form is 80%, not 3-4 like other forms. Three facts about magnesium: First, most people have a deficiency. Second, its deficiency is very difficult to detect. Third, magnesium is involved in thousands of processes in the body. Its role is far from limited to stress reduction, relaxation, and  improving sleep but it is even more important to understand what the third carbohydrate is there is sugar there is fiber and there is another carbohydrate I will give you a hint guess look at this product there are a lot of carbohydrates little fiber and no sugar and here we have chips a lot of carbohydrates little fiber almost no sugar Here are a lot of carbohydrates a little fiber but no sugar And have you seen these a lot of carbohydrates no sugar mashed potatoes a lot of carbohydrates no sugar and the main hint corn starch a lot of carbohydrates actually nothing but carbohydrates no sugar the carbohydrate in question is starch in all these products there is a lot of a little but not in the form that is found in nature like in potatoes or corn This is something ultra-early starch for example corn has nothing in common with the original product in fact it is synthetic starch it is very strongly modified that is what you need to know about fiber and starch Although they are similar being a chain of glucose molecules but the bonds that hold these molecules together are completely different in fiber they are extremely strong that is why we cannot break down fiber we do not have an enzyme to break down some types fiber, so it is not absorbed like sugar and It is amazing how certain starches affect blood sugar, this is the first harmful property of starches. I am talking about ultra-refined starches, many of which can cause a greater spike in blood sugar than sugar. The average American gets more than 50% of their calories from ultra-processed foods, hence the strong spike in blood sugar, and constantly. Day after day, at first, the body somehow copes. In youth, we burn some of this energy, but as we get older, we no longer burn it. Some of this sugar is stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, which then turns into fat. As a result, the fat cells fill up to the brim, no more can fit in them and they can’t store more sugar. This is fat cell dysfunction or insulin resistance, and now the fat cells cannot store even more fat. Where does this energy go now? It goes inside the organs in the form of fat in the liver, in the form of fat in the pancreas, and also in the area between the organs, this is visceral fat. If you look down and can’t see your shoes because of your belly, then you have visceral fat.  If you have visceral fat, then there is fat in the liver too. There is no belly fat without liver fat. Over time, insulin resistance becomes so strong that insulin stops working. The body cannot remove sugar from the blood. The ability to control sugar has been lost in a person with diabetes. All this is due to an excess of carbohydrates in the diet. I don't mean carbohydrates from vegetables or even fruits. I mean ultra- processed refined carbohydrates, especially starch. People are so up in arms about sugar, but they don't know that the hidden sugar in starch is even more harmful than sugar itself. Now you are beginning to understand what starch is, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. If you are on a keto diet, it is important to have less than 50 grams of carbohydrates in your diet. On this diet, no one often says which carbohydrates should be less than 50 grams. And one more thing about starches: starches are hidden sugars. But they are not classified as sugars. In advertising for products, it is sometimes said "sugar-free." Although they are full of hidden sugars, moreover, these products with synthetic starches have no protein, no fat, and certainly no fiber. It is protein, fat, and fat.  and fiber helps the blood sugar spike and when we eat so much cornstarch nothing holds back the sugar spike I'm trying to say that you're depriving yourself of a ton of nutrients when you eat so much starch Many people know about the huge importance of vitamin D so these foods deprive you of vitamin D and you'll have a lot of inflammation And the more inflammation the less vitamin D works in cells vitamin B1 acts like a spark plug thanks to it you burn zinc in addition they let's call them synthetic starches serve more for pathogenic bad microbes than for good bacteria good bacteria want fiber they can eat sugar but love fiber and pathogens love starches they thrive in them they enzymes there are more of them than good bacteria because many of these foods are broken down very quickly and absorbed at the very top of the intestine in the small intestine break down quickly they almost never get into the large intestine because they are ultra processed as a result you multiply half of the people bread pasta cereal crackers cookies waffles pancakes contain synthetic  Starches are much worse than sugar, sometimes they contain whole grains, they are considered good for the heart, this is complete nonsense. Now let's discuss something more interesting. Why do manufacturers add corn starch to food? Food starch, modified corn starch, what is the purpose? This will shock you. Modified food corn starch is added to food to thicken it. That's why starch is added, just to thicken it. Starch is also used as a delivery system, as a carrier, to mix flavors, sweeteners. And as for maltodextrin, it is essentially used as a filler. That is, something very, very dangerous is added to our food, something worse than sugar, simply as a filler. They make profit off of this and write on the packages that they are sugar-free, because maltodextrin is classified as such. I'm not kidding about complex carbohydrates, and the ultimate purpose of maltodextrin is to provide energy. In protein powders, in powders for gaining muscle mass, one serving contains more than 1000 kilocalories, and 80% of them are maltodextrin. When you eat this, your mitochondria and cells suffer terrible injury, a terrible shock.  And very quickly, once I wanted to gain weight, I started using protein powders with maltodextrin, the result was zero. And I quickly became sleepy, I was swaying like I had a hangover. When you're in the store and you want to buy this or maybe this. I used to love them, or this. Or even this. You know, there's an awful lot of ultra-processed starch here, which is worse than sugar. And since we're talking about Maltodextrin, I think you need to watch this video.