During prolonged fasting, some people may develop various symptoms associated with the gallbladder. This may include pain or tension in the right shoulder, which can radiate to the right side of the neck and even cause jaw problems and pain in the right side of the head. A feeling of bulging on the right side under the ribs, or pain, tension, or discomfort under the sternum, may be present in the studio. This indicates that bile is forming a sediment called a billionth sla jim or bile sediment. Because bile thickens greatly, normally, with the correct ratio of bile and cholesterol, everything is fine. However, when a certain shortage of bile occurs, cholesterol and other components of bile become excessively concentrated. The entire mixture becomes thick and clogs the tubes or channel and bile ducts. This causes the aforementioned symptoms. High cholesterol may even appear in tests, since one of the functions of bile is the removal of cholesterol. You can even notice in a blood test that bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase is elevated. This is an indicator that something is wrong with the gallbladder and this is reflected in the liver. This should not normally happen during fasting. Unless you've had problems with bile, for example, a shortage before a long fast, normally during a meal the gallbladder contracts and bile is squeezed out. If there is no contraction, the gallbladder's function is to concentrate bile. But if for some reason there is n't enough bile (we'll talk about them a little later), a person may develop this very sediment that clogs the bile ducts, so these ducts need to be put in order. I'll tell you a simple method, but first, let's list the possible causes of bile deficiency. Bile is produced in the liver. If something is wrong with the liver, for example, it is fatty or inflamed, as with hepatitis, or it is filled with scar tissue, as with cirrhosis, this can cause bile deficiency. And if you take statins, they may be the cause because statins block cholesterol production, and cholesterol is a raw material for bile. A low- cholesterol or low-fat diet can cause bile deficiency. If you have high insulin or your diet causes it to spike, this can lead to bile deficiency. High cortisol due to stress also leads to this problem.  and high estrogen for some reason, say you're taking birth control or hormone replacement therapy, or you're pregnant. You've heard that women feel nauseous early in pregnancy. What's the reason for this? It could also be due to gastric schulte, because this changes bile secretion. Another problem could be a lack of microbiome, that is, beneficial microflora. Let's say it was destroyed by an antibiotic, and the microflora produces bile. A lack of microflora can cause a lack of bile. Here's another very interesting reason for a lack of bile: when a person receives intravenous nutrition, this is also called pointer nutrition. This is when nutrition is introduced into the body through an IV rather than the usual way through the digestive tract. The word itself is Greek and means past the intestines. What's interesting about potential nutrition is that if it's used for 13 weeks or longer, it will be as it was in one study: all patients developed bile sediment or biliary sludge, which, by the way, precedes gallstones. What's more, the composition of this nutrition is terrible. Half of it is dextrose, a synthetic sugar.  Soybean oil, well, it's probably the worst in terms of omega-6 acid content. It's processed and can retain hexane, a solvent. It increases liver enzymes and liver fat in people receiving such enteral nutrition. It also contains amino acids, synthetic vitamins, minerals, and trace elements. What is the solution to this problem? It's called taura ursodeoxycholic acid. It's a type of bile salt that I highly recommend. I won't recommend a specific brand. Choose your own, for example, from reviews. Here, it's a bile salt that thins bile. It will seriously improve your well-being. It should be taken on an empty stomach. Take two capsules. If the situation is severe, move it to an empty stomach twice a day. I also recommend taking bile salts with meals. I recommend a formula for the gallbladder. Learn more about them at the link below. This is a miracle cure. I want to remind you that I have a whole course dedicated to the gallbladder. The link to the recording is under the video. Are you sure you have everything in order with your gallbladder? If so, come to me. Do you need to remove it?  My gallbladder was removed. How to eat properly to avoid complications. How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea. I'll talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.