I always like to look for connections between things, cause and effect, various associations, the relationship between common problems, medications, and their side effects. I think this can best be shown using the example of the cardiovascular system. We have various heart problems, rhythm problems, and high cholesterol, although in my opinion, this is not a problem unless you eat carbohydrates. When it comes to atherosclerotic plaques, this combination of fibrin is a protein of cholesterol and calcium that forms a blood clot. There are various medications to thin the blood to reduce the likelihood of blockage. There is also tachycardia, which is a high pulse rate, and another condition, hypertension, which is high blood pressure. Each of these problems requires its own medication and treatment. Of course, each medication has a side effect. But with cardiovascular diseases, the cause is not looked for very carefully. Sometimes they say that the disease arose from high blood pressure, or that it occurred because of a blockage, or because of cholesterol accumulation, or because of arrhythmia. No one goes into detail. They might mention lifestyle, diet, excess salt, fatty foods, and that's all I  I want to talk about electrolytes in relation to the cardiovascular system in general, we have electrolytes usually potassium magnesium calcium and these three electrolytes control the work of the nerves muscles and their relationships and the heart is a muscle there are nerves that control it the heart even has a pacemaker that controls its contraction and as you will now learn there is a direct link between electrolyte imbalance and the work of the cardiovascular system and when it comes to electrolyte imbalance you can not rely on only one electrolyte to take it for a long time you can take it for a short time to correct the imbalance but you need to understand that electrolytes work in the right proportion in other words if you have too much of potassium for example then you will have a magnesium deficiency and potassium deficiency can also be associated with magnesium deficiency so electrolytes directly and indirectly affect each other there is also a relationship between calcium and magnesium when one increases the other can decrease there is also a relationship between potassium and sodium if for example if you consume a lot of salt you will need more potassium and if you have enough cola a large amount of sodium protects you there is even the relationship between calcium and sodium calcium can block sodium as in calcium channel blockers this is a medicine for arrhythmia and blood pressure some of these drugs for heart disease actually block or increase some electrolyte before I move on to the connections I want to first discuss arrhythmia this is an abnormal heart rhythm and there the heart must be normal otherwise many problems can develop blood stagnation blockages and all that kind of thing but you need to understand that we absolutely need the correct balance of all electrolytes for everything to work because the problem of arrhythmia can occur both with a deficiency of potassium and with its excess does not occur with a lack of magnesium and also with its excess arrhythmias occur both with a lack of calcium and with an excess of calcium you need a happy medium if I told you that, for example, excess calcium leads to heart attacks then you would avoid calcium but you need to understand that deficiency also causes problems so you need a balance of all electrolytes the advantage of getting electrolytes mainly from food is that you get them in the right proportions and if you take electrolyte  powder, make sure the proportions are correct now 1 supra relationship between potassium and magnesium I already said that excess potassium can lead to magnesium deficiency here the question may arise where the excess potassium will come from I believe there is potassium at all, most likely not, it is more likely that it will appear from the soil most agronomy methods are now focused on only 3 minerals and EFCO and this is nitrogen, this is phosphorus and this is potassium if you fertilize the soil only with a set of jerk and fertilize abundantly this will provoke a magnesium deficiency and magnesium has an anti-traumatic effect in other words, it helps reduce thrombosis blockages magnesium is very useful for the heart it is useful for arrhythmias it is a natural calcium channel blocker this is another medicine used for hypertension and arrhythmia and unfortunately most of the food we eat is very clearly magnesium and all because magnesium is visible in the soil and plants although they also contain chlorophyll a green substance containing magnesium are usually poor in magnesium also I want to say that if you have a deficiency  Potassium can also cause magnesium deficiency. Again, we need them in the right proportions. But I'll start a channel about growing plant foods. There I'll talk a lot about these jerks and how they disrupt the balance of essential minerals. There's fascinating data on how sufficient magnesium prevents blockages. There's also interesting data on arrhythmia and the sensation of palpitations. I'm simply amazed that some cardiologists prescribe medications to normalize the rhythm but don't look at electrolytes at all. But don't stop taking your medications after this video. Talk to your doctor before changing anything. I made this video to explain it to you so that you can then explain it to your doctor or at least ask him these questions. We also have another symptom: high blood pressure, which is largely associated with potassium deficiency and also with magnesium deficiency. Even the FDA was sent to the supervisory authority, which recently spoke out and allowed a statement to be made that magnesium reduces the risk of hypertension, of course, within the framework of approved formulations. So, blood pressure can be high due to low blood pressure, low magnesium, and high calcium. More on that later. That's why blockers are most often used for high blood pressure. How does a calcium channel blocker work? It blocks calcium to help lower blood pressure. It also helps with atrial fibrillation, since an excess of one electrolyte disrupts the balance of others. With calcium channel blockers, not everything is clear-cut, if I'm not mistaken. 80 percent of patients experience side effects in the form of edema, because the lymphatic system depends on the circulatory system. If you suppress calcium, the contraction of the muscles that help push this fluid will be even more suppressed, and swelling of the legs will occur. This is a side effect of calcium channel blockers. And of course, another side effect is low calcium. Remember, I said that low calcium can lead to rhythm. Next, we have another group of drugs used to lower blood pressure, these are diuretics. I'm just shocked. There is a diuretic called hydrochlorothiazide, which has side effects in the form of potassium deficiency, magnesium deficiency, and sodium deficiency. But calcium is not a deficiency, but an excess. In other words, it provokes calcium retention. Remember, I said that high blood pressure can develop with a lack of potassium and magnesium.  and excess calcium, that is, diuretics can cause high blood pressure indirectly. There are two more side effects that you don't expect from diabetics at all. One of them is that it can increase the risk of diabetes because it can increase blood sugar and 2. It can increase lipids, that is, there will be high cholesterol, but don't panic about this. We have statins, of course, they also have a side effect of high blood pressure and also high blood sugar. Every time a medicine for some disease partially causes the disease itself, in my opinion, this is not an optimal solution. The solution should not create new problems. There are also anticoagulants, for example, warfarin. Warfarin blocks vitamin K1, but it has a severe, serious side effect of vascular calcification. This can definitely increase blood pressure. There is also such a thing as beta blockers. They act by lowering the adrenaline component of the sympathetic nervous system to lower blood pressure, but they have two interesting side effects. 1. They can cause potassium deficiency and 2. They can cause magnesium deficiency. Both magnesium and coli deficiencies lead to an increase in cortisol and adrenaline. Potassium and  Magnesium is a physiological tranquilizer; it relaxes, reduces stress, and promotes sleep. So, medications that lower blood pressure can ultimately cause an increase in adrenaline and cortisol. In my opinion, this is nonsense. And now we've reached the group of drugs called ACE inhibitors. They act by changing the balance of hormones that affect the blood, fluid retention, and blood pressure. That is, ACE inhibitors are designed to solve blood pressure problems. The problem is that their side effect is potassium retention and magnesium depletion. That is, again, a drug for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases seriously disrupts the balance of electrolytes, directly and indirectly. To summarize, the most important thing to know about heart and vascular health is the balance of electrolytes and their correct proportions. You need to see the whole picture. You need to ask questions that allow you to delve deeper into the root causes of certain heart diseases. The main conclusion here is that any solution that leads to a new problem is not the best solution. If you want to learn how many heart and vascular problems can be solved with the help of a proper diet, I recommend this course. I invite you to my course.  Healthy chum is for those who want to lose weight so that it does n't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.