and you know, I actually had swelling in my shins when I wasn't even thirty, now I'm a little older but I don't have it, I'll tell you what I did, as well as the common and rare causes, and what to do in each case. I'll talk about swelling of the shins and feet. Many people have it, and many take medications, but they don't eliminate the underlying cause of the swelling. So, the number one reason is sugar and a high-carbohydrate diet, and an insulin surge is also associated with this. So, it's double harm. When someone eats too much sugar, the body has to store this sugar in the form of glycogen. What is glycogen? It's a chain of glucose molecules bound together with potassium, that is, when a person eats sugar, potassium is used to create glycogen reserves, and also water. To store one glucose molecule in the form of glycogen, three water molecules are required. So, you store much more water than glucose when you consume glucose or sugar, all this fluid remains in the body. Therefore, with the transition to a low-carbohydrate diet, diet, a lot of water leaves the body in the first week, a person can lose from 3 to 6 kg of water weight. So, because of sugar, empty carbohydrates, the body retains fluid in the form of glycogen. In addition, eating sugar leads to a potassium deficiency. When potassium levels drop, okay, in relation to sodium levels, fluid is retained in the body. We all know that sodium retains fluid, so potassium counteracts this. So, the less potassium you have due to the fact that it is all bound in glycogen, the more your body retains fluid simply because of the low potassium level compared to the sodium level. And another factor is the insulin surge caused by glucose. The insulin surge further increases fluid retention in the body. This is why diabetics have such swollen shins and feet. After all, they constantly have a lot of glucose in the blood, because they obviously don’t know that a low-carb diet can solve this problem. In addition, when you quit refined sugar, you lose B1. B1 can also cause swelling of the legs and feet. A low-carb diet solves this problem; it is called the ketogenic diet. Diet number two is consuming a large amount of sodium without a counterbalance in the form of  Potassium Potassium protects us from excess sodium, even a lot of salt in the diet is not a big problem if we get potassium, which protects us, we should get at least twice as much potassium as sodium, and when people find out how much potassium they need, it shocks them a little, the recommended daily intake is 4700 mg, that's how much potassium we need. If you get that much potassium, it eliminates the harm from sodium, such as fluid retention. So, with any addition of sodium without adding potassium, there may be a problem. Let's see why this can happen. Number one: a lot of salt in the diet with little food rich in potassium. Yes, this may be very surprising to someone, but some do not like vegetables, so they eat few vegetables. Why I say this is because the average person, at least in the US, eats only one and a half cups of vegetables a day, and to get enough potassium, you need to eat at least 7 to 10 cups of greens every day. That's a lot of greens. But this gives us potassium, and it balances the sodium and allows you to remove a lot of fluid, and some people eat more vegetables and at the same time take electrolytes with potassium, so they get more  potassium to force fluid out of the body and it can leave quickly. If you take potassium, the next morning you will notice that the swelling of your legs has greatly decreased. And another open source of sodium is monosodium glutamate. It is found in fast food eateries in all this delicious, addictive junk food. There is a lot of monosodium glutamate. Monosodium glutamate expands the taste buds, so food seems tastier and usually. After an hour and a half, you are hungry again. Monosodium glutamate causes a surge in insulin. It's like eating sugar. Double the harm, because after eating this very tasty food in a fast food establishment, the next day you will notice that you are completely swollen. You cannot take off a ring from your toe. It is completely swollen. I used to do this and I know about this firsthand. I lived on fast food for a couple of decades. Run an experiment. Eliminate such foods. Get more potassium and watch how the water leaves. Another factor is associated with sodium. When a person has hypertension or fluid retention in the body, they are usually prescribed a diuretic. Diuretics remove fluid due to the fact that they  They cause excessive excretion of sodium, they remove sodium, remove fluid, and the problem is solved. Yes, but there is one small complication. There is a side effect called hypokalemia. What is hypokalemia? Low potassium levels. Yes, diuretics lower potassium levels, and so you try to get rid of fluid, you remove sodium, but at the same time you remove potassium, and you know that your condition will worsen. You can just eat foods rich in potassium, it’s a natural diuretic sometimes. You can even take a watermelon rind, just the rind or the rind of any melon, squeeze the juice out of it and drink it, and the next morning you will get rid of a large amount of fluid. The rinds of melons have a lot of potassium. Another reason for fluid retention is low protein levels in the blood, but most likely this is not caused by the fact that you are not eating enough protein. This is caused by either liver damage or kidney damage. The liver produces certain proteins like albumin. And if the liver is damaged, for example, due to cirrhosis or obesity, it cannot produce enough of this protein because of this.  The protein level in the blood is low. This protein in the blood attracts water. It retains water in the blood. When the level of this protein decreases, water leaves the blood and accumulates between the cells, causing swelling and puffiness. This is why, with advanced liver disease, it is common to have severe swelling in the shins. Due to liver problems, the right ankle usually swells first, then the left. The foot or shin swells less at first. But then both legs swell. Also, with kidney damage, the kidneys are a filter. Therefore, if they cannot filter the blood and return these proteins to the blood, then a lot of protein is lost in the urine. This is one of the methods for diagnosing kidney disease by the presence of protein in the urine. This means that the blood is losing protein, so fluid from the blood is retained in the body. So, due to damage to both the liver and kidneys, swelling number four can be a heart problem. If the heart is sick, there is congestive heart failure and many other heart problems, then the heart may not pump fluid well. Which leads to stagnation of the vascular system in the capillaries and this can manifest itself in the shins or Swelling may appear partly due to hypertension due to fluid pressure. The solution to put the heart in order is to have a lot of videos about what needs to be done and natural remedies for heart health, but due to the patient, fluid can definitely be retained in the lower extremities. The next reason is associated with the thyroid gland. This problem occurs with hypothyroidism and is called mexidem and with hyperthyroidism, it looks like fluid retention in the body, but this is not so. It can be all over the body. It looks like swollen tissue in the lower extremities on the shins, it can be on the arms, but I repeat, this is not swelling, it is not even fat. It is something like metabolic waste, it is called mucopolysaccharide. In fact, it is sugar associated with protein. Mucopolysaccharide retains some fluid. But this is very, very different from pastosity. Apparently, it is not exactly known what it is. But it is associated with a surge in thyroid-stimulating hormone. There have been some successes in correcting this problem if time is not lost for this, you need to take iodine or whatever.  It is necessary for thyroid health, but the solution must always correspond to the underlying cause. So you need to start figuring out why you have hyper or hypothyroidism in the first place. I have many videos about this, they are in my course, and the thyroid gland, then lipedema. This is due to the abnormal accumulation of fat in tissues, mainly in the lower body. Little is known about this, but it is due to the fact that a person has a hormonal or genetic problem, an excess of estrogen receptors, because estrogen can create fat in the lower body, it can add fat. Often, this condition occurs during pregnancy, puberty, when there is a surge in estrogen, and sometimes during menopause, when estrogen increases relative to progesterone. This is a completely different situation. This is not fluid, and this problem is very difficult to solve, but there is research. I will leave links below about the fact that a low-carbohydrate, high- fat diet brings quite good, amazing results. Be sure to try it. If you have this ailment number seven, side effects of drugs. If you have swelling, like a side effect of some drug. Consult a doctor and adjust the treatment, and when you talk to a doctor, I  I advise you to always ask questions, for example, what is actually causing this problem or Let's find the root cause and how long should you take this drug will it ever eliminate the problem are there safer alternatives perhaps some herbs that have fewer side effects but you need to know exactly when the shins began to swell and what happened right before this drugs are a common cause So it is worth discussing this with a doctor and by the way, always when you take drugs, the liver seems to suffer from this and milk thistle is an excellent natural remedy, it is, so to speak, a liver protector helps reduce side effects or complications due to taking drugs So milk thistle is a good remedy popular drugs that cause swelling NSAIDs are usually used for pain and inflammation calcium channel blockers drugs for diabetics and also steroids The last point lymphedema with lymphedema is very obvious because this is a problem in the lymphatic system and the lymphatic system is kind of connected to the vascular system But it does not have a pump Therefore, there is a lot of stagnation in the lymphatic system manual lymphatic drainage is an excellent therapy in such cases the use of compression Another solution is low-level laser therapy, which also gives good results. Regular, consistent exercise also helps pump lymph to where it needs to be, even outside the lymphatic system. Now you know about the many possible causes of swelling. I think the most important thing for you is to watch a video about what you really need to eat to cope with most of the problems associated with swelling, and you will learn about this from this video.