What happens if you stop eating grains for two weeks 14 days we'll talk about this today and yes I'm talking about bread pasta cereal crackers cookies waffles and rooks muffins donuts and so on and so forth and also orris and corn if you compare giving up sugar for two weeks and giving up grains for two weeks, then there will be more benefit from giving up grains simply because of what grains do to the intestines they not only cause a surge in blood sugar but also lead to extensive inflammation let's take a closer look what is a grain a grain is a seed of grass of different types of grass a grain consists of 3 parts this shell the part with fiber which contains some B vitamins the germ it also contains B vitamins vitamins and minerals and phytonutrients and the so-called endosperm it contains all the carbohydrates it also contains some B vitamins and protein I mean gluten very few people eat whole grains people don't go to the store and don't buy grains they don't soak it at home so  It sprouted, got rid of the phytic acid that blocks minerals in the body. They don't dry it out, don't grind it into flour to bake bread with it later. No, they don't do that. They usually go to the store and buy a ready-made product or buy flour. Although this is possible, and whole grain flour has already been sitting on the shelf for quite a long time. A whole grain product is essentially a combination of the endosperm shell and germ in the same proportion as whole grain. The US Department of Health and Human Services says that a product can be considered whole grain if it contains at least 51 percent whole grains. In other words, a product can be half refined grain and still be called whole grain. The problem is that when grain is ground, it is exposed to air, light, and oxygen, which immediately oxidizes and destroys fragile fatty acids and fragile vitamins. Therefore, in the early to mid-twentieth century, manufacturers began to enrich grains. They began adding so-called intraintrinsic and back into the grain because many people were getting sick. Saw Grey.  This is a serious deficiency of vitamin B3 and beriberi is a serious deficiency of vitamin B1. I think I even remember reports of how in the early 20th century, 7,000 people died from pellagra, a vitamin B3 deficiency. All because of grains. As a result, manufacturers began adding synthetic vitamins to grains to return everything to its place. Because during the refining process, grain loses a lot of nutrients, and they returned iron, vitamins B1, B2, and B3, folic acid, and calcium. You can imagine the quality of those vitamins. It was very low, and they were made from oil. It’s not surprising that if there are fortified grains, there will be problems. This is only done in America and a couple of other countries. Some Western European countries, like Italy, do not practice fortification with bad vitamins, and therefore, if you eat grains not in the USA, but in other countries, you don’t get such bloating. Their grain doesn’t sit in your intestines like an iron weight, because in our country it contains iron. They also use other types of grain. In general, it feels harmful to the digestive system when the grain is refined and you eat it.  From this product you create a deficiency of certain nutrients all because of refined grains and we are talking about a deficiency of at least two main nutrients, these are B vitamins and vitamin E complex. When fortifying grains, manufacturers add only three B vitamins, but what about the rest? A deficiency of these missing B vitamins can cause serious stress on the heart. You may not have heard of vitamin B4. There is an interesting study by Dr. Royal Ali in the forties and fifties of the twentieth century. Vitamin B4 has another name, adenine. This is an extremely important compound that is involved in the regulation of cardiovascular function both in the coronary artery and in the heart pacemakers. It is a kind of neurological pacemaker, and a deficiency of this compound can cause a huge stress not only on one part of the heart, but on other parts as well. So, giving up grains for two weeks will reduce the stress on the heart, both on the coronary artery and on the heart pacemaker, so that the heart can more easily maintain rhythm. Let's talk about vitamin E. As for the heart, vitamin E is practically irreplaceable, it prevents  Angina Vitamin E improves the ability of the heart tissue to carry oxygen by three and a half times. If you have a vitamin E deficiency, the heart before birth does not receive enough oxygen and it may even begin to spasm. This is called angina. If you give up grains for two weeks, this will relieve a huge load on the heart. The next thing I would like to talk about is refined carbohydrates, empty carbohydrates. These grains have a lot of them, they have a very high glycemic index, and I'm not even talking about added sugar, for example, in cereals and other products. I'm only talking about the high glycemic index of the grains themselves. Especially refined ones have a high index. Grains turn into sugar very quickly, this increases blood sugar, and after eating them, you will experience all the consequences of high insulin and blood sugar. This includes weight gain, problems with cognitive function, decreased intelligence, decreased ability to concentrate, worsening mood, you will be irritable, anxious, and simply tired. Besides, everything will be fine. I want to note something. If you eat fasts, everything will be a little different. If you measure your blood sugar immediately after you  If you eat fasting, there won't be a spike. There's a delay in fasting, and it takes time to digest. But if you check your sugar after an hour, you'll find a spike. Even though fasting doesn't cause a spike in sugar right away, that doesn't mean it won't happen later. The next point is related to phytic acid, a protective compound that the seed uses to prevent it from sprouting prematurely. If you eat grains, light up a new Tesla Toyota. Don't soak them overnight so they sprout. You'll have problems absorbing micronutrients like iron, calcium, and the like. That's why grains slow down the absorption of micronutrients. If you give up grains for two weeks, you won't have phytic acid, and you'll be able to absorb these wonderful micronutrients. This will cause a chain reaction of positive effects. Next, we'll talk about reducing inflammation in the intestines when giving up grains, and that's why it's all because of gluten. Gluten is the compound that most often causes inflammation in the intestines. Many people have gluten intolerance; they can't digest it.  They are allergic to gluten, which is a protein, and although it does not directly affect the intestines, it affects other parts of the body. There is a lot of information about this. I will leave a link below. It causes pain in the intestines. Gluten causes bloating. You will feel like a balloon. I had this happen to me. It causes pain in the stomach. I had this happen to me too. And everything that happens to the intestines will also happen to the brain. Inflammation of the intestines affects the brain, and it leads to fogginess and consciousness. There may be behavioral problems, mood problems, anxiety, and even depression. The list goes on and that's not all. If you don't eat grains, there will be no gluten, and as a result, there will be no bloating. You will feel relief from the fact that you are not bloated. Also, grains contain a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, they cause inflammation. If you don't eat grains, you will have less inflammation not only in the intestines but throughout the body. If you have arthritis, it may well stop. Next, number eight, your fluid retention will decrease. Most grain products are refined grains, empty carbohydrates. Your  The body will retain a lot of fluid. The average person's body retains at least 6 liters of excess fluid on a high-carbohydrate diet. By giving up grains for two weeks, you will lose at least 6 liters of fluid. This will be great. You will also sleep better, your hormonal balance will be better, there will be less impact on neurotransmitters in the brain like dopamine, you will become calmer, you will not be stressed and you will sleep better. And here's something else interesting: if you have Hashimoto's disease, this is the most common form of hypothyroidism. 90 percent of people with hypothyroidism have this disease, then you need to immediately give up grains. Why? Because the protein gluten in grains can imitate thyroid tissue, creating so-called molecular mimicry, and then the immune system attacks the thyroid gland simply because you eat gluten. Get rid of grains and your thyroid will improve significantly. This will lead to a huge number of benefits. All your inflammation will also disappear and your immune system will finally be able to function much better. The brain will work less on glucose and more on titanium, this is cleaner fuel, the immune system will love it.  You 'll be less sick and finally, you'll be less susceptible to something like glyphosate. Glyphosate is a chemical that's sprayed on grain, even though some grain is nigma, but it's still sprayed. Less glyphosate in the body means less sparks. This also means a healthier digestive system because glyphosate kills bacteria, which can affect your gastrointestinal tract. I encourage you to give up grains for two weeks and then write in the comments how much better you feel. If you haven't watched my video about giving up sugar for two weeks, here it is.