Hello today we will talk about the fifth body type, what is it? There is a kidney type with a high ash card and stress hormone. The thyroid body type with low levels of T4 and T3 hormones is responsible for weight gain throughout the body. It is characterized by a saggy belly. The next type is the ovarian type, a pear -shaped body type with more mass on the thighs, on their inner surface, and in the breeches area. This is due to high estrogen levels. Then comes the liver type, characterized by a protruding belly in the shape of a ball, which indicates a malfunction in the liver and low growth hormone. And what is the fifth type? Pancreatic high insulin, insulin resistance. It is clear. Let's move on. What is the difficulty? Many have a mixed body type. They have various symptoms. It is very easy to determine your primary body type, as well as the main reasons that determine it. What served as the impetus. Here is an example. The body shape of the point type is very similar to the shape of the pancreatic type, but they have two different causes. The first is caused by stress, for example, you have had surgery, an injury, or an accident.  Divorce or benefits lived in a stressful environment, cortisol levels are high and you have gained weight and this could lead to a pre- renal body type, or let's say you ate a lot of sugar or simple carbohydrates, or just ate often, this can also cause a body type outwardly similar to the pre-renal type, a sagging belly and a full waist, so just looking at the body, you can't say exactly what caused the problem, maybe stress or maybe food, let's consider the liver type, what is the cause here, fatty liver, cirrhosis, liver inflammation, for example, hepatitis, the cause can be a virus or alcoholism, but fatty liver can also be associated not with alcohol but with insulin and this can lead to liver type. You understand that as for the ovarian type, its cause is usually estrogen from the environment, these are chemical additives in the range of products, pesticides, insect and weed killers, birth control pills, or something in the environment that mimics estrogen leads to this body shape. Then there is the thyroid type, with which weight gain occurs throughout the body, but this usually occurs due to  High estrogen levels, which can lead to hypothyroidism, or if the liver is damaged, the thyroid gland cannot convert the T4 hormone to T3. That is, liver problems can lead to thyroid problems. Therefore, the main question is when you began to acquire this or that form, when you noticed certain symptoms and what happened right before this. This will tell you what primarily led to this physique so that you can reverse it. Was it a stressful situation, surgery, divorce, something else, or is it all about sugar? In this case, you need to adjust your diet from the very basics, or are hormone-destroying chemicals to blame? Eat much more cruciferous vegetables to cleanse the body. Or is it alcohol? In this case, you need to stop drinking. Did medications, for example, steroids, help? I have several videos about steroid use and how to repair damage. Or did you just catch a virus? The virus can destroy the liver and also affect the thyroid gland. Therefore, you need to look much deeper not only at physique, but also cortisol, estrogen, and insulin. These are the three hormones responsible for fat deposition. Dominant hormones. The presence of any of them blocks the action of all fat-burning hormones. For example, T4 and T3 are thyroid hormones. Another important hormone is growth hormone. If these two are elevated, they will be suppressed. Therefore, most often, the thyroid and suprarenal types are secondary to these types. You understand, because these dominate of the three. insulin is the most dominant. In reality, the most common type is probably pancreatic, but outwardly it may seem as if you have hepatic suprarenal or even thyroid types, and all because of the effect of insulin on other glands. Let's summarize: figure out when a problem with body shape arose, when symptoms appeared and try to figure out what caused it: stress, diet, unhealthy environment, alcohol, medications, infection. This will tell you how to cope with the consequences and solve the problem with your body type. If you liked the video, subscribe to the channel to stay up to date with the latest news.