In my opinion, there is no such thing as vitamin D poisoning. I'm not saying that a person who takes vitamin D in large doses will not have any symptoms. However, the cause of these symptoms is not in my opinion the high doses of vitamin D3 themselves. As far as I understand, the issue is a deficiency of cofactors for vitamin D, primarily magnesium deficiency, vitamin K2 deficiency, and several others. It is known that most people do not have enough magnesium if you do not get enough magnesium. When taking vitamin D, I think you will notice some symptoms of so-called vitamin D poisoning, including irritability, insomnia, constipation, fatigue, muscle spasms or cramps, calcium deposits, and arrhythmia. But these same symptoms indicate a lack of magnesium, and they also indicate a lack of vitamin K2. If you look at the studied cases of vitamin D poisoning, there is usually no data that these people took magnesium or vitamin K2. In addition, these people often took vitamin D2 and not D3 and do not take calcium. Check for vitamin D poisoning, because one of its symptoms is hypercalcemia.  Excess calcium in the blood. Why else should I take calcium? I found something interesting on Wikipedia. Here's a quote. Some symptoms of vitamin D poisoning may be caused by a lack of vitamin K. I'm referring to vitamin K2. Yes, we already know this. The role of vitamin K2 is that it prevents calcium from accumulating in soft tissues. Vitamin D helps increase calcium absorption in the small intestine by 20 times. As a result, all this calcium ends up in the blood. Vitamin K2 takes calcium from the blood and transfers it to bone tissue, preventing it from accumulating in soft tissues. Magnesium is also one of the best remedies for kidney stones. So, the symptoms of vitamin D poisoning, in my opinion, are explained by a lack of cofactor. Why am I even raising this topic? The fact is that taking vitamin D in therapeutic doses is very important. In certain cases, the Yo clinic recommends a daily dose of 600 international units. This is absurd. Being in the sun for 30-40 minutes, you get at least 20,000 vitamin D3. Why?  So then the recommended daily intake is only 600 IU and why are some people so afraid to take a prophylactic dose of 10,000 IU per day? After all, you get 102,000 IU from the sun. You can also find this statement: having received a certain amount of vitamin D from the sun, the body stops producing vitamin D. I tried to find this information but could not find any evidence of this, but I came across one interesting article. It was dedicated to rescuers in Israel. These rescuers had a unique problem. The risk of kidney stones among them was 20 times higher, probably due to the fact that they get a lot of vitamin D but not enough magnesium and K2. Let's talk about therapeutic doses of vitamin D in different situations, especially with autoimmune problems. Dr. Kaim from Brazil has an amazing protocol and thousands of success stories. He uses doses of 50, 80, 100 and even 200,000 vitamin D3 to put autoimmune problems into remission, while he monitors the state of the parathyroid glands. The fact is that they regulate calcium if  Your calcium levels are low. The parathyroid glands correct this situation by removing calcium from your bones. When the parathyroid hormone is high, this means you have little calcium or little vitamin D. And when the level of this hormone is low, this means you have enough calcium or vitamin D. Autoimmune diseases create a unique situation: you may have enough vitamin D in the blood, but the receptors for this vitamin practically do not work for a number of reasons. This doctor's approach is to take large doses of vitamin D to overcome this resistance. You must understand that when testing blood for vitamin D, the state of the receptors is not checked and there is no generally accepted normal level of vitamin D in the blood that all medical specialists agree with. In other words, the normal level of vitamin D in the blood has not yet been established, we do not know it. I just read a very interesting book by Dr. Harald Shelley, he is an ophthalmologist. Here is what he writes. Anything less than 150 nanograms per milliliter will most likely not work. His focus was on the eyes. He used high doses of vitamin D with excellent results. It's simply amazing, but since it works so well Why is this unknown to everyone? This is precisely why even if you simply ask about the therapeutic properties of vitamin D, you are attacked. I will not be surprised if, because of this video, various doctors attack me on this topic. I am only giving you food for thought because I believe that the danger is the deficiency of cofactors D, and not the vitamin itself. It is difficult to obtain vitamin D if a seventy-year-old and a twenty-year-old spend the same amount of time in the sun. A seventy-year-old will receive 75% less vitamin D. Because his skin is older. So, along with vitamin D, always take magnesium and always take vitamin K2. Boron is a cofactor of both vitamin D and magnesium. Zinc is another very important cofactor and finally, vitamin A. In this video, we discussed only one aspect of vitamin D, and I have other aspects. I recommend taking it. I invite you to my course on vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90% of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how, with vitamin D, to get rid of these diseases and symptoms, strengthen health and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health.  At the 2019 Keta Summit, the Armed Forces will have it available online. The link is below. I'm waiting for you at the course.