It's us again. Hello. Today we're answering questions about ketogenic intermittent fasting. Ask about nutrients. But my words don't replace treatment and doctor's advice. Ask a doctor before doing what we're talking about. And of course, we want to give as many answers as possible. So, Steve, let's get started without further ado. No Friday stories from me, you can be sure. I'll prove it by going straight to Gabriel Ramla's question. Should I worry about how alcohol in herbal tinctures affects ketos and the liver? It has a very weak effect. But some people are more sensitive to alcohol, while others don't find it harmful. Personally, I don't like tinctures, but some people prefer them. Adding alcohol allows you to extract more different substances from herbs. So, it's unlikely to have a strong effect. There's very little of it, so I wouldn't worry. But if your liver is sensitive like mine, I'd probably use tinctures with water, glycerin, or something else. The base is endless. Wow, what a nickname from YouTube writes. I'm involved in sports. Should I give up fruits and other carbohydrates to get rid of the window? I don't know.  What does sport have to do with it? Well, okay, if you're young and exercise, then on a low-carb diet you'll lose so much weight. You know, one of the big problems for those who start keto is that at some point in their lives they abused inappropriate carbohydrates, but for young people, let's say children and even teenagers, if they didn't abuse carbohydrates and eat fruits. I think fruits won't do any harm. I think fruits are a little better than many other carbohydrates, which are refined products, bread and all that, we're told about whole grains. But they make refined flour from them, which is stored. Who knows, for a long time, and they contain gluten, and it causes a lot of problems. So I think if the metabolism is pretty good, if a person is young, he can eat fruits and starches, but as for the window, try what I said and see if it helps. If it helps, great. If not, remove carbohydrates. Why, if there's too much insulin, it can also affect androgens. There are more androgens, and because of them, the sebaceous glands enlarge, which is why window sills appear. Try it and you'll understand what you should do. I wish you success Denis from Facebook Can chronic anxiety contribute to chronic hip pain I'm sure I'm sure that yes chronic stress of any kind can suppress the immune system cause problems with sleep with blood sugar So if a person has a lot of chronic stress it's almost like consuming sugar So Yes it 's simple When you worry a lot of cortisol and adrenaline and cortisol is also called glucocorticoid That is, it releases glucose it converts muscles into glucose and you know that insulin should remove sugar from the blood and we get a surge of insulin caused by stress Oddly enough, this is another hidden cause of many problems just awful Ken from Facebook asks what causes inflammation of bone tissue and what to do about it the cause of problems or inflammation deep in the bones is low levels of vitamin D one of the main symptoms one of the first symptoms of vitamin D deficiency deep dull pain and aching in the bones if you press on the sternum or shin there will be pain in the bone Why Because Let's  Let's remember what rickets is. Rickets is a softening of the bones in a child, which causes the legs to become crooked. And the reason is a deficiency of vitamin D in adults, this is called rickets. Osteomalacia is a softening of the bones. To keep the bones in order, you need a lot of vitamin D. You also need magnesium, you need vitamin K2, it makes the bones dense, there is even data that boron is also needed for bones to be very strong. There is one report that one woman regularly received boron with food for some time, and then during surgery, the doctor sawed her bone with difficulty because it was very hard. But this is just an isolated case, but I know for sure that boron really increases bone density and vitamin D is needed for inflammation. Well, James from YouTube writes. I have diabetes, hypertension and arthritis. The last blood test showed that I have poor kidney and liver function. Will the chum diet harm me at this stage to lose weight? Yes, it's probably too late. So I would continue to eat what you eat, and of course I'm joking. No, that's exactly what you need to do. Immediately remove carbohydrates. Start  healthy chum to restore functions I don't think it's too late for you This is necessary not only for weight loss but also for solving other problems Excellent I know Can you give advice based on personal experience I have a strong reaction to poison ivy what should I do Run from it like the plague you need to find out where it is I have a reaction a meter from it I don't know why don't ask but suddenly there is an itch and here's what I do now I turn on a hot shower and direct the water directly to the place where I have a reaction to poison ivy there is severe pain but then this place does not have it goes numb for 3 hours I can not scratch it so you removed poison ivy oil from the skin and all that So this is a different situation poison ivy can act on the body systemically as for me it causes the same reactions just suddenly you have to walk nearby And it turns on something but I must say I noticed that somewhere in the last year maybe for 2 years I have not had that ivy appears and immediately goes away because I harden myself cold hardening really strengthens  It shocks her immune system so much that it starts to behave better. That is, you can strengthen the immune system with long-term fasting and cold hardening. Try this one way to relieve this itch. Excellent, here is an interesting question from me, huge gallbladders are protruding from my gallbladder. She needs advice. I am trying to find a surgeon who will remove only stones. Do they perform such operations? Yes, they do. There is such a procedure. I would definitely try it. There is also lithotripsy, they use ultrasound, but maybe the stone is too big. I don’t know if it is possible to save the gallbladder and treat the stone. If it is too big to dissolve, that’s good. 31 months ago, this is what I have. I am 69. I am a woman. I had thyroid cancer in 1995. Now I am on healthy Keto, which you recommend. I recently saw a doctor, my glucose level was 120. I think the question is about glucose. So, if we talk about carbohydrates, you certainly need strict keto. A continuous glucometer would help you find out why sugar rises, because it rises for other reasons, stress is one of them, and there may be something hidden in food if you have  You have had insulin resistance for many years. Your liver typically produces excess glucose. This happens to diabetics. They don't always eat a lot of sugar, but this sugar is created by the liver during gluconeogenesis due to severe insulin resistance. And the enzymes in the liver that inhibit gluconeogenesis require magnesium. So, I strongly recommend regularly taking magnesium in higher-than- normal doses and taking it in the form of glycine, not the oxide found in most dietary supplements. Magnesium oxide is absorbed by 34%, and magnesium glycinate by 80%. There is no need to swallow 20 capsules of magnesium oxide instead of one capsule of glycine. So, take magnesium; it will lower your blood sugar. Eliminate carbohydrates as much as you can. There are many other factors that happen, and I don't have enough data about your lifestyle, diet, and so on. Excellent, celebrity Mickey Mouse has joined us on the tube. He wants to know if it's harmful to fry in mustard oil. I don't know if this is the best oil for frying. I'm so  I don't think so, I know it has a lot of useful properties, but I wouldn't fry it in NM. I would fry it in melted coconut oil, olive oil, beef, lard, and so on.