Hello Today we will discuss referred pain, what it is, essentially it is pain that does not occur where it hurts. For example, if you step on a dog's tail, its mouth will bark so that it does not bite, we remove our foot from the tail. In this video, volunteer Jared will be helping me. Thank you for coming. Let's put you here. It looks like mine is not quite level, it's a little off to the side. Let's start with the pancreas. The pancreas is an organ. It will fit here. The pancreas is located directly under the rib cage on the left. In fact, sometimes it goes right here. If the pancreas is inflamed, the pain can be reflected in the left shoulder or in the back, here, or the pain may not be reflected. It can hurt right above the pancreas. The gallbladder is on the other side, directly under the rib cage, from here the pain usually radiates to the area of ​​the right shoulder. Here, there is a small muscle that lifts the scapula. This is the place people usually want to massage above the right trapezius muscle. In fact, it's the tiny muscle. Here it lifts the shoulder, usually here and  It hurts, whether it's a lump or pain, it's definitely in the gallbladder and here's what else is going on. There's a nerve that runs under the diaphragm, it's called the phrenic nerve, and it goes all the way to the neck, to the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae. The spinal cord roots form the phrenic nerve, and the right side of the neck can hurt. Here, the pain can even be reflected in the right temple, here in the jaw, and this side of the head can hurt. It can hurt here. This can even cause tension in the neck, shift the vertebra to the side, cause a pinched nerve, and pain anywhere in the right hand. I've seen this constantly, even in the fingers. The liver is located here if the liver is inflamed. If there's stagnation in it or it's not working. This can also cause pain in the right shoulder, but it will be mainly in this muscle. Here, the rhomboid muscle on the right, here is the spleen, right under the rib cage. Here is the pancreas. And here is the spleen. The spleen can cause pain in the left shoulder. The heart is located right at the midline of the body. Here, by the way, it's the size of a fist. The heart causes pain in the left arm. It can reach this point.  Cause pain in the shoulder and even in the jaw on the left, put your finger on your belly button, well, his prostate is located here, pain in it can reflect on the back side, the ovaries would be located slightly to the left and slightly to the right of this area, pain in them is reflected in the sacroiliac joint, here are the sacroiliac joints on the right and left. These are small joints between the pelvic bone and the sacrum here and here if a woman has pain on the right, then the pain is reflected from the right ovary. And if it hurts on the left, it is possible that the problem is in the left ovary. And if a man has a problem with the prostate, there may be pain in the lower back, here this also happens. Pain runs along the back of the leg right to the foot, it is caused by a pinched nerve in the back or in one of the gluteal muscles. There are several muscles, one of them is called the piriformis, when it spasms, it can compress a nerve and cause sciatic pain on its side. Sciatic pain is usually caused by an injury to the coccyx, some kind of injury to the lower back, or prolonged sitting when the curvature of the lumbar region is disturbed, in this case, you need restore the bend and the last organ of the kidney, the kidneys are located here and here closer to the upper abdominal cavity deep inside. If you look from behind, here is the 12th vertebra and the 12th rib, and the kidneys are located just below. Here and here. If there is a problem with the kidneys, be it a stone or inflammation in the kidney, the pain can be anywhere from the last 12th rib in the direction of the spine. This is a small triangle. It hurts somewhere higher here or on this side here. If a stone comes out of any kidney and passes through a tube called the ureter on the way to the bladder, this can cause pain in the groin area, but the problem is not in the groin area but in the ureter in this tube. Regarding referred pain, you need to know that it is usually not clear what causes it. Perhaps there is some problem with the nerves or soft tissues, be it fascia, ligament, tendon, or muscle. Now I want to talk about this question. How often will the pain usually be referred? Are they caused by the very place or organ that hurts, and the answer is Very often, I would say that in 50-60 percent of cases, when a person has pain somewhere This pain is reflected from their areas of the body, especially if there were no injuries to a certain area at all, but it began to hurt for no reason. Suspect that this is referred pain. With referred pain, you need to take a couple of basic measures. It is obviously related to some organ, which usually has some kind of problem caused by poor nutrition. You can treat and treat this area and even eliminate the pain, but it will return until you improve your diet. If you are not new to the channel, you know the solution, and for newcomers to the channel, I will explain you need two things: healthy ketones and intermittent fasting. These two measures, used together, will help put all these organs in order and give them the opportunity to rest. Thanks to intermittent fasting, inflammation will greatly decrease, the organs will eventually heal and the pain will go away. Personally, I had pain in my right shoulder for 12 years. I did not see the connection between my gallbladder and my right shoulder. I was given massages and manual therapy, the pain went away for a nanosecond, but always returned. If I had known that it was related to my diet, I eventually found out. I have not had any pain in my right shoulder for many years now and usually a person is ready to swear that the pain is related to some old injury, but it is related to nutrition. So if you are not on healthy Keto with intermittent fasting, do yourself a favor. Try it and you will see how much it helps. And lastly, if you go to a specialist and receive some kind of therapy and you need to repeat this therapy over and over again month after month, then you should suspect that you are dealing with referred pain. Find the source of this pain, deal with it, ignore the places that hurt, because these are symptoms. And the cause is one of the organs. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.