Let's talk about how to get rid of swelling of the legs, ankles and feet. Can you believe that I had swelling of the ankles? I press on my ankle and it left an indentation on it. I'm not that old. It was years ago and even in this photo you can see that my face was completely round. A round face is always a sign of problems with blood sugar. I had many health problems, including swelling of the legs, called edema. You can read that swelling is caused by problems with the liver, kidneys, heart, possibly excess sodium in food, but this is not always the case. There is a more common reason. I will tell you about it and it is very easy to fix. If you do what I will tell you about in this video, you will fix it very quickly and you do not need a blood thinning drug, a diuretic, to remove fluid. After all, they have side effects. The reason for fluid retention, especially in the lower legs in the ankles, may be due to the fact that the tiny pumps in the cells do not work. There are millions of tiny pumps in the cells that  They pump fluid into and out of the cell, and the pump that doesn't work in this case is called the sodium potassium pump. What's interesting is that it uses up 30 to 40% of the energy received by the cell, and if this pump breaks down, like our basement pump did, after which the basement was flooded by about 30 centimeters. If this pump breaks down in your body, you will have a lot of water not in the cells but outside the cells, this is intercellular fluid retention. So, what's really happening in your ankles is that your blood sugar gets too high, and all that sugar is bound to a blood protein called hemoglobin. Let's imagine that this is a protein bar, and this is a piece of marshmallow sugar. When sugar binds to protein in the blood, it's called glycation. You may have heard this term in connection with the A1c test, or the glycated hemoglobin test. It measures how much sugar has stuck to the blood protein. This is an average value over about 3 months, because red blood cells live for about 3 months. So, when sugar has stuck to the blood protein, it is no longer cast off and will be bound to  until this blood cell dies, and the more sugar you eat, the more sugar sticks to this protein. As a result, this protein can no longer work; such a protein is called glycated. The point is that when you eat sugar, you destroy the ability of blood cells to deliver nutrition to the body and carry oxygen, and these glycated protein molecules smoke blood vessels. Blood circulation worsens and fluid accumulates in the lower body, this is swelling. This also destroys blood vessels from the inside and creates, so to speak, leaks in the cell walls. The fluid that should be inside the vessels can leak out. In addition, when you eat a lot of sugar, this leads to sodium retention. Not to mention the fact that another mineral, potassium, binds to sugar and water always follows sodium. Over time, this affects the nerves in the soles of the feet; numbness and tingling occur, this is peripheral neuropathy. Yes, with diabetes, people have a lot of fluid in the ankles, and so on, and even those who do not have diabetes and perhaps even prediabetes also have fluid retention in these areas.  as it was with me, to fix this you need one very important vitamin, but you also need to get two more nutrients from food, two minerals, obviously, one of them is potassium, the problem with potassium is that it is not easy to get from food because you need a lot, a lot of it, the average person needs 4700 mg. What does this mean? There are about 300 mg of potassium in one banana, how much do you need to multiply 300 to get 4700? You would have to eat 15.6 bananas every day just to get potassium. The problem is that this is difficult to do and bananas have a lot of sugar. Instead, it is better to eat avocados, more greens and even more berries. From all this you can get a lot of potassium. The second mineral, magnesium, is needed to create ATP, this is the source of energy in the body. Yes, with a magnesium deficiency, there will be cramps, but there will also be a lack of energy. And to get magnesium, you probably need to eat more pumpkin or sunflower seeds and leafy greens, but you don’t need 4700 mg of magnesium like potassium, but somewhere around 420. Potassium and magnesium can be obtained from electrolyte powder, but it  must be of high quality and without hidden sugars So you fix this pump And now we will discuss why this pump broke and it broke because of a deficiency of vitamin B1 I will show you this small diagram just kidding this is a huge diagram of biochemical processes here we have all sorts of chemical processes and here when you eat sugar the body begins to work with it here Then it must be broken down into smaller molecules glucose and then this machine converts glucose into energy and to go from this step to this one enzyme is needed and it needs vitamin B1 But if it is not enough you will not be able to get energy from glucose thus the main reason for B1 deficiency is excessive consumption of carbohydrates in refined form if you eat a lot of refined sugar without B1 the body has to take B1 from its reserves from different tissues of organs glands as a result there will be a deficiency of B1 and B1 is also a very important antioxidant that protects the nerves that is why when someone does not have B1 left peripheral neuropathy occurs this is tingling numbness burning in  The bottom line is that B1 is extremely important for carbohydrate metabolism and for your protection from large amounts of carbohydrates and by protection I mean protection from glycation, the combination of sugar with protein B1 prevents them from joining together. So blood cells are not destroyed and it circulates. Well, understand that if they join together, it is irreversible; they cannot be separated. So, magnesium, potassium and B1 are the solution for swollen ankles, but you also need to exclude sugar from your diet, because as soon as you start eating empty carbohydrates again, the swelling will return. But if there are carbohydrates, then what should you eat to find out? Pay attention to this course. I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down. This program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available. There are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter  Barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition, an important part of a healthy whale. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge about how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.