Let me answer the question: what will happen in the body if you give up sugars?  And completely, for two weeks?  Let's take a look. First, you will lose your appetite for sugar. Why?  Because every time you eat sugar, a hormone is produced that lowers your blood sugar, resulting in low blood sugar, a type of hypoglycemia.  This, in turn, will cause you to crave sugar.  That is, by stopping eating sugar, you get rid of the craving for sugar.  Second, your hunger will decrease.  Until you give up sugars, you won't know. But believe me, it is because of them that you are constantly hungry.  By giving up sugars, you stop feeling so hungry.  Why?  Because blood sugar levels are normalized.  And now the cells can receive real nutrition.  Because when you live on sugars, and because they are toxic to the body, the body starts to resist them.  This is insulin resistance. That is, the body blocks insulin, because it controls sugar levels, and the body tries to limit the sugar level inside the cells.  The body does not consider sugar to be healthy, quite the opposite.  When you give up sugars, your body begins to return to normal and can receive much more nutrients along with the required amount of fuel.  After all, insulin resistance also prevents the body from receiving nutrition.  Micro and macroelements, vitamins, and this is one of the functions of insulin.  Third, less fatigue, especially after eating. If you regularly consume sugar, you will usually feel tired after eating, and this is due to your blood sugar levels.  You will find that the fatigue after eating is reduced.  This means that your blood sugar levels are not as high now, and it is sugar that is causing your brain to become tired. But now the sugar is normal, and the brain is able to stay awake.  Fourth. Excess water and fat will come out of you.  In the first week you will lose a lot of water and some fat, and then it will be mostly fat.  You'll be surprised how much fluid you retain. Some people lose about 6 kg in a week.  in the form of a liquid.  You carry this water inside you, and this cannot be good for the heart.  Of course, you will find that your clothes have become too big, especially around the waist. The size of your belly and waist will best indicate whether you are consuming too much sugar.  Cut down on sugar and your belly will shrink.  Eat sugar and your belly will grow.  Next, the fifth.  Improving mood.  If you were grumpy and moody before, you will become much calmer and it will be pleasant to be around you , and that is great.  Your mental abilities will increase, your concentration will improve, you will be more attentive, you will have less attention deficit and more focus on your affairs. Sixth.  Your skin will look much better.  Breakouts will be reduced and your skin will glow.  This is very significant, because when you consume sugar, insulin increases, and then androgens increase.  And I'm talking about the female body. Androgens increase, which leads to breakouts.  In a male body, increased insulin will decrease testosterone, and other problems associated with low testosterone will arise.  Seventh. Rigidity will decrease, inflammation will be reduced, and there will be less pain.  So all we do is switch from sugar to fat as fuel.  It takes 3 days.  You reduce carbohydrates contained in sugars.  You may experience a flare-up of symptoms for 3 days, but anyone can tolerate 3 days.  And if you take B vitamins in nutritional yeast and potassium, it is quite possible that there will be no symptoms, and everything will pass easily. You build new enzymes at the cellular level so your body can run on fat for fuel.  There are real machines in the body that literally rebuild themselves to use a new type of fuel. Here's what will happen over the next two weeks.  You will experience reduced inflammation inside your arteries. This is what happens when you give up sugars.  Reducing inflammation.  This will help prevent blockages and plaque buildup and reduce the risk of stroke or heart attack.  Brain cells will also begin to form. Why, in the absence of sugars, the body begins to work on a different fuel, on tytons, and tytons help the formation of nerve cells.  Next, the liver.  You will begin to remove fat that has accumulated in your liver and will be able to use it as fuel.  And also start the process of cleansing your liver so that it stops being fatty.  By the way, if you have a big belly, there is a chance that you have fatty liver.  So by doing all this you will reduce the amount of fat in your liver.  And finally, your kidneys will function better.  If you look at diabetics, it is their kidneys that are under attack.  If you reduce your consumption of sugars and carbohydrates, your kidney function will improve significantly. Well, that's all.  As the saying goes, the pudding has to be eaten to be appreciated.  But let's not talk about pudding.  Let's say this is the icing on the cake, although it's not worth talking about either. Thanks for watching.  I warn you, after watching this video you may stop eating sugar.  And I'm just giving information.  Seventy-three meta-analyses were conducted, covering 8,600 sugar studies.  And here is their conclusion. High amounts of added sugar are significantly associated with forty-five negative health effects. These include diabetes, asthma, depression, stroke, heart attack, gout, hypertension, dementia, cancer and premature death.   Otherwise, it's an excellent product. Interestingly, the World Health Organization states that up to twelve teaspoons of added sugar will not cause any harm to health.  When someone tells me they don't need the Theta Diet because they don't have weight problems, I say, "Have you heard of something called Skinifet? If you eat added sugar, you probably have both visceral fat and liver fat. You just don't know it yet. 40% of people with normal weight have metabolic syndrome. This is high blood glucose, fatty liver, and high cholesterol. But there's one thing about obesity. 20% of obese people have normal metabolism, and they live a long time. So just being overweight doesn't mean a person is very unhealthy or, on the contrary, healthy. There are other factors. Health experts say that sugar is empty calories. In fact, sugar is quite toxic. About half of sugar is fructose, and the other half is glucose. Fructose is very toxic to the body. I would even say no less toxic than alcohol. If you think about how alcohol is made, Well, it's made from sugar of one kind or another. But if you compare fructose and alcohol, what problems can both create? Both can lead to hypertension, myocardial infarction, heart attack, insulin resistance, fatty liver, and pancreatitis. Nature has made sugar difficult to access. Our ancestors got sugar from fruits during the harvest season. Even honey has its season, and it's difficult to get because of the bees. But we've made sugar easily accessible. Some people wonder why the government doesn't regulate sugar like alcohol. Well, don't count on it. They make a lot of money off sugar. The sugar lobby, the corn lobby, and the sweet drink lobby are incredibly powerful. The sugar industry receives a third of all US agricultural subsidies. Only 2% of these farms want these farms. So the sugar industry spends a lot of money on lobbying. They influence official dietary recommendations, the food pyramid. And it's no secret that the US sugar industry does not allow negative perception of their products. They're trying their best to discredit research on the health risks of sugar. So if you think the government is going to regulate this, don't get your hopes up. You'll have to stop consuming sugar yourself. But there are some things you can do to make the transition easier. There are many keto-friendly sweets and desserts. Take Lily's chocolate, for example. It doesn't contain sugar, but sugar alcohols. You can eat it without any worries. Or look, keto-friendly chocolate frosting. Only 1 gram of carbs. There's that, too. And here's another product. Sweetleaf's Best Sugar . This brand is sugar-free. You can eat muesli. These are examples of foods you can eat while weaning yourself off sugar. Here are also pecans with keto caramel. So, if you want, you can easily replace the sugar you've given up. All of these products taste like sugar, even though there's no sugar in them. When you eat sugar, you're helping the sugar industry and also damaging your body.