Today we'll talk about the seven most harmful foods for joint pain and arthritis, and then I'll list what you need to eat if you have arthritis and joint pain. I'll be talking mostly about osteoarthritis, but we'll also talk about rheumatoid arthritis and gout. I have had a lot of injuries in the past, and old injuries can torment a person, and the older he is, the more severely.  So for me, arthritis and inflammation are important issues. I've been researching this topic constantly and I've come across something I want to share with you. This is extremely interesting, but first I need to clarify some basics and define a few terms.  The first term is condrocytes. This is the type of cell that makes up cartilage. When dealing with joint pain, it is important to understand what the joint is made of and study it.  This knowledge can potentially help us get rid of arthritis completely.  And here's what I found out.  When I was studying hepatocytes and how inflammation develops, I kept coming across one thing, this term. And before I decipher it, I will say that it is something inside the cell.  And this is the part of the assembly line that helps produce proteins.  And this particular thing inside the cell is responsible for making sure that proteins are folded correctly. This is the paper airplane we fold out of paper.  It needs to be folded correctly for it to fly. Also in the cage.  Inside it there is a factory that manipulates different amino acids, creating proteins of the desired shape. And this thing is called ready?  Endoplasmic reticulum.  It folds proteins so that they can be used.  Its other function is to store calcium. And here's what's interesting.  There's a lot going on in a cell .  There are a lot of different things, but what is often mentioned is this particular part of the cell factory, its stress, which triggers the cascade.  inflammatory processes even before mitochondrial damage. I think this is very interesting. But there are a couple more pieces to this puzzle. This was the first one.  The second thing I learned was even more surprising, because inside the chantrocytes, it turns out, there are receptors for bile salts.  What do bile salts have to do with it?  They are in the gallbladder.  Why are bile receptors needed in joints?  Very strange.  I had to delve into this topic for a couple of hours to figure it out.  And here's what I found out. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  There are two types of bile.  One type of bile is produced by the liver to digest fat.  But besides this, we have other bile.  It's called secondary bile. It is produced by bacteria in the intestines from the main bile.  They don't actually produce bile, they transform ours, change it so that it performs other functions in the body.  In addition to digestion, digestion of fats.   In other words, bile salts have other important functions. And one of these functions is a powerful remedy for joint inflammation.  It appears that some of the bile salts enter the bloodstream and then penetrate into different parts of the body, including the joints.  They help protect joints by reducing inflammation, which is very interesting in itself.  When I was practicing, I saw that people who had their gallbladder removed, as well as those who took some kind of antibiotic, almost always had arthritis or some kind of joint pain. Anyway, the puzzle started to come together, and I remembered something else. Here, what is this?  This is a special type of bile salt. It is taken as a supplement.  But I had no idea until I read about it that one of the unique properties of tutka is the reduction of endoplasmic reticulum stress. This is its unique property. Tutka reduces endoplasmic Now everything fell into place.  Bile, in fact, not only reduces inflammation, but also helps the functioning of cellular factories.  which restore, maintain and build joints.  After all, the endoplasmic reticulum is a key element of this process.  So bile has another extremely important function: protecting this part of the cellular mechanism, as well as eliminating inflammation in the hepatocytes.  If you have a shortage of bile, its deficiency, due to which endoplasmic stress is increased, this is what happens: a series of certain events. Mitochondrial stress occurs, and then the whole mechanism begins to break down.  Calcium plays a role here too.  The endoplasmic reticulum has another function of storing calcium.  And when we talk about joints, we also talk about protection against calcification. This was new information for you, the very basics.  Based on this, I will name the worst foods for arthritis, as well as the most beneficial ones, those that will provide you with enough bile.  And you will learn how to control the situation, reduce arthritis and inflammation in the joints. You may have heard of the word " gut brain".  So, there is also an intestinal-joint axis.  Below I will leave a link to more detailed information on this topic.  It turns out that bile salts are a powerful anti-inflammatory agent.  We are talking about bile salts, which are produced by our own microflora. Amazing.  And while we're on the subject of bile, I'd like to add something else from the duck.  This is a different type of bile salt.  Bear bile .  They don't take it from bears anymore. And it synthesizes.  This bile is very effective at inhibiting inflammatory signaling molecules in arthritis.  Here is their designation.  We won't go into details further. Just know that tutka helps very effectively reduce inflammation in arthritis of any type.   Let's move on. There is one more key piece to this puzzle, and that is vitamin K2.  You may have heard of vitamin K1.  It is associated with blood clotting.  Some people take the drug warfarin, which blocks vitamin K1, reducing blood clotting.  For heart attack prevention, it's vitamin K1, and vitamin K2 does something else.  It prevents calcium from accumulating in soft tissues. If you have a vitamin K2 deficiency for some reason, you may experience calcification of your joints or possibly blood vessels.  Or osteophytes, small growths or spurs, may even form around the joints. One of the notable side effects of warfarin is that it not only blocks vitamin K1, but also vitamin K2, which stops working. Therefore, one of the side effects of warfarin is calcification of soft tissues, joints and blood vessels.  So what happens? You take warfarin for your heart, but its side effect is calcification of blood vessels.  around the heart.  This is some kind of nonsense.  Vitamin K2 is found in foods that are high in fat. I'll talk more about this when we get to diet , but it's a really key vitamin for preventing calcium deposits in joints and reducing inflammation. Now let's talk about rheumatoid arthritis. It is an autoimmune disease.  That is, the immune system attacks its own body.   The so-called antibodies attack the body's own joints, causing these joints to be constantly inflamed.  I won't bore you with terms from the field of immunity, but an imbalance arises between these cells.  All you need to know is that there is one truly important vitamin that helps put out fires and reduce inflammation.  And this is vitamin D. However, if you take it in normal doses, there may not be any therapeutic effect, and most likely there won't be.  Doses must be large to have a therapeutic effect on the joints. You act on the immune system.  After all, rheumatoid arthritis is a problem associated more with the immune system than with the joints.  There are many autoimmune diseases, and this is just one of them. This is an immune system problem. As for the vitamin D dose, I would take at least 20,000, and preferably 30 or 40. Below is a link to a doctor you can consult with if you have rheumatoid arthritis to get tested and determine the right vitamin D dose for you.  When you take a lot of vitamin D3, you should also take magnesium, zinc, and vitamin K2 because they work together. Vitamin D will significantly reduce inflammation in the joints, both in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Vitamin D is one of the best remedies for inflammation, especially in the knees, lower back, and any other joints. When vitamin D is deficient, inflammatory signals in the body are significantly increased.  When it comes to arthritis and joint pain, there are substances in food that can trigger them, just like with food allergies.  We will discuss this further.  The most common products.  Next are the advanced glycation end products.  They are formed when glucose or sugar is present along with protein.  Basically, they occur when there are a lot of carbohydrates in the diet.   This produces lipid protein, which causes inflammation.  It was discovered that there is something called biofilm in joints. There are microbes inside it.  It is a kind of mucus or protective glue in which microbes hide under a calcium shell.  Because of this, the immune system cannot find them.  Well, it has been discovered that some of these microbes are associated with our teeth.  Yes. For example, if you have an old root canal in a tooth where there is an infection, and microbes continue to reside there in the gums, they have been there for a long time, penetrating the lymphatic system, then into the blood, and eventually end up in the joints.  This contributes to your arthritis continuing.  The news here is that the source of the problem is microflora. Surprisingly, the influence of our microbiome on our joints is much greater than I could have imagined. I'll talk more about this when we discuss nutrition right now.   Did you remember to press the bell? So, there are seven foods to avoid.  Not necessarily products.  These can also be common ingredients.  And number one is emulsifiers.  The role of emulsifiers in food is to help mix ingredients more thoroughly. One of the common emulsifiers is called Polysarbat 80. It is found in frozen desserts, creamy sauces, and so on. The problem with emulsifiers is that they have a negative effect on microflora. Remember, we discussed how microflora helps create bile salts, which are so necessary for joints.  So, there is a direct link between the consumption of such products with emulsifiers and joint inflammation.  I wanted to point this out just so you were aware. Let's move on to number two.  Fat-free soy protein powder. Some protein bars sometimes contain isolate protein.  It has very little fat.  This is an industrial protein.  I know many people who ate this protein and developed joint pain and arthritis. Why?  Because it harms the liver. If you don't eat animal protein and instead consume soy or other plant proteins, you will have very low or no taurine levels .  Taurine is needed for bile production and is one of the nutrients that is missing from a vegan diet.  It is the main element that stimulates the production of bile and contraction of the gallbladder.  For this you need fats.  Therefore, people on a low-fat diet develop a bile deficiency, which can later lead to arthritis.  Soy protein may also contain traces of the solvent dioxane.  Someone will say: “Oh, come on, it all evaporates.”  But, unfortunately, no one is monitoring this now, and no one is regulating it.  So whether he is there or not, we don’t know.  And, as I already said, this protein does not stimulate bile.  Instead, we get more inflammation in the liver and digestive tract, which harms the microflora. Third, refined seed oils.   Let me explain something.  When seed oils were studied , it was claimed that replacing saturated fats with these seed oils improved cardiovascular function and increased insulin sensitivity. And I don't deny that, but what kind of oil did they research?  Was it the kind of oil you usually use in fast food restaurants, which is heated and reheated for days and weeks?  Of course not.  There are cold-pressed seed oils that are minimally refined.  There is typical oil that is refined, bleached, deodorized, and heated to 300 degrees. When you heat these oils, they create byproducts called aldehydes, which are very damaging to your joints, as well as your blood vessels, mitochondria, and the cells that regulate insulin. Yes, hypothetically the oils themselves are fine, but what about the bigger picture? What about the by-products that form during heating and reheating?  In addition, aldehydes are formed when these oils enter cell membranes.  Some cold-pressed flor oils or even sunflower oils contain much less omega-6 fatty acids and much more monounsaturated fats, like avocado oil or olive oil.  But this is far from what most people consume and buy in the store.  So, refined seed oils.  increase inflammation, especially in the joints.  Number four.  Alcohol, especially beer. Beer turns into so-called purines, which can cause gout and joint inflammation.  Beer also contains carbohydrates, which raise blood sugar and cause inflammation. But it's not just beer that can cause arthritis problems.  Wine and spirits too.  They damage the liver, and anything that damages the liver leads to arthritis, unfortunately.  Number five. Casein protein.  Option A1.  The A2 variant is less of a problem, but the milk in stores mostly contains A1, and many people have problems with it , especially if it is concentrated in the form of these two substances.  sodium caseinate and calcium caseinate.  It's a super-concentrated protein called Casia A1 that makes your joints burn.  It is often added to bars because it is a cheap protein from China. That's how it is.  Concentrated protein Casein A1 is also found in cheese, for example, like this one .  Also avoid cassia in powder form. It is even added to baby food.   This may be why children develop milk allergies, and that's bad.  If you want milk protein, take A2.  Cheese made from sheep's milk or goat's milk or even cow's milk with goat's milk A2.  Much, much better.  Regular milk in A1 stores comes from grain-fed cows, not grass-fed ones.  If you compare milk and cheese, the concentration of this protein is much higher in cheese, and the body's reaction to cheese will likely be stronger.  Number six.  Modern wheat, as opposed to ancient grain crops. You know, I have a lot of videos about wheat, and today it's a refined food that spikes your blood sugar because wheat contains a carbohydrate, a starch with an extremely high glycemic index, called amylopectin.  Oh, and not only does it raise blood sugar more than pure sugar, it also significantly increases inflammation. This is one component.  There's also WGA in there, and wheat germ gluten is something that causes almost as much inflammation as gluten.  This substance attaches to the intestinal walls and can make them leaky.  In addition, there is also glyphosate. Wheat is mostly non-GMO, but it is still treated with this deterbicide, glyphosate, to dry it out.  This allows even more glyphosate to enter the body, which affects the microbiome and is also associated with increased inflammation.  And finally, gluten.  This is another type of protein that people have trouble digesting. Gluten byproducts may act similarly to the apioids that initially cause anemia.  And after some time, pain suddenly appears. Gluten causes a number of problems, including arthritis, inflammation, and thyroid problems.  High fructose corn syrup.  This is not just sugar, it is industrial synthetic sugar, which contains a lot of fructose. It leads to severe inflammation in the liver, insulin resistance, which in turn causes inflammation, both directly and indirectly.  A person can continue to consume this syrup without feeling full, so it is very dangerous.  So this should be avoided.  Now about what you need to eat.  Fermented foods.  When you eat sauerkraut, kefir, or Bulgarian yogurt, you increase the number of bacteria that create secondary bile.  And secondary bile is a powerful remedy for joint inflammation.  Number two is healthy fats. Olive oil, avocado oil, fish oil, and fats from grass- fed animals are also very healthy. Plus butter and grass- fed cheese.  Number three.  Foods that are high in vitamin D3.  Salmon, cod liver, cod liver oil.  But we usually get this vitamin from the sun, not from food.  In winter it can be taken as a supplement.  But for arthritis, you need to drink D3 in therapeutic doses of 60, and better 70 or 80,000. Sometimes even more, depending on your condition. In case of autoimmune disease the dose should be higher.  It is the high doses that produce the magical effect.  Along with D3, be sure to take vitamin K2 and magnesium to avoid problems.  Sources of omega-3 are, of course, fish and cod liver oil .  Sulfur products, onions, garlic, and also colored vegetables are very rich in sulfur, and joints love sulfur.  Get enough collagen from bone broth.  After all, part of the joint is collagen. If you eat regular meat, cutlets or steak, there is only a small percentage of collagen.  If you look at how much protein is in the body and what part of it is in the diet, it turns out that it is at least 30%. But in a steak, for example, there is only 2-3, maybe 5% collagen. People like softer meat.  They do not like meat that is completely grass-fed and difficult to chew.  And you have to chew it for a long time.  It's because of collagen.  But it can be obtained in another way.  I have already talked about vitamins D3, K2 and magnesium. I'll add: keep iron levels low because too much can cause arthritis.  Iron is a mineral that is difficult to remove from the body once it has entered.  So avoid iron pans and iron supplements, especially if you're not menstruating.  If you are a man and you have excess iron, it can cause a lot of inflammation.  And finally, the duck.  This is an excellent remedy for arthritis.  And now you know why it helps with endoplasmic reticulum stress and protects cartilage in joints.  We've discussed some healthy foods , but you should also learn about other important sources of essential nutrients.  Do you know what superfoods are? These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body.  Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these products and their benefits.  Short, engaging videos about over a dozen superfoods that can help improve your health, reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease, improve your digestive health, boost your immunity, and boost your energy.  You will also find notes, recipes and additional materials. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.