Let's talk about the kidneys, how amazing they are, how to protect them, and what exactly you need to take to minimize toxicity and kidney damage, and for a long time. In fact, the kidneys are a very resilient organ, like the liver, they can withstand a lot and recover. Each kidney consists of about a million tiny filters. The kidneys must filter day and night, around the clock, continuously. They filter the blood. And what makes up blood? What you eat, all the food you eat, all the junk food, all the alcohol you drink, all the drugs you take, all the pollution, all the plastic. Everything that gets into the blood eventually gets into the kidneys, and the kidneys must be able to determine what needs to be left and what needs to be gotten rid of. So, very complex processes happen in this little filter called the front. With age, we lose these filters and can lose up to 20 percent of the kidneys. The kidneys shrink with age. Therefore, with age, it is even more important to eat right and be less exposed to toxins and drugs. Of course, in life, on the contrary, with age, we take more pills, and unfortunately, older people. Especially if they get into some boarding house eat incorrectly also the kidneys secrete hormones to create red blood cells to regulate pressure but let's look at the factors that really destroy the kidneys there are even so-called healthy foods that destroy the kidneys we will talk about them too but first let's talk about what kidney stones are formed from because a kidney stone can seriously harm it especially its small crystals cause damage for survival in the kidney and in the tube leading from the kidney to the bladder most often kidney stones are oxalate stones they consist of calcium oxalate but there are also stones made of uric acid one of the most important measures especially if you are prone to kidney stones is to limit the amount of oxalates in the diet there is a chance that you eat something that has a lot of oxalates almonds spinach beet greens peanuts cereals beans sweet potatoes manioc tapioca which is made cassava kiwi chocolate Swiss chard and also turmeric is in a lot of salads However, turmeric has many other properties that help reduce inflammation and Cinnamon also has a lot of oxalates that prevent the formation of oxalates, and cloves will also say a few words about oxalates because they can really create problems in addition to kidney problems, they can cause arthritis and also the so-called pseudo gout. Usually gout is caused by the formation of a uric acid crystal, but pseudo gout is associated with uric acid. With pseudo gout, other calcium crystals are formed, but pseudo gout can also be aggravated by high levels of calcium. Salads either come from food or the body creates them itself. Something about pseudo gout. Anything that causes excess calcium excretion can aggravate pseudo gout. And here's what's interesting: excess salt can cause such calcium excretion from the kidneys. So if you consume a lot of salt and perhaps not enough potassium. Change this and see if it helps you. For most, a lot of salt is not a problem, but for a small group of people, especially if they have gout or even pseudo gout, things may go better without excess salt. I think that the problem is actually in the proportion of potassium and sodium. If there is enough potassium, the salt level will be fine, but I advise  Just adjust the dose, cut down on salt. Add potassium and see if you feel better. When you eat less salt, you excrete much less calcium and it does not turn into crystals. Another interesting point about oxalates is associated with impaired absorption in the intestines. If this is your case, that is, the intestines are damaged, say you have inflammation, Crohn's disease, irritable bowel syndrome, or gastric bypass. That is, the digestive tract is damaged to some extent. And therefore, you cannot absorb certain substances, especially fats. And if you are on a nateto diet or even on a root diet and all this fat gets into the intestines, but you cannot absorb fat, then some of this fat binds with calcium. As a result, oxalates remain free and can be absorbed and enter the blood and then the kidneys. So there is such an interesting connection: fat binds to calcium, and salad remains free. If your food contains few oxalates, you have nothing to worry about. In addition, if your food contains a lot of salads and at the same time you get more calcium. Perhaps with dairy products, then you are also safe. That is  If you eat any spinach dish and along with them, this can help, this is another way to reverse kidney damage from oxalates, since excess uric acid and oxalates can have a bad effect on the kidneys. Urine tests of people with gout or kidney stones always show that they have excess calcium in the urine, excess uric acid, and also oxalates, and at the same time, their urine contains little so-called citrates. Citrates, what is it, that the body creates them. In addition, we get citrates from citrus fruits such as lemons and limes, and citrates are very interesting in that they bind to oxalates and do not allow them to bind with calcium, reducing the risk of kidney stones. At the same time, lemons have an alkalizing effect on the body, and this is one way to combat gout if you have excess uric acid. That's why lemons are very useful for the kidneys; they protect the kidneys; they contain potassium; they alkalize the body and also protect us from oxalates; another interesting natural remedy.  - this is apple cider vinegar take about a tablespoon with water in the morning for stone prevention Let me go back to potassium and talk about it A little more potassium is probably one of the best minerals for kidney protection People are so afraid to take potassium because they heard that potassium is bad for the kidneys potassium is only bad if you have Stage 5 kidney disease then don't take potassium But apparently even if the kidneys are partially damaged potassium Can protect them And since most people eat little food rich in potassium Electrolyte powder with potassium or just foods rich in potassium are very very good for the kidneys and they help balance the sodium in leafy greens in large portions of greens in avocados there is a lot of potassium And also in beet greens but beet greens have a lot of oxalates in general you need to eat vegetables that have a lot of potassium but little oxalates so even though spinach has a lot of potassium it is better not to eat it because there are a lot of salads in it but there are other remedies  oxalates. Add a little cheese to these foods, you'll get calcium from it, and it will reduce binding to salads. But it seems I haven't mentioned the most harmful factor for the kidneys, and that's sugar. The main cause of end-stage kidney disease is diabetes, and a high-carbohydrate diet leads to diabetes. It's very interesting that the opposite of this, a low-carbohydrate diet, can be heard as very harmful to the kidneys. So avoid it, it can develop acidosis. And firstly, we always recommend a healthy version of the keto diet. So you won't have ketocidosis. Ketocidosis occurs in diabetics when they forget to inject insulin, then ketone acidity increases. Yes, extremely high levels of this will never happen if you don't have diabetes. In fact, ketones are very beneficial for the kidneys, and a high-carbohydrate diet is not beneficial for the kidneys, because high carbohydrates cause the filters in the kidneys to undergo severe oxidation, essentially rusting the kidneys, so to speak. And when this filter is destroyed, glucose appears in the urine, because the kidneys no longer return it to the blood. One way to check the condition of the kidneys  This is a blood test, a protein breakdown product called urea nitrogen. In kidney disease, protein levels in the urine are elevated. This is bad. Urea is also present in the blood, that is, a protein breakdown product. There is another component in the urine called creatinine, and its level is also elevated, and this is a sign of another problem. The kidneys cannot cope with muscle protein, but creatinine levels can be elevated for other reasons. For example, if you eat a lot of fried or boiled meat, when heated, creatine becomes creatinine, and the creatinine level in the urine can increase. Also, if you simply eat a lot of protein, but usually this problem only occurs with diseased kidneys. If your kidneys are healthy, you eat a lot of protein. I think there will be no problems. In fact, I have not found any convincing evidence that eating too much protein will somehow harm you. If you eat a lot of protein and a lot of sugar, creatinine increases due to liver problems and even as a side effect of ACE inhibitors are blood pressure drugs, and creatinine can increase due to heavy training. So you need to understand what  the reason is in the kidneys or something else So here's briefly what you can do to keep your kidneys really in order I would drink water with lemon every morning it's best to squeeze lemon juice into water and add apple cider vinegar drink fluids I think it's especially worth it for those who are prone to kidney stones to drink two and a half liters of water because kidney stones are formed due to extremely concentrated urine because of this and crystals are formed And if you drink enough This will not happen 2 avoid foods that are high in oxalates Of course, a lot can be said about this, but I named the most important ones for you And if you go to something that has a lot of lard, add dairy products or calcium as a counterbalance and of course it is very important to follow a low-carb keto diet with intermittent fasting And by the way, I will also add this point of all the sugars fructose causes a stronger surge in uric acid than many other things fructose high fructose corn syrup is very harmful also taking large doses of vitamin C Yes, I know that high doses of vitamin C are useful in certain cases But if you are trying to get rid of gout  or pseudopodbrs and taking large doses of ascorbic acid, well, reduce its amount for a couple of days and see if the pain goes away. I just want to point out in this video a lot of things that can aggravate your condition. If you have diabetes or your kidneys are already damaged, there are ways to strengthen the protection of your kidneys. In addition to consuming potassium, you need to consume a lot of phytonutrients, antioxidants that are found in some plants, especially in microgreens. These are tiny young plants. They are slightly larger than sprouts. I recommend those that grew in the soil if you can find them. The fact is that if you eat microgreens and not adult plants, you will receive some phytonutrients 20, 50, 100 times more than from adult plants. So you need very little greenery to get a big effect. If you want to protect your kidneys, it's very easy. Just put microgreens in your salad and it will protect you. I'm talking about phytonutrients such as sulfa-raphane, flavonoids, carotenoids, and even chlorophyll. They all protect the kidneys very well, and the last one is turmeric. There are really a lot of salads. So there is  There are different opinions about this powerful phytonutrient. So now you know all this if you haven't already watched my video on the seven signs of kidney toxicity. Here it is, watch it.