I'll speak out about colon cleansing. There are several types. There is colon hydrotherapy, in which water is introduced into the rectum and then into the colon, and it washes everything out. You can clean out the contents of the colon with the help of herbal laxatives. There is also kaleema, from the words enema, enema, and colon, colon. Here, an enema tube is used to introduce water into the colon and wash it out. A colleague of mine developed it, Bernard Jenson. I did this or four times a long time ago. The problem here is that it gives a very short-term effect. I got a lot of benefit from this, but there is another problem: the leaching of electrolytes. If there are already few of them, you can get very dizzy, your heart may suffer. Even colon hydrotherapy can wash out electrolytes. So, they need to be replenished. Not to mention that beneficial bacteria are not washed away, they also need to be replenished, because some people have constipation after colon cleansing because they essentially removed the beneficial bacteria and did not restore them. One of the problems with kaleema is that you do not  You not only eat but also drink apple juice, so your blood sugar stays high and you feel terrible. After all, you never get into ketosis. Because you drink apple juice, your body relies on glucose and not on its own fat, so your blood sugar drops every now and then. On this program, at the end of it, I thought I only dreamed of eating a lot of pizza and something salty. After all, I had a severe electrolyte deficiency and did not replenish them. Apple juice was a bad idea. So, here's my opinion: why are you doing this at all? What problem are you trying to solve? You have too many toxins in your colon, you have irritable bowel syndrome, polyps, you may have constipation, you may have problems with absorption even in the small intestine, there may be some kind of inflammation, diverticulitis of the rings of the colon or enteritis in the small intestine. There are many different reasons to do this. But first of all, I recommend that you put your diet in order. After all, if you really put your diet in order, these inflammatory diseases usually go away. I am not against it. Colon hydrotherapy was used possibly as a temporary remedy for constipation or other problems, but this must be done under supervision, and it is also necessary to replenish electrolytes and beneficial bacteria. But in the long term, two things are needed. You need to get your diet in order. Of course, you know what I'm saying: you need a keto diet. Ketones have anti-inflammatory properties, which will greatly help in the colon. And the more carbohydrates you eat, the more inflammation in the digestive system. But the most important thing is to start fasting and start intermittent fasting. Why? Because frequent meals are completely contrary to the nature of our digestive system. It is not adapted for frequent meals and for such volumes of food that it is not able to cleanse itself completely. If the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine are constantly filled with food, this overloads the entire system, all sorts of problems with absorption and incomplete digestive cycles arise. That's the problem. So, fasting is extremely, extremely important for beginners. There is a link on the channel below on how to do this. Next, fiber is about vegetable fiber. It can be beneficial or harmful. Most often, it is beneficial. Most people eat vegetables.  No problem, the benefits of vegetables, phytonutrients, they fight cancer, polyps, tumors. Not to mention inflammation, and fiber is food for beneficial microorganisms; they secrete substances that are very beneficial for us, normalize blood sugar and also reduce inflammation. However, for some, excess vegetable fiber can damage the colon, so you need a Cornillor diet for a while. Perhaps for a couple of months to reduce inflammation and recover. And finally, fermented vegetables are very, very important, but you must always distinguish between pickled vegetables and fermented ones. Choose fermented vegetables. Fermented vegetables include sauerkraut, some pickled vegetables, and kimchi. They are very, very healthy because they contain fiber and probiotics. This is my opinion. I think if you don't know what to cook on Keto, the book "Keto menu for two weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of keto and fasting. Follow the link below.