We will discuss the main mistake that people make when drinking water. Listen, here is an interesting statistic: the average amount of liquid drunk by Americans is average for men and women. I will quote it in glasses. But for my friends in Europe, including Dennis, one glass is 236 ml. So, the average person consumes 4.3 glasses of water alone. They drink much more liquids. But only a little more than 4 glasses of water is definitely extremely low. The data for all other drinks is as follows: soft drinks: 1.7 glasses of coffee, one and a half glasses of alcohol, one and one- tenth glasses, a little less than a glass, 9/10.8 glasses of diet soda, half a glass of milk and a little less than half and four-tenths of a glass of juice. As you can see, liquids, but not much water. Let's look a little deeper. What happens when consuming caffeinated drinks? Caffeine is present in soft drinks, in coffee, in some teas and diet sodas. Caffeine acts as a diuretic, and any diuretic only increases dehydration and removes fluid. Drinks with glucose, whether sweet alcoholic drinks.  Coffee, soft drinks, or juices are also strong diuretics, and glucose tends to retain fluid in the body. That's why people who drink a lot of sweets retain a lot of fluid because glucose is stored in the form of glycogen with a large amount of water for each molecule of glucose. About three molecules of water are stored, this water is unavailable. Drinks with glucose and sugar dehydrate the body's tissues. What about alcohol? What happens when you drink all evening and wake up completely dehydrated with intense thirst and a headache due to dehydration? Alcohol acts as a powerful diuretic. It's a big mistake to think that you are sufficiently supplied with water because you drink a lot of fluids, and the popular idea that you need to drink more, despite the fact that the underlying cause of dehydration is not eliminated, is also a big mistake. After all, if you, like the average American, have more than 60 percent of all calories from carbohydrates, and refined carbohydrates, you reduce tissue hydration and increase dehydration. Will drinking plenty of water help? It may help slightly, but it will not solve the original problem. My biggest problem is not only that.  My problem with medicine is that even if the word healing is mentioned in passing, they immediately perceive this activity as quackery, something unscientific. If you think about it, to heal or cure means simply solving a problem. Why can't we cure something? Medicine has recently been mainly containing the problem, teaching us to live with symptoms, and those who dare to hint at a cure cross the line. This relates to the topic of dehydration, because if you want to avoid it, you need to consider all aspects of the problem. The point is not only to drink more water. Let's take sodium levels for example. Sodium is necessary to ensure hydration, like other electrolytes like potassium and magnesium, and for sodium to retain fluid correctly, it must be in the correct balance. Potassium and potassium are needed twice as much as sodium. The absolute amount of sodium is not even close to being as important as the proportion. It is important to get enough potassium and enough sodium, and the proportion should be two to one if you accept the idea of ​​​​drinking. When you feel thirsty, it can cause confusion because it is also important to take sodium into account. Let's say, for example, you are a diabetic and you have Thirst. The problem with diabetics is that  They want to drink too often and pee a lot, they are trying to compensate for the loss of fluid, because the more glucose in the blood, the more often you pee. If you are a diabetic and drink a lot of water, you may quench your thirst, but you will not fix anything, because the real cause of the problem will remain as it was. And this is excessive carbohydrate consumption. What about the situation when you don’t want to drink but you crave salty things, well, you need to understand what causes the craving for salt. It could be adrenal exhaustion. The more exhausted they are, the more salt you want. Or maybe you just worked out and sweated profusely and lost a lot of salt, or it’s hot weather, or you sweat a lot in life even if you don’t exercise and lose sodium. Or let’s say you were prescribed diuretics, they remove salt from the body and you are craving salt, they also remove potassium. Or let’s say you consume a lot of potassium in electrolyte powder, but you don’t have enough salt, this also upsets the balance, or you are fasting and not eating anything at all, and for example, you drink a lot of water but do not take salt, then the body will begin to crave salty even if you follow a whale- like diet You lose a lot of fluid and along with it you lose electrolytes including potassium The more water you drink the more you will be drawn to salt because drinking a lot of plain water to a certain extent deprives you of electrolytes And those who force themselves to drink more liters of water a day without any salt at all develop a condition called hyponatremia This causes a sodium deficiency in the blood This is very, very dangerous If you combine drinking a lot of water with training and do not take sodium, you can develop very severe dehydration Because tissue hydration requires not only water but also a balance of intracellular electrolytes that help retain the right amount of fluid to really solve the problem of dehydration Yes, you need to drink enough fluid, but you also need enough sea salt and other electrolytes I would say that the average person who trains at least a little should consume an average of two to three liters or 8 to 12 glasses And we are talking specifically about water Not about other liquids and drinks like coffee tea alcohol and all that and especially in case  If you're predisposed to kidney stones on a titrogenic diet, you need to make sure your urine isn't too concentrated. Then, even if you're predisposed to kidney stones, they won't form. To prevent dehydration, you need to add sea salt to this liquid. You can also add other electrolytes. You can also add water, lemon, and apple cider vinegar. This way, you'll have both the right amount of fluid and the right level of hydration. If you have too much water and not enough salt, you'll experience fluid deficiency in the blood, which can cause headaches, fatigue, low blood pressure, and dizziness when standing up. I've shared a little additional information on the topic of water. If you haven't watched this important video about water, which has millions of views, you should watch it.