Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz. What happens to vitamin D if there is a magnesium deficiency?  Friends, we are waiting for your answers.  Now we answer questions on social networks.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Darcy from Facebook writes: "I'm taking 1,500 mg of B12. Should I lower my dose? What are the symptoms of too much B12?" I think the most important question is this.  And many people take B12 in huge quantities.  And it is true that many people cannot absorb much B12 due to the change in one gain.  And I am one of them.  You can take a DNA test to find out if you have this problem. I think excess B12 is more dangerous when taken by injection than when taken orally.  After all, the body removes it.  And you need the correct natural form of B12.  methylcobalamin, not cyanocobalamin.  After all, it contains a little cyanide.  I'm not saying there's a lot of it, but if you smoke, you get cyanide when you smoke and take a lot of B12 with cyanide.   I don't know, it might have a toxic effect on you. Synthetic B12 cyanocobalamin is converted into its active form in our country, but not very efficiently. That is why it is taken in large quantities. Unfortunately, synthetic B12 is found in energy drinks.  It is added to many products.  I don't like this.  So , that's my answer.  Okay, I think that's a very competent answer, writes someone from Facebook with the nickname Don't touch.  I've been on a low-carb diet for six months now, but now I'm worried about hair loss. How can I stop hair loss?  That's why I recommend eating high-quality, nutrient-rich foods on a low-carb diet, and getting enough B vitamins and microelements. Sometimes you need to take additional biotin. It is found in various products. Vitamin D is perhaps the most important vitamin for hair growth. Taking supplemental nutrients while on a low-carb diet should reduce hair loss, but insulin resistance from excess carbohydrates can cause hair loss. Look at the different problems caused by insulin resistance. This includes alopecia, hair loss and much more.  I think you need a low carb diet and more nutrients.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Someone from Trumble with the nickname West 220 asks a great question. What's the best way to cleanse the blood of excess sugar?   Take a long walk right after you eat sugar and you'll burn it off. Yes, this is the best way.  And in fact, this is indeed the best way.  I don't know a better way than training. Wonderful.  Let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  What happens to vitamin D if there is a magnesium deficiency?  70% answered: “The absorption of vitamin D is greatly reduced.”  20% said: "We are deprived of vitamin D."  And 10% said: "The effect of vitamin D is negated."  Who is right? Everyone is right.  After all, vitamin D depends on magnesium.  Without magnesium, it does not work and does not benefit us. Yes, vitamin D still promotes the absorption of calcium from the intestines into the blood. What next?  Calcium remains in the blood. All this calcium goes into the blood.  This is one of the main toxic effects of excess vitamin D. Hypercalcemia.  Excess calcium in the blood, which leads to kidney stones.  So, why?  Why not just take more magnesium? Magnesium is the main factor that controls excess calcium and directs calcium from the blood to bones and teeth.  Yes, vitamin K2 is also needed, but magnesium is even more important. So, vitamin D will work if taken with magnesium. I didn't even know that I had a severe magnesium deficiency for many years. Magnesium is so important that the body maintains its normal level in the blood at any cost. Even if this causes a shortage of it in the cells, it takes it from the bones and tissues, as long as there is enough of it in the blood.  So blood is not an indicator.  To detect magnesium deficiency, a very expensive and complex analysis is required. So many people don't get enough magnesium from their diet and eat things that deplete them of magnesium.  I would say that probably 70% of people are deficient in magnesium, and that creates a lot of problems with the heart, with sleep, with stress, and especially with the effectiveness of vitamin D. Great.  And today we have another quiz question.  Please, Dog. What is the main reason why studies show that magnesium has little or no benefits?  So you read scientific articles and are surprised: "Wow, I thought the magician was not useful, but it seems the data on him is very contradictory." Why is that? Friends, we are waiting for your answers.  We continue to answer questions on social networks.  Written by Rutst Trumble.  I take metaprol. Eliquis.  from atrial fibrillation and rapid heartbeat.  Sometimes after eating this continues for a long time.  What could be causing this reaction and what can Ruth do about it? In fact, atrial fibrillation is a chronic magnesium deficiency.  There is evidence that fish oil helps certain areas of the heart, but increases the risk of atrial fibrillation. But if we dig deeper, we learn that this research was funded by the Bill and Linda Gates Foundation.  This immediately makes me wary.  Moreover, this was an observational study. The point is this.  Yes, fish oil is often rancid and therefore contains toxins. And yes, it can affect the heart's conduction system, no doubt, but it is extremely unlikely that high-quality fish oil or cod liver oil will cause atrial fibrillation.  Rather, it is caused by chronic magnesium deficiency.  And this cannot be fixed quickly.  It takes months to replenish magnesium deficiency. And what is needed is not the usual doses, but therapeutic ones.  I would take twice the usual dose of magnesium and be patient. Kimberly from YouTube writes it very well: "I use allulose sweetener. I haven't heard anything bad about it."  What do you think about allulose? Allulose is perhaps the closest substance to sugar.  It can cause gastrointestinal problems if you overdo it. And some people are more sensitive to it. So be careful with the amount of allulose, otherwise you may experience some bloating or even diarrhea. Therefore, it is mixed with aretritis to reduce its amount.  It's a little better, but I think this alternative sweetener Alilose is better than other sweeteners. Great.  Now let's talk to Zhulia, who wants to ask Dr. Berg a question.  It will be a phone call. Good morning, Dr. Berg. Good morning. Here is my question.   For the last 40 years, I would say, I have had a problem with the formation of tartar. I go to the dentist twice a year to get my teeth cleaned.  It hurts.  I'm tired of this and my gums bleed after it. I stopped using secondary toothpaste.  I use toothpaste without a second one.  I cut down on sugar and take vitamin D and vitamin C. Can you recommend anything else? Yes, I insist, I think that you are missing some microorganism in your oral cavity, and it needs to be returned there. There is even toothpaste with friendly bacteria.  They prevent the formation of biofilm and tartar.  You are right.  The second creates a sterile environment and the stone begins to form.  If you don't eat sugar and brush your teeth, it's simply a matter of a bacterial imbalance.  There should be beneficial bacteria in your mouth, but sometimes they are not there. If a person has taken antibiotics in the past or has used fluoride toothpaste and mouthwash for years, then I would buy it.   I think there is even probiotic gum and other types of chewable probiotics with long-lasting effects.  You can chew them to restore beneficial bacteria and they will help you. Great.  Thank you very much, Julie. Hope this helps.  We continue to answer questions on social networks. Joan from YouTube asks: "Why do I get heartburn every time I eat duck here?" I think it might be bile salt, and bile salts are like detergent.  They can irritate tissues, especially if you have a sensitive stomach.   It is not a full-blown gastritis or ulcer, but it can also be an inflammation of the stomach, and it can irritate it due to a disruption of the mucous membrane. So, you may need to eat a little something along with the duck, and not take it on an empty stomach. You need to restore the mucous membrane in your stomach.  And for this, it is best to take zinc carnassine for some time. This will improve your stomach condition and eventually you will be able to take tutku. Great, asks Jaasmin from YouTube. What do you think about the benefits of taking chlorophyll? I think it is useful, especially for any irritation in the stomach or small intestine, because it heals very well. There is a product called wheatgrass juice powder.  It contains a lot of chlorophyll. It is useful for irritation of the inner lining of the esophagus, mouth, colon , and stomach.  Chlorophyll also helps reduce pain, especially after surgery. While the surgeons were putting my left shoulder back together, I took chlorophyll tablets all day long, and it greatly reduced the pain.  So chlorophyll is a very curious substance.  This is the blood of plants.   It contains magnesium and many other phytonutrients. Great.  Let's find out the answer to the quiz question, which sounded like this.  What is the main reason why studies show that magnesium has little or no benefits?  90% responded: “ Studies only look at magnesium levels in the blood, not in the cells.”  Smart answer.  And 10% said because magnesium deficiency is not considered a common health threat. The answers are correct.  But there is another reason, and it is this.  The vast majority of studies use magnesium oxide. This is the cheapest, worst form of magnesium.  It is absorbed only by three percent, and if the dose is increased, there will be diarrhea and a laxative effect.  And because of diarrhea, a person loses magnesium.  And all these studies use magnesium oxide. From a 500 mg tablet, a person will absorb only 20 mg. How can you tell if magnesium is working if you 're getting so little of it?  This is impossible. Therefore, many studies are unreliable.  The same thing with vitamin D research. People are given tiny doses, far from therapeutic doses.  Moreover, they are not given every day, but once a week, month or once a year.  This is madness.  These researchers don't understand what therapeutic doses or effective doses are, and they don't know about the two systems that use vitamin D. In one system, its half-life is three weeks, while in the other system, especially the immune system, it is needed daily, because its half-life is one day.  That is, these studies confuse people, because doctors read them and talk about them.  Vitamin D doesn't really work. Magnesium isn't that important, otherwise they would have written about it in the studies.