I'll tell you how to overcome a panic attack if you have this problem you will be glad that you found this video I will show you how to regain control over what is happening because during a panic attack there is intense fear and a feeling of loss of self-control here are some symptoms hyperventilation salvation dizziness feeling of palpitations lump in the throat it feels like you are suffocating rapid pulse heart starts pounding chest pain and many other symptoms it is interesting that all the symptoms of a panic attack are identical to the symptoms of another condition called respiratory alkalosis a condition in which the pH in the lungs becomes too alkaline hyperventilation sweating dizziness feeling of palpitations lump in the throat rapid pulse heart starts pounding and chest pain exactly the same symptoms which is quite strange why the symptoms of a panic attack are identical to the symptoms of another condition to understand this to understand what is behind this let's turn to science there is the so-called boron effect the name comes from the name of Christian Nabor a Danish physiologist who in 1904 noticed something that is applicable and relevant today so that oxygen binds in the blood with hemoglobin and releases with the necessary Carbon dioxide with an excess of oxygen and a lack of carbon dioxide, the blood will not release the carried oxygen. Did you know that 80 percent of the oxygen ultimately returns to the lungs? So, in a state of panic, you try to breathe in oxygen. All this oxygen passes through the lungs, through the body, returns to the lungs, and you exhale 80 percent of the oxygen because the carried oxygen is not released for some reason. Whereas with a sufficient amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide, oxygen is able to detach from the hemoglobin that carries it. Hemoglobin is a protein in the blood that helps carry and deliver oxygen. This is the transport for oxygen. Therefore, with a lack of carbon dioxide, oxygen starvation begins, and you try to get more oxygen. This is hyperventilation. And what happens next? Try to inhale, breathe more and more often, and it gets even worse. You begin to suffocate. With hyperventilation, a person eventually loses consciousness. Let's say at a party you were told to inflate all the balloons. What will happen when you start doing this? Severe dizziness. You will feel like you are about to lose consciousness because you are inhaling too much.  A lot of oxygen is not released anyway, when there is a lack of carbon dioxide, we think of carbon dioxide as a waste product, but it performs a very important function. It helps release oxygen during breathing. What is the cause of respiratory alkalosis? Excess oxygen, which is not available. In other words, in oxygen poisoning, when there is a lack of carbon dioxide, excess oxygen can become toxic. How can we use this information to fight a panic attack? What can we control? Can we control sweating? We can't control dizziness, heart palpitations, a lump in the throat, or a rapid pulse? None of this can be controlled except breathing. That is, by controlling your breathing, I'll tell you a little later how you can get rid of all these symptoms. I'll explain by controlling your breathing in a certain way. You can solve this problem and quickly get out of the fight- or-flight mode. This is what you need to do. First, start breathing through your nose and through your mouth. Only through your nose. This way, the amount of carbon dioxide will begin to increase, and it is a bronchial relax-on. It relaxes the lungs, which allows oxygen to finally enter the lungs. In addition, when breathing through the nose, the level increases. Nitric oxide, which also helps relax smooth muscles, relaxes the respiratory centers. The next thing you need to do is slow down your breathing to further increase the amount of carbon dioxide and get out of the crisis. Breathing will become much easier. Third, start breathing from the diaphragm. Place your hand on your chest and stomach. You need to breathe not through your chest. When breathing with your stomach, you affect the diaphragm with your chest, and the diaphragm is connected to a part of the nervous system called the sympathetic nervous system. It is responsible for rest and digestion. This is to relax the body. Breathe through your nose. Try to slow down your breathing and breathe with your stomach or diaphragm. 4. Breathe softly and gently. We are trying to relax the body. Ensure an ideal balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide to get the required amount of oxygen, not too much and not too little. During a panic attack, the time of inhalation and exhalation is also important. Often, the duration of exhalation and the duration of inhalation do not match. You may notice that the exhalation is too fast. You need to start balancing the duration of inhalation and exhalation, and you will immediately feel better. You can simply count your breaths through your nose one-two-three. Exhale one two three maybe four, so about three four seconds inhale and 34 seconds exhale, breathe calmly and the panic attack will end quickly. Of course, it's better to be outside where there is more space. Try to get out of a confined space because there is not much space there. During a panic attack, it seems that everything around you is collapsing on you. The body itself begins to suffocate. And so we balance oxygen with carbon dioxide, and what will happen after that? You will get rid of this problem too. The lungs begin to return to normal, become less alkaline, as it should be. In general, during a panic attack, try all this and then write in the comments what happened. More about how to cope with stress on my course, follow the link in the description. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type, this is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. On the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package, a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best  I'm waiting for you on the course to find the means to strengthen it.