Hi all.  Thank you for watching us. Whatever I say or advise, it is not a diagnosis or a substitute for treatment.  Ask your doctor before following any of our advice or anything we say. Now, Steve, let's get started right away. We have quite a lot of questions. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. That's right, dog.  Let's start with questions about the mystery eight from YouTube.  Will drinking homemade sauerkraut juice break my fast ? No, no, it doesn't have enough calories. I think this is an excellent idea. After all, you are feeding the uniqueness of juiced cabbage.  especially unpasteurized. Once the sauerkraut is eaten, I save the juice and drink it later. After all, this is one of the most powerful probiotics.   It contains not only bacteria, but also friendly yeast. Thanks to the pH of this juice, the microorganisms in it survive in the stomach acid, bypassing this obstacle.   It contains a lot of phytonutrients, which serve as food for microflora and strengthen it.   It contains lactic acid, and it contains a lot of what is called vitamin U - it's methylmethionine, although you don't necessarily know that name.  It is excellent for treating ulcers and restoring the intestinal mucosa. This juice will take your gut health to the next level.  Everyone should drink it.  And during fasting too. Great.  Asks Pesi in Strumble.  How do I fast for 3 days if I need to eat something to take 500 mg of niacin If it's a pill, I would crush it into small pieces. Neacin does not need to be taken with food. Take low doses throughout the day. Of course, the skin will redden less if the doses are low and food is not needed.  I don't think 100 mg will cause the skin to become particularly red. Great.  Gabriela Strembla asks what nutrients are needed to improve vein health and blood circulation. Both veins and arteries are essentially the same thing .  They need adequate amounts of collagen, as well as cofactors to create collagen. And the main one is vitamin C and the microelement copper.  These are some of the key nutrients for strengthening veins. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. When it comes to blood circulation, there is a very thin layer inside the walls of your blood vessels that is sensitive to what you eat, especially sugar and glucose. And nitric oxide is very important for strengthening this layer inside the vessels . Arugula also contains a lot of nitric oxide.   There is a lot of nitric oxide in beet juice, raw powder, and cocoa.  And this is chocolate.  You can use it, say, in the morning. Infrared light from the sun also increases nitric oxide levels. Vitamin D also increases its levels. Excellent writing by someone alive 28697. As of yesterday, all tortillas sold in California must contain folic acid.  I wonder if this is good or bad?  What do you think about folic acid and tortillas?  Many people have a genetic problem.  They lack the enzyme needed to convert folate into its active form, folate.  This may create problems. I have a video about this. Personally, I wouldn't eat anything with synthetic folic acid, which means all the refined grains, corn, and all that stuff.  So if I were you, I wouldn't eat them.  Very good.   In my opinion, this is correct - writes a retrof from YouTube.  I do a 27-hour water fast every week and 3 days in a row every month, but I don't see the weight loss results I expected.  Can you advise me on how to speed up my weight loss? Look at a couple more things.  When are you leaving?  What exactly do you eat?  How many carbohydrates?  The closer to zero carbohydrates are, the better.  Are you stressed?  Is stress interfering with your sleep? How much do you move? Do you eat a lot when you are not fasting?  What is your intermittent fasting plan? How much fat do you eat? If you're having trouble losing weight, eat only the fat that's naturally found in protein .  Do not add oils or other fats.  I would look at these nuances, but I think you are doing a lot of things right.  And the last point. If you're going through menopause and you do what you do, and you do it right, and you have a lot of extra weight on your legs, thighs, or buttocks, I made a video about it.  And sometimes what looks like fat or cellulite is actually atrophy. Fat replaced the muscles, and the muscles themselves are actually no longer there. A lot of excess weight in the lower body can be burned by working on these areas.  You need to train your legs a lot.  And if you have little muscle, and therefore little mitochondria, it is very difficult to burn this energy. So that's one point. You need to really train your legs. And focus not on losing weight, but on growing the muscles in your legs, and the sign of their growth is an increase in strength.  This takes time.  And when you have enough muscle, it will be easier for you to burn fat on your legs. Very good.  And now we have a question for our wonderful quiz.  The floor is yours, dog.  True or false? Peripheral neuropathy, which is tingling or tingling in the feet, is a neurological problem. Friends, we are waiting for your answers.  Next comes the question of Rambla.  What tests should be taken to find the root cause of all the problems? Metabolic analysis or 513 gene methylation panel?  Have you heard of this, dog?  What paths should I test to get the most accurate result? I think he needs a review of all his tests.  I think you asked the right question. There are a couple of tests. Of course, DNA testing reveals vulnerabilities, not root causes.  It reveals weaknesses.  But if we take all the root causes, it is a nutrient deficiency. There is a toxicity factor. Another factor is the problem with insulin resistance. And this is perhaps the best analysis. It's called: "You can give insulin on an empty stomach."  Even better is the H&R test. It measures a couple of things, but mainly it measures the degree of insulin resistance. And here's why insulin resistance occurs . Eating too often, excess of refined foods and seed oils. This is probably the root cause of many metabolic problems. One of the typical reasons.  So I would get a Homa and Er test to find the root cause. But I'll talk more about this when we go over the quiz question in one of the upcoming videos.  Fine. Subscribe if you want to know.  And we have one more question, Rambla.  What do you think about taking lipoflavonoid supplements to combat tinnitus? Maybe it will help, maybe it won't. Depends on your diet.  Many drugs for various diseases usually imitate phytonutrients in plants.  Flavonoids reduce inflammation.  These are antioxidants. So taking various flavonoids may help, but if you don't have the right diet, it will all go down the drain .  I had this problem when I was young.  I took hundreds of different vitamins, literally by the handful, but they didn’t help me.  They would help if my diet was better.  So I would start dieting.  We'll be releasing something amazing very soon this year that will help identify the root cause of many problems.  Wait for this.  For now, let it remain a secret.  Very good.  And here are the audience's answers to the quiz question, which sounded like this.  True or false?  Peripheral neuropathy is a neurological problem.  97% said it was a lie.  Interesting.  And 3% said it was true.  Who is right?  This is a lie. Yes, I know.  Some people will say, "No, it's a neurological problem. Well, it manifests in the nerves, but it's definitely not a nerve problem. That's why when it's treated, and it's treated with antidepressants, gabapentin, and other drugs that essentially dull the pain. But that's not the problem. With neuropathy, the problem is in the vascular system in the tiny capillaries, because there's a lot of it in the blood, usually in diabetes and prediabetes, when there's too much sugar in the vessels. This sugar damages the microvessels, and the blood supply to the nerve is cut off. So treating the nerves won't work. You need to treat what's happening deeper. And here's what's very interesting about all this. When you eat a lot of glucose and it enters the bloodstream, insulin resistance occurs. And now all this extra glucose is unavailable to you. Access to it is literally blocked. Essentially, you're starving the nerve, so the nerve activates Plan B. It starts getting fuel from another source, bypassing it.  Mitochondria. It starts using the ancient method of obtaining energy from glucose. The problem is that one glucose molecule only produces two ATP molecules, while with mitochondria, 32. And now your poor nerves literally can't get energy. So, there is one important nutrient that comes to the rescue in this situation, and I'll tell you what it is. It flips the switch, and the mitochondria become a source of energy again. The amount of ATP increases, and the nerve gets energy. And that's B1. But you need to take the fat-soluble form of B1, and they mostly sell the water-soluble form, but you need benfotiamine. Benfotiamine is the most powerful remedy for peripheral neuropathy. Especially if you cut carbohydrates, eliminate sugar, and thus begin to overcome diabetes. But benfotiamine solves all these problems, because it allows the nerves to get energy and at the same time there will be fewer byproducts of lactic acid, oxidative stress, and toxicity from sugar. So it's really very simple and powerful.  A solution. But if you Google it, you won't find it. Instead, you'll find treatments for late consequences. We'll wait until you have a problem. Let's cut off your toes. Let's numb the pain. They don't even look at the underlying cause . It's sad. But we try to tell people about it. And you do. After all, if you don't take benfotiamine for peripheral neuropathy, a person suffers unnecessarily. Dr. Berg's practical course. Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach. Over 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience , which you can apply in just three months of training. Get certified, become a keto coach. Help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule. Do what you love. Sign up for the course using the link below.