Kidney stones can cause terrible, horrible pain. If you have had kidney stones or want to prevent their formation, this video is for you. I have already talked a lot about kidney stones, but I have never emphasized one very important factor. I rely on a recent amazing study that I just studied. It is about adding one simple ingredient to a drink, namely, apple cider vinegar. It is basically acetic acid, and the question is how acetic acid can help dissolve kidney stones. If we look at kidney stones, we will see that they mainly consist of calcium oxalate, there are other types of stones made of uric acid and other substances. But basically, I have a video of them. They are found in different foods. On a titogenic diet, there are a lot of them in almonds, there are a lot of them in spinach, in chocolate in Kyiv, another factor is calcium in the urine. It can be elevated due to a genetic feature. Genetic mutations in many people with kidney stones and a tendency to osteoporosis may be a genetic problem when a lot of calcium is excreted in the urine. Normally,  Kidney stone formation scenario: such elevated oxalate levels, elevated calcium levels, and at the same time, decreased citrate levels. When you hear the word citrates, you might start thinking about citrus fruits like lemon and lime, and you'd be right. But your body produces citrates on its own. If you have kidney stones, a lack of citrates is often part of the problem. One of the functions of citrates is to act as a chelator for calcium, binding to it. So that less calcium can bind to oxalates, this is one of the functions of citrates. They are also used in cleaning products; they are able to remove rust from other surfaces. They are used to get rid of calcium carbonate. A chelator is a substance that binds to another mineral. If you've studied biochemistry, you know about the Krebs cycle, a biochemical process that creates ATP energy. It's also called the citric acid cycle. So, citrates or citric acid are very important so that you don't have them. And I have kidney stones. Yes, you can add more lemons or limes to your diet.  It's worth doing. Add them to water in the morning. I drink a fairly large glass, about 0.6 liters. I fill it with water and add lemon juice simply because kidney stones run in our family. Another reason is that if you drink more fluids, it lowers the concentration of urine. When you have kidney stones, this indicates the presence of a supersaturated solution with excessive concentration. If you drink 2.5 liters of water or other liquids, you can avoid the formation of stones and you can add lemon juice. If you have kidney stones or they are forming, you need to drink a lot of lemon juice, somewhere around 150 milliliters a day. You can either eat whole lemons or squeeze the juice. But for prevention purposes, you need a little juice of one lemon or a tablespoon of lemon juice is enough. Vinegar is because, in genetic terms, or more precisely, in epigenetic terms. What does it mean above genes? I mainly mean a genetic problem with calcium when there is too much of it in the urine. You can take this under control by adding apple cider vinegar. What does this give? It leads to significant reabsorption.  You won't lose citrates. You'll retain much more citrates in your urine, preventing the formation of calcium oxalate. You can also take other citrates, such as potassium citrate or magnesium citrate. They can be found in some electrolyte powders and taken once, twice, or even three times a day. It may even happen that kidney stones simply disappear. Apple cider vinegar has many uses. If you haven't seen my video about how it can boost your energy levels, I recommend watching it here.