More and more people develop cataracts with age, and as a rule, a person. At the same time, they undergo surgery. Well, sometimes after surgery there are complications. The absence of complications or side effects with this operation is not guaranteed. There is evidence that 42% of people develop dry eyes after this, 20% experience drooping eyelids, and there are other complications such as floaters in the eyes. I would first try natural remedies. After all, they have very few side effects. You ask, “Where is the research? There is no research on the benefits of natural remedies that essentially cost pennies and can potentially help you. We have little scientific evidence of the effectiveness of these remedies. You know, I’ll tell you more. There will be no one who will invest thousands, tens of thousands, or even millions of dollars in research into natural remedies. No one will patent them. Well, let’s look at the mechanism that causes clouding of the lens. And this is cataracts. Then we use a proven natural remedy that has minimal disadvantages compared to drugs and surgery. That’s the first thing you need to know about the eyes. This is one of those tissues that is strongly affected by blood sugar. The eyes are very vulnerable to high blood sugar levels, because high sugar levels cause severe oxidation, oxidative stress. So  What is it? One known oxidative stress can be imagined as the appearance of rust. Let's say your car has rust spots due to salt on the roads or something else. For example, in Wisconsin it gets cold in the winter and you have to pour a lot of salt on the road to melt the snow. But salt enters into chemical reactions with the metal of the car and it can rust. The same thing happens to the eyes due to diabetes, prediabetes, and simply a high-carbohydrate diet. Due to the chemical reaction, a lot of damage occurs. Especially with age, therefore, the body produces so-called endogenous antioxidants. These are antioxidants that the body creates to protect against oxidation from damage by free radicals. With age, we produce less of these antioxidants. And also, if you eat improperly, eat too many carbohydrates, then undoubtedly, vision can deteriorate. The condition of the eyes, which includes age-related macular degeneration, deterioration of vision in the dark, we can use the resources of Mother Nature, we can use substances created by various lines for an eternity. Namely, plant pigments that color plants in certain colors. These pigments are very powerful antioxidants. They reduce inflammation and they help resist the effects of oxidative stress, especially in the lens of the eye. I want to talk about two groups of these pigments. The first group is carotenoids. This includes, for example, beta-carotene. This is a precursor to vitamin A. This is an inactive form. It needs to be converted to vitamin A. The active form is found only in animal products. Other representatives of carotenoids are called lutein and sexanthin. They are best known in connection with age-related macular degeneration. Retinoids color vegetables yellow, orange, red, purple. They are even found in human yolks. They are yellow. Carotenoids are also found in grass-fed meat. What is curious is that these cows eat grass, and it has a lot of retinoids, but there are much fewer carotenoids in grain- fed beef. That is, in regular beef from the store. The same thing applies to pasture-fed eggs. Organic chicken eggs have a lot more carotenoids. Yes, store-bought eggs also contain carotenoids, but there is one dirty little secret. These chickens are given synthetic pigments because these chickens are kept in huge cages and fed grain, in which there is very little left.  pigments There is another group of pigments that I will focus on, they are called violet and blue, this pigment has a strong effect on the eyes, especially with oxidative stress, it can help reduce the risk of developing cataracts and potentially even reverse cataracts if you do not miss the moment. For example, the active substance in blueberries, this pigment restores the so- called rhodopsin and it helps us see in the dark, this pigment also reduces the risk of developing age-related macular degeneration, it can relax the ciliary muscle, which is connected to the lens and which is usually tense. If you work a lot at the computer or read for a long time, that is, it helps relieve eye strain and it also helps with cataracts, many other plants are also rich in anthocyanins. So, these are blueberries, blackberries and even red cabbage, as a result of which red cabbage sprouts contain much more anthocyanins than adult cabbage. But of all the plants, chokeberry has the most anthocyanins and the remedy that I recommend to reduce the risk of developing  Cataracts are a cocktail, a cocktail of berries and kefir, because kefir also contains interesting substances that reduce the risk of developing cataracts, and one of them is dietary calcium. A sufficient amount of calcium in the diet from dairy products is definitely associated with a reduction in cataracts. In addition, kefir contains probiotics. By the way, it contains much more of them than yogurt. There is even interesting data that yogurt helps with cataracts, that kefir is much better than yogurt. Kefir helps with other problems, for example, with an eye infection. I recommend drinking only unsweetened kefir. Kefir made from whole milk is fat-free, and take kefir from grass-fed animals, whether goats, sheep, or cows. Just add a glass of berries to a glass of kefir, chop it in a blender, and drink. Kefir can be quite thick, in which case you can add a little water to make it thinner, or just eat it with a spoon. The question is, what kind of berries are in it? Actually, you can use any berries, because they all contain quite a lot of anthocyanins. Grind a glass of berries with kefir in a blender and consume it once a day. High-quality kefir combined with all these berries is rich in your eyes and not only on the lens, the shark that is located at the back of the eye and other tissues. This protects against some complications of oxidative stress. At the same time, I would definitely minimize the amount of sucrose and fructose in the diet and I actually do not recommend drinking milk because it contains lactose. Fermented milk products are much better in this case. You can also do something else. There is one remedy, a nutrient called drops, they can be dripped into the eyes and the remedies that I recommend. There are two compounds with this name, they are confused, one is called N-acetyl carnassine, this is what you need. We are not talking about the acetyl condition now. It is good in other cases of addiction. One is a very special antioxidant that will help reduce cataracts. Carnassine, which acts as an antioxidant, cannot penetrate into the eye, therefore, another compound, n-acetyl, is added to carnassine so it penetrates into the first chamber of the eye. Where the lens is located and does its job.  So, encetyl carnassine can also be taken into account. I also advise eating eggs, especially the egg yolk. The yolk should remain liquid because the yolks contain a lot of carotenoids that are good for the eyes, as well as anthocyanins and something called Choline. Choline has excellent properties due to which it helps with dry eyes. So, let's assume that you have already had cataracts removed and you have complications. Is there anything that can be done in this case? The answer is potentially. Yes, there is another product that you can buy. It is called okolotrofin PMG. It is produced by Standard Process. I am not associated with it, but I have used this product in my practice in any situations after eye surgery, as well as for eye injuries. If the eye is scratched or somehow damaged, this product helps greatly in such cases. There are other things that you need to know in addition to these cataract remedies. I think you will also really like what I talk about cataracts in this video.