Today we will discuss the first symptom that occurs in 80 percent of cases of gallstones. We will also discuss the fastest way to dissolve these stones. If you have them, let's start with the first symptom. It occurs in 80% of cases and is the absence of symptoms. Yes, in eighty percent of cases, there are no symptoms that there are stones in the gallbladder and you don't even know about them unless they get into the duct. Where they begin to press and stretch it. You may not even know about them until things get really bad. Besides this, are there other symptoms? Yes, there is usually a feeling of fullness on the right side under the ribs, a seal or pain, the rhomboid muscle may hurt on the right side, it is on the back between the shoulder blade and the middle part of the spine, the pain can even radiate to the right side, but here all these are signs of problems with the gallbladder. These may not necessarily be stones, they may even be micro stones that are difficult to determine even by MRI. Nausea, vomiting, bloating, belching, jaundice can also be observed. Why does jaundice occur when the skin turns yellow because a stone is blocking the gallbladder?  duct, which is why bile overflows the liver and begins to leak into the blood and into the skin, one of the components is bilirubin, which is the remains of processed red blood cells, it can cause yellowing of the skin. You may also notice that your urine is darker than usual, and your stool is pale and not dark brown. Now we will discuss how to quickly get rid of stones. It is very important to understand why stones initially occur. Today, this will explain everything. Many people think that gallstones are caused by excess fat, fatty foods, or foods that contain a lot of cholesterol, because gallstones consist of cholesterol. It is logical that if you eat a lot of cholesterol, you risk getting stones. But in fact, no, it is not so. There are actually two reasons why stones form. The first is that there is a large amount of cholesterol in the body, and the second, and most importantly, you do not have enough bile salts, and the second reason is usually ignored. Cholesterol is to blame for everything. But it is bile salts that prevent cholesterol from turning to stone. Bile is the main way to remove cholesterol through the bile ducts. The more bile you have, the easier it is to remove cholesterol. That is, in fact, stones are formed due to a lack of the same. O, like all of the above.  But the symptoms are actually symptoms of bile deficiency. We have a gallbladder, it's not an extra organ, we really need it. The gallbladder performs a very important function. Bile salts accumulate and concentrate in it. Why concentrate bile? Because concentrated bile leaves the bladder into the small intestine so you can break down fats. If you release bile directly into the small intestine without concentration, it will not be able to work as it should extract fat-soluble nutrients, vitamins A1 and K2, omega-3 acids, and so on. That is, bile breaks down fats to some extent, and then the pancreas releases its enzyme lipase, which breaks them down even smaller. If the gallbladder is absent, for example, the liver was removed directly. The seeds pass through the duct with the small intestine and bile is no longer concentrated. Fats are now poorly digested and fat-soluble nutrients are barely absorbed. In rare cases, during surgery, this duct can be made too wide and now too much bile enters the small intestine. The main symptom of this problem is diarrhea, and a lack of bile leads to constipation. I want to tell you more.  About one concept, cholestasis, I think it's a very common problem. There are no stones, but there is a kind of bile sediment. There is not enough bile, but there is a lot of cholesterol. The sediment clogs the ducts, causing pain. An ultrasound will not show any stones. There is also a syndrome that occurs after gallbladder removal, which also implies complications. I will mention it because sometimes it is not given importance, but it develops in 100 percent of cases. Try to guess which symptom most often occurs after gallbladder removal. Cholestasis is a bile sediment. It leads to the same symptoms that you had before surgery. Even with stones, the stones were removed. But what is the reason for their formation? No, I'm talking about the problem of lack of bile. Another risk factor for gallstones is pregnancy due to a surge in estrogen. Excess estrogen increases the risk of stones, as does taking contraceptives that increase estrogen. Obesity and type 2 diabetes are simply because high insulin can also aggravate the situation with bile and increase the risk of stone formation. Liver disease also creates this risk because  that the liver produces bile salts and the more problems with it, whether it's fatty liver or something else, the less bile it produces, constipation, as I already said, increases the risk. But in general, it's a bile deficiency that causes a symptom such as constipation. And a lack of folates, the problem here may be in the genes. Or you just don't eat vegetables and don't get folates. Folates help convert cholesterol into bile salts. Those who take statins don't have cholesterol to produce bile. They often have a bile deficiency and all these symptoms appear. Also, taking proton pump inhibitors or antacids can create a big problem or increase the risk of developing gallstones because there must be acid in the stomach for the liver to begin producing bile salts. A high-carbohydrate diet that increases insulin also increases the risk, and even a low-fat diet creates a risk of stones because one of the factors that triggers the secretion of bile is fat. If you don't have enough of it, for example, you are a vegetarian or vegan, there is a risk of developing gallstones. And what should we do about all this? First, take purified bile salts with any probiotic, one capsule  with food and one on an empty stomach twice a day sometimes You need more, but you need to take them for a long time, what will this do? It will help dissolve stones because we have super concentrated cholesterol but no bile salts. You also need to know that the intestines also produce bile salts, so you also need to support the microbiome with probiotics. I think a very good way to implement this is to eat sauerkraut, kimchi, or even kefir. It is useful to eat more greens. The fiber in greens binds some of the cholesterol, which is a big plus. You also need phosphorus, which helps convert cholesterol into bile. I also advise manually massaging the area on the right under the rib cage and this is also to squeeze out some of the sediment, if possible, very often this gives great relief. And lastly, you need to reduce insulin, because it increases the risk of stones. There are two methods: intermittent fasting and a low-carb diet. If you didn't know about them, the links are below. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, should it be removed? And if the gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly to avoid complications? How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea. I'll talk about this in my course on the gallbladder. Sign up at the link below. See you there.