Knowing the signals that allow you to predict what will happen to the body before it happens is very valuable knowledge. There is an excellent book, one of my favorites, it is called The Technology of War, its author Sun Tzu. Having prior knowledge to predict. This book talks about prior knowledge of the approach of the enemy, which allows you to decide whether to engage in battle, but I like to apply this to the body. Having prior knowledge of what is happening and understanding the various signs in the body is extremely important. The problem with healthcare is that when you come to the doctor with some signs or symptoms, the doctor treats them specifically. The doctor does not use them to understand what is happening. But what if we use these signs differently to use them to understand what the body really needs? I will list eight diseases and talk about some of the signs that the body uses to tell you that there is a problem so that you can do something and avoid these problems. Let's start with a heart attack or cardiovascular diseases. These problems are usually signaled by chest pain, pain in the left jaw, pain in the left shoulder, pain radiating down the left arm. Perhaps when climbing stairs or an inclined surface, you feel somehow wrong.  Something is wrong with you, be it shortness of breath or dizziness, this could be the beginning of a heart attack. There is an excellent one called the coronary calcium index. This relatively quick test allows you to evaluate calcifications inside the vessels. And this indicator allows you to very accurately predict whether a person will have a heart attack. One of the best natural remedies in this situation is vitamin E in the form of tocotrienol. Another good remedy is vitamin K2, because it helps remove calcium from the vessels. And of course, you need to radically change number two. Stroke is one of the early signs of a stroke or that it has already happened. This is any problem on one side of the body. Let 's say you smile, but the left side of your face does not move. Or you raise both arms, but one arm does not rise. These are typical signs of a stroke that has already happened. Another sign of a stroke is slurred speech. With a stroke, there is always a little time during which something can be done quickly. A person can be given a drug that thins the blood to eliminate blood clots. Because with a stroke, the problem is that in some areas of the brain there is not enough oxygen, this is called hypoxia. The longer the brain remains without oxygen, the more  There may be damage. So it's best to go to the hospital for a checkup. Number three is an infection. Here are some early signs: a slight tickling in the throat, an irritating cough that doesn't go away. Excessive sneezing or a runny nose are possible. All of this can be a sign that the body is starting to get sick. The most important thing in this case is to take a large dose of vitamin D3, namely 50,000 IU. It will also be useful to take zinc and vitamin C. If you have Echinacea, this is also a good remedy. You need to be warm. You should be very hot so that you sweat and even provoke a fever. To quickly kill the infection, you don't need to rush to bring down the temperature right away. How often do they do this? After all, it is the high temperature that helps overcome the virus, and when people take aspirin, it brings down the temperature and the infection persists longer. Number four is fatty liver disease. One of its signs is a feeling of heaviness or, perhaps, even sensitivity. Or pain under the ribs on the right. Sometimes this pain radiates to the right shoulder, to the trapezius muscle, and here, and even to the rhomboid muscle in the back. All of these are signs of an enlarged liver and gallbladder. There may be  fatty liver, but one of the main signs of fatty liver is a protruding belly, belly fat, excess fat spills out and fills the organs and the space between them in the waist and lower body, another sign of fatty liver is itchy skin, the solution to this problem is a low-carb healthy keto diet with intermittent fasting, you must definitely give up alcohol and frequent meals like snacks, you can even take Halin, because it helps remove fat from the liver, number five are gallstones, here are some signs of the presence of a gallstone: darker urine, stool that does not sink, light-colored stool, constipation is also possible, all these signs indicate a lack of bile salts, bile salts are produced by the liver, accumulate in the gallbladder, and with a lack of bile, an overconcentration appears, so if you take bile salts for some time, the next disease is kidney stones, one of the early signs of a kidney stone is a kind of deep pain on the left or right in the abdominal cavity, pain can also be in the back, it is also called pain in the side, usually it is a dull aching pain on one side, the kidney is connected to the bladder the bladder is a thin tube called the urethra. If a stone gets stuck in it or just in front of it at the level of the kidney, this can create pressure that causes pain, especially deep in the abdominal cavity. In this case, I recommend drinking lemon juice at least 60 g with water. Fresh lemons and lemon juice are also suitable. You need citric acid because it binds to oxalates, and stones usually consist of oxalates, and you need to drink at least 2 liters of liquid a day so that the urine is not extremely concentrated. It is also useful to take magnesium. I would take magnesium glycinate and I would avoid foods that are high in oxalates, and these are almonds and almond flour, as well as chocolate and spinach. Number ce ulcer. What are the early signs that indicate the presence of an ulcer? In fact, there are no early signs, but there are simply signs of an ulcer. Because an ulcer often develops asymptomatically. With an ulcer, a person feels pain or a burning pain in the abdomen and feels better after eating. If your stomach hurts when you walk, then usually it is not an ulcer but indigestion due to  Betaine hydrochloride is a remedy for a lack of stomach acid. But if your stomach hurts when you don't eat and you have an ulcer, betaine hydrochloride will only increase the pain. It's an acid, and then you'll understand that it 's an acid. In this case, you need to drink powdered grass juice with water, because the chlorophyll it contains heals zinc carnosine. Another good remedy for ulcers of both the stomach and small intestine is diabetes. Number eight is diabetes. What are the early signs of diabetes? It's very difficult to skip meals without feeling extremely hungry. A person may be angry from hunger. A person is irritable if he hasn't eaten, but feels better and kinder once he eats. There may be a craving for carbohydrates. You may want to take a nap after eating. There may be swollen eyelids. Vision may deteriorate. Frequent urination is even possible. A person urinates more often and is more thirsty. I am simply amazed at the actions of some doctors in cases of diabetes. They prescribe drugs to lower blood sugar but do not tell you to change your diet. But you need to give up carbohydrates. A low-carb diet is needed.  and you need to eliminate snacks, you need intermittent fasting and a healthy body. I have many videos on how to use various body cues to understand which nutrients are lacking. You can learn about this from my course. I recommend health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course at the link below. N