Seven signs that your liver is dying or very sick.  In general, the liver is an amazing organ.  You can live for years and decades without experiencing any symptoms at all, but still have very serious liver problems.  So, if you don’t know the signs of a diseased liver, it can have serious consequences. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Doctors, unfortunately, wait for serious symptoms before they do anything or even tell you about it.  But I will tell you about seven signs that something is wrong with your liver.  The real cause of liver problems is not fatty foods, not alcohol abuse, and certainly not toxins. I used to be a huge fan of detox and cleansing my liver in every possible way, but it didn't help my liver at all , it only made it worse.  I got sick and stayed in bed for 2 weeks.  The liver is the most active and hardworking organ in the entire body.  It works around the clock and is the only major internal organ capable of completely regenerating, even if 70% of the liver is destroyed or removed. So, here are the signs.  Number one: waking up between 2 and 3 a.m.  I've been teaching people for years that this is an adrenal problem.  I thought it was related to cortisol.  I recommended lowering cortisol and working on the adrenal glands, but this rarely helped people, including myself.  I continued to do this, but it was only after a few years that something began to change. It turned out that the real cause was not in the adrenal glands, but in the liver.  Your liver releases glucose from its reserves throughout the night to feed your brain so you can sleep properly.  But if your liver isn't working well, you'll have wild swings in blood sugar.  The liver secretes a lot of sugar, which then rises and then falls sharply.  And when blood sugar drops too sharply, the brain panics.  After all, it has no fuel reserve, and it depends almost entirely on the liver in this regard. The brain perceives this as a danger, and it has a special button that it presses in such a case.  It's adrenaline. Adrenaline causes the liver to urgently release stored glucose so that the brain begins to receive energy.  But at the same time, adrenaline is a stress hormone, and it will hit you around 2-3 am.  You wake up completely, and you are even more alert than during the day and you are perplexed as to what is happening.  You think, "Oh yeah, it's the adrenals."  No, not them.  You need to take care of your liver.  Yes, the adrenal glands produce this adrenaline.  But this is not a violation.  They just do what they're told.  The real problem is in the liver.  So it is very important to solve the right problem.  Sign number two.  Pain in the right shoulder.  Up to this place and higher, in the neck.  I had no idea what it was.  And this is a typical symptom of liver problems. What's going on?  When is the liver damaged? Little bile is produced.  Bile moves sluggishly through the bile ducts, which are located on the right side under the ribs.  Because of this, the liver swells.  There is one nerve, the phrenic nerve.  It goes from the diaphragm to the neck.  His liver is putting pressure on him, and this is causing pain in his shoulder. The pancreas on the left can also become overloaded, affecting the phrenic nerve on the left and causing pain on the left.  But more often this happens on the right.  And all because of one product, which I’ll tell you about soon.  Number three. Bruises easily.  The liver produces blood clotting factors.  If she cannot do this, the bleeding increases.  Before you know it, you've already got a bruise.  What's happening?  As a rule, the problem is in the liver.  Sign number four.  Itching.  It happened to me too.  My feet itched and my skin often itched at night.  The cause of itching is an excessive amount of bile.  Something is preventing bile from flowing through the ducts.  It goes back to the liver, enters the blood, and through it into the skin, causing itching. It drove me crazy.  I thought it was parasites and did all sorts of cleansing.  I wish I knew then what I know now.  It would have saved me so many sleepless nights.  This damn itch was just driving me crazy.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Sign number five.  Poor alcohol tolerance.  I have this problem too. I can't drink more than six bottles. Kidding.  I can't stand alcohol at all.   I could before, but now I can't.  Even a small dose makes me sick.  I'm starting to feel sick. A person with a poor liver cannot completely break down alcohol, and more toxins remain in the body.  And if a person suddenly develops an intolerance to alcohol, this is a sign of serious liver problems.  Number six. The person develops a belly, and their legs become thinner and thinner. Usually this is already advanced liver damage, so-called ascites, the accumulation of fluid in the abdominal cavity.  This is not fat. You can slap your stomach on one side, and it will shake on the other.  Sometimes this fluid is pumped out of people, but after a week it returns and needs to be pumped out again.  Legs become thinner because a person loses muscle mass and lacks amino acids to produce muscle tissue.  A typical example is men on the beach with huge bellies and legs like sticks.  Have you seen these?  They usually sit with a glass of Margarita, they drink a lot.  This is a typical symptom of advanced liver problems.  The last, seventh sign is irritation of the brain. The reason is that you can't break down proteins effectively and you end up with ammonia buildup. This ammonia is not excreted and can be felt in a person's breath.  If, for example, you go into a nursing home.  I once worked in the X-ray room there, and there was this ammonia smell everywhere. These are problems with the liver, and this is what gives this specific smell.  The problem is that ammonia gets into the brain and affects cognitive functions.  A person's character may even change.  He becomes irritable and hot-tempered.  They become clouded in consciousness, lose concentration, but otherwise everything is fine - that's sarcasm.  Okay, now I'm going to share with you some information that is simply mind-blowing. A person has the ability to transform a severely damaged liver into a normal liver in just a few weeks by eliminating just one food item from their diet. Ready to find out which one?  This is sugar.  But not just sugar, but hidden sugar.  It's called industrial starch.  What is this anyway?  It's the hidden sugar in various junk foods.  It is usually made from corn starch.  In the seventies, there was a boom in the production of corn, flour and many other things, including ethyl alcohol and even gasoline. Corn is used to make glucose, synthetic sugar, and synthetic starch.  All of this is used en masse in junk food with its cheap fillers.  After all, in essence, this is the filler.  People eat on average about 100 grams of this stuff per year. Judge for yourself.  The glycemic index of maltodextrin is much higher than that of sugar.  Sugar has 75, glucose has 100, and maltodextrin has 140 to 180, but it is not even considered a sugar.  This is why people who have never touched alcohol can develop fatty liver and even cirrhosis. The reason is something else.  Now how are we going to fix this?  Number one: avoid snacking, especially carbohydrate snacks. In stores, entire aisles with shelves full of snacks, sugar, starch, and simply frequent meals raise insulin levels.  It grows with every meal.  Number two, you need to stop eating sugar, starch, and seed oils.  Seed oils can also cause problems with insulin.  They act on receptors in the liver, which can lead to insulin resistance. Because of it, insulin production increases. When we take these steps, we lower insulin.  And what do we replace these products with?   High -quality protein, animal protein. This is meat, fish, eggs, cheese.  Add vegetables.  Vegetables are rich in phytonutrients: potassium, phosphorus, and vitamin C. Many people digest fermented vegetables and cruciferous vegetables better.  A great green leafy vegetable that I eat is arugula.  Sometimes I use romaine lettuce, sometimes a mix of sprouts.  But arugula is much better.  It increases nitric oxide and helps the heart.  It is slightly bitter, which means it is good for the liver.  Radishes are also very beneficial for the liver, as are dandelion greens, Swiss chard and kelp. Point number four is interesting.  Have you noticed that when you don't sleep well, you feel more hungry?  This is due to high cortisol.  It has been established that lack of sleep increases liver damage, so it is important to get enough sleep in addition to correcting your diet .  Number five. Organic food.  Products from regular stores contain a lot of pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Therefore, whenever possible, you should switch to organic products. I have already talked about cruciferous vegetables.  I would also like to mention the so-called tutka.  This is bear bile, the bile salt of the bear.   At one time, many bears were killed for this wonderful remedy, but then they learned to synthesize it.  And it looks like the drug is no less effective.  I have seen amazing results in people with liver problems who saw duck.  Livers become much better.  Inflammation and pain in the shoulder are reduced.  Now you have a plan and you know what to do.  But I suggest you do one more thing.  I have outlined my daily activities in a one-page file that you can download.  The things that make me feel like I'm 18 even though I'm 60. Just one page you can download, print, and then hang on your fridge to refer to throughout the day.  This is a summary of all the successful actions that I personally apply in my life.  I invite you to my course Liver Body Type.  You have a protruding beer belly, a fatty liver and digestive problems.  Then this course is for you.  It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, special diet, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below.   See you.