Today we will talk about the first symptom of fatty liver and this is malaise. What does malaise mean? This is a general discomfort, a feeling of tightness, you feel like you are unwell, this is a lack of well-being. The malaise is not felt in any specific part of the body, it is general and vague, a slight weakness is felt, this means that your immune system is activated. There are so -called cytokines, these are proteins that are activated at a certain level in the immune system. They are not activated as strongly as with an infection, but enough to make you feel like you are getting sick. Malaise is also often associated with fatigue, but this is not fatigue. But the first symptom that appears with fatty liver is malaise. The second symptom is pain in the shoulder itself because the liver is on the right and when it begins to enlarge, it puts pressure on the right, which causes discomfort. There are other causes of malaise. This infection is low blood sugar, coffee withdrawal, fungus, or as I already said, fatty liver. You can find out if you have fatty liver simply by looking down. If you cannot see your legs because of your protruding belly, then you definitely have fatty liver. Many purely thematic videos about the liver are included in my course.  There's a link to it about the liver. Below is a link to a diet that you need to follow if you have liver problems. In a recent video, I talked about the need for probiotics in the diet for fatty liver because it will reduce the immune response. And you will immediately feel better. But besides this, there is a lot more you can do. If you think you have fatty liver, follow the link below. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.