At school we were taught that you need to apply ice to an injured area, bleeding occurs, the injured area swells and inflammation needs to be reduced, it sounds logical and everyone knows that this is how it should be done, you need to ensure four things: rest, ice in a tight bandage and elevate the injured part of the body, but working in the healthcare field for about 30 years, I saw that there are a lot of things that are considered correct and everyone knows that this is true, but in fact they turn out to be a complete lie. I could not find any evidence at all that applying ice to injuries somehow helps recovery or brings it back to normal. Ice helps reduce pain, this is true and it probably reduces inflammation because it leads to narrowing of blood vessels and the outflow of blood from the inflamed area, but the question was justified. We need to reduce inflammation. Is inflammation some kind of pathological inflammation? Is it something harmful? What should we get rid of? If it is chronic pain, then maybe this is it, but not with acute pain. Inflammation is a fundamental way of healing. The number of immune cells, macrophages, which help cleanse this area, increases; the volume of oxygen increases, as well as blood, which carries nutrients and hormones, like insulin-like growth factor one in other words, an incredibly complex and coordinated work begins the body starts the healing process and people do something that stops this process and applying ice just interferes with recovery it slows down the normal processes of repairing the damaged part of the body cold really reduces pain but it does this to the detriment of recovery and when people take anti-inflammatory drugs they also slow down recovery because they fight inflammation so the key to normal recovery is not to reduce inflammation prematurely the same can be said about other processes in the body if your body temperature heats up to kill under one or if you sneeze the body is trying to get rid of something in the nasal passages but I clearly remember how in school we were instilled with the idea that it is necessary to do all four of these things in case of injury and with chronic pain you need to warm this place is it worth burning the place of injury I think not because it will only increase swelling inflammation and pain and here is another question does rest help to recover better and the answer is no it does not help on the contrary it slows down recovery because the lymphatic system does not have a pump you need to move for it to work so the less you move the slower you recover after  Injuries release a lot of waste through the lymphatic system, so what should you do in case of injury? First, ensure that the joint or area of ​​the body is as mobile as possible. Of course, if you have a fracture, this is not necessary. But if you have a sprain or dislocation, provide passive movement through external force or even active movement, depending on the severity. The more movement, the better the lymph flow and blood circulation, and the faster you will recover. Secondly, infrared therapy is a very good therapy. It consists of directing light to specific parts of the body. It has been proven that this helps with recovery after injury and also significantly reduces pain. I want to immediately move on to the fourth point: vitamin D. Vitamin D is a natural substance that can greatly support the immune system. If you have inflammation or pain, I recommend a large dose of vitamin D, about 40,000 IU.  I think even daily for a week and pretty soon you will notice that you are recovering faster now let's talk about manual therapy from the opposite side what does this mean this is a very interesting technique at first glance it is not logical and but I have been using it in my practice for many years and have taught this to many doctors the point is that if you, for example, injured your right ankle, then carry out manual therapy on the left fret eat that is, on the other side at first it seems strange and you may think that it is useless but try it yourself and you will see that it works all the nerves on the right side of the body connect with the nerves on the left through the spine when you work on the left it also affects the nerves on the right because it is one circuit and these nerve circuits are inside the muscles this provides coordination of movements allows you to walk and do different movements take for example the biceps on the right arm it contracts but when it contracts the opposite muscle should stretch so if you have an injury on this side you mainly need to work with the opposite side what I mean by manual therapy anything from trigger point therapy and up Massage and stimulation of any type the next time you have an injury, try this method yourself, even if you hit the thumb of your left hand with a hammer and then start massaging the thumb of your right hand, you will notice that the pain will significantly decrease. Just remember that when you injure something on one side of the body, stimulate the mirror image of this place on the other side. This also works along the other axis. For example, if you have back pain, you can work from the front in the abdominal area. Here is the most important video for you to watch next, since we are talking about pain, this video is about lower back pain. A very important video if you haven't watched it yet. Take a look here.