It's worth drinking a glass of water with turmeric every evening or morning. This is very useful. The active substance in turmeric is called curcumin. There are very serious studies of this substance and you should know about them. But before following my advice, be sure to consult a doctor. You never know, especially if you are taking any medications. You can't just stop taking them. First, let's talk about NSAIDs such as fen and aspirin. In one study, curcumin showed the same effectiveness as ibuprofen in reducing arthritis pain, and without side effects. It also turned out that curcumin is not inferior to aspirin. The problem with aspirin is that it can burn a hole in the stomach. Second, corticosteroids. I think prednisone. I used it for poison ivy burns every year and then it stopped working. Curcumin in one study showed a result comparable to prednisone in reducing inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, and irritable bowel syndrome. Third, curcumin showed an antidepressant effect similar to Prozac and Zoloft reduce symptoms of depression, apparently it increases serotonin and dopamine similar to SSRIs. Fourth, antidiabetes. Studies show that curcumin acts similarly to metformin in helping control blood sugar in type 2 diabetes. You may know that metformin comes with a warning because it has a dangerous side effect, lactic acidosis. So, curcumin and turmeric can be a possible replacement for it. We come to the fifth point: anticoagulants, blood thinners, anticoagulants, Botticelli and aspirin. That is, it can replace them, especially if a person cannot take medications. Sixth, statins. In some studies, links will be below. Curcumin has shown a decrease in LDL cholesterol and triglycerides and also had a positive effect on the endothelium. What gives blood vessels a protective effect? ​​The action of statins essentially consists of blocking cholesterol. Curcumin, however, acts differently; it helps lipids. Seventh, chemotherapy. There is such a drug. Five fluorouracil is chemotherapy. There is a study where it was compared with  Curcumin and It seems that curcumin is able to slow or inhibit the growth of certain cancer cells while protecting healthy cells. Eighth, anti-inflammatory drugs, especially for irritable bowel syndrome, have been shown to reduce the effects of Crohn's disease and ulcers. Nava Kalita, which is comparable to the action of a drug called melamine. Ninth, drugs for hypertension. Curcumin has a fairly strong effect on the endothelium inside the vessels, significantly reducing their stiffness and lowering blood pressure. Tenth, curcumin has a powerful antifungal effect. That is, it has an antimicrobial effect. It can suppress some pathogens, especially fungi. Curcumin cannot replace any drugs. It can improve or enhance the effect of other drugs by reducing their side effects, especially with regard to long-term use of antifungals or antibiotics, to which resistance develops and these microbes become almost invulnerable. Now the question is: When should you take curcumin, in the morning or at night, or before meals, depending on what your problem is. If your main pain is arthritis, I recommend drinking this drink in the morning for problems. I recommend taking it right before meals for any other problems, such as anxiety or poor sleep, before bed. If you want to increase the bioavailability of curcumin, take it with fats or just with food, or you can take it with black pepper. This is necessary due to the poor bioavailability of curcumin. When consuming turmeric, you will receive a grain of curcumin. What is curcumin in nature? It is a pesticide. Its other purpose is to protect plants from ultraviolet radiation. By taking it, we can take advantage of all its various properties. Its action will begin with the digestive tract, you will absorb a certain amount. Even the intestinal microflora consumes it, producing additional beneficial substances. For example, it reduces inflammation. That's why it is so good for intestinal inflammation. Curcumin also enhances strains of some beneficial bacteria while suppressing some pathogenic bacteria. Surprisingly, one of the typical mistakes is to take too much or take it without black pepper. Black pepper increases its absorption by 21 times. You need to take a glass of warm water and place about  Half a teaspoon of turmeric powder, then you need to take a small pinch of black pepper, pour it into water and mix with half a lemon, drink this drink should be warm, not boiling, and feel the benefits. There is another way to prepare the so- called golden milk, you need to stir Half a teaspoon of turmeric in milk or coconut milk. I recommend coconut milk, it should turn out delicious. Then you need to add a quarter teaspoon of cinnamon, a pinch of pepper and heat it all up, almost bringing it to a boil, and drink it. It's very tasty. This option I recommend drinking before bed. Another way to take curcumin is as part of a smoothie. Half a teaspoon of turmeric per glass of kefir. I recommend sheep's kefir if you can find it, or even goat's milk, grass-fed, and also take half a glass of blueberries, put it all in a blender and mix it, you will get a wonderful drink. You can also take turmeric. This method is good for a sore throat or a constant, persistent cough for immunity. Take  Half a glass of hot water. The water should be hot, but not boiling. Just very hot. Add a level teaspoon of turmeric and a tablespoon of fresh honey. Try to mix everything in the hot water as much as possible. Drink this mixture once or twice a day. Your throat will feel great. I repeat: for arthritis and inflammation, drink in the morning. Then, during the day, the inflammation will subside. For other sleep problems, stress, and other non-inflammatory problems, drink curcumin before bed. But remember: for digestive problems, drink it right before meals. It will help prevent bloating. Don't know what to drink on chum salmon? Does n't Tes' drink make you vomit? Fasting is varied with the help of a book on healthy drinks: delicious lemonades, smoothies, and other drinks without sugar and harmful additives, as well as recipe designers for creating original recipes. The benefits of each ingredient are in the book. Order the book on healthy drinks using the link below.