I don't know why garlic isn't used as one of the main medicines for the heart. In fact, I know you can't make money from it, but today I will share with you the most important information about how garlic affects heart health. Of course, none of what I said replaces diagnosis or treatment. Consult a doctor before using it, but at a minimum, you should be aware of the powerful effect of garlic on the cardiovascular system. Today I will tell you about one very simple and inexpensive remedy: garlic water, in terms of lowering blood pressure, garlic has demonstrated an effect similar to conventional drugs for high blood pressure, but this is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of what garlic can do for the heart. Let's see what other benefits you can get from garlic. It is an antiviral agent. Most colds are viral in nature, so at the first sign of a cold, eat garlic. It is an antifungal agent. If you have candidiasis or a white coating on the tongue, garlic is the solution. When a person takes antibiotics, this can lead to candidiasis because bacteria keeps candida under control, otherwise it begins to grow, so garlic is very effective. Garlic fights Candida fungi, it is also an antibacterial agent, it can be taken as a natural antibiotic, it is good for tuberculosis and is even effective against Helicobacter pylori, one of the causes of ulcers, garlic is an antiparasitic agent, it kills worms and other parasites, in addition, garlic is able to hit many other problems right at the root by simply lowering insulin levels and insulin resistance, which not only regulates blood sugar but also helps cope with things like fatty liver, which is caused by excess insulin, if you have been watching my video for some time, you know well the dangers of high insulin, there have been many studies, including the one we just completed in Europe on cancer, which demonstrated the powerful anti-cancer effect of garlic, garlic also helps with arthritis and any other, these thanks to the anti-inflammatory action, this includes bursitis, it and no, and arthritis itself, if you are an athlete, garlic can increase your endurance, today I want to focus mainly on the heart, more than 43 clinical trials have been conducted that have shown significant benefits of garlic for the cardiovascular system, in one of them a link in the description was shown a decrease  The risk of heart attack and stroke is more than 50 percent, so why do n't we all include garlic in our diet on a regular basis? Look, there's a substance called trampaksan. I won't go into its chemical structure, but it causes platelets to clump and form blood clots. These clots can then clog the blood vessels of the heart and cause a heart attack, or they can rise through the arteries to the brain, and this is a potential threat of stroke. Trampaksan causes narrowing of blood vessels, and we're talking about spasm of the coronary arteries. I'll give some explanations on this topic so that it's clear what we're talking about. There is so-called unstable angina, which is related precisely to Carnot's spasm of the rnai artery. We're talking about vasospastic or variant angina, when the blood vessels narrow. With this type of angina, a person usually has an unstable plaque that can break off and then get stuck somewhere else in the circulatory system. This can cause a stroke or heart attack. Sometimes an attack lasts minutes.  10 and passes and then recurs, but an attack of such angina can happen even at rest in the middle of the night. In the case of stable angina, the plaque is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, it is better protected, but it can also break off due to some physical shock. This could be an injury, training, or something else that can provoke its rupture, which leads to angina. Here are the risk factors for angina: smoking, of course, because of nicotine, excess weight, then diabetes when you have problems with insulin and the vessels are very stiff. High blood pressure can be a risk factor. Stress can become a trigger. insulin resistance leads to inflammation inside the vessels, which creates a cascade effect when the body tries to patch up the vessels with cholesterol, calcium, and protein. Alcohol is one of the reasons. Marijuana can become a trigger, as can cocaine and energy drinks. Some teenagers nowadays rely on energy drinks stuffed with sugar and caffeine. There are already quite a few cases of heart attacks among young people due to these drinks. Okay, back to thromboxane.  It has powerful hypertensive properties, meaning that when there's too much of it, blood pressure will be elevated, and the amount of this substance in the body increases after an injury, as well as during inflammation. There are several known inhibitors of this substance. Firstly, this group of drugs that cause blood loss. Even aspirin is a thromboxane inhibitor, but it turns out that garlic also contains several compounds of natural thromboxane inhibitors, which, moreover, do not cause side effects. Olive oil is also a thromboxane inhibitor. Let's see how garlic prevents heart attacks and strokes. Garlic prevents the formation of blood clots in blood vessels. It can lower blood pressure and also reduces vascular stiffness, probably by lowering insulin. In addition, it can lower the calcium index. This is a very good test, perhaps one of the best for predicting a heart attack. This is the coronary calcium index. It should be zero. If it is above 400 or 500, or even above a thousand, this indicates the risk of a possible heart attack. Such a test is very useful, but imagine that garlic can help lower this index. Studies have been conducted on how much statins can lower the calcium index. It turned out that they do not produce the desired effect, but garlic copes with this task. Garlic can help.  Balance the lipid profile and cholesterol and also help increase the production of bile. Bile, in turn, helps regulate the lipid profile and cholesterol, because I play a role in removing excess cholesterol from the body. Garlic also increases its amount because garlic is an antimicrobial agent, because it acts on viruses, fungi, and bacteria. It can be of great help in the case of so-called infective endocarditis. This infection is usually caused by staphylococci. Sometimes fungi form biofilms there, and all this happens inside the vessels. It turns out that garlic can act as a natural antibiotic and even without side effects. This is another beneficial property of garlic for the cardiovascular system. Let's summarize: garlic can help thin the blood, preventing the formation of blood clots. It is an antimicrobial agent that helps with infections. It promotes the removal of excess cholesterol and other fats and blood vessels by increasing the production of bile. It helps normalize blood pressure and prevents vascular constriction. It helps increase the elasticity of blood vessels and remove excess calcium. I don't know about you, but I think that everyone should regularly  Use garlic at least for the benefit of the heart and blood vessels. Now I'll show you how to prepare this extremely complex drink, garlic water. Okay, that's sarcasm. So, garlic water. Crush 1 clove of garlic, put it in 250-350 milliliters of water, add a teaspoon of extra virgin olive oil, let it sit for about fifteen minutes. Because we want all the phytonutrients we need to come out of the crushed garlic. We add extra virgin olive oil not only to reduce the level of thrombosis we talked about, but also for better absorption of fat-soluble phytonutrients. And the last step is to drink this drink regularly. You don't have to make garlic water specifically. Garlic can be added to food or taken as a supplement. You can eat it in hundreds of different ways. Just don't buy garlic. It's brought from China. There, it is sometimes grown using chlorine-containing chemicals, and wastewater is used as fertilizer. So, buy it locally, or even better, grow it yourself. If you haven't watched another very interesting video about  Look at the purity here it is