So you want to lose weight. I hope you've already started Keto. And you want to take your results to the next level. In this case, you can add a few ingredients to the water you drink daily. You need to understand that weight is a symptom, not the problem itself, and not the cause of problems. The main reason is excess insulin. A couple of facts about insulin that everyone probably knows, but let me remind you that insulin is the main fat- storing hormone. Even a small amount of insulin is present, fat is not burned, that is, insulin prevents fat burning, and with prolonged excess insulin, insulin resistance develops. You might think that insulin resistance is good. Because the body resists insulin, which means weight loss, but in fact, with insulin resistance, the body overcompensates and produces much more insulin to overcome resistance. That is, with insulin, the insulin surface area is much larger. This is the problem. insulin resistance occurs due to excess insulin because the body is trying to protect itself from excess by creating such a barrier. Over time, it gets worse if you do not eliminate what activates insulin. There are three things that trigger insulin production. Carbohydrates cause insulin production, especially refined ones such as sugar. Food, in principle, causes  insulin production, so frequent meals and snacks are harmful, and the third point about it I already said. This is insulin resistance, this is what simply increases the amount of insulin. There is another important point that I want to explain. Most people have insulin resistance. They go on a low-carb diet, exclude carbohydrates and do not eat sugar, then they check their blood sugar, and it rises, or with diabetes, the sugar level continues to rise even if you do not consume sugar. This sugar comes from somewhere, and it comes from the liver. The liver converts other substances such as fat, protein, or ketones. Sugar is called gluconeogenesis. Thus, the worse the insulin resistance was, the longer the blood sugar level will remain high. You just need to continue the program, do not give up, do what I say next, and over time, the blood sugar level will decrease, but excess sugar in the blood does not come from the diet, but from the woman who converts substances. I also want to mention one thing: with excess weight or diabetes or insulin resistance, there is so- called basal insulin, this is the insulin the body needs to function to keep the situation under control. This has nothing to do with  The diet in the blood simply contains a higher amount of insulin if I am overweight or have diabetes or insulin resistance, I become at this point. Because some people expect to lose weight as quickly as everyone else. But others may not have such insulin resistance because basal or baseline insulin is higher than it should be due to many years of insulin resistance. Some will have a harder time losing weight at the initial stage compared to those who do not have such a level of insulin in the blood. The goal of this is to focus as much as possible on eliminating insulin resistance. To lose the maximum possible weight in the shortest time, you need to work comprehensively. This includes a healthy version of the ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. You can also add a few ingredients to the water you drink. These are three products: lemon, apple cider vinegar and cinnamon. If you add at least two, or even all three ingredients, to your drink, you will see a significant improvement in terms of weight loss because you are dealing with your insulin resistance, even with an imperfect diet. This will significantly improve the situation. Let's start with apple cider vinegar; it contains acetic acid. Acetic acid is a powerful compound that lowers blood sugar. It helps increase sensitivity, reduce insulin resistance, and helps lower blood sugar even if you've eaten carbohydrates. I'll leave a link to some interesting research. Next, lemon. You can either squeeze the juice or take a whole lemon and blend it. This will take a little longer, but eating a whole lemon is healthier. If you have time, but if you don't, just take lemon juice. Lemon juice contains various substances, citric acid, phytonutrients, and vitamin C. If you squeeze the juice from a fresh lemon or blend a whole lemon, store-bought lemon juice in a jar is usually pasteurized. And since vitamin C is sensitive to oxygen and heat, it is destroyed during pasteurization. Vitamin C has other benefits. Especially for weight loss, thanks to the nutrients in lemon juice, sensitivity increases and resistance to insulin decreases. The third component is an extra ingredient: cinnamon. Add a pinch of cinnamon to your drink. Cinnamon is a spice that increases insulin sensitivity and helps regulate blood sugar. One study on cinnamon involved an average of 543 diabetics.  Their blood sugar dropped by 24 points and this is very decent. Adding a couple of ingredients. The water you drink daily is not difficult and this complements other benefits from several things from intermittent fasting, from ketones, lemon juice, cinnamon and apple cider vinegar. All this will contribute to the result to quickly achieve the desired goal. Another feature of these three products is that they help reduce liver damage, reduce insulin levels, normalize sugar, help regulate cholesterol, help the liver produce bile. This is also very important. Water with lemon contains citrates that reduce the risk of kidney stones and have an anti-inflammatory effect. Severe inflammation can cause insulin resistance, that is, inflammation can also cause insulin resistance. So, the instructions are very simple: drink 350 ml of water 2-3 times a day, add either 30 ml of lemon juice or a whole lemon. You can either chop a whole lemon in a blender or just squeeze the juice from one lemon, then add 1-2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar. I do not recommend apple cider vinegar. Brex is better. Take Fair Childs. They supply products that are not diluted, not advertising.  They do n't pay me. This is excellent apple cider vinegar. It contains mother acetic acid. It is organic and concentrated. Brex apple cider vinegar contains water, it is diluted, then add a pinch of cinnamon to the drink. You can mix everything, for example, in a blender. Some people may not like the taste, it may be too bitter. In this case, add a few drops of stevia liquid. If you don't know, this is a plant extract. It is sweet but sugar-free. Add a few drops and it will taste like lemonade. You can add a scoop of my electrolyte powder, which contains electrolytes, and a sweetener, the same stevia, mix the drink. I recommend drinking it before meals. If you go once a day, the first and second drinks will be on an empty stomach, and the third right before meals. Next, you should understand how to follow a ketogenic diet. Step by step, and I will talk about this in my basic course package. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results.  join us too