Hi all.  Today we will discuss the best foods for type 2 diabetes, heart and kidney disease, and many other metabolic diseases.  But the most important thing to understand here is this word metabolic. Because many people understand it incorrectly. When it comes to metabolic disease, some people think, " Metabolic disease is when a person has difficulty losing weight." This is just a tiny part of the problem. Metabolic disease is not just about the inability to lose weight. When the term metabolic is used, it refers to a huge problem at the cellular level. The cells are no longer able to obtain energy.  This is an energy deficit at the cellular level with an excess of fuel. It can be described like this.  Let's say you're sitting at home and you're hungry, and there's a lot of food sold near your house, but there's a lock on the door and you can't get to the food. This is a metabolic disease. This is exactly what happens to brain cells in Alzheimer's disease. You have plenty of sugar, you have plenty of this fuel, but you can't get to it, and the nerve cells, the brain cells, start to starve.  Take diabetes, for example .  A person has a lot of sugar in his blood, but what happens?  A diabetic goes blind. He has kidney disease, heart disease, type 3 diabetes, which is Alzheimer's disease, dementia. The nerves in the feet become damaged, gangrene sets in, and the toes have to be amputated. It can be felt in the fingertips. All this is connected with the fact that the cells literally howl from hunger, because they do not receive fuel, although there is plenty of this fuel around them.  And here's what's striking. Type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and chronic kidney disease affect 25% of the US population.  This means that every fourth person is diagnosed with one of these diseases: insanity.  And according to a Harvard research paper I'll link to below, 93% of adults in the US have at least one of the following risk factors: high blood sugar, hypertension, high blood lipids, excess weight, visceral fat in the abdomen, inflammation in the blood, fatty liver, or sleep apnea.  This means that only 7% of the population has optimal tests and none of the above. Crazy statistics.  So, the root of the problem is that the mitochondria, the cell's power plants, stop functioning. This is the root cause of metabolic diseases. And it amazes me that doctors simply ignore nutritional recommendations for these diseases.  They don't say that they are extremely important, but they treat all these diseases with different medications, manage the symptoms.  It's the same with all these risk factors.  And today we will answer the question of what is the best thing to eat to fix all this.  Obviously, there are late stages of liver disease, dementia, when nothing can be done, but if you don’t try, you won’t know.  Basically, as I said, metabolic disease is when a cell cannot get energy from either sugar or fat.  They don't get into it because the hormone that allows them to get into the cell no longer works as well.  The cell resists him.  This is called insulin resistance. If this happens, the cell will have very little fuel and there will be many symptoms that I have already mentioned now. Let's discuss why this happens and how this situation arises.  First of all, you need to understand the basics.  What is a normal blood sugar level?  From 70 to 90, but let it be average.  80 mg per decile.  This is normal.  But what does this mean?  This number reflects the amount of sugar in the blood.  And it shocks you.  After all, a normal blood sugar level means about one tiny teaspoon of sugar. In other words, the entire body with all its blood can deal with just one tiny teaspoon of sugar without harm. How much sugar do people consume per day on average?  An average of 31 teaspoons of sugar every day.  A lot, huh?  And people know that excess sugar is harmful.  But that's not even half the truth.  There's one more thing.  Carbohydrates, the starch in most of the food most people eat.  I'm not talking about potato starch now.  We are talking about refined starches.  And this is industrial starch, modified food and corn starch, maltodextrin.   And it’s not even sugar, but it behaves worse than sugar.  After all, this starch causes a powerful surge in blood sugar.  There won't be such a jump even if you eat sugar.  And what's really surprising is that starch isn't even sweet, it's tasteless. He just has no taste.  Why add it if it's not sweet?  It is used as a filler and sometimes to create texture. If we look at how much starch the average American consumes, we see that it is 56 teaspoons per day.  Wow.  Add this to the sugar and you get 87 teaspoons of sugar.  And starch is sugar.  Starch is hidden sugar.  These are glucose molecules linked together in a chain.  But it's highly refined, so it turns into glucose as soon as you eat it, causing your blood sugar to spike.  And look, you throw all this refined fuel into your body, but nature intended it to be completely different. Fuel must come with fiber, phytonutrients, and antioxidants that protect us.  But we fill the car with clean, jet or diesel fuel.  And the process of destruction begins.  These 87 teaspoons correspond to an average daily diet of 2,000 calories .  But I would say the average American consumes well over 2,000 calories a day.  Just look at how much people weigh.  I think Americans consume 2,500, 2,800, or 3,000 calories a day, maybe more.  Let's say it's 3,000 kilocalories per day.  And in this case, they eat 131 teaspoons of sugar every day.  And this is what happens. This excess sugar is so dangerous for the inner walls of blood vessels that the body tries to protect itself.  It sucks all this sugar out of the vessels with the help of a vacuum cleaner, which is insulin. So, insulin sucks up the sugar as soon as you eat it and stores it as belly fat, liver fat, and high triglycerides. But this starts to really destroy the mitochondria.  This is a kind of compensation, protection, and survival mechanism.  You might get away with it for a while. At the beginning of all this, you can eat a ton of sugar and your blood sugar will be normal because your pancreas is working like crazy, without you even noticing, pumping out insulin to pump out all that sugar.  But doctors never check fasting insulin levels.  They check blood sugar, and the sugar remains normal for at least the first 15-20 years, until the pancreas becomes so depleted that it can no longer produce much insulin.  And symptoms of pre- diabetes arise.  Blood sugar rises to 120, possibly to 124, then 125 - this is already diabetes, or after 15-20 you are diagnosed with type 2 diabetes.  If they had checked insulin on an empty stomach, they would have discovered this much earlier. And what is the best food to eat to get rid of chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease and many other ailments.  Obviously, you need to cut down on empty carbohydrates.  This is the most important thing.   It will also be helpful to not eat so often.  Eat two or even one meal a day.  Frequent meals and small snacks create problems.   The beauty is that if you do what I show you, you will get your mitochondria in order and be able to use them.  Your body will finally be able to use its fat reserves. And here's how you'll know it works. And this is extremely important, more important than losing weight.  Can you avoid feeling terribly hungry between meals? Can you go longer without eating without starving? If you can't, you still have some work to do.  And if you can, it means your body eats its own fat when you don’t eat.  This is exactly what you need.  To achieve this metabolic change and get your mitochondria back in order, you need to cut back on carbohydrates and eat less often.  But the question is, what do you eat?  I'll show you a dish for the perfect meal.  Let's start with the salad. One of the best types of leafy greens. And I'm just giving you an example of one of the best dishes.  There are many other products, but I will explain why I chose these products.  Arugula is a bitter leafy green from the cruciferous family.  Not only does it improve liver health and contain magnesium, chlorophyll, vitamin C and folic acid, but it also contains a lot of beneficial nitrates.  It will increase your nitric oxide levels more than anything else.  What is nitric oxide? A deficiency of nitric oxide is usually observed in hypertension and heart disease. Nitric oxide promotes vasodilation, causing arteries to widen and relax.  It is very important for blood flow.  And when there are problems with insulin, the production of nitric oxide stops and hypertension occurs.  How to fix this? We need to fix the insulin problem, but we also need to eat food.  which actually increases nitric oxide levels.  This will lower blood pressure and improve the condition of the heart and blood vessel walls.  Plus, it's green, and it contains a lot of things, and this will increase the efficiency of the mitochondria.  And we need food for these power plants. Arugula also contains a lot of magnesium.  Magnesium not only relaxes muscles, improves sleep and reduces stress.  It is needed to create energy. It is involved in the biochemical process of converting fuel into energy in this power plant.  This process requires certain things, especially magnesium and potassium. And there is magnesium in arugula. You can add balsamic vinegar, or better yet, apple cider vinegar, to this main salad ingredient.  Studies have shown that apple cider vinegar normalizes blood sugar. And this is what we need.  And we need to increase insulin sensitivity.  Drizzle the salad with extra virgin olive oil, only real.  It contains a lot of polyphenols.  These are plant substances.  They enter the blood vessels and improve their condition. They also help lower blood pressure if you have this problem. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. You can add pumpkin seeds.  They contain magnesium and much more.  I would use fried ones.  They are easier to digest.   You do n't need much.  Add a little bit to the salad .  I also add nutritional yeast to my salads .  I take unenriched ones. We don't need added synthetic vitamins.  Nutritional yeast is rich in B vitamins. This powerhouse requires vitamins B1, B2, and B3 to function. They help her convert food into energy.  If you don't have nutritional yeast, you can get B1 and other B vitamins from sunflower seeds.  It's also better to fry it.  You can do both.  And add avocado for potassium.  Avocados have a lot of potassium.  We need 4,700 mg of potassium. That's a lot. Few people get enough potassium. Potassium is a physiological tranquilizer.  It calms, lowers the pulse, normalizes blood pressure, and protects the kidneys. It is needed by the sodium-potassium pump, which supplies energy to the nerves and muscles. So we must not forget about potassium, as well as the balance between potassium and sodium.  It's not dangerous to get more sodium if you get more potassium.  When people are told to cut out sodium because of their blood pressure, I ask, "Really? Maybe it's better to get more potassium? We need both for everything to work." Now let's discuss protein and fat.   There's a little bit of fat in there from the oil, from the avocado, but we're talking about healthy saturated fats here.  I recommend the hamburger. At this point you have to ask, what's a hamburger? But I'm not talking about the BUN.  I'm not talking about hamburgers from fast food joints.  I'm talking about quality, 100% grass-fed meat.  Why a hamburger and not a steak?  You can eat steak, but steaks are sometimes low in fat, and we need a little more fat and quality protein. If it is completely grass fed, it is a little better.  I eat a lot of hamburgers.  I also eat a dish made from ground lamb. I also eat fish.  But there's something about red meat that promotes this metabolic process a little better than fish.  Although you can eat fish, you can eat eggs, it will work.  But there's something else about red meat.  Curious what you're told to avoid to be healthy?  Red meat.  In general, red meat is unique in that it has more of the following things.  I won't go into the meaning of these terms, but they are carnitine, carnitine, creatine. Essentially, these substances help deliver fat into the mitochondria. These substances help protect you from the damage caused by carbohydrates. There are other things that significantly increase the efficiency of mitochondria.  And there are more of these things in red meat than in fish.  And red meat contains a bioavailable form of heme iron.  And we need it.  It contains zinc and other trace elements, including selenium.  They are extremely important.  It contains almost all the B vitamins, including B12.  He is needed too.  And unlike other proteins, the protein in red meat is extremely high quality and highly bioavailable.  I feel best after eating red meat, which I can’t say about other proteins, even fish, even though I eat it regularly.  I feel better after eating red meat .  Red meat is perhaps the main product that helps heal the body.  After all, if the mitochondria does not have enough high-quality protein, it cannot function.  So, we need amino acids from a quality source to repair damage, maintain protein in our muscles, and we have plenty of it. If we look at protein, carbohydrates and fats, protein is the most important of them.  That's why we need quality protein.   Did you remember to press the bell? Let's discuss dessert.  There is a special microorganism, Elroitheri bacteria, that many people do not have, especially if you have taken antibiotics or were not breastfed.  After all, we get this bacteria from our mother.  Roiteri keeps many microorganisms in check and prevents bad bacteria from colonizing the small intestine, maintaining balance.  It increases insulin sensitivity and reduces the number of pathogens. It also helps increase levels of one of the most powerful hormones, oxytocin. And by the way, it improves your communication with other people.  People eat slroyteri yogurt and become more sociable.  Simply incredible.  I made a video about it.  Elroyteri also helps build muscle.  And this is a bacterium in the intestines.  So this is a very important bacteria, and you can grow it in a yogurt maker using low-fat cream. I also eat dark chocolate without sugar. Dark chocolate contains a lot of polyphenols, and they greatly improve the condition of the inner walls of blood vessels, increasing the level of nitric oxide.  Dark chocolate is rich in magnesium.  Some people might say that it's better not to eat chocolate because it contains a lot of axalates. Well, one of the best remedies for calcium oxalate formation is magnesium.  Get more magnesium, because it binds to calcium sulfates better than calcium and prevents stone formation.  In general, magnesium protects against axalates, and a little cinnamon will help lower blood sugar even further.  Low-carb diet, intermittent fasting, lots of sun.  Sunlight is more than half infrared light, and it penetrates us to a depth of 5 cm, even through clothing.  Infrared light improves mitochondrial health, and the sun also provides us with vitamin D, which is also crucial for restoring normal mitochondrial function. After eating, walk for 20 minutes. This way you will burn the sugar.  But you didn't eat sugar.  He's not here, right?  But in metabolic disease, the liver's insulin resistance is so severe that the liver produces sugar from other substances for some time.  This is why people with diabetes wake up early in the morning due to the so-called dawn phenomenon.  They have high sugar levels, which are produced by the liver, but they can burn them off by walking.  Of course, training will help with this: high-intensity, interval, and strength training.  And never buy junk food, ultra-processed food again.  Just don't buy it.  After all, in the store you have to say: "No, just this once."  But if you bring that food home, then every night when you see that food, you have to say, "No, over and over again."  This is the best way to create another barrier to make it more difficult to access such food.  Sure, you can go to the store, but you'll probably say, "No, I'd rather eat something else instead of ultra-processed food."  After all, this is the cause of metabolic disease.  And lastly, this needs to be discussed in more detail. Vitamin B1 is located at the entrance to the mitochondria.  So when you eat a lot of empty carbohydrates, your need for B1 goes up dramatically and for most people it's depleted and you can't burn fuel.  B1 is the spark plug. Dr. Berg's workshop course.  Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach.  More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a keto coach, help people and achieve huge success.  Work from home on your own schedule, do what you enjoy.  Sign up for the course using the link below.