I want to show you a very simple test that quite accurately determines whether you are allergic to something, this mainly concerns food allergies, whether it is an allergy to peanuts, wheat, eggs, dairy or seafood. It is very inexpensive to carry out such a test, you do not need anything. You only need to measure your pulse. If you have an allergic reaction, your pulse rises. The manifestation of an allergic reaction can be different: sneezing, stuffy nose, complex reactions, fatigue, phlegm in the lungs, increased pressure, anxiety, dizziness, nausea, bloating and even headache, but at the same time, your pulse rises. This is part of a stress reaction. Why not use your pulse as an indicator of allergies, especially if there is uncertainty about what exactly you are allergic to? This information is again based on data from Arthur Coke, MD, he wrote a whole book about this, pulse analysis. The link below is a way to count your pulse. Below there will be a link with details on how to do this if you don’t know how, but a pulse oximeter is a very inexpensive thing, it costs about $9. Put it on your finger and you can not only track your pulse and record it, but also track your oxygen levels. This is what you need to do. Get a notebook and start writing down your  Pulse is the first thing you need to do when you wake up in the morning and go to bed, measure your pulse and see the daily pulse log and just measure your pulse before eating and then half an hour after eating a second time after another half hour and after another half hour, that is, measure your pulse before eating and the next hour and a half with an interval of half an hour and do this at every meal if you just had a snack or a full meal and also record your pulse immediately before bed. The fact is that this information needs to be correlated with food, it is imperative to write down everything you ate right next to the pulse value, this is a very obvious approach, let's say your pulse rose, what you ate before that, well, is it an allergy? Dr. Coca observed that usually an allergy occurs when the difference between the lower pulse value and the increased value is more than 16 points. He also noted that the pulse should rise to at least 84; with lower values, most likely, it is not an allergy, it could be something else, stress, the digestive system from what you ate, you cannot digest it, or some other stress, for example, this  The food is harmful and it causes stress, but it is not an allergy, it is just that the body does not tolerate something well. Let 's say you write down all this data and look at the pulse rate. Let's say the pulse is written on the right and on the left is what you ate and the numbers go like this: 60-70 75 69 72 94 and then it drops, say, to 703. Well, these 94 are a direct clue to what you ate right before that and so you narrow the search for a food allergen. We are only narrowing the circle because most likely you ate not one product but several, but now we know that at that meal you ate some allergen. The next step is to identify the specific products included in that meal. The next day you eat one of the products from that meal and analyze your pulse in connection with this product. Let's say your pulse did not increase. Then the next day you take another product from that meal. So, continue until you establish which product from that meal increases your pulse the most and the allergen has been established. Now you can avoid this product, probably from this alone your digestion  It will improve, and a reaction to food occurs from the sympathetic nervous system. The system increases the pulse through the autonomic nervous system, and this reaction creates stress for the liver. The liver tries to get rid of this allergen, that is, the liver is also involved. I think this is a good practical way to find out what you are allergic to. And what not in my practice. I have not used such a test, but I sent 100% to the doctor for an allergy test. I found all sorts of very unusual allergens. This allowed us to refine the diet to avoid these products. It was so simple, but it had a huge positive effect on the patient's health. If you suspect an allergy, this is a good test and it costs practically nothing, especially if you check the pulse simply on the wrist or on the carotid artery. And if you haven't watched my video about what to do with allergies when the allergen is known, then watch this video.