Today we'll talk about what exactly you need to eat to restore hair. I do n't mean supplements, I mean food. I recently came across something very interesting and I want to share it with you. It was an article in it, there was something that struck me and that I had never heard of before. One amino acid. I decided to study it more carefully. I learned amazing things that I'll tell you about today. I think most of you know that hair is made up of protein and you can decide that you just need to eat protein and your hair will grow back, but this doesn't always work. This newspaper article described various deficiencies that a certain percentage of people with baldness suffered from, and there was one amino acid that 90% of these people lacked. It's called histidine, but no, I don't recommend just buying it and taking it. It's important to understand why its deficiency occurs. Do you have it? There's not much histidine in food. It's an amino acid precursor to histamine, which is related to immune responses, allergies, reducing inflammation, and so on. With a histidine deficiency, anemia can develop because this amino acid is needed to build e. It is useful for the skin with eczema and dermatitis.  any type A too much histidine can cause premature ejaculation it is directly involved in the production of keratin protein hair making hair stronger and more hydrated and also regulating copper and zinc which are also necessary for hair if a person takes medication or drinks alcohol histidine levels can decrease if a person has low acid in the stomach he will not be able to break down proteins to extract stidine from food he will have indigestion flatulence bloating the solution to any of these problems taking betaine hydrochloride which increases acidity But there is one interesting point in all this in order for you to be able to use histidine you need cofactors B6 which is easy to get have zinc in the right proportion which is not so easy to achieve and also phal the main source of which is dark leafy greens But if you are on a carnivore diet and do not eat vegetables How to get phal actually most of the phalates are found in the liver And what if you eat regular food but do not include dark leafy greens in your diet then a deficiency is also possible In addition if you take  a supplement with folic acid, which is not a natural source of vitamin B9, can even slow down the conversion to the active form because it will take a lot of the enzyme needed for this. By the way, there is a chemotherapy drug called Methotrexate. All it does is block folates. They increase the synthesis or reproduction of cells. If they are blocked with such a drug, growth processes can stop. The problem is that we do not need to stop the growth of cells, especially healthy ones. Therefore, to avoid side effects, folates are administered. With a folate deficiency, DNA damage becomes much greater, so much so that it is even comparable to the effect of radiation on DNA. Therefore, folates are very important for protecting DNA and mitochondria. They also protect against cancer. Because cancer occurs due to damage to mitochondria, it is important that you have enough folates that are needed for histidine to work so that you can fight hair loss. This situation is also possible: you are on a long fast and your hair is falling out. In this case, you are apparently not ready for fasting or it does not suit you. If you are adapted to ketosis, then burning fat you feel great. And if this is not  So, don't force yourself. Some people's bodies don't tolerate prolonged fasting well. Now, about food products number one, these are organ meats, primarily liver. If you don't like it, replace it with a supplement. Here's what you need to know. You can overeat the liver, but if you eat 50 to 80 g, there won't be any problems. But if you eat a lot of it every day, it can become a problem. What's interesting is that some people have the idea that organ meats contain a lot of saturated fats. In fact, there is no fat in meat products like beef, fish, and so on. So that you have enough building material. Number three, mollusks, crustaceans, where zinc and copper are in the right proportions, they also contain a lot of selenium and other microelements. I mean shrimp, scallops, crabs, and lobsters. While watching this video, you might have some ideas. Why you might have a deficiency of some substances. I invite you to my course: health diagnostics by hair: dry, brittle hair or oily hair and dandruff, hair loss, premature baldness.  Gray hair is a sign of problems within the body. In my course, I'll show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.