Should pregnant or breastfeeding women do intermittent fasting? My answer is no, because if there is any hidden nutrient deficiency, it will only worsen. After all, the mother is eating for two. Yes, with intermittent fasting, the internal needs are reduced, but it's still not worth the risk. The mother should get all the nutrients. Pregnant women often have cravings for certain foods; this is simply a nutrient deficiency. Sometimes, so- called pica occurs, a desire to eat something inedible, dirt, Glenn, paper, starch, this simply indicates a deficiency of zinc, calcium, or iron. Intermittent fasting is of no use here. Am I healthy? Yes, of course, for two reasons. Firstly, on a healthy diet, you eat fewer carbohydrates. Many pregnant women develop insulin resistance in the last trimester, and sometimes diabetes. The problem is that if the mother develops diabetes, the risk of developing it in the child increases threefold, so you shouldn't rely on ice cream, sweets, etc. A healthy diet is needed. The future health of the child depends on the woman's diet during pregnancy. It is very important that the mother eats healthy foods, for example.  Cod liver oil contains vitamin B3, which is vital for the growth and structural development of the brain. If the fetus has a deficiency, where and whose brain will be smaller, there will be problems with IKEA, cognitive impairment, vision problems, and the like. Fish is essential, for example, commercial salmon, for the same reason, as well as for vitamins A and D. Cod liver oil is an excellent source of vitamin B3, and this is extremely important for a growing baby. Seafood contains healthy fat, omega-3 fatty acid, and trace elements. Seaweed contains the trace element J&J, which is very important, especially in the first and second trimesters. With iodine deficiency, the child's size will be less than five, will be lower, problems with learning, speech, and even hearing will arise. Trace elements are necessary to prevent problems with the anatomical structure, dental pathologies, scoliosis, flat feet, and other problems. Put it in the summer and, of course, vitamin D, a deficiency of which can lead to rickets with leg stiffness and all sorts of bone problems. Eggs are an excellent source of protein. Eggs are a rich vitamin product with a bunch of trace elements. Greens in  Vegetable salads will provide vitamin C as well as elements such as potassium and magnesium. All of this is very important for activating enzymes that build human tissue. High -quality grass-fed meat is needed for protein, and nutritional yeast provides B vitamins, especially during lactation. All of this enriches milk, making it nutritious and healthy. I have an illustrative example of a healthy child. Look, you have a trampoline. Wow. Do you want to pull my hair? I crawled somewhere. Loops. Like this. Handstands and like this. It's like a motor inside. So much energy. A very healthy child. We have a full-fledged workout here. There are no springs for me. My God, I'm exhausted, but the whole time-out is over. Do you want more? Come on.