Today we'll talk about the one meal a day every other day regimen. I was recently asked about this, so I decided to make a separate video on this topic. Is it beneficial or harmful? What happens if you don't eat all day? Think about this: Millions of people fast purposefully and regularly for reasons of religion or health. Some fast for weeks. It can even last for a month, with very few side effects and enormous therapeutic benefits. It has a positive effect on the mind, mood, heart, and brain inflammation. You don't starve yourself. The body switches to burning its own fat reserves. That is, you eat, even if you don't eat. You use up your own fat, although this doesn't happen in a normal regimen. The person who set the record for the longest fast starved for three hundred and eighty-two days. At the beginning, he weighed about 200 kilograms, and eventually lost weight to 80. You need to understand that when you eat is actually more important than what you eat. I'm not saying that you shouldn't follow a healthy diet. I'm just emphasizing that the diet is very, very important because when you fast, you lower insulin.  and the body uses ketones as fuel there are many other advantages, however, if you decide to do this, I highly recommend taking high-quality electrolytes with plenty of potassium and magnesium, as well as trace elements, also B vitamins in the form of nutritional yeast, and thirdly, you need sea salt. If you don’t have enough salt, you may feel tired, fatigue in the muscles, then you need a little more sea salt. 4 vitamins D 3 and CO2 simply because natural vitamin D3 is very difficult to get from food, and you also don’t eat, that is, you don’t get vitamin D, but you can get it from the sun. If you walk a lot in the sun, great, then you don’t need it, but many people sit at home, so I advise taking D3 and CO2 together. I already mentioned trace elements, and so here’s what you need to do: just eat three times a day without snacks. If you’re a beginner, below I’ll give a link to what exactly to eat so you know what you need for a healthy body. Then do this until you start getting up in the morning without feeling hungry. Then hold out as long as you can until the first meal, until 12 or an hour, then the second time, and start.  Run away 1 and 2, that is, let's say you fast for 16 hours, then 18 hours, then 20 hours and reduce the window for eating until these two meals turn into one, but it is better to do this gradually, then in the next stage, just follow this principle: if you are not hungry, do not eat, continue in the same spirit and try to hold out longer and longer until you go without food all day and eat once a day every other day, but yes, it must be rich in nutrients and consist of a sufficient amount of the right products. You know, your body will be very conservative, it will adapt and become more efficient. You will need much less nutrients because the body will use resources secondary. I highly recommend eating according to this scheme: one meal a day every other day for those who have a stable diet, who have a slow metabolism, or they need to lose a lot of weight and they want to speed up the process. Thank you for watching, while you are here, please leave a comment with your opinion on this video.