Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll discuss the myth about eating before and after workouts. You heard right. This is a myth. I know many people advise eating before or after a workout to replenish glycogen stores or build muscle mass. Let's look at both of these points. First, what are glycogen stores? A certain amount of sugar is stored in our muscles. Glycogen is a sugar storage facility. It's found in the liver and in muscles. There's a little of it during a workout. It's used up in about half an hour and after that, fat burning will begin. So why do that? Why eat any sweets at all? Yes, during and after a workout, this is some kind of nonsense. Our goal is to burn fat. But before you burn fat, you'll first have to burn sugar. That's how the body works. We burn sugar for half an hour and only then we deal with fat. Second, when consuming protein powder, for example, whey, the more concentrated the protein, the higher the insulin spike. A whole egg, with its fat, stimulates insulin production less than whey protein powder every time you consume protein. insulin production is stimulated in the powder, which makes insulin stop fat burning completely every time. Gray protein increases insulin. Any food basically stimulates insulin, so why eat it? Yes, during and after training. The whole point of training is to stimulate metabolism to get to the fat reserves remaining in the body so that your own fat is consumed and not fat from the diet. So, I recommend not eating anything. Yes, during and after training. 2 Miss. You need to eat protein to build muscle mass. Regarding muscles, what a person eats before or after training will be digested for at least a day and pass through the liver before it ends up in the muscles, sometimes even longer. If you think that a protein shake really gets into the muscles, you are mistaken. It is digested and goes a long way before it gets into the muscles, so eating protein will not immediately affect muscle gain. What you ate yesterday is what will get into the muscle, not what you ate before or after training. And here's another thing: if the liver is overloaded with excess protein, it will not get into the muscle. Our body builds muscle perfectly with a healthy and not overloaded liver.  and with the presence of all the microelements that help muscle growth, but we should avoid insulin because insulin neutralizes growth hormone. Look, training is real stress for the body. Muscles are destroyed, sugar in the muscles ignites, and then you stop and recovery begins. It is during recovery that food is digested. The body rebuilds what was destroyed using fat, so if you eat at this time, it will reduce the benefits in the form of weight loss and muscle gain. There are exceptions, I will tell you about them. In general, the body receives the benefits of training a day or two later during deep sleep. So, a much better strategy would be to focus on sleeping better and not eating anything during and after training. Now, the exception is if you are an athlete; if you train twice a day; if you are a large bodybuilder; if you are a marathon runner or long- distance runner; and also if you are diabetic or your blood sugar fluctuates greatly; I am talking about average people trying to lose weight. Let's summarize: we need to stimulate growth hormone. This hormone is the main fat-burning hormone and it is stimulated during training if a person eats any food, especially concentrated protein.  Or does this cause sugar to spike? insulin blocks the hormone. insulin simply dominates and neutralizes growth hormone, and with it, there will be no muscle gain or cutting because fat will not be burned. Growth hormone is stimulated by exercise, sleep, and hypoglycemia. So, we need to stop using up sugar reserves and induce a state of hypoglycemia. That is, low sugar. We are not causing bad hypoglycemia. We are only lowering sugar levels so that the growth hormone can work and we can benefit from training. I hope these tips will help you. I just wanted to give you the correct information on this topic. Apply this knowledge and tell us about the results.