Hi, in this video we'll talk about the dangers of baking soda, but first of all, I'll say I understand perfectly well that many people feel better when they take it, it helps them a lot with jogi or acid reflux. I don't deny that, I just want to say that it's not that simple, so listen to the end. At the beginning, I want to talk about the functioning of the stomach. The stomach helps digest proteins, absorb trace elements, and also kill germs. I'm talking about harmful microbes and pathogens. Its structure suggests that it produces acid. The acidity level of the stomach should normally be from one to three. What does this mean? Here's the pH scale, and seven on it is an indicator of a neutral environment. Anything below is an acidic environment, and anything above is alkaline. You should understand that an environment with a pH of 5 is 10 times more acidic than an environment with a pH of 6. Six is ​​10 times alkaline, five is 10 times more acidic, and five is 10 times more acidic than six. That is, the relationship here is not direct, but logarithmic. It turns out that an environment from one to three is extremely acidic, that is, normal.  The food in the stomach should be extremely acidic. Baking soda, page 9, is quite high, and this begs the question of where a person gets heartburn in the first place. The answer is that when you lose stomach acid, that is, its level rises to 4 or 5, this sphincter stops closing properly, it opens, this is called GERD, and the acid rushes up. I used to do a test where you swallow a capsule with lines, it passes through the stomach, and you lie on your right side for 15 minutes, then they take it out and measure your pH, and many had a pH of 45, sometimes even 6, and they had acid belching. It seems illogical, because in theory, heartburn means that a person has excess acid, but in fact, the acid is not strong enough, and this sphincter is open. This is exactly what happens. I'm not talking about stomach ulcers or gastritis. We're only talking about heartburn. Let's move on. The pancreas is located here. Normally, it produces a certain bicarbonate, and baking soda is sodium bicarbonate, but  The pancreas also produces bicarbonates to alkalize the acid entering the small intestine. Strong acid shouldn't enter there, so the pancreas helps neutralize it. Normally, the small intestine should have an alkaline environment, but these bicarbonates, in theory, shouldn't return to the stomach. A healthy stomach should have an acidic environment. So, by taking soda, you will temporarily feel better, but this will only be a temporary measure. Over time, the situation will worsen because in this way you eliminate the acid and it is not replenished. In fact, you should take apple cider vinegar. It would help you very effectively. You can also take betaine hydrochloride. It restores acidity. This will help get rid of heartburn much more effectively than baking soda, and for a long time. Again, you should ask yourself why you have heartburn in the first place. They mindlessly correct the symptoms themselves. Here are the side effects of long-term use of baking soda. I'm not talking about single doses. If you sometimes need it, it's okay. The main thing is that it doesn't become a habit. Otherwise, it can alkalize the stomach and create a bunch of problems with  Digesting proteins, absorbing trace elements, and eliminating pathogenic bacteria that can get further into the intestines and cause many other problems. Another drawback is the depletion of potassium reserves in the body. There's a whole list of symptoms: rapid pulse, weakness, fatigue, and the like. A decrease in chlorides is needed to produce hydrochloric acid. If there are no chlorides, expect other problems. High sodium levels. All these elements must be balanced. If you want to use baking soda for brushing your teeth or externally for insect bites or nettle burns, no problem. But if you want to take it internally, don't get too carried away, don't turn it into a system, find the cause of the problem. Thanks for watching.