Today I have a very important topic, perhaps this is something that everyone should know, this is basic knowledge about nutrition and it is related to genetics. Many people think that I just have bad genes, nothing can be done about it, what is, is, but firstly, you can control your genes with the help of epigenetics. I have a lot of videos about this and it is related simply to changing your lifestyle, because genes can turn on and off depending on what is happening around you, but I want to talk about a deeper cause of genetic disorders. I was inspired by this amazing and very expensive book, $250, Soil, Grass, Iraq, the connection between the health of people and animals and the balance of minerals in the soil. I can’t put it down. I’m on Chapter 16 here we are talking about maternal nutrition and defects in the development of the child. I’ll read a couple of quotes. Almost all developmental defects observed in people were reproduced in laboratory experiments with rats by changing the mother’s diet during pregnancy. A deficiency of folic acid in the diet leads to almost all known heart defects, arteries, and veins in rat pups. That is, many developmental defects can be reproduced if I have a question, what period of life do you think healthy eating is most important during? If you answered during pregnancy, you're right because the fetus of a growing, developing child is completely dependent on the mother's end. If literally one thing is missing, it can cause a destructive chain reaction in the child's future. I'm talking about behavior, I'm talking about mental abilities, I'm talking about body structure. Let's say someone is born with flat feet, scoliosis, a hump, or something else, or with a dental malformation, or with a facial structure disorder. All this depends on nutrients. Nutrients, especially trace elements, are necessary for the functioning of enzymes and proteins. I'm talking not only about metabolism and tissue construction, but also about repair enzymes associated with DNA. Genes are essentially blueprints that allow cellular mechanisms to take information and build healthy tissue. In fact, we have two sets of corrective mechanisms that scan DNA at a very high speed and check DNA, which is a blueprint, to identify errors. We know at least again about repair proteins or enzymes, perhaps there are more. which constantly correct any errors that arise in this code and all these repair enzymes need micronutrients such as wards such as zinc cobalt which is part of vitamin B12 have another micronutrient included in the vitamin C complex iron if I already mentioned j I will mention it again j&j greatly affects the mental abilities of the child there is also manganese there is excellent information about the connection between manganese deficiency and problems in body construction also possible calcium deficiency caused by vitamin D deficiency and there is also silen which enhances the effect of vitamin E so these nutrients are absolutely necessary during pregnancy and also during breastfeeding and if the child is not breastfed he is probably fed with infant formula and now I don’t even want to discuss it unfortunately infant formula is based on soy and the worst ingredient for feeding a developing child is soy it acts like estrogen what else can cause genetic disorders there are toxins so there are so- called hormonal disruptors guess what falls under the definition of hormonal disruptors any chemical or toxin that imitates  Estrogen and we know that some things around us, even soy, can increase estrogen levels. You can't give a person so much estrogen at the very beginning of life, but that's a completely different topic. In this video, I want to talk only about the relationship between micronutrients and genes and the importance of obtaining micronutrients, especially at an early age. I want to share with you some more information, I'll read it now. It's from a study called micronutrients and dynamo stability. Here we are talking about gene stabilization with the help of micronutrients. A new paradigm for the recommended intake of RNI. Diet as a key factor determining genome stability is even more important than previously thought. Because, as it turned out, it affects all the relevant pathways, namely, exposure to food carcinogens, activation of carcinogen detoxification, DNA repair, DNA synthesis. In other words, we have not emphasized the importance of micronutrients enough and have not provided our genes with stability. There may be some congenital genetic defects, but there are also genetic mutations, and genetic mutations can occur throughout life. A genetic mutation is a change. genetic code that can arise from exposure to a toxin during life or from a deficiency of some micronutrients during life. In fact, there is data and below there is a link to all these studies that the consequences of nutrient deficiency can be similar to radiation damage to DNA. It is incredible and so a deficiency of folates, B12, vitamin C, iron, especially zinc, iodine, manganese, selenium. The consequences of a deficiency of these nutrients can be similar to DNA damage. Few people assume that the absence of something can damage something, because it does not exist, and we usually do not look at what does not exist. Radiation, toxins, and all that rather come to mind, but micronutrient deficiency is a very important factor. Let's return to this book. The author says that a deficiency of copper in the soil can cause various problems in animals eating grass, and when the animals were moved to another pasture where certain problems were inside and certain problems disappeared, and this suggests that we eat foods grown in soils where there are no certain nutrients can destroy the body. The problem is that  Farmers today use 3 EFCO minerals nitrogen and phosphorus potassium but what about the other 90+ minerals or microelements that should be in the soil this area interests me very much and I am currently researching it on the farm where I am conducting various experiments I recently conducted an experiment with spraying all our grass with a completely unique ocean water without a lot of sodium chloride since it is toxic to grass we are conducting experiments I will make a video about it it seems this water can really enrich the soil with all the micronutrients and reduce fungal diseases of plants and this can greatly improve the health of animals which then improves the health of people who eat these animals I am conducting experiments in a greenhouse alone I will also talk about the use of nutrient hydroponic solutions that's the problem with hydroponic solutions I am currently studying all this and when I finish I will show you the results in one complete Hydra setup I feed a regular hydroponic solution but it only has about 15 minerals and in another I feed a solution with 90 4 minerals I will test it and tell you about  results, but it amazes me that we don't pay attention to what we grow our food on and how it can affect our body. Let's take, for example, the same tomatoes from Italy. If you haven't tried tomatoes from Italy, you need to try them. They are incredible. Hence the question: why are tomatoes from Italy so tasty? It's in the seeds, not in the soil. What's so unique about their soil? There are a lot of soils in the vicinity of volcanoes, and volcanic ash supplies the soil with minerals that these plants need. In my greenhouse, I use volcanic minerals along with other fertilizers. Very soon, I will create a separate YouTube channel on this topic. So, minerals in the soil give plants what they need inside and in our bodies, they ensure the stability of our genes. They ensure the health of our body. I again emphasize that during pregnancy, it is important to get proper nutrition, not synthetic prenatal vitamins. You need to eat real foods that are very rich in nutrients. It is very, very important that a nursing mother receives all the nutrients, and I hope that mothers will breastfeed, because there are very few nutrients in infant formulas. We are told that folic acid is very important for preventing birth defects and what about other micronutrients and in the right form a lack of something in the diet can result in lifelong health problems for a child and this brings us to the next question what do children eat these days unfortunately it is deeply processed foods it is not just unhealthy food it is very unhealthy food in fact 67 percent of calories children get from unhealthy deeply processed foods does this affect children what do you think and how does it affect the next question and please answer it in the comments I will read them at what age did you start eating healthy food personally I started at 28 before at 28 years old now I am 35 so many years have passed just kidding I am already over fifty but the point is it is better to start sooner than later someone of those who are watching this video and have not started yet I just want to encourage you to do this I want to encourage all women expecting a child to start eating healthy food immediately and get the right micronutrients I am unbiased about my products but I will still mention my micronutrients because micronutrients  They are needed for many biochemical reactions, and micronutrients are very easy to obtain in a mixture instead of taking them separately without being sure that you have maintained a balance. I think that micronutrients are neglected more often than any vitamins and minerals because apparently people do not understand why they are needed and that food today contains micronutrients except for certain foods. So, the expectant mother comes to the doctor and the doctor monitors the child's development, but he does not look at what the woman is, he does not assess nutrient deficiencies. Unfortunately, doctors are simply not trained in nutrition. This video is very important for raising your awareness of healthy eating. Well, about what kind of nutrition a woman needs for health and in general about how to improve the condition of the female body. In this course, I invite you to my course for the ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.