What happens if you eat mold or fungus?  Almost no one eats moldy bread, but cheese often has fungus or mold growing on it, and people wonder if that will affect my health.  Let me say right away that blue cheese has no negative impact on health, because this mold does not produce by- products.  Blue cheese won't harm you, but other moldy foods might.  These include peanuts, rice, grains, especially corn, dried fruits, and even coffee. The toxins in these foods can damage your liver and even cause cancer.  To avoid deadly fungi, you need to know what they are, how to avoid them, and how to get rid of them.  Fungus or mold can cause many diseases. These include chronic sinus infections, nail fungus, white tongue coating, skin rashes, and sugar cravings.  Because fungus or mold or candida love sugar and hidden sugars. For example, refined starches, sugars, and high-fructose corn syrup weaken the immune system.  If you have watched my videos, you know that you should not eat grains, corn, rice, starch and similar products.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Now let's get to the real reason why you might have fungus or mold on or inside your body.  It wasn't you who ate something.  This is because something has happened to the microflora in your intestines.  Microflora consists mainly of bacteria, and fungi, mold, or yeast usually don't bother you.  Bacteria keep them under control and prevent them from growing. The bacteria there are like policemen.  Since there are few fungi there, they are essentially not harmful.  They only become harmful when they grow, when you destroy your bacteria.  How exactly? Antibiotics.  Antibiotics kill bacteria, but they do not kill fungi. The second is steroids.  They also weaken the immune system and allow fungi to multiply and take over the body.  What kind of medicine is prescribed for fungus or yeast, steroids?  Moreover, steroids completely destroy the immune system and, especially, the microflora.  So be careful with prednisone, because it’s a dangerous thing. Sometimes it really is necessary, but try to take as little as possible. Let's talk about how to recover from damage caused not only by antibiotics, but also by steroids. Prednisone has a natural analogue, namely cortisol, the stress hormone.  It can increase due to the sudden loss of a loved one or due to relationship problems. This will turn off the immune system and cause damage to the body, including the heart.  Next comes the iron.  Excess iron, which can occur from iron cookware or supplements, only feeds pathogens. Next.  Alcohol.  Yeast, fungus and mold love alcohol.  Sorry, I didn't make this up.  The pH level is also important. Fungi, mold and yeast do not like acid.  Changes in the acid-base balance inhibit these microorganisms. Kombucha can help you because it contains lactic acid.  It is very acidic and prevents the growth of fungi, yeast and mold, that is, microorganisms.  When the environment in the body becomes less acidic, fungus and candida begin to take root. They will grow and grow.  And they act very sneakily, because they have the ability to block vitamin D receptors. Don't forget to press the bell. With a vitamin D deficiency caused by this toxin, the immune system will not be able to function. For the fungus, this is survival.  Somehow he knows that if we take away vitamin D, we won't be able to fight.  To address this issue, take more vitamin D to break through resistance.  When you take vitamin D, take magnesium, vitamin K2, and zinc along with it.  If there is a zinc deficiency , the thymus gland will not be able to function and will begin to shrink.  But it is very important for T cells.  Another equally important microelement is selenium.  If you have a selenium deficiency, it is very easy to get an infection. If you feel that you have been poisoned by mold, drink activated charcoal. You can also take bentonite clay.  There is also a remedy called chlorophyllin.  It is chlorophyll, but liquid. It helps neutralize all of this. Cruciferous vegetables can help because they contain solforaphane.  You can also try quinine-acetylcysteine. It can help the liver resist damage.  You may have seen my video about dark roast coffee.  Dark roast coffee contains much less mold and its byproducts.  If you eat organic dairy or grass-fed foods, there's one supplement you should consider taking that has some truly amazing properties: propolis.  This is what bees do.  This is a wonderful immunomodulator that will help strengthen the immune system.   It is also a powerful antifungal and antimicrobial agent.   It would be a good idea to also take MCT oil from coconut, as it contains lauric acid.  This will be like the icing on the cake.  Although, perhaps, I shouldn’t have mentioned cakes. But you need to eat more foods with probiotics, sauerkraut or kimchi, to restore your microflora. Mold stealthily robs you of your health, but grains can do something even worse. Few people talk about this at all.  Many people don't know this, but it's very important to know.  This will surprise you very much.  Watch this video.