So today we'll talk about how it is Yes, so that you know how it is, and yes, short-term memory loss, this can be with the onset of dementia and everything else, including Dolzheimer's. So, memory loss is closely related to the hippocampus. In Greek, hippocampus means seahorse. After all, this organ is similar to it. We have two hippocampi, one on the left and one on the right. So if one fails, there is a spare one. And short-term memory loss has good news and bad news. The bad news is that with age, the hippocampus actually begins to shrink, that is, age is one of our enemies. You just need to stay as young as possible. Number two, a decrease in oxygen levels can destroy the hippocampus. Number three, stress definitely affects the hippocampus. Due to stress, it atrophies and shrinks. The more stress you have, the more the hippocampus can atrophy or shrink, but today it is very easy to avoid stress. Yes, 4. High glucose in diabetics. There is a risk of damage to the hippocampus. High-carbohydrate diets are very harmful to the hippocampus. Number five, vitamin B1 deficiency. I would say that vitamin B1  The second most important vitamin for the hippocampus. You can get more data from the links below. Both are: 1. You need to get enough B1 from food to maintain the hippocampus. Number six, vitamin D deficiency. Of all the areas of the brain, vitamin D deficiency affects the hippocampus the most. Fortunately, vitamin D deficiency is very rare these days. Otherwise, it would be a big problem. It was sarcasm, because D deficiency is extremely common among most of the inhabitants of planet Earth. And number seven, if you have a zinc deficiency, it can greatly affect the ability of the hippocampus to perform its function. And the result is loss of short-term memory. That was bad news, but what's good news? But the hippocampus is one of the few areas of the brain that can fully recover. Thank God. So, let's look at this list. Stay as young as possible. This is the first. Increase the flow of oxygen to the hippocampus. Exercise is one of the best ways to do this. Another way is hyperbolic, but oxygen levels must remain very high. The next point is fasting. Fasting, including intermittent fasting, is a very powerful therapy that allows you to increase the so- called BD NF, a brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Fasting increases the level of this substance, and it directly enhances neurogenesis.  There is the creation of new nervous tissue. The next point is to start taking vitamin D. As I said, vitamin D is the most important nutrient for the hippocampus and start eating foods rich in zinc. These are all shellfish and crustaceans. There is also a lot of zinc in beef liver and it is very important to take more B1. I recommend consuming nutritional yeast regularly. And lastly, reduce stress as much as possible. Achieve this with all your might. Of course, the other points on this list will also reduce stress. Especially if you regularly exercise, such as those that increase oxygen levels. Long walks are very useful. Next, you need to increase ketone levels. Ketones are the preferred fuel for the brain. Especially for the hippocampus, in fact, you won’t restore the hippocampus if you don’t supply it with ketones. Here are ways to increase ketone levels. Number one is a low-carb diet. Of course, you may already know this. If you are new to the channel, there is a link below about what kind of diet is needed. Number two, consuming MCT oil is very, very important. These fats tend to turn kidney triglycerides into ketones. The brain will absorb them instead of glucose and you will see.  Huge improvements. You can also take exogenous zones, they are called ketone salts, this will also increase ketone levels. And they are inexpensive, so it may be cheaper to take MCT oil. But what is more important than MCT oil and exogenous ketones is a ketogenic diet, low in carbohydrates, this is very important for the restoration of the hippocampus. So, these were the most important ways to improve short-term memory. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.