LDL cholesterol is not bad, it's not bad. The first thing I want to talk about is that we have little factories in our cells, and some factories produce proteins. How do they do it? They take the building blocks of proteins, amino acids, and bind them into certain structures to form different proteins. These are proteins in the skin, hair, nails, and certain hormones. Neurotransmitters are simply different forms assembled from amino acids. Some factories produce proteins, others produce lipids, certain fats that form the body's fat. There are steroids in your skin, in your brain, in your nervous system. There are also steroids, which are part of some hormones, such as estrogen and progesterone, testosterone, cortisol, and so on. They also perform a detoxification function. If you drink alcohol, for example, the body has to break it down. This is what this factory does. Their name is the first factory, the rough endoplasmic reticulum, and the second, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. The name isn't the most important thing, but that's where it all starts. It's all sent to a distribution center. It's like mail. The mail packages proteins for secretion. To send it to the body, it's very similar to a post office where the item is packaged and labeled so it can be shipped. This is called the Golgi apparatus. That is, these two mechanisms, among other things, perform the function of cargo ships because fat needs to be delivered through the blood, but it doesn't dissolve well in it. Oil and water don't mix, so it needs to be packaged in protein. That's what protein is. It's a protein shell inside which the fat is so that it can be transported like on a cargo ship. Let's move on to the liver. Here, the liver produces these cargo ships when you don't eat. These two mechanisms work in the liver. So, the liver produces lipoproteins. One of these types is called LDL. Very low-density lipoprotein. It consists of a certain percentage of cholesterol and triglycerides, proteins, and other fats. All the fat-soluble vitamins A and D, K1 and K2 are also here. The function of LDL is to send these cargoes and unload these materials and vitamins. That is, it supplies the cell with fuel in the form of triglycerides. It supplies material for cell walls and supplies material for the production of bile. Vitamin  d of some hormones and of course supplies antioxidants and when LDL gets rid of this load, it turns into LDL low-density lipoprotein. But what is the difference between them? They have different percentages of components: 10 percent of cholesterol turns into 26 percent, it increases because triglycerides decrease, that is, the proportion increases slightly. This is understandable. That is, these 70 percent of triglycerides fall to 10, that is, it gives up a lot of triglycerides as fuel to nourish cells. What was ten percent of proteins became 25. What was ten percent of other fats became 15. That is, these proportions change. This is the difference. People consider LDL bad cholesterol because it is found in places where there is clogged arteries. But imagine it is at the scene of the crime in order to help recovery, to become a band-aid to bring cholesterol for healing. LDL is dangerous only if you have eliminated cholesterol. To understand this point a little better, I downloaded an article about a very important study proving that a sharp introduction of insulin increases the tendency of LDL in healthy people. cholesterol oxidation, actually, I'll just read you the conclusions. Here they are in the conclusion: insulin in physiological doses, that is, large volumes of insulin causes increased peroxidation of LDL, in fact, this is oxidized or oxidized cholesterol, which we talked about regardless of the presence of hyperglycemia. In fact, insulin is able to oxidize cholesterol regardless of the level of sugar in the blood. What is this said for? This brings us to the next phrase. This result confirms the possibility that insulin resistance may be involved in the formation of early atherosclerotic formations and or in the development of atherosclerosis. This is the hardening of the arteries through concomitant hyperinsulinemia. What does this mean? It means that you can have oxidized cholesterol with high insulin, but it is not necessarily caused by sugar consumption. It is caused by insulin resistance, which, of course, developed due to sugar consumption. But with insulin resistance, much more insulin is produced. There is a feedback mechanism that forces you to produce insulin approximately 5-7 times more than normal, and this can lead to the oxidation of cholesterol, that is, to bad LDL.  I'll give you two things: high blood sugar and high insulin. I just wanted to point this out. There will be a link in the description if you want to read it. You shouldn't worry about elevated LDL on the diet, provided you have low blood sugar and low insulin. If you follow a healthy ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting, over time your insulin resistance will go away and your cholesterol levels will eventually drop. I wanted to present this topic as simply as possible. I hope you understand it better now. Don't worry about LDL. It's not bad. It's like a ship. You need it. It carries fuel. It strives to help you. The conclusion is that you just need to take measures to keep your blood sugar and insulin levels within normal limits. Thank you for watching. If you liked this video, share it with anyone who might find it useful.