Today we will talk about how fasting during Ramadan affects the immune system. Ramadan lasts 29-30 days, during which you cannot eat or drink anything from the moment dawn begins until sunset. This is a dry fast, meaning you cannot drink water during this time either. Before talking about the benefits, I want to highlight one very important point. If you look for Ramadan studies, the data will be contradictory. I think the reason is in the food a person eats before and after the fast. This is precisely what determines whether there will be any benefit if you eat a lot of junk food like refined carbohydrates. This will seriously undermine the amazing benefits that you can get if you eat compatible, that is, low-carbohydrate foods all the time during meals. Think about it. Ketones in general have an antimicrobial effect. During fasting, the number of so-called cytokines decreases. There are different types of cytokines. Cytokines are chemical messengers that connect immune cells with each other. Some cytokines cause inflammation. This is what we are talking about, meaning the inflammation activator will decrease. Fasting also stimulates macrophages. A macrophage is a large cell that devours bacteria, viruses, and other microbes. This is a professional  A phagocyte not only gets rid of waste but is also a serious fighter occupying the first line of defense against the invasion of any type of microbes. The more macrophages are stimulated, the stronger the immunity. The next point is increasing the microbiome, what is it? Yes, the microbiome is good microbes that are beneficial for the body. A huge part of the immune system, approximately 70 percent, is located in the large intestine. This is the microbiome. I have a video about this. The link will be below. It provides incredible immune support. Without it, the risk of infections increases sharply during fasting, which is generally strange, because in theory, you starve these microbes, they live longer, a certain genetic mechanism that supports the immune system is launched. Further, stress resistance during fasting increases the ability to fight stress and DNA damage. Also, during fasting, oxidative stress decreases, the number of free radicals decreases, and the production of antioxidant networks increases. What is also useful and finally, fasting enhances autophagy, which is the body's ability to process old damaged cells and microorganisms. There is a special type of autophagy called xenophagy, it targets pathogens. One of the big advantages of fasting is Ramadan has a powerful stimulating effect on the immune system, but I think the benefits can even be enhanced by adding a whale to it. If you're new to the channel, there's a link below to a list of what you need to eat to enhance the benefits. If you want more information about fasting, watch this video.