He not only fasted for 5 days but also ran five almost full marathons and this despite the fact that he has type 1 diabetes I invited him to discuss how the hell he did it and how he survived with type 1 diabetes it is harder to enter Kitos because we need to inject insulin to burn fat we need a lower level of insulin for the body to release do they ever not eat at all for 5 days I think you yourself know an amazing interview awaits this will be an incredible interview After all this man doctor Dr. N. Lake did just crazy crazy things after which he probably should not have survived and that's what he did he not only fasted for 5 days but also ran five almost full marathons 160 km in 5 days and this despite the fact that he has type 1 diabetes I invited him to discuss what the hell he did it and how he survived Hello and Thank you hello Thank you good to see you Mutually So first of all you are a doctor and you have type 1 diabetes if we consider the generally accepted point of view of doctors on type 1 diabetes do they recommend  ever not to eat at all for days I think you yourself know it's very difficult to convince someone to do this he meal and weed I was trying to figure out how to convince people that skipping one meal is safe So this was an extreme version of skipping a meal to prove This you went to the extreme And how many people did this with you in person person you essentially did several things at once And separately do Let's first discuss this How many calories did you burn in those 5 days somewhere 20,000 kilocalories Yes somewhere 20,000 we calculated How many calories need to be burned if the idea is correct that it is necessary we didn't record in fact we wanted to do something else We wanted to show how safe the food kitos really is we wanted to go into a very deep kitos that is exactly why we did it Clear I'll just explain for those people who don't know what the word glycogen means we were talking about glycogen depletion glycogen is a store of sugar in the liver when we exercise fuel And when it  We are running out of fat reserves Yes Exactly Yes yes So, as a rule, let's start with diabetes What is the difference between the first and second types of diabetes In diabetes type 1, the body does not create enough insulin to maintain blood sugar levels, because one of the main functions of insulin is to lower sugar levels and maintain a constant blood sugar level In diabetes type 2, there is more than enough insulin, it is in excess in most people with diabetes type 2 And the reason for this is the excess fuel the body cannot cope with the amount of fuel that a person loads into it, and this is mainly carbohydrates. That is, these are two completely different ailments In the first type, insulin must be administered Because we do not create it, and with the second type, you need to change your lifestyle so that insulin is produced less, so the conditions are generally incomparable with each other If insulin lowers blood glucose levels, and with the second type, insulin is elevated, does this mean that glucose is also low? insulin resistance develops here, this is the problem of people with diabetes type 2 There are different ideas about this, but fat cells seem to prevent the body from creating even more fat and resistance to excess insulin arises, resistance, after all  insulin not only lowers blood sugar but also stimulates fat deposition. So, it is a fat-storing and glucose-lowering hormone. These two processes are connected. To lower blood sugar, you must either exercise or first store sugar in the liver and then in adipose tissue in the form of fat. So, insulin is a glucose- lowering hormone, but mainly a fat-storing hormone. So, with type 1 diabetes, a person does not have insulin to regulate blood glucose levels. This is what happens when he exercises and does not eat. He has no fuel and, obviously, the body is forced to start using fat reserves. Tell us a little about this and also about the main problem, namely, the problem of adaptation to the use of fat or ketones. Explain this process. Our body is multi-fuel, that is, we can use both sugar and fats as fuel, and of course, fats are broken down into ketone bodies and we can also use them as fuel. So, ideally, the body can quickly switch to the fuel it needs at the moment, and regardless of whether you have type 1 diabetes or not, during training, say, during a sprint without oxygen, the body is forced to use glucose as an energy source. But  If physical activity is more or less stressful, the body burns oxygen and can choose what to use as fuel, glucose or fat. However, we are a little limited in how we can choose fuel because if there is too much insulin in the body, it blocks fat burning. Fat burning is impossible if there is too much insulin in the body. So, people actually burn fat during exercise. There is a fat burning zone, which is also called zone 2. There is a hormone called hormone- sensitive lipase, and it makes fat burning possible, and it is also stimulated by a decrease in insulin levels. Adrenaline, cortisol, growth hormone, and all that stress hormone releases it, but excess insulin suppresses these hormones and blocks fat burning, and then the body can only use glucose. And most people with type 1 diabetes burn glucose because nothing prompts the body to burn fat. So, we usually have excess insulin in the body. So, our body is multi-fuel and can switch from one fuel to another when needed. If you are fat-adapted, this only means that your choice of fuel simply means that you do not have to eat a lot of carbohydrates. And if you eat little  The body needs less carbohydrates. It needs less insulin, which is injected into the body or produced by itself. After all, people with type 1 diabetes are exactly the same as people without diabetes. We only need insulin. We just know how much insulin a body without diabetes needs under the same conditions. So, to burn fat, the body must have a low level of insulin to release fat. You understand. Yes, so essentially, to switch to fat-burning mode, we need to lower insulin levels. This is the main factor. Yes, exactly. Then fat can begin to burn, and when a person has adapted, two or three weeks are needed for complete adaptation. Some say more. And then the body naturally and happily burns fat. It produces ketone bodies and it needs very little sugar. That's what's important to know about glucose or sugar. We don't need to eat sugar to create it. The body itself produces it even more than necessary. When unfortunate people are rescued from earthquake disaster zones, it turns out that they haven't eaten for 6-7 days. But they didn't die, because their body produces enough energy for its needs, including sugar. We take into account that our body is multi-fuel, and this mileage on  160 km We wanted to show that we can safely use ketone bodies and fat as fuel and do without insulin, do without sugar at all, it's incredible. Well, many people try to lose even more weight, they reach a plateau. I told people that you can lose a maximum of a kilogram of fat in a week, and that's if you're healthy, but the experiment you conducted seems correct me if I'm wrong. But I think on average, each of you lost almost 3 kg of fat in 5 days. Yes, good. So, for ketone adaptation, you obviously need to either reduce carbohydrates, and fasting certainly reduces carbohydrates. Yes, and besides, you need training if anyone is even thinking about starting fasting. Do you need to start this gradually, that is, not just start running and immediately stop eating. You said that it takes weeks to achieve keto adaptation or fat adaptation. Tell us a little about how you can achieve keto adaptation. You just need to reduce carbohydrates or maybe also fast. Both really help produce ketones, and being in ketosis is only possible by burning fat. Ketones are a natural product of fat burning. To burn fat, you need to lower insulin. A  To lower insulin, you need to cut the main fuel that stimulates insulin, namely carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are the main factor in the diet that increases insulin production, so reducing carbohydrate intake is very important. They must be cut radically. To achieve the so-called ketogenic zone, the body will have to burn fat. The body must be forced to burn fat. This is somewhere around 30-50 g of carbohydrates per day, which is 10 times less than what most people eat. Yes, it's not difficult to do, but you need to pay attention to this, so to speak, especially if you love sugar and are a little addicted to sugar. It will take a little more willpower. Don't forget. When insulin decreases, which is natural when giving up carbohydrates, a person urinates a little more often because with low insulin levels, the body can excrete salt, sodium, and along with salt, water is also lost. Therefore, it is important to replenish fluids and simply drink more. Some talk about the problem with constipation; drinking helps a lot here. Yes, and they last only a few days or even less. In addition, it is possible. You should think about replenishing salts, magnesium, sodium, table salt, and all that. This is due to the excretion of salt, which is caused by lower insulin levels. And after that, everything is quite simple. A person enters Ketosis during the days with type 1 diabetes You can enter ketosis after the very first meal After all, we inject insulin ourselves and do not wait for it to decrease, and fasting is useful After all, it greatly increases sensitivity to insulin Fasting increases sensitivity to the insulin that you have, so of course, entering ketosis will be easier That's all, one of my great successes When I learned about the Keto diet completely by accident on the Internet I'm a doctor but I never read about it in the educational materials that they gave us I started running a half marathon a month I thought I'd have enough After all, I'm not an athlete at all I just like to jog I thought a half marathon a month for ketosis was an excellent experiment The first two times I actually fortified myself with protein I ate bacon, eggs and all that I thought that some energy was needed Before starting to run So we were all told that you need a carbohydrate load, you need to eat pasta, bananas and all that and I thought that I would eat this and then I started drinking bulletproof coffee, that is, I began to eat a little fat by adding butter or coconut oil to my coffee and  before the third marathon finally finally How stupid I was I thought Why do I even fuel up before running that is fill my stomach And it takes blood from the muscles If it comes down to it I calculated that with my body weight I have 85,000 kilocalories in the form of fat my body mass index is 23 I have 17% fat mass So I think I have somewhere around 85,000 kilocalories of fat this is the average fat mass and I thought why don't I burn my own fat instead of eating it took time to get rid of the habit of fueling up before physical activity I thought I have fuel and with my slow running I burn it probably only twice as fast as when I walk so it was not difficult to come to the idea that you can fast during physical activity and of course this is a great idea if you have type 1 diabetes because everything is simplified And you don't have to worry about insulin injections if you don't eat carbohydrates This simplified everything a lot besides I thought I'll try it  I will raise the bar and run more than half a marathon. To finally dispel any doubts about the fact that with type 1 diabetes you need to eat carbohydrates if you inject insulin. And also to finally prove that with nutritional ketosis there is no risk of diabetic ketoacidosis. And this is a very serious complication of type 1 diabetes, but type 2 diabetes is different. And doctors often confuse these two types of diabetes and think that ketosis will cause diabetic ketoacidosis. Oh well, this is a complex topic. Let's discuss and clarify this. Explain it to us in simple terms, like for a fifth-grader. What is ketoacidosis? Well, if your body does not produce insulin at all, then you cannot place glucose anywhere, and the food you eat, the sugar that the body creates naturally, cannot actively enter the cells. So you cannot get rid of sugar in the blood. And if sugar cannot be moved from the blood into the cell, the cells will inevitably experience energy starvation. And since there is no insulin in the body, this is a problem with type 1 diabetes, exclusively with type 1. If there is no insulin in the body, you cannot store fat. You should  burn fat That is, not only does your blood glucose rise, but fat is also quickly burned. Normally, ketones serve as feedback for this entire process and do not allow themselves to rise indefinitely, and they force the body to create more insulin. But if there is no insulin, this process cannot be stopped, and we get high blood sugar plus high levels of ketones, which the body tries to remove with breath and urine, and a lot of urine is released because the concentration of sugar in the kidneys is so high that it draws water along with itself, which causes thirst. It requires urgent medical attention, even people like me are at risk in foodborne illnesses, because sometimes if septicemia or a very severe infection occurs, much more insulin is needed. And many of us are not very willing to administer it in high doses. For example, when I had covid, and for me it was just like a cold, fortunately, I needed 60 units of insulin per day instead of a person without diabetes, the same amount of insulin, but he would not have developed ketoacidosis, because his body itself produces insulin, which protects him. And we need to administer it. So this is completely  It's not the same as nutritional ketosis, which only means a decrease in injected or natural insulin. It's a regulated process. If there's enough insulin in the body, there wo n't be diabetic ketoacidosis. So, there's a risk of ketoacidosis only if you have diabetes and you forgot to inject insulin. Yes, when an ordinary healthy person starts a keto diet and someone claims, as we usually see in the news, that you can develop ketoacidosis, this is generally a myth. Yes, this is 100% not supported by science. Clearly. Yes, I know. I've seen this so many times. So, regarding adaptation, keto adaptation, adaptation to fat, you work with patients and, I assume, help them start a keto diet. I assume, do you notice that some people find it more difficult to fast for a long time than others, or does it depend on insulin resistance and it's just a matter of time? They just need time so they can fast longer and longer. What does your experience say? My personal experience with fasting is that it was quite difficult for me at the initial stage, on the first day. I think it will be difficult psychologically. A person thinks that it will be difficult for him.  and when the body suddenly experiences a shock from the fact that it is not eating, a feeling of hunger arises, but I think this is mainly a psychological moment and undoubtedly when I first started fasting I was lying down during the day, I started fasting in the morning and oh I'm hungry, I need to drink, I feel weak, but after 2-3 days you get used to it, it becomes the norm, and from the second day, with further fasting, there is no hunger at all. And the decision to break the fast is determined by the fact that at some point you need to eat, you see. So in the future, fasting is much easier because a person realizes what changes are happening in his body. The focus is to reduce the insulin dose. After all, when you fast, you need less insulin. The focus was to reduce insulin to a safe level so that there is no hypoglycemia during exercise. But it was not difficult to do well. Next, what about? So we add all this to fasting and training. People have an idea that they need to eat, as you said, that they need to eat to have energy for training. But if after weeks you have adapted somewhere, you can probably train and at the same time fast and get fuel from fat. That's exactly what I do all the time. It's easier to cope with physical activity during the fasting period, because let's take wild animals for example. We never see an eagle flying and tracking down prey when it's not hungry. We humans usually go and take food when we are hungry, because hunger increases the desire to take food, then shch, and then we humans are lazy by nature. It's not a fact that we will go somewhere and do something if we are full. So I think exercising when you're fasting is a common thing, and since we have 85,000 kilocalories of spare fat in our body versus about 2,000 kilocalories in the form of sugar reserves, which are needed more for sudden energy expenditure, we have nothing to worry about burning a couple of thousand kilocalories of fat, which is equivalent to walking or running 30 kilometers. And we will replenish this fat reserve when we eat again, that is, we are not talking about depleting the energy source to any significant extent. So I think this is the main thing; you just need to understand that nothing will happen in 2 or 5 days of fasting. That's why we don't  We fasted for more than 5 days, and we started worrying about the World Cup. We were worried about whether we would start breaking down protein. Sooner or later, our sugar reserves would run out, and we would have to burn other fuel to get the sugar that the body should naturally produce. So, we decided to limit the fast to five days. We were sure that we wouldn't start burning protein in 5 days, otherwise, sooner or later, the body would start burning muscle mass or protein reserves. And we usually think that it's healthier to have more muscle mass than less. We didn't want to find ourselves in a situation where we would be criticized for starving ourselves. And it wasn't starvation. Well, partly it was. After all, we didn't eat, but I wouldn't call it serious starvation. After all, we monitored fat burning and didn't let things break down to the point of protein breakdown. We determined the respiratory quotient to make sure that we were in fat burning mode, and the test showed that we were all in fat burning mode all the time, which is very good. You also determined your ketone levels, as a rule. I know that there are a couple of different values, but the values ​​used in the US would probably be a little more useful.  On a low-carb diet, ketones will be in a certain range, perhaps somewhere from 0.3 to one or perhaps two. When fasting, they increase. If you also exercise, they will increase. Can you tell us a little about how this works? Yes, 3/4 of people with type 1 diabetes have a blood ketone level from 0.50 to one and a half, this is the average value. With type 1 diabetes, it is more difficult to enter ketosis because we need to inject insulin, and we usually inject more insulin. After all, we inject it under the skin, and it acts less naturally than in people without diabetes, and this slightly blocks fat burning, but allows you to enter ketosis safely. When we ran a marathon, ketones rose to 5 with a couple of days. My friend John ran with me, he also has type 1 diabetes, his ketones rose about the same. We wanted to check ketone levels twice a day for 5 days, and we wanted all participants to do the same. We wanted to show that nutritional ketosis does not lead to deep diabetic ketoacidosis. The diagram based on the results of measurements in eight people twice.  per day for 5 days, we saw no difference between people with type 1 diabetes and without diabetes in our group, thanks to which we gained confidence that we were in the same state of nutritional ketosis as our partners without diabetes. Here is another interesting point that I heard or read about on your site. It would seem that people should be in terrible pain and they would have to recover very, very long. But it turned out that nothing really hurt and this is very unusual. This was unusual. When we started, we were quite confident that everything would be fine. It was difficult at the beginning, but none of us had any injuries and no one had problems with recovery. We all managed to complete our task every day, none of us had pain the next day and  It was amazing but last year at the same time of year I ran 240 km in a week it was on the canals of Britain that is without hills I was also in ketosis I was on the Keto diet but I did not starve myself and I also had no injuries nothing hurt I think that ketones have a very powerful anti-inflammatory effect in sports I talked to a lot of people I interviewed a professional rugby player in England and he said that when he switched to Keto and he has type 1 diabetes he had his best year in terms of no injuries a year after starting this diet So there is something in ketones that is anti-inflammatory and useful for recovery Amazing What is the longest I know that you mentioned 160 and 240 km What was the sai over a series of days well the greatest distance I have ever run 56 km that is the maximum that is in one day in one day It was more of a run with a transition to walking than running something like a marathon basically my distances are 15-25 kilometers I am a small amateur  Long distances, you know, 30-odd kilocalories a day. They don't scare me, but it takes a lot of time. And I'm a little lazy. You're pretty thin, yes, yes. And how many calories did you have in the form of fat? Despite my thinness, I had a normal fat reserve for my build, somewhere around 85,000 kilocalories. 85,000 kilocalories. Although I'm not overweight, that is, I have more than enough additional energy for such activity. The attitude, as I said, took me a long time to realize that I don't need to refuel before physical activity. I refuel during the process. And I don't worry about it, and this gives me a feeling of freedom. Especially with type 1 diabetes, you do n't have to think about it. If someone tells me now that I want to run or want to ride a bike, Yes, let's go, I won't think about it. God, how much insulin do I need? Of course, I'll check my sugar glucose and take it with me to the gym. But I can go. I don't need to prepare, and such spontaneity with type 1 diabetes.  Gives a feeling of freedom Wow, I know that when people run a marathon, they consume some substance, I think it's called gu, some kind of jelly, some kind of starch or glucose, and this creates a lot of digestive problems, a lot of side effects during running. I heard this, you definitely observed this before I switched to a genetic lifestyle diet. I used carbohydrates like everyone else. After all, no one explained it to me, and obviously, diabetes is traditionally controlled with physical activity, it lowers the level of insulin in the body, which is a big problem. And if there is too much insulin in the body, and most of us have too much of it most of the time, since we inject it under the skin, naturally, then there is a risk of hypoglycemia. The protocol for exercising with type 1 diabetes is to reduce the insulin dose the night before and add carbohydrates to the diet. It is recommended to consume 60 g of carbohydrates per hour. Imagine how much you need to eat during physical activity. And on the body, the stomach should be empty, even my mother told me when I was in what you can't go swimming after eating, because our body cannot properly train when there is fuel in the stomach. The fuel must be in the right place and so it is much easier and there is no more this problem If it still comes to hypoglycemia, then 6 g of carbohydrates or so is enough, this is generally nonsense, there are many different versions of Keto, I'm just wondering what scheme you have now or had before, yes, I used some options, then others, now I adhere to the Kavor diet to a greater extent than before, one hundred greens and salads I eat fish and dairy products, I'm a little afraid of nuts because I think that they cause insulin resistance, some oils in nuts. Personally, for me, and probably salads cause joint pain, I'm a little afraid of them. I avoid all seed oils of any kind and of course I don't eat sugar or anything like that, but I eat dairy products, milk and cream are fine. I have excellent cheese, satisfactory, and for some reason everything is fine with yogurt, so I have a mixed diet now with a bias towards the carnivore diet, I can't decide about protein for me, this issue has not yet been resolved. At one time I followed the Bernstein diet. It is more of a protein than a fat diet, and then I felt not  I know now I started eating more fat than protein but I always stay somewhere in the range I weigh 75 kg the last time I estimated how much protein I eat in a week I got 100 g of protein per day that is one cent and 2 g of protein per kilogram of body weight most people eat from 75 to grams So I eat more That's how I eat I noticed that some foods certainly in leafy vegetables have a lot of carbohydrates So I need to watch my blood sugar more carefully for me the lightest food is undoubtedly the lightest but I eat a lot of other foods I have stopped drinking alcohol Oddly enough I used to drink red wine and juice I like beer but I can't drink it anymore I can drink maybe a couple of glasses if I'm somewhere with friends on a beautiful summer day because it's the order of things especially in England you have to live life to the fullest Yes great England is sacred but as I noticed my body just tells me that it doesn't need alcohol I drank in the past I can drink but it's not a significant part anymore  My diet 5-6 years ago I drank more Yes, I also six bottles of beer in an evening on weekends is the maximum I can handle So no, I do n't drink at all anymore It was amazing I think a lot of people visit your site I'll leave a link below Thank you for getting in touch and thank you for telling me about your reckless actions Although they are not so reckless you went against medical wisdom Although it is hardly wisdom it is rather just some kind of fixed ideas that exist in that area and which turn out to be Not entirely true It was amazing Thank you very much thank you very much Ja