Today I will give you a very good and effective protocol for Gout.  I am often asked about different products. If it is so effective, why isn't it prescribed?  Because this is not healthcare.   You can't make much money from natural remedies .  Some cannot even be patented.  Although no, I find a lot of great protocols in patent descriptions. On today's topic, I'll also leave a link to the patent below.  Although we do not use the entire protocol described, we use something specifically for Gout.  Why am I making this video?  What's wrong with modern gout treatment?  The medicines that doctors prescribe have side effects.  Moreover, natural remedies have fewer side effects or none at all.  So, let's begin.  What is gout?  This is a deposit of uric acid crystals.  For some reason, it crystallizes in certain places in the body.  Mainly in the big toes, but can be found in other places as well. It has been shown that almost 24% of cases are caused by genetics, but even with a genetic predisposition to gout, there are ways to combat it.  Our strategy will be this: we use natural remedies, those that help remove uric acid.  We also need something that directly relieves pain during a gout attack. Alapurinol, the main drug for gout, works by inhibiting an enzyme called xanthine oxidase. This drug inhibits this enzyme. I'll tell you about natural inhibitors with virtually no side effects. Another important point is nutrition.  If you google gout, you'll find recommendations for many different foods, especially protein-based ones.  But I have found that if you cut out sugar, especially fructose, and of course alcohol, especially beer, the results are much better.  Generally speaking, there are two things you can do to reduce the severity of gout. First, simply drink more water to lower your uric acid levels.  And secondly, you can increase the pH of your urine. Then uric acid will crystallize less in your joints.  Another very important point. I recommend using this protocol for at least 2-3 weeks. The first point is white Chinese mulberry extract. There is a good study, I will leave all the links below.  This mulberry contains a certain phytonutrient that can inhibit the enzyme.  uric acid-forming.  The next recommendation is Chinese cinnamon.  Scientifically speaking, it is Chinese cinnamon.  In Latin it is written like this : can be bought in powder or capsules.  Chinese cinnamon has amazing properties.  It is similar to other types of cinnamon, but slightly different.  Cinnamon also has some other properties that are beneficial for sugar balance, blood sugar, and insulin resistance. It is useful for many things.  People with diabetes, prediabetes, or insulin resistance have a much higher risk of developing gout than others.  The third point is omega-3. Fatty acids.  Yes, you can take fish oil, but I recommend cod liver oil because it contains two more components: vitamins A and D. Vitamin A is good for the kidneys, and vitamin D is a natural anti-inflammatory. There is research showing that when taken in sufficient quantities, omega-3 acids act as anti-inflammatory and also inhibit the enzyme that creates uric acid.  The following remedy performs, in particular, the function of removing excess uric acid. I recommend alpha lipoic acid. Alpha lipoic acid is also helpful against peripheral neuropathy if you are diabetic or if you have neuralgia. It also helps get rid of uric acid.  And, by the way, there are many hypotheses about the nature of gout.  I think that people with podagra simply have a very difficult time with their kidneys removing uric acid. The more you improve uric acid excretion and kidney function, the less severe your gout will be .  In people with gout, uric acid is simply reabsorbed in excess .  The last two remedies are needed mainly for acute attacks of gout.   The first remedy is the devil's claw.  Another name is horpogophytum.  Its fruits look like claws.  In one study, devil's claw was found to be as effective as Vioxx, which has since been taken off the market.  This very powerful anti-inflammatory horpogophytum can be taken to relieve any type of pain, from arthritis pain and, of course, gout.  The latest remedy comes from the Brazilian jungle.  It's called Iparu.  This plant is another powerful anti-inflammatory. It acts as a COX2 inhibitor. That is, like aspirin, patients with gout are often recommended aspirin and other types of NSAIDs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. This Brazilian jungle remedy may act as a natural NSAID and reduce pain.  At the latest moment, there is excellent data that intestinal microflora helps break down uric acid.  To support certain bacteria that help fight gout, I would also add more probiotic foods, sauerkraut, and kimchi to your diet. I highly recommend them.  And you also need to eat enough greens.  It's beneficial and nourishes the microflora because, as it turns out, when bacteria eat fiber, they produce a short-chain fatty acid, butyric acid, which is also good for gout.  And finally, details on how to increase urine pH are in this video.  Here it is, take a look.