[music] Do you know what superfoods are? These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these products and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than forty superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, increase immunity and energy. You will also find notes, recipes, and additional materials. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily. Today we will talk about sea moss. You have probably heard about it. It is now on all social networks. What is it? Seaweed and sea moss are types of seaweed. These are plants that can grow underwater. Sea moss and seaweed are very similar in terms of the nutrients they contain. You can apply sea moss externally to the skin, take it internally for intestinal problems, inflammation, and in general, sea moss can bring many benefits. It can increase testosterone and improve overall health. Let me first say that sea moss contains several things. It contains amino acids, that is, protein.  Fiber, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, phytonutrients, and so on and so forth. Of course, the protein in them, that is, the amino acids, is not comparable to the protein in steaks or with animal protein. But what makes sea moss and other types of algae stand out is minerals, especially trace elements. Trace elements are minerals that the body needs in small quantities, but they are extremely necessary. If you don’t live near the ocean, then you won’t find many micronutrients in food. But why do we need trace elements? One of the functions of trace elements is to activate enzymes and other proteins that do all the work in the body. For example, there is an enzyme that helps convert T4, an inactive form of thyroid hormone, into T3, an active form of thyroid hormone. This enzyme depends on Selenium. Where can I get Selenium? It can be obtained from Brazil nuts, but there is almost none in other nuts. What should I eat? I need to eat shellfish, seafood, and algae, for example, sea moss, to get this Selenium. Selenium not only helps the thyroid gland, it is also necessary for certain proteins that  remove mercury from the body for immunity with a lack of selenium, the body cannot create helper cells, helpers are Generals, if you compare the immune system to an army, they help control and coordinate immune cells during an attack on viruses, cancer and other forms of infectious agents. If you do not eat seafood, then especially selenium from food is very, very difficult. iodine is also necessary for the thyroid gland, without iodine, it is impossible to produce thyroid hormones. iodine is also needed to regulate estrogen. Therefore, with iodine deficiency, women can develop breast cancer or ovarian cysts. In Japan, women are much less likely to get breast cancer. I think this is because the Japanese get 25 times more iodine from their diet than Americans. I think that most of the positive effects of sea moss are due to the fact that the body finally receives the trace elements it was lacking. Yes, sea moss contains carrageenan, any red algae contains canana, but there is a big difference between the natural canana found in sea moss and the one added to various products.  Like almond milk, sea moss, and kelp are healthy foods. They're rich not only in micronutrients, which I think is the most important thing, but also in phytonutrients, which provide health benefits that vitamins and minerals alone can't. We've touched on the topic of micronutrients, but there's much more to be said about them. If you haven't watched this video, watch it.