It's not that the benefits of cucumbers are outstanding, but they are still worth talking about.  Sometimes instead of eating a green salad, I eat a couple of cucumbers. Interestingly, cucumbers contain 73 different phenolic compounds.  These are phytonutrients. Cucumbers also contain certain phytonutrients that are found in cruciferous vegetables.  Moreover, they are found only in cruciferous vegetables and cucumbers.  Cucumbers have five main benefits.  They help stabilize blood sugar, help stabilize cholesterol by lowering LDL, raising HDL, and lowering triglycerides. Cucumbers are also good against inflammation, rich in antioxidants, very powerful ones at that, and provide fiber for the production of butyrates.  Bacteria take fiber and convert it into short-chain fatty acids.  It helps with insulin resistance, nourishes colon cells and gives them energy.  The question is how do we extract these phytonutrients.  Most of them are fat-soluble. To extract them from there, you can try three main methods.   The first way is to ferment them. When you ferment vegetables, it's not the same as pickling.  More on that later . When you ferment them, they release more phytonutrients.  More phytonutrients become available to you.  If you go to the store, most pickles are cucumbers with added acid. This does not increase the amount of phytonutrients released. Pickling will help digestion to some extent , but you won't get the maximum You will get them during fermentation.  One of the brands I recommend is Babis.  They have cucumbers, sauerkraut, very high quality, and they actually ferment everything.  They add bacteria, lactobacilli, to it. The carbohydrates are then fermented and you get lactic acid.  This takes longer, but it releases phytonutrients. I will always recommend fermented cucumbers over pickled ones. The type of pickling and fermented ingredients should be indicated on the jar. So, this was the first way to extract fat-soluble phytonutrients from vegetables.  Another way is to steam them. But don't overdo it.  This will also release some phytonutrients. Who would have thought.  And the last way is to eat them with fat. Personally, I eat cucumbers with hummus, but not the typical soy or safflower oil hummus, but rather olive oil hummus.  I buy hummus at the farmer's market or health food stores, but if you add tahini paste, which is a fat, to cucumbers, it will help extract the phytonutrients.  You can also add olive oil.  Slice cucumbers into a salad, drizzle with oil, and you'll get phytonutrients.  These were ways to increase the amount of phytonutrients obtained from plants .  Thanks for watching. Bra.