Today our topic is oatmeal. I used to love oatmeal, I ate it every day. For breakfast, I was told that it was healthy. Today I will tell you about three things that you probably never heard about oatmeal, and I will tell you about this. That is why if you eat oatmeal for health reasons, then after this video you may change your mind. Of course, I am not telling you not to eat oatmeal. I just want to give you additional information that may not be easy to find if you enter the word oatmeal in the search bar. I will not talk about what you already know: sweet instant oatmeal has a lot of sugar. You already know that it is very harmful. I will tell you about oatmeal without added sugar. It is interesting that even on packages of instant oatmeal that have a lot of sugar, it is still written that it is useless for the heart. There are articles where it is said that oatmeal is one of the healthiest foods that exist. Oatmeal is considered a superfood. It lowers cholesterol, helps with diabetes, lowers blood sugar, makes the heart healthy. Firstly, I will give many links to studies below so that you can see that I am telling the truth. This study is about  How oatmeal affects blood sugar, insulin, and cholesterol. So, these studies definitely say that there are significant improvements in cholesterol and blood sugar levels, and both. And this is very encouraging. After all, if something lowers cholesterol and lowers blood sugar, then I'm all for it. But then these studies say a significant decrease in cholesterol and blood glucose compared to the control. What does that mean compared to the control? What are we talking about here? Oatmeal is compared to something else, and here it is compared to white bread. That's right, with white bread. If you compare anything with white bread, it will be significantly better. Let's say you eat white bread and, say, it increases your blood sugar by 10 points. But when you eat oatmeal, your blood sugar rises by only 5 points. And so we write that there is a big difference. The jump in blood sugar is much smaller, 50 percent less than in the control, but it improved by 50 percent. Not because oatmeal was added to the diet and blood sugar decreased, this is in comparison with something else, and then the study says that blood sugar is better only immediately.  after eating and later there is no improvement in sugar levels, probably due to a strong jump in blood glucose after white bread. This is the first and second point in the study, it was said that some participants took just 3 grams of beta-glucan. They did not eat oatmeal but took this substance and it lowered cholesterol and we can conclude that oatmeal contains beta-glucan. From a deductive point of view, oatmeal should cause the same effect, but there is a little confusion here. After all, this is a separate substance, not a whole grain, and in another study there were 29 participants with diabetes and their glucose levels did not change at all either after oatmeal or after white bread. So, the benefits of oatmeal are discussed only in some studies, and the quote that oatmeal is good for the heart is kind of taken out of context and does not give a full understanding of how it really affects cholesterol and blood sugar levels. In fact, I think it is best to check your blood sugar. When you eat oatmeal and when you don’t eat it, and you will find out for yourself, and I did not find any work on it at all. instant oatmeal with added sugar for some reason it is very difficult to find a study that oatmeal with sugar improves blood glucose levels, insulin or cholesterol. The next topic is the absence of gluten. After all, we all know that oatmeal is gluten-free. It seems that oatmeal contains a type of gluten called avenin. It is known that this protein increases the level of cytokines that are produced in the body in response to inflammation. But here's the catch: their levels do not increase immediately. You may not feel symptoms for several days after eating oatmeal. So it is very difficult to link one with another. If you have irritable bowel syndrome, inflammation, or celiac disease, you may notice that after oatmeal you feel worse, and here's what you need to understand. Gluten is just a group of proteins among many other groups of proteins. One of the main factors in the development of autoimmune diseases, especially diseases of the ovary. And this thyroid disease number three is a herbicide called glyphosate. It is interesting that our Ministry of Health, for some reason, does not mention it in its reports on the study of products. Oatmeal, but there's nothing to worry about, because Mansanta is the company that created glyphosate. They've already done all the research and said that glyphosate is safe. So, there's no need to worry. But the World Health Organization said that glyphosate is a carcinogen, and someone who was exposed to glyphosate won a lawsuit. He was paid millions of dollars because he developed cancer. Iraq's risk of developing cancer is apparently increased by glyphosate, not Hodgkin's lymphoma, but the Environmental Working Group ( link below) found traces of the herbicide glyphosate in more than 95 percent of oatmeal product samples, and this oatmeal is not genetically modified. However, glyphosate is used as a pre- harvest drying agent because it kills the plant very quickly and dries it out. Glyphosate is used not only on oatmeal but also on wheat. So, it's not limited to homoproducts such as corn, soybeans, and rapeseed. Okay, if you still eat oatmeal, then of course, cut oats.  It's much better to eat organic oatmeal than instant oatmeal. If you don't want herbicide in your oats, you can try this: skip breakfast in favor of intermittent fasting. You'll probably be amazed at how good you feel without breakfast. But if you do eat breakfast, I think it's much better to eat eggs for breakfast. Since we're talking about breakfast, if you haven't watched my video about gradually giving up breakfast and the benefits it brings, watch this video.