Let's talk about the benefits of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is a pigment that gives plants their green color. Plants use it along with sunlight to generate energy. A sunbeam of full energy is converted into a substance that stores energy. So, first, chlorophyll can counteract the negative effects of eating meat. Sometimes, if meat is overcooked or pressed too much, it can have a negative impact on health. But if you add chlorophyll, it will reduce this negative impact. Therefore, you need to eat vegetables or greens when you eat meat. Second, chlorophyll is a natural deodorant. If you smell bad or have bad breath, you need to eat foods rich in chlorophyll. Third, it increases the amount of blood. Chlorophyll is almost identical in composition to blood, only our blood is iron-based. And chlorophyll has magnesium. I'll come back to magnesium a little later. If you have anemia, you need to eat foods chlorophyll. Fourth, skin. Chlorophyll can positively affect skin health; it can slow down  Photoaging of the skin, remove sun spots, it can also get rid of sagging and oily skin. Fifth, chlorophyll has anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties. Sixth, chlorophyll can help with ulcers very well. Chlorophyll helps healing, especially tissues inside the body, whether it be the tissue of the sinuses, lungs, esophagus, or intestinal tissue. Chlorophyll reduces inflammation and helps with ulcers. Chlorophyll can reduce appetite. It also contains magnesium. I already mentioned about the World Health Organization. Magnesium is associated with three hundred enzymes. It is involved in the creation of ATP, which is a source of energy in the body. It also reduces oxidation and helps cope with oxidative stress. Be sure to eat more green foods, and by green foods I mean ice cream and not lime jelly, but juice, powdered grass, or vegetables. You know what superfoods are? These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than forty superfoods that They help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. You will also find notes, recipes, and additional materials. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.