oh my god i will never forget how my wife and i ended up in a restaurant in new york an indian restaurant and there we were sitting enjoying the food and not saying a word it was so delicious that we just couldn't talk for an hour we were literally in seventh heaven from the incredible taste of all these spices in general my favorite cuisine is indian but the problem is that it is as they say a double edged sword it is very difficult to find indian food without such a thing as sugar among all the countries that use sugar india is at the very top of the list in first place india has a love affair with sugar it is the world leader in sugar consumption it is the second largest sugar producer in the world after brazil they invented refined sugar more than two thousand years ago or more precisely two thousand three hundred and seventy two years ago the spread of sugar around the world began from india at every traditional celebration there are always sweets these are religious and social events festivals weddings holidays and so on there is always something sweet in america there are specialized in indian grocery stores you will not find a single product there without There are also two traditional types of sugar in India. One is called ansari, a mixture of partially refined and unrefined sugars. Molasses is added to it, which contains some vitamins. The second type of sugar is called jaggery, a mixture of sugars such as cane, date, or palm. The average Indian consumes 8.7 kilograms of traditional sugars annually. That's 19 pounds of sugar each year, and these are just two traditional types of sugar. It's incredibly, unfortunately, an addiction. Sorry, the tradition is so ingrained in society that it's very difficult to change. In 2005, a quarter of the entire population suffered from obesity and excess weight. October 2013, these people will be removed. The figure has already jumped to about 64 percent. These are people who are overweight or obese. In India, there are also more than 65 million people with type 2 diabetes, making them second in the world after China. Since 1995, consumption of sugary drinks has grown from two liters of these, so to speak, liquid candies, to an average of 12 liters per person.  residents in 2015 and this is only liquid sugar, not counting all the other sugars, it’s just beyond my comprehension. This situation cannot be changed by imposing high taxes on people for consuming sugar, punishing them, or forcing them to eat healthily. Only you can do something about it. You can change your diet and become healthy so that other people looking at you say, “You look great.” I want that too. The point is that once you learn how to cook all these dishes without using sugar, it will be easy, and the taste of these dishes with all the spices and aromas may be indistinguishable. You can cook a lot of different Indian dishes either without sugar at all or with sugar substitutes. The big plus is that all these various herbs and spices are very beneficial for health, but by adding sugar, you simply renew all these wonderful anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and anti-diabetic properties. Let’s start with a few keto-compatible Indian dishes that you can cook right now. Nir is a traditional Indian homemade cheese made from cow or buffalo milk. It goes well with spinach and other products in one glass of this cheese.  22 grams of protein and twenty-nine grams of fat, which is very good if you're on those, and only 3.6 grams of digestible carbohydrates. The next dish, avialle, is a compatible dish from the south of India. Essentially, it's a vegetable stew made from seasonal vegetables, green beans, moringa pods, red pumpkin, eggplant, and coconut milk, and curry leaves make it simply magnificent. In one serving, only one and seven tenths grams of digestible carbohydrates are wonderful. The masala omelette is prepared with creamy olive oil and cheese. You can add bacon if desired, but it's based on eggs, onions, tomatoes, and chili peppers. Turmeric, coriander, and green chili are very tasty. Keta is completely compatible. 4 grams of carbohydrates per serving. Next, we have seekh kebab made from lamb, you can also use lamb or goat meat. It's prepared with butter, onions, and amazing spices. One serving has only 3 grams of digestible carbohydrates. What about tandoori gabi, which is delicious pieces of cauliflower.  Cabbage under a delicious aromatic yogurt marinade is cooked in a deep fryer, in the oven, or even on the stovetop. 4.8 tenths of a gram of digestible carbohydrates. Next on the list is chicken korma, an excellent dish. This is chicken with certain vegetables, yogurt sauce, wonderful Indian spices in a wonderful gravy. Only 48 grams of carbohydrates. Then we have Indian coconut curry with shrimp, which cooks in less than half an hour, only 3 grams of carbohydrates. Keto is completely compatible, so there are many low-carb dishes. All of these dishes are nevertheless very tasty, although they do not contain a gram of sugar. Under the video, several amazing recipes for Indian dishes. We cooked them at home. But your next step is to start keto. To make it easier for you, I have a very detailed course in which we analyze all the possible nuances. Sign up. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course.  and have achieved very stable results, join us too