Today we'll talk about a great diet, it's called the tapeworm diet. I saw an ad and I want to read it to you. There are very interesting claims. Here's one: get rid of life-threatening fat without exercise, diets, or surgery. Yes, it's very interesting. Here's another easy way to lose weight. Try fat. Now, live tapeworm eggs are also included. Or is this a wonderful tapeworm diet? Eat what you want and don't get fat. Doctors call the tapeworm diet a natural remedy for obesity. Oh, how I've been waiting for this. Or, eat, eat, eat, and stay slim. The fat will disappear. Tapeworms have been disinfected. Now, about the pros and cons. Keep in mind that this diet has been around for a long time. It's not new. Eat what you want. No dieting, no deprivation, because the worms are sitting there. Extra calories. You can lose weight and feel great. But this diet has a couple of small downsides. It's not that simple. You won't lose weight until you get rid of the parasite, because while the parasite is moving, it's growing, and it also has its own  You will lose weight when the parasite comes out, but not when it's growing. Fishing is fun. Another downside is that the diet increases appetite, especially for carbohydrates. The next downside is the tapeworm diet, which is actually a tapeworm infestation, so you may experience some side effects: abdominal pain, fever, skin lesions, rash, fatigue, diarrhea, bloating. But otherwise, you're doing great. You'll lose weight eventually. There are a couple more problems. The first is removing the parasite. How can you remove it? You can have surgery. You can take medications. The problem is that medications also have side effects: brain swelling, neurological problems, dementia, epileptic seizures. Otherwise, everything is fine. And the last problem is that you can't control where the parasite attaches. If it suddenly gets out of the intestines, it can get to the organs and attach to them, and this can also create complications. But if you don't take all this into account, you can eat whatever you want without dieting and deprivation. Tell us in the comments what you think about this diet. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salmon course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you about it.  What's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health? Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.