If you look at the last 50 years and look at the food we ate all this time, it becomes clear that we ate one product in huge quantities. Look at the diagram on the left are the products that I have hidden for now, and on the right are the changes in the number of calories. This is a comparison of the calories consumed in 1970 and in 2014. As you can see, we began to eat as much as 88,000 more of one product, namely 8853 more. This product we began to eat 198 more. And this one is 129 more. This is quite a lot, but compared to the first product, this is nothing. Can you guess what this product is? Write your guesses in the comments. And no, it is not white refined sugar. The average American eats 28.5 kg of this product per year. Most processed foods contain three ingredients: starches, which include maltodextrin, modified food starches, and corn starches. Sugar is used in the form of glucose or corn syrup or beet sugar, and finally, seed oils, for example, corn, soybean, and canola, for now.  I haven't named this product yet. There are still guesses. I'll give you one more hint. If you eat this product, only one organ can cope with it, namely the liver. This ingredient behaves like alcohol. Although it is not alcohol, the body needs to get rid of it and it is broken down in a similar way. And it causes glycation seven times stronger than glycation - this is when protein combines with sugar. When you eat it, it suppresses hunger and also deprives you of vitamins and minerals. This is probably one of the strongest activators of metabolic Roma. Fatty liver and inflammation. Well, did you guess, let's see the answer. Its high-functional consumption increased by 129, then comes chicken, turkey and additional fats and oils. People began to eat fewer vegetables by 3%, they began to eat less butter by 8% and less eggs by 21%, they began to eat less beef by 29%, considering it a problem, and during this time we began to eat less by almost 30%. Look, we began to eat less refined white sugar by 35% during this period of time. Highly functional, which you can't even eat. They even make milk from corn now. I'm not kidding. Most corn is GMO. That is, it is resistant to herbicides. If you spray it with herbicide, it will not dry out. Unfortunately, the United States is the largest producer of corn and its largest consumer. Corn has even become more popular than rice in China. Most corn in the United States is sold as cattle feed. Cattle are not fed grass as often as they should. In 1930, farmers harvested about 795 kgm of corn per acre of land. And in 2022, farmers harvested about 6,700 kilograms of corn per acre. With the advent of pesticides and GMOs, we can grow huge amounts of crops on small plots of land. This is detrimental not only to the environment but also to the soil and our health. When you read the composition of products, avoid not only highly functional L