Hello everyone today we will start with a question from our quiz and then we have a call from Rami Rami Be ready in a minute I ask you doc ​​Why can artificial sweeteners make you gain more weight than sugar Dear viewers, can you answer Rami, are you in touch with Dr. Berg ask a question Hello Thank you doctor that I can talk to you Recently I had a blood test Just a couple of weeks ago it turned out that my B12 levels were elevated The website does not explain what exactly this means There are many tips on how to increase its levels Everything else almost everything else seems to be normal for me including liver and kidney function So what could it be Tell me do you take BAT with B12 no no but we eat pretty healthy because I will soon become a naturopathic coach I follow many of your recommendations We eat only organic grass-fed foods I love rice and that is the only reason I am not really very successful in keto but I am on intermittent fasting trying to fast 24 hours once a week but B12 just  There are only a couple of genetic so-called polymorphisms associated with B12 and perhaps you have something like this, it is very rare. So I think I think I would retake the test because I don’t trust it, I’ve already seen such oddities. A person changes everything in his life and then finds out that there is an error in the tests. B12 is rarely high with such a good diet. One piece of advice is, go rice. And this starch is possible. For example, eat purple potatoes instead of rice. Just try NM. There are more nutrients in white rice than in white rice, but it is unlikely to affect B12. I would take the test elsewhere. I don’t know if this result can be trusted. The chances are that you have a polymorphism and therefore elevated B12. It happens very rarely, but it does happen. I generally feel good, but I don’t know if you can rely on the fact that I feel good and I have a lot of energy, although menopause is starting. I really have a lot of energy. So, yes, I retake the test and will see what happens. It’s not as I would like. We look at the Nare from the blood. But there is no explanations something is slightly elevated it is much better to do metabolomics blood tests here is just one example The thing is that I train very hard running uphill and all that and my antioxidant levels are just off the charts I create a lot of glutathione to reduce oxidative stress and this is normal but this very means that perhaps I need to recover longer in the soul I am still 18 and physically almost 60 you know This metapol nay analysis is useful to do just to find out what is really going on that is what I told my husband After all, I saw your videos with a doctor from Greece it is not very far from us because I myself have hypothyroidism And that would be me yes yes Okay, I see, it's interesting okay Yes, that can be checked too Thank you for the call Thank you very much for a great call Rami and we move on to questions from social networks while we were talking with Rami the viewers answered the quiz question that was asked So why can you gain more weight from artificial sweeteners than from sugar 65 was allocated they compromise the work of the intestinal flora What a pompous style and  20% of them cause insulin to rise faster or stronger 15% of them cause hunger to increase and people to eat more who is right I think some people quickly asked the gpt chat but all three answers are absolutely correct they definitely increase appetite they definitely increase insulin indirectly and they harm the microflora But otherwise these are excellent and healthy products After all they are generally recognized as safe, albeit according to the manufacturer's criteria Eat to your health very well Deborah from YouTube I was diagnosed with osteopenia what do you recommend for the treatment of this disease it is like the initial stage of osteoporosis I looked at your diet because it is not a matter of a deficiency of any one nutrient for example the function of vitamin K2 is to strengthen bones to retain calcium in them and so you take vitamin K2 But for it to work you need magnesium So you need to take magnesium So I would assess the situation you are postmenopausal you have recently had a lot of stress what caused the problem what is happening with your hormones you have high cortisol it can destroy bones but what I would not do is take large doses of calcium alone especially carbonate I would I would consume more calcium complexes to strengthen bones. They are found in raw milk cheese, goat cheese. I would take micronutrients and get enough collagen, for example, from bone broth. This would be very wise. That's where I would start. I would follow a very, very healthy chum diet and get lots and lots of vitamin C, because it is needed for collagen in bones. There is an opinion that osteoporosis is scurvy of the bones, a deficiency of vitamin C.