Today's question is how long do you intend to live? Write your number in the comments. Officially, the person who lived the longest was Jeanne Calment. She lived 122 years as of today, that is, January 4, 2021. The oldest living person is a Japanese woman who is 118 years old. The next longest-liver after her is 116 years old. The third is a 16-year-old Brazilian woman. Next on the list are women 115 years old. France 115 Japan 115 Brazil 115 Brazil and so on up to 49th place, which is 100. An 11-year-old man living in Spain. It's interesting that all the rest of the top 50 are women, and so women really live longer than men by about 7-8 years longer. On average, in the United States, men live a little over 76 years and women live a little over 81 years. As for me, they are quite young compared to these people. I'm 55 now if I live to see  The average age there is not twenty- one years left to live, it's not that much, but if I can reach this figure, there are not 56 years left, that is, about the same, and I like this figure much more, and I actively do something every day in terms of nutrition, training, and the environment to prolong my life because I want to live as long as possible. And I have a question for you: what are you doing right now to prolong your life? Do you eat right? Do you know what you need to eat? If not, look at the description under the video. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salt, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what we burn fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. But let's return to why women live longer. There are three reasons for this: first, they have more estrogen than men, and estrogen helps the expression of genes that produce more antioxidants, which helps fight free radicals, which in turn reduces damage to DNA and mitochondria, they have a lower risk of cancer, and so on.  Second, they have better immunity than men. Women's immune systems age more slowly, especially T cells and B cells. They also have more natural killer cells. Men need to put twice as much effort into maintaining a strong immune system. Remember that immunity isn't just about fighting pathogens and preventing infections, but also about destroying cancer cells. Keep in mind that third, women generally produce fewer oxidants, the stuff that causes oxidation in cells and mitochondria, the cellular energy plants. In fact, the female body produces half as much hydrogen peroxide as the male body, and hydrogen peroxide is a very powerful oxidizer that the body uses to fight pathogens and other things. The female body also produces twice as much glutathione, a very powerful antioxidant, as the male body. So, it's twice as hard for me as for my wife to keep oxidant levels low and high. If you need additional anti- aging tips, the links will be under the video.