Let's discuss good and bad fats. Perhaps we'll start with the bad ones: soy, corn, rapeseed, cottonseed oil. All of this is a range. When processing these oils, they sometimes use the solvent hexane, which is, to put it mildly, poisonous, and of course, they may contain traces of glyphosate, which is a herbicide. These oils heat up a lot and they are found in many products. They are definitely found in such a common product as mayonnaise. If you go to the store and just read the ingredients, you will see soybean oil or corn oil. Mayonnaise salad dressing is another common example. Even hummus is no longer made with olive oil. Other oils are added to it. Just get used to reading the ingredients. These oils cause inflammation. Stay away from them. Of course, margarine, of course, contains trans fats. Crisco, for example, was on sale for 97 years, and may still be on sale. As for trans fats, several years ago, I think in 2015, they were finally banned, but companies were given three years to stop using trans fats. Now I don't even know who complied with the requirement and who didn't, but the fact is that Trans fats are the most dangerous fats in our products. They have been on the market for so many years. It's monstrous. Before trans fats, there were products such as pork or beef lard. Pork fat is also called lard, and along with lard, they sometimes used lamb fat. We've been told our whole lives that animal fat is poison and vegetable oils are healthy. Remember that advertising? It's not good to deceive Mother Nature. I want to understand what that means. They themselves deceived Nature with margarine. Another place where all these oils end up in our bodies is fast food restaurants, and other restaurants are not fast food. These oils are used in sauces and for deep frying, and as a result, you get a lot of these oils. Let's move on to these oils: safflower oil, sunflower oil, flaxseed oil, sesame oil, which is also used to make tahini, as well as some nut oils, peanut oil, and nut butter.  Macadamia oils are good for some people in small quantities, provided they are cold-pressed and preferably organic, but too much safflower or sunflower oil can lead to excess omega-6. I don't actually recommend them, but in small quantities there won't be any harm, but the oil also greatly increases estrogen. The only time I recommend it is if a woman has low estrogen and perhaps needs to boost it quickly and briefly, but definitely not for men. We have sesame oil and tahini paste, again, in small quantities, only cold-pressed, and you can eat raw tahini, which is better than overly processed, and of course, nut oils, again, they contain a lot of omega-6, so a little bit and not too often, preferably organic. These are not allowed, but you can have them occasionally and not for everyone. Let's move on to the healthy stuff. Cod liver oil is one of the best fats, a source of omega-3 fatty acids, both for children, which is needed by the brain, and for IKEA, which is needed by the brain and the nervous system.  immunity, not to mention vitamin D and vitamin A. There's also avocado oil. It's great for dressing salads. You can even cook with it. It contains vitamin E, but if you cook with it, the heat will destroy vitamin E. Then comes lard, which is believed to clog arteries. Of course, in some cultures and religions, they don't eat lard or anything related to pigs. Others, when mentioning pork and pork fat, think it's processed factory-produced pork. I'm not talking about that now. I'm talking more about wild boar fat. These are pigs, these are boars that live in open woods in Texas. Their fat is sold in it. It contains a lot of vitamin D3. Ideally, you need organic pastured lard if you're going to cook with it or use it in recipes. If you compare margarine and lard, margarine is like plastic. Lard has been used for a very long time. It doesn't cause oxidation, which is what these fats lead to. It's very stable and suitable for cooking. There's also beef tallow. You can take by-product beef or grass-fed lamb tallow.  Fattened fat is suitable for cooking; it contains a lot of vitamins, is very nutritious, and will not irritate the intestines. Both fats are useful for people with autoimmune diseases accompanied by intestinal inflammation. Camel fat is something that some have never heard of, but camels have fat. This fat can be bought and cooked with it; it can be used in recipes. It contains a lot of B12, a lot of retinol, the active form of vitamin B12, and it contains quite a lot of omega- 3 fatty acids. It contains quite a lot of CLA, a healthy fat that can stimulate metabolism. Butter, as always, is grass-fed; if you find organic, unprocessed butter, it will be ideal. The butter contains vitamin K2, omega-3 fatty acids, and CLA. Organic ghee, clarified butter from grass-fed cows, is also good for cooking; it is purified, all impurities are removed, so your body will not encounter any potentially allergenic proteins or lactose, that is, milk sugar. For the most part, these things are in small quantities in butter, but those with hypersensitivity should use ghee and, of course,  Olive oil is one of my favorites, always buy extra virgin and be sure to get it from a reliable source. I ordered this version. I really like it. I ordered it in Italy. It's high quality. The farm where it's produced is very proud of its high-quality olive oil, but it's extremely fresh. It's completely different from what you can buy in the USA at Costco. I'm not even sure of the authenticity of that. It's a high-quality product. I'll give a link to a detailed description. I'm not paid for this. I just like to recommend quality products. There's palm oil, which is so controversial. The type of palm oil I recommend is environmentally friendly palm oil, which uses substances that are not destructive to the environment. Red palm oil has a fairly high level of antioxidants and beta-carotene. There's also coconut oil, it's rich in lauric acid, which turns into ketones and helps with ketosis. It's good to cook with it. Of course, you should buy eco-friendly coconut oil. Well, that's the whole brief overview of good and bad oils, and those in between. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course, it's for those who want to lose weight so that their weight  I haven't returned to the course yet. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.