you know It is very useful to keep your mouth closed I am now talking specifically about breathing through the nose When you sleep and when you exercise I think you will be very interested to know this when it comes to breathing through the nose you probably think This reduces the air flow I will not be able to inhale a lot of air and this is how the air flow is reduced by about half When you breathe through your nose and not your mouth, but some very interesting things happen when we breathe through the nose It would seem that we get little air But in fact, more oxygen enters the tissues when we breathe through the nose and not the mouth There are several reasons for this Firstly, when we breathe through the nose, the sinuses act as a humidifier they undoubtedly help to humidify the air entering the lungs And this can also protect the lungs because cold dry air can cause irritation in the lungs and increase the risk of inflammation Secondly, the nose acts as a filter it filters out particles that could enter the lungs and it acts as an immune barrier protecting the lungs from pathogens because pathogens can be destroyed in the sinuses and will not enter the lungs Another reason for the increased intake  oxygen in tissues is associated with the Bohr effect. Bohr is a surname. This is what CO2 is needed to drive the oxygen that is in the blood into the cell. CO2 is not just a waste product. This gas is necessary so that oxygen can enter the cells, and even if the blood is saturated with oxygen, this does not mean that the oxygen itself will pass into the cells. It must be released from the blood with the help of CO2. When a person experiences a panic attack, due to hyperventilation, he has too much oxygen and CO2 is not enough. The proportion is disrupted and a panic attack begins, because literally oxygen starvation occurs. And when the balance of CO2 and oxygen is normalized, breathing finally improves, because oxygen finally enters the cells. The same thing happens with oxygen therapy. You can even get poisoned, because oxygen therapy literally deprives the cells of oxygen because CO2 decreases and oxygen does not enter the tissue. Hemoglobin is a blood protein and is saturated with oxygen. Oxygen does not go anywhere, therefore, one of the side effects of oxygen therapy is dyspnea. What is it? This is difficulty breathing, and chest pain, cough, pulmonary edema, twitching of the hands are possible. This is me.  I'll explain a little later, and also tinnitus. This is a ringing in the ears. And sometimes after sinus surgery, a very serious, terrible side effect occurs called empty nose syndrome. In this case, the sinuses dry out and become covered with a crust, making it very difficult for a person to breathe. He constantly feels like he is not getting enough air. 77% of people with this symptom breathe rapidly. This is a terrible condition. Why am I saying this? I want to show how important it is to breathe through the sinuses and maintain the integrity of all these structures. Because we need these nasal stores. We need mucous membranes to maintain the balance of oxygen and CO2. And I think I already said that when breathing through the nose, oxygen in the cells increases by about 20 percent. I want to tell you something else interesting. In this regard, it happens that the body has a low level of CO2. This is called hypocopnea. In fact, this is a lack of carbon dioxide. This is related to our topic. After all, we are talking about the importance of carbon dioxide. CO2. There are different factors that cause such a decrease in CO2 levels. CO2 has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, panic attacks, anxiety, lung infection, of course.  Anemia is a problem with oxygen due to iron, but another reason is the so-called glycated hemoglobin. What is it? Well, if you've ever taken the A1c test, which is done for diabetes, then you know that it's an assessment of the degree of destruction of hemoglobin with sugar. After all, when combined with sugar, this protein becomes glycated and becomes useless. Therefore, with high A1c, that is, when more of this protein has undergone glycation, the CO2 level is elevated, which is why diabetics have difficulty getting oxygen and breathing, and their wounds heal poorly, unlike those who do not have diabetes. And those who breathe through the mouth, because they seem to have difficulty keeping their mouths closed, CO2 is also elevated. So, when the body has low CO2 levels, because of this, the body becomes more alkaline, not acidic, but alkaline, this is called respiratory alkalosis. This causes cramps and abdominal pain because the muscles do not receive oxygen due to the fact that the body is too alkaline. Another symptom is laryngeal spasm, irritation in the throat occurs, a chronic cough is possible. Bronchospasm is a spasm in the lungs, tingling. In the lips And in the limbs in the hands and feet and titanium, these are small twitching in some places, this is all alkalosis. So, alkalosis can lead to a low level of calcium in the blood, this is called hypocalcemia. Hypocalcemia, let's look at its symptoms, they are interesting. When there is a lack of calcium in the blood, severe irritation of the nerves and muscles occurs, they become overexcited, many problems with the nerves arise, which is similar to peripheral neuropathy in diabetes, but here it is caused by low calcium in the blood. Muscle cramps can also occur simply because there is not enough calcium in them. Titanium is twitching, as well as pain in the abdomen and difficulty breathing. So, breathing problems occur because of this. This is the similarity of calcium deficiency with the problem of alkalinity, but there is another very interesting symptom. It is associated with the effect of calcium on blood clotting factors. It is known that calcium affects blood clotting. Therefore, with a lack of calcium, bruises may appear, as well as small purple dots or spots on the shins. This is possible hypocalcemia. On the other hand, if there is too much calcium, everyone is  It can lead to excessive clotting. There are even known cases of postmyopausal women taking a lot of calcium. There have been strokes and even heart attacks due to blood clotting. So, blood clotting is affected not only by vitamin K1, but also calcium. Without calcium, blood does not clot at all and microbleeding occurs, which manifests itself as black and blue spots in different places on the body. So, hypocalcemia, a lack of calcium in the blood, can be caused not only by low CO2 levels, but also by other reasons. If the parathyroid glands do not work. And this is hypoparathyroidism, then problems with low calcium in the blood are possible. Other causes of liver problems include a lack of vitamin D in the diet, a lack of calcium in the diet, that is, dairy products, as well as excess iron, as well as a lack of magnesium. After all, magnesium helps absorb calcium from all the glands. It is the parathyroid glands that regulate calcium levels, for example. Often, when the thyroid gland is removed, the parathyroid glands are damaged and these problems arise. How is all this connected with nasal breathing?  Breathing through your nose helps ensure the right level of CO2 in the body, which in turn allows oxygen to be released so that it penetrates deep into the cells, which helps saturate the brain and muscles with oxygen, especially during exercise and also during sleep, when oxygen is really needed. In fact, people who snore usually snore because they breathe through their mouth. Do an experiment right now. Close your mouth, breathe through your nose, and try to snore through your sinuses. You may be able to do this if your nose is stuffy. But if your nose is not stuffy, it is almost impossible to snore with your mouth closed because you breathe through your nose. The oxygen that is in the blood is not important; the oxygen that penetrates deeper into the cell is important. And if there is enough oxygen in the cells, there will be less stress. Since we are talking about oxygen and CO2, if you haven't watched this video, watch it.