Hello, today we will discuss what happens when you follow the Tetta diet and it stops working. I have made quite a few different videos on this topic, payment about stubborn metabolism. I decided to make a video that will cover in a little more detail what we have already talked about in other videos. I advised making sure that the program is correct and doing your research before starting. In case you are doing something wrong, always combine the diet with intermittent fasting. This is also very important. Good sleep, low stress levels. If you have any other health problems, be it thyroid or constipation or some kind of inflammation, deal with them. If you are taking medication, find an alternative with the help of a good doctor. Another point: if, for example, you are not losing weight, then perhaps your muscle mass is growing. This can also confuse you. Even the size may not change because the muscles are getting bigger. Especially if you play sports, you may not notice a decrease in volume from week to week. So, the first thing I want to say is that you need to evaluate and have a correct understanding of what it will cost specifically in your case, because for some it is very difficult for others not. For example, your spouse may lose weight very  Your relatives are eating the same diet as you, they are losing weight, but you are not, this is very frustrating, but you should understand that, unfortunately, it is very difficult to determine what is happening in the body, especially to check for insulin resistance and other cellular disorders, because these tests are very expensive and this is far from a single test and even they do not always show something. The fact is that if you have had chronic insulin resistance all your life, it will not be easy. For example, if you have had chronic insulin resistance all your life or the last 10-15 30 years, then you are facing a huge, difficult problem and will require mass and to overcome it, it will not be easy. If you do everything you need and do not see that the weight comes off easily, then you need to understand that there may be some big problem in your body, that is, you need to make additional efforts in accordance with the magnitude of the problem. Therefore, let's consider a couple more points just to move to the next level. First, carbohydrates. I advised from 20 to 50 grams of carbohydrates per day, not for every meal. It is all day, of course, the slower the metabolism, the less carbohydrates you need. What I advise is that perhaps you should reduce  Carbohydrates up to 10 grams per day or less. What else I want to discuss is vegetables. I advised a lot of vegetables, from 7 to 10 cups a day, and not counting them in the total amount of carbohydrates. That is, from 20 to 50 grams. Some may still need to count them in the total amount, but look here. If you eat lettuce, it contains only one and a half grams of carbohydrates per cup. If you subtract the fiber in it, one grown cup leaves only half a gram of carbohydrates per cup, which is very little. That is, if you eat 10 cups of it, it is only 5 grams of carbohydrates, but still not 0. Let's take spinach as an example. It contains one and one tenth gram of carbohydrates per cup, of which 0.7 grams of fiber leaves 4 grams of digestible carbohydrates. For 10 cups of spinach, again, the amount is insignificant, but still not 0. But let's continue. Blueberries contain 21 grams of carbohydrates, minus the key to which three and six tenths grams of digestible carbohydrates remain 17.4 grams.  For 1 cup, this is much more than vegetables, and if you take blackberries, for example, 14 grams of carbohydrates minus fiber, which is 8 grams, gives only six grams of carbohydrates. This is for 1 cup. If you compare 6 grams of carbohydrates and 17.4 grams, yes, it is better to eat blackberries. Let's take a nut mix: 28 grams of carbohydrates minus 9 grams of fiber, this gives 19 grams of carbohydrates. For 1 cup of nut mix, you may be the person who, unfortunately, needs to include vegetables in the total amount of carbohydrates and possibly change the types of foods you eat. For example, instead of blueberries, eat blackberries to reduce the amount of carbohydrates in food. Now about intermittent fasting. Some liquids that you drink during the fasting period. If you drink tea or coffee (a lot of coffee, which I do not recommend), or tea, and add any cream to them, this may be the very factor that prevents you from entering fat burning mode. Recently, I asked a person to exclude any cream from the diet and blood sugar dropped sharply from about one hundred and sixty to one hundred and twenty. You may have to give it up and there will be proof coffee. There is coffee with butter, m-city fat or coconut oil that you add to coffee, this is another factor. The next thing I want to discuss is how much fat you eat, because the goal is for your body to feed on its own fat, not just fats from your diet. If you consume fats, you will burn the fats you ate and they will come out. You see, tones, that is, you will have ketones, but these titans will be from food, they are from your own fat in some cases, so you may need to reduce your fat intake so that the body burns its own fat. At this point, you also need to pay attention. I will tell you about everything. The next point: if you have reduced the amount of fats and carbohydrates, we do not need this to lead to a nutrient deficiency. The diet must be replenished with electrolytes, for example, a large amount of potassium, B vitamins from nutritional yeast, and necessarily microelements, for example, from seaweed, and soluble vitamins. Cod liver oil will provide a large amount of vitamins A and D, as well as some offal like liver, so you will get more or less all the fat-soluble vitamins, even if not too many. The main thing is that everything is grass-fed. Now let's talk about  types of carbohydrates because even if you eat 10-20 grams of carbohydrates a day and these carbohydrates are from juice or bread, they are from vegetables or something else, this can be a big problem because even if carbohydrates are within the normal range, then due to the fact that the food is refined and carbohydrates are simple, this will significantly increase blood sugar because the problem is not so much in the carbohydrates themselves but in how they affect blood sugar if you compare all the shadows and other vegetables with apple juice, the difference is huge, this is another point now let's talk about alcohol some say I drink carbohydrate-free alcohol in my alcohol and carbohydrates the thing is how much alcohol destroys liver cells increases liver enzymes throws you out of ketosis, although secretly carbohydrates are a solvent, a chemical and it can definitely cause serious liver problems and throw you back recently I found an article on the Internet of a person who could not normally get into ketosis and he was looking if someone could tell him give advice why it does not work I read that he is, everything was not so bad but in the end there was  He wrote one line: I haven't drunk alcohol for five days, but before that, he drank seriously for 10 days, after which he did n't drink for five days and is surprised why this diet is n't working. He couldn't connect the cause and effect. And on the days when he drank, he drank up to 12 or more glasses of alcohol every day. Think about what the body must do to produce ketone. Fat must be burned and processed into ketones in the liver. If you destroy your liver for 10 days in a row, it takes you a month or more to recover after a ten-day binge. Just understand that alcohol is the enemy of the ghetto. Well, another very harmful thing is fructose. Agave nectar is 98 percent fructose. Fructose is also found in fruits. Although fructose doesn't raise blood sugar, it leads to severe insulin resistance and fatty liver, which in turn reduces your ability to produce ketones. The last thing we will discuss is intermittent fasting. If you eat at a certain time, say, 1 p.m. and 5 p.m., and you constantly adhere to this, then your body  You might get used to it. Maybe you should change the time you eat. In other words, change your meal times. In their time, cavemen ate less regularly. If you simulate that era by changing your meal times, I think this will really help you. Never eat on a schedule. Move it up an hour earlier or later. Always change the time. Okay, now you have something to think about. I wanted to make this video so you could understand what to pay attention to and what to change to improve the result. Thank you for watching. You know, I just wanted to say thank you for watching these videos. You watched to the end and I appreciate your attention and your precious time.