When you're trying to solve a direct weight problem, you need a clue for over 30 years. I've seen many difficult cases where people have tried everything but nothing has helped. I always want to ask one question and it sounds like this: When exactly did you start gaining weight and what happened right before it. This always gives me a clue as to a possible cause because of a possible solution. Sometimes they tell me, "I've always been overweight my whole life." I answered even at birth, "Yes, that's how it was even when you were a year or two. Well, at one year old I was thin and at two years old I started gaining weight. Then I start asking questions about what happened before it. Sometimes they have to ask their parents. That's what I've found. Many children gain weight after having their tonsils removed. Many children gain weight after a course of antibiotics in infancy. Research confirms that this is related. Some gain weight after taking steroids, for example, with asthma or some kind of skin reaction or allergy. Steroids, antibiotics, surgery, including tonsillectomy. All of this can affect metabolism. Sometimes women can gain weight after pregnancy or several pregnancies. This makes it clear that they have High levels of estrogen in the body, that is, estrogen dominates. Other women gain weight after menopause. This means that they have a lot of cortisol in their body because the adrenal glands are insured. Other people gain weight after surgery, trauma, loss of loved ones, and accidents. After them, cortisol rises significantly, which has a destructive effect on insulin. If you can't lose weight, you need to ask yourself these questions to get clues, and then yes, you will have all the data, you can potentially find a solution. Let's say you have estrogen dominance, and I have a whole course on balancing estrogen. The link will be below. Let's say all this arose due to injury or stress or surgery. Then you need to work on the adrenal glands. The link will be below. Or let's say a person has type 1 diabetes and is now on insulin, or type 2 diabetes. I also talked about this. Or, for example, problems began after taking antibiotics. You can take different probiotics to restore microflora, including beneficial fiber that can feed bacteria. This means that this is the weak link, and you need to work on this to remove stubborn kilograms, but regardless of  What are your problems? Healthy ketogenic diets with intermittent fasting should work in rare cases. Some people need to fast longer. I'm not even talking about one meal a day, but one meal every other day. Some people need to go to this extreme to get their metabolism back to normal. In general, I wanted to raise this very, very important issue so you can finally figure out why you're not losing weight. Dr. Berg's new workshop, a coach on intermittent fasting and the ketogenic diet, includes more than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and a list. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's 30 years of experience, which you can adopt in three months. Get a certificate. Become a ketogenic coach. Help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule. Do what you love. Sign up for the course using the link below.