Today we will discuss the difference between red and white cabbage and compare their benefits. Red cabbage has 10 times more vitamin A than white cabbage, but of course it is in the form of a provitamin. Beta-carotene is not retinol, meaning it needs to be converted into its active form, but beta-carotene still has many beneficial properties. Red cabbage also has more vitamin C. For information, the recommended daily dose of vitamin C for an adult man is 90 milligrams, while a woman needs 75 milligrams of vitamin C per day. I provided this data because sauerkraut, or fermented cabbage, can delay weight gain. If you buy it in a good place, for example, at a farmer's market, 750 milligrams is 10 times higher than the amount of vitamin C in regular cabbage. During fermentation, the amount of vitamin C increases significantly in red cabbage. It also contains twice as much iron. It also contains phytonutrients, pigments called anthocyanins, which have anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties. They reduce damage from free radicals. White cabbage is a very powerful antioxidant, it also has a lot of phytonutrients, and both contain blue green, a sulfur- containing anti-cancer phytonutrient. They both also contain polyphenols and flavonoids. Both contain dim, a concentrated compound found in many cruciferous vegetables. It helps balance estrogen. But I would say that if you compare different diseases, cabbage is most beneficial in the fight against ulcers and gastritis. You can drink cabbage juice, it works great, or eat sauerkraut if it doesn't irritate the ulcer. Or you can eat cabbage salad, which will bring great benefits thanks to substances that help soothe and heal the gastrointestinal tract. Cabbage is also good for blood sugar, and as I already said, Anapa is abyss for estrogen balance. To summarize, both types are quite similar. Red cabbage has slightly more nutrients, but I recommend eating both because white cabbage has more vitamin K. And before you go, be sure to watch this video about  You'll love cruciferous vegetables