Apple cider vinegar has a very important beneficial property that I have never talked about. And I have hundreds of videos about it. Many people know that apple cider vinegar is good for digestion, it helps with bloating, indigestion, and acid reflux, and also improves blood sugar, it increases insulin sensitivity, makes the liver less fatty, reduces inflammation, all of this is widely known, I have talked about this many times, but recently I learned about another huge and important benefit of apple cider vinegar. To understand its meaning, you need to know something about good and bad bacteria. Both of these groups of microorganisms can go into an inactive state, go into hibernation. I want to read something from here, this is a kind of extract from a textbook on microorganisms. I will read it. This is something mind- blowing. Some bacteria are able to go from the growth phase to a state of hibernation. This is a survival mechanism. It is turned on by hunger signals. Without food, they should die. So, this is the last forced measure of defense against hunger, which the cell resorts to after exhausting all other ways to cope with stress. The goal is to create a metabolically inactive cell that will store genetic information under various stressful conditions, including ultraviolet radiation and the actions of enzymes and some chemical compounds, and when this microbe is dormant, it is protected especially from antibiotics due to its structure. A dormant microorganism can survive for tens and even thousands of years. Seriously, things that awaken good bacteria and bad bacteria are different. They are pathogens. What awakens dormant good bacteria? There are several factors, but I want to emphasize changing the environment by simply changing the parameters. You can either awaken good bacteria or put them into hibernation. Most good bacteria thrive in an acidic environment, and this acid protects them. Many pathogens cannot live in an acidic environment, unlike good microorganisms. Therefore, when you drink apple cider vinegar, you increase the acidity of the environment. Kombucha, pickles, sauerkraut, kimchi, and similar products have the same effect. Many health problems arise if bacteria begin to pass the immune defense and enter the bloodstream. This leads to a systemic infection and many problems. There are two main places from where microbes enter the bloodstream: the first through the intestines and the second through  It has been reported that bacteria that live in the mouth have been found in plaques inside the blood vessels. Many skin problems arise from bacteria that have moved from the intestines to another part of the body as a result of translocation. Some bacteria produce butyrates, which are beneficial for insulin resistance. These bacteria love an acidic environment, and simply maintaining the pH in the acidic range can significantly increase the number of these bacteria. Everything actually depends on the environment. We even live better in a favorable environment. We and microorganisms help each other. We give them a place to live, and they give us immune protection, produce vitamins, and help with digestion. But if we don't create a good home for them, they go into hibernation until we take matters into our own hands. By lowering the pH and increasing acidity, we stimulate their growth. That is, we activate their beneficial yeast, which also grows better in the environment. Let's take another example: Helicobacter pylori. This bacterium has its own strategy: it produces a compound with a very high pH, ​​Amik, and it can damage the stomach and cause ulcers of the stomach and small intestine. Others If you lower the pH in some areas, you can put the salmonella bacteria into hibernation. If you lower it below the neck, we have a small intestine and a large intestine. Microorganisms live in the large intestine, which is where lactobacilli should live. In general, all lactic acid bacteria should not be in the small intestine. In fact, the environment in the upper part of the small intestine should not be acidic. It is more alkaline. If you have E. coli living in this area, where the acidity is lower, it begins to misbehave. When you lower the pH in some parts, you can send pathogens into hibernation, and good bacteria can be awakened. And when you do, good bacteria themselves begin to produce substances similar to antibiotics that suppress bad bacteria. Now let's talk about bad bacteria. What brings them out of hibernation is the main factor - it is not so much an increase in pH and alkalization of the body as the suppression of the immune system, the natural defense against harmful microbes. Antibiotics are also a factor because they weaken the immune system and pathogens wake up. Stress also suppresses the immune system. Prednisone removes  Pathogens come out of hibernation, the reason is that it reduces the effectiveness of the immune system. As we age and when we are stressed, they thrive. Another important factor that can activate these microbes is vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D deficiency makes the body weak, causing pathogens to come out of hibernation and destroy our body. When I was still practicing, I noticed that in people with serious infections, such as cold sores or genital herpes, the trigger was stress, which reduced immunity. Vitamin D is an extremely important factor, but not small doses. At least 10-20-3 cm e and even more vitamin D3 helps keep these bacteria dormant thanks to a strong immune system that restrains them. Now you know about the importance of apple cider vinegar and other means of increasing acidity in the intestines. I recommend diluting a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water and drinking it in the evenings every day. Drink through a straw and you can add lemon juice. If you want, I like Fair Chiles brand apple cider vinegar. I take it. I hope the video was useful. If you haven't watched this.  Watch the video about apple cider vinegar, it has millions of views, here it is