Today we will try to answer the question of why it is impossible to kill a virus. Let's go. Firstly, because a virus is not alive at all. It is a particle of genetic material very mysteriously wrapped in a shell. It penetrates our body into our cells, attaches to mechanisms inside the cells, usually to DNA, and then uses the body's energy to self-reproduce. So, it is impossible to kill a virus because the virus does not have its own life force. But you can definitely become infected with the virus and get sick. Then, when the body deals with this virus, it does not kill it, because it is not alive. The disease only goes into remission. The virus goes into hibernation, so to speak. Such a virus is called latent. This is the topic of this video. You have probably had viral infections in your life. The virus is still present in your body. It can manifest itself as herpes colds on the lips or in the mouth. Herpes type 1 is found in the mouth, herpes type 2 is found on the genitals, and it also often settles in the nerves. So, you become infected. The immune system copes with the disease. The disease goes into remission and waits, waits, waits, and waits until  You wo n't get tired, you won't be stressed, you won't weaken, and until you experience a nutrient deficiency, the virus will reactivate. There's the Epstein-Barr virus, many people get it in their youth. Later, this virus can be activated by stress, and it won't necessarily be fully active. It can, for example, simply cause chronic fatigue because you're experiencing stressful events. Chemotherapy can activate the Epstein-Barr virus. Radiation can activate the Epstein-Barr virus. There's also the human papillomavirus. 90 percent of people have this virus in their bodies, and it can be activated by stress. When I say stress, it could be the stress of soul loss or physical stress. There's also the so-called cytomegalovirus, and it can be activated if it's dormant by inflammation. That's why colitis, an inflammation of the colon, can activate this virus. The problem with this virus is that it can lead to cervical cancer. The chickenpox virus can activate as shingles or lichen. That is, many viruses are a potential problem, but everything will be fine.  If you don't experience stress or nutrient deficiency, then everything will be fine. I want to talk about 3 very important nutrients that help suppress viruses. These are three nutrients, and they are perhaps the most antiviral of all others. Vitamin D tops the charts. Tuberculosis is a bacterium, the Epstein-Barr virus, and HIV also have their own strategy. They attack vitamin D receptors, which is what they're called by the way. In other words, let's say it's a vitamin D receptor. Viruses somehow block it, and you don't get vitamin D. You'll have a vitamin D deficiency, and these viruses will be able to survive. This is their survival mechanism for these pathogens. If you have these viruses, it's very important to have enough vitamin D. I have a lot of videos about this. The links will be below. Vitamin D is very difficult to get from the diet. It's also difficult to get from the sun in winter, so it's important to have enough vitamin D. Vitamin D also reduces the risk of cervical cancer. I talked about this here. The reason for this is that vitamin D helps contain the virus that can activate cancer. I invite you to my course: Vitamin D, Vitamin Health Deficiency Vitamin D is present in 90 percent of the planet's population. It causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, strengthen your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the 2019 TET summit. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course. We'll be back. Vitamin D can reduce the risk of influenza, the flu virus, and respiratory diseases. It can help you protect yourself from respiratory diseases. My son, the next most important mineral in relation to viruses is that it can reduce the frequency of virus activation, the amount of time the virus spends in active mode, and also reduce the severity of symptoms, especially herpes and lichen viruses, which capture nerve channels. If you have lichen, it is also very important to apply zinc oxide externally. Apply it to the affected areas and this will reduce pain. A third very important nutrient is selenium. When deficient, the virus is activated much more strongly than without a deficiency. Thank you for watching.