I have a question for you: are you getting the right amount of fat on that diet? You need fat for cell membranes. Every cell is surrounded by a membrane of fat. Fat is needed for the brain. Fat is needed for the nervous system. Fat is needed for all kinds of chemical reactions. Fat is needed for hormones, for example, stress hormones, sex hormones. Fat is also needed for the production of bile. So, fat is needed for many things. Fat-soluble vitamins are vitamins A, E, and K, omega-3 fatty acids, including speech, etc.  If you're on that diet and your main fat is peanut butter, sometimes people tell me that the only fat they eat is peanut butter, which has a lot of methyl 6 and almost no amide 3. Coconut oil is not bad, but it does n't have omega 3 fatty acids, and butter also doesn't have omega 3 fatty acids. It's a different type of fat. Olive oil is omega 6, which is not bad, but omega-3 is very, very important. Game, etc. Hey, they're vital for the nervous system and brain, the last thing we need is to benefit from some kind of diet and develop an omega deficiency. The best source of omega-3 is seafood and fatty fish, especially for girls, and pi. This includes sardines, oysters, salmon, and many other healthy seafood and fish. High-quality fish oil is also good, as is unfermented cod liver oil. Eggs have excellent omega-3 levels. Eggs should not only be farm-raised, not store-bought, but also have enough omega-3. I also have tea and the idea is that grass-fed meat and milk contain four times more omega-3 than grain-fed meat and milk. It's important to clarify that if the label says green finish, meaning they were fed grain before slaughter, the omega-3 fatty acid level drops, so choose grass-fed meat and milk. Ideally, lanai seeds contain a certain fat that still needs to be converted into fat for children, and I don't know how much.  There's something being converted there, but definitely not enough, so you know, it's not a complete solution, and you may still have a deficiency of these healthy fats. Walnuts also contain some omega-3, and these fats also need to be converted. Children also have some omega-3 in some algae that can be consumed, so focus on these fatty acids and don't forget about them so that your diet is healthy and you benefit from it. Thank you for your attention.