Let's talk about bone broth. Is it effective? There aren't many studies about it. Many say that it works, but I think you need to try it yourself to find out if it works. Knowing that something is true is something you've personally experienced. It's not the same as knowing that it's true because I read it in the newspaper or someone told me it's true because I experienced it myself. If you have intestinal problems or arthritis or an autoimmune disease, you can try it. Most people drink bone broth for these two reasons. Today, we'll talk about why it might work for these two diseases, but these are all just hypotheses. We don't know exactly what bone broth is. Bone broth is essentially boiled bones, joints, connective tissue, bone marrow, ligaments, and tendons. All of this is boiled to make broth or soup. Then you drink the resulting liquid. When cooked, it all breaks down into smaller elements, that is, proteins. Long chains of amino acids break down into individual amino acids, making them easier to digest, absorb, and integrate into your tissues. And it's not just the amino acids in bone broth.  There's a lot of stuff in broth, calcium and phosphorus fall out of the bones, many other minerals in the joints and connective tissue, and a lot of things in this product. There may even be fat-soluble vitamins. We know that one of the amino acids, glutamine, strengthens the intestinal barrier, and bone broth is a good source of glutamine. Autoimmune diseases are usually caused by some kind of problem with the intestines. Some protein penetrates the immune barrier in the intestines, after which the immune system begins to mistakenly perceive it as a pathogen, a foreign body, and you develop antibodies to this particular protein. An autoimmune reaction can develop to almost any tissue in the body. There is also such a thing as molecular mimicry, when some substance is very similar to body tissue. There are substances, for example, gluten, a wheat protein that imitates thyroid tissue. This can be one of the causes of the development of Hashimotosis, an autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland. This factor is also present, but when we deal with arthritis, especially rheumatoid arthritis, this autoimmune disease is usually due to the intestines, so anything that is good for the intestines can be good for There are other types of arthritis caused by other factors. Arthritis can be caused by high iron levels or liver problems, or by an excess of omega-6 fatty acids in the diet, which creates inflammation. A lack of vitamin D can also lead to arthritis and joint or muscle pain, especially in the lower back. There can also be a hidden infection in a tooth that spreads through the circulatory system to other parts of the body, where it causes arthritis or heart problems, or penetrates the brain. If you need bone broth for arthritis, first determine the real cause of your arthritis, because if it is caused by liver or high iron, bone broth will not help. I want to mention one interesting theory. It can potentially explain why bone broth helps with joint pain, especially if this pain is autoimmune in nature. If you think about it, an autoimmune disease is a situation where the body has antibodies against its own tissues, they are called autoantibodies, as if the body is allergic to its own tissues and it reacts to its own tissues. With such an autoimmune disease, an inflammatory process constantly occurs in the joint. Dr. Orwell Lee in the 1940s He proposed an interesting concept. Let's say you have an autoimmune joint disease. You have antibodies that attack the synovial fluid, the bursa, the cartilage tissue, and so on. For example, you consumed tissue from another species in bone broth that had similar DNA. You consumed it, it entered your stomach, and your antibodies attacking your joint. The autoantibodies are distracted and begin to attack this bait. This is a great strategy that he came up with. In this case, you create a distraction by switching the autoimmune attack to another part of the body and diverting it from the inflamed joint, giving it a chance to heal. He discovered that if you do this for a while, you can deplete the supply of these antibodies in the body and treat autoimmune diseases. He proposed many different remedies for various autoimmune diseases, whether it be thyroid disease, pulmonary tissue, or something else. His company, Standard Process, produces products with the letters and m&g in the name. This refers to Marv-1, which is essentially the DNA of some other species, for example, a cow. These products are called thyroid. PNG or avatar.  afin png this is just a hypothesis, maybe it's true, I don't know if it's true, but I know that when people eat bone broth, their health usually improves. I'm just citing this as an option. Understanding this mechanism, if you have intestinal problems, you need to do the following: first, take probiotics, or even better, eat fermented foods like sauerkraut or those that contain a lot of probiotics. Also, if you have intestinal diseases, you need to follow a diet high in fats and animal proteins. Animal fats and animal proteins are very beneficial for the intestines, but the ratio should be in favor of fats. You shouldn't eat lean proteins. If you have intestinal problems, you need to eat fatty proteins. The ratio of fats to proteins should be two to one or even three to one. Fatty meat and fatty sausage are already fatty. As for plants and vegetables, I advise boiling or steaming them because substances from plants can irritate inflamed intestines. You should absolutely not eat flour, cereals, or cereal oils. I don't recommend dairy products either. Eggs are ok. Offal is ok. Bone marrow is very good. The last point about bone broth, people ask.  Can you eat it while fasting? I don't recommend bone broth for intermittent fasting. But if you're fasting for a long time, say 347 days, etc., it might be helpful to eat a little broth simply because you might need some raw materials, especially amino acids for various needs. And since you're not eating much food, you'll just consume the liquid version of these amino acids and other things. I think in this case, you'll briefly exit ketosis but almost immediately return to it. A real fast is when you don't eat anything. So, if you're experiencing muscle loss, then of course you need amino acids. By the way, I once made a very interesting video on the topic of leaky gut. I think you'll find it useful to watch it next. Here it is. Watch it.