When there are complex health problems such as kidney stones and gout, it is very important to isolate the components of the problem and look at them very, very carefully. Because there are interesting similarities and differences between gout and kidney stones. Kidney stones and gout are associated with uric acid, but uric acid stones are not very common compared to oxalate kidney stones. I wondered if there was any connection between oxalates and gout. And there is definitely a connection, and a close one. With high levels of oxalates in the urine, it usually intensifies. There is even a so-called pseudo-gout. This is a kind of gout that is associated with uric acid and is caused by oxalates. It is interesting, but as with any problem, it is important to have as much information as possible. I found a very interesting article from 1978 about the connection between oxalates, gout, and kidney stones. I will tell you something because it can be very important for solving this mystery, especially if you are on a ketogenic diet. I assume you already know that the most  A common type of kidney stone is oxalate, which is calcium stones, and I assume you know that some of the foods richest in salads are spinach, rhubarb, almonds, chocolate, buckwheat, wheat, beans, ESR, including Sofu, miso, potato chips and French fries, beet tops, Swiss chard, and star fruit, and of all the berries, the most in salads. Raspberries are on this list, and even black pepper and black tea are on this list. Now, if you brew tea in hot water for a very short time, say a minute instead of 7 minutes, then the differences in the amount of oxalates in tea will be very large. The amount of oxalates can vary from about 2 mg to 65 mg if you brew black tea for 7 minutes. Almonds contain a lot of oxalates, as well as Brazil nuts, hazelnuts, cashews, and pine nuts, but by the way, coconuts, peanuts, pistachios, and macadamia nuts contain much less oxalates. What's also interesting is if you take a lot of ascorbic acid in powder to solve some problem.  Problems, let's say, more than 4 grams. And this is quite a lot, then the level of filtrates can also increase. The amino acid Glycine, which many take to improve sleep, can also increase the level of oxalates for various health problems. If there are problems with the absorption of fats, usually due to a lack of bile, there may be more oxalates, this is another reason why bile is so important for fats to be completely digested and oxalates to be as low as possible. Selitol is a sugar alcohol and an alternative sweetener that I often recommend to those on the Keto diet. But if you are prone to kidney stones and gout, try to avoid xylitol, because xylitol seems to be able to greatly increase oxalate levels. In nature, oxalates are formed in plants from unoxidized saccharin. And this sugar, theoretically, selitol can also lead to an increase in oxalates in the body. However, there is an interesting connection between the value of xylitol and the deterioration of the condition of people with kidney stones and gout. But only for some, not for everyone. But you can easily give up xylitol and see if it gets better. You say I  I don't use xylitol as a sweetener. Do you chew sugar-free gum? It contains a lot of xylitol. Xylitol is found in many toothpastes and even mouthwashes. You know? It's very interesting that today my health is much better than when I was in my 20s, and I'm 57, almost 58. I didn't even know the basics. I wasn't even interested in all this until I started having problems closer to 30 and after 30. So, you can learn from your own experience, but it takes a lot of time. Or you can learn from the experience of other people, and I'm trying to encourage you to use these studies and people who go through all this so that you don't repeat the mistakes of others and don't waste years trying to figure everything out. There's another interesting point that's related to gout. I'm always asked. Why does gout develop when a person is already over 40-45 or 50? Does someone suddenly develop gout? Why didn't this happen in their life earlier? Well, I found another article. I'll leave the link below. This article is actually very interesting. It's called axalabs.  Iron, if someone has a lot of iron, is stored in the body in different forms and ferritin. One of these forms seems to be 10 to 20 percent of iron is stored in the body in the form of ferritin, a type of protein, and when it becomes larger, it can bind to axalates and increase the symptoms of gout and also cause arthritis in different parts of the body. And here's what's interesting: we do not have a mechanism that allows us to get rid of iron, and with age, especially if we get a lot of iron, we cannot get rid of it. This is true for men, but women after menopause too, because they do not have menstruation and iron does not leave with the blood. Here's one sure sign. If you donate blood as a donor. And after this, your arthritis or gout noticeably subsides. Then you should suspect that the problem is in the iron. So, with age, problems with iron can become more than in youth, especially due to the fact that the stronger the inflammation becomes with age, the more iron usually accumulates, the more health problems, including gout. If this is yours, then you need to work on eliminating inflammation and also need to reduce the amount of iron in the diet.  And in dietary supplements with vitamins and minerals there is a lot of iron, they should not be taken at all, the iron in them is in the wrong form, someone gets better when he eats less red meat, perhaps for the same reason, this diet is a low-protein diet, this is a diet with moderate consumption of Protein and red meat, it is very rich in iron, and liver can also be the cause of increased iron, so pay attention to this, my body tolerates red meat well. But of course, I do not eat it in huge quantities, but I tolerate it well, and someone does not. So this is one of the possible reasons, how can we neutralize the problem? Well, here is one way: drink about 2 and a half liters of liquid every day, thereby you will dilute calcium oxalates, reduce their concentration in the urine, which will prevent the formation of stones and can reduce pain with gout, number two, start eating foods rich in calcium, especially if you eat foods that contain a lot of oxalates. Unfortunately, oxalates are found in many foods and it is almost impossible to exclude them completely, but if you get calcium, say, eat dairy products with vegetables, you can reduce the amount  oxalates that are absorbed by the body because calcium binds to oxalates in the intestines and they leave the body together so that oxalates are not absorbed into the blood and do not enter the kidneys or urine. When you go to the hospital for kidney stones or come to the clinic, sometimes they give you a brochure that usually says something like avoid foods rich in calcium, no, you need foods rich in calcium. The next point is vitamin D. Why is vitamin D important? Because it increases calcium absorption by 20 times, that is, much less calcium enters the kidneys and urine. This is what vitamin D does. Vitamin D deficiency can also be a factor, so taking vitamin D at least 10 thousand IU per day can help reduce the formation of kidney stones and slow the development of gout, because less calcium oxalates are formed. Another factor is citrates, they are found in lemon juice, for example. It is very, very important to regularly drink lemon juice with water, because the more citrates you have, the less calcium oxalate is formed per day.  Lemon will help anyone like lemon juice with water. This article from 1978 mentions another interesting point. I want to tell you about it. I think this is very important. People tend to have higher levels in their urine. When they have a B6 deficiency. Yes, B6. B6 naturally reduces the formation of oxalates. The thing is, B6 is found in many foods. So, it would seem that its deficiency is unlikely. However, if you take B6 in the form of a dietary supplement in the form of pyridoxine. And this is the most common form in dietary supplements. You may develop a deficiency of the active form of pyridoxine, especially if you are predisposed to kidney stones or gout. I advise taking another form, redoxal 5 phosphate or p5f. Vitamin B6 is another B vitamin that helps reduce oxalate formation. B1 is the main cause of B1 deficiency. Excess empty carbohydrates in the diet are the main causes. So, this is also possible. When people eat empty carbohydrates, their big toe hurts more and suddenly in the abdominal area because a kidney stone is growing so that B1 fibers are very important. So, I already said  The fact that protein should be eaten in moderation, but this connection of excess protein with this problem applies to those who also eat a lot of carbohydrates. I have not found studies on the consumption of only large amounts of protein or a root diet without empty carbohydrates. So, the research on this factor is not entirely reliable, but you know that on the Teto diet, protein is eaten in moderation, it is not a high-protein diet. The next point is that sodium increases the level of calcium in the urine; more calcium is lost if there is a lot of sodium. I would not worry about it too much, since this is an insignificant point. But if you have tried everything and you still have problems with gout or kidney stones, perhaps you do not need to eat such a huge amount of salt, or perhaps you need to consume more potassium to counterbalance the effects of high sodium levels, and the problem is probably not so much in sodium as in a potassium deficiency, because potassium also reduces the formation of kidney stones and helps normalize pH in case of acidity problems with gout. And finally, as I said, eat foods that are low in oxalates. Regarding nuts, I already said that I will leave a list of them below. There are seeds that have fewer oxalates, such as pumpkin or sunflower seeds.  Since we're talking about oxalates, it's important that you have all the information. If you haven't watched this video about oxalates, watch it.