Hello, today we'll talk about why the quantitative composition of sperm has been constantly deteriorating. 73 by 2011, the indicator fell by as much as 60 percent. How did this happen? There's some kind of mystery here, the reason is difficult to say, but there are several factors that definitely played a huge role in the decrease in testosterone levels, sperm count, and their motility. Firstly, these are phthalates, they are released from plastic. We use plastic containers and water bottles everywhere, and we also heat food in containers. This is very harmful. There is a lot of plastic around, wherever you look, types of plastic. Plastic can accumulate in tissues in the body. It has a detrimental effect on androgens, which has a significant impact on the decrease in sperm count and testosterone levels. Secondly, estrogen. Due to excess estrogen, testosterone and sperm count decrease in men. The more excess weight a person has, the higher his estrogen level. The fact is that due to fat, the enzyme aromatase converts testosterone into estrogen. Estrogen from chemicals in Aries can mimic the action of estrogens inside, these are called hormone disruptors, these are pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, so I strongly recommend eating organic foods. Thirdly, insulin resistance is a consequence of high insulin levels, which causes testosterone to decrease. This is perhaps a very important factor acting in conjunction with phthalates. insulin resistance has become an increasingly large problem, and over the past four decades, statins have been used to lower cholesterol. Another reason is that testosterone is a sex hormone, it is produced from cholesterol, and what happens if you interfere with the body's production of cholesterol? The body will lose the raw materials for testosterone production. 5 GMO products are associated with the use of glyphosate, a chemical, yes, come, and a decrease in sperm count. There is a link to the study under the video. Read on to find out why you need to switch to organic foods. Finally, soy is found in many soy protein isolate products, in so-called kita bars and in many diet shakes. Vegans and vegetarians are especially fond of them in an attempt to replace There is a direct link between meat and decreased sperm count. There are a couple of links under the video if you haven't seen the video about testosterone yet. Here it is. Watch it.