I was recently asked if gargling with salt water can kill the coronavirus. Let's talk about this. Firstly, I have not found a single study proving that gargling with salt water kills this virus. However, there is a study that claims that gargling with salt water can potentially prevent some viruses from entering the lungs. But I must also say that there are other studies that show that the coronavirus can multiply in the throat before entering the lungs. A high level of replication and viral shedding was detected during the first week. Viral shedding occurs as the virus enters the cell, begins to self-replicate, and then decides to leave it and go somewhere else outside the body or to another organ. This is called viral shedding. Just gargling with salt water or plain water apparently reduces the concentration of the virus if it is there. All the studies I found in the description of the video talk about an antiviral innate immune response using salt to support a certain substance in immune cells that can potentially kill the virus if you take salt. Sodium chloride is present in the internal skin barrier. There are certain enzymes that can convert sodium chloride into chlorine chloride.  Pure acid. This acid is the main ingredient of bleach. It has strong antimicrobial properties. It is known to kill viruses. Imagine certain immune cells, such as phagocytes, which engulf viruses, bacteria, fungi, and dead cells in the body. They draw in viruses and bacteria and expose them to this acid. These cells produce and use bleach, hydrogen peroxide, even a certain type of antibiotic, and release enzymes to kill microbes. I'll read a short paragraph of text. This mechanism depends on the conversion of available chloride ions. Chloride is contained in table salt. It is pure acid. Peroxidase is the same enzyme that converts chloride into pure acid. Since bleach is an acid, it is the active ingredient of bleach, which has a broad spectrum of antiviral properties against DNA and RNA viruses, as well as enveloped and non-enveloped viruses. The antiviral mechanism must fight various types of viruses. Essentially, you are giving the immune system raw materials for the production of weapons, one of which is bleach or bleach, which is very poisonous.  For us and for germs and a couple more studies on the use of salt water. The first involved 130 people, they gargled with plain water and this effectively prevented upper respiratory tract infections in healthy people. The second was in Japan with the participation of 20 thousand children. During this study, not a single infection of infectious diseases, including influenza, was recorded. In 2010, it was proven that gargling with salt water can be considered the most effective measure for upper respiratory tract infections. In 2013, there was a study where 338 people gargled with salt water and as a result, they were less susceptible to upper respiratory tract infections. Here's what you need to do. It's very simple and very inexpensive. Take half a teaspoon of sea salt. I recommend Himalayan salt, but I think any will do. If you don't have sea salt, use regular salt, dissolve it in 200 milliliters of warm water and gargle several times a day. I think this is a very useful recipe. It definitely won't harm, it's inexpensive and can potentially help. Thank you for watching.