Hi all.  Now we will answer questions that have accumulated on social networks.  KD Strumble asks if vitamin D helps with COPD symptoms. Undoubtedly, since in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease the sensitivity of receptors to vitamin D is extremely reduced. One of the remarkable and powerful effects of vitamin D3 is its effect on respiratory tissues.  It really helps with asthma and chronic breathing problems. However, very often the usually recommended 600mE does not work.  I would take a lot more.  I would take at least 20-30,000 international units of vitamin D3 every day. Understand this.  There is evidence that vitamin D can be taken not every day, but once a week or every 2 weeks.  Well , that's true if we're talking about vitamin D for bones, for calcium.  But there is a completely different system, where the half-life of vitamin D is only 24 hours.  So you need to drink it every day so that your lungs, brain, muscles, and especially your immune system receive it. Okay, take your vitamin D. For God's sake, asks someone nicknamed the all-wheel drive SUV.  Does castor oil dissolve cataracts?  He doesn't write about the method of application.  I don't know.  I know it's good for you, but I'm not sure about cataracts.  We must try. There is evidence that it helps with cataracts.  In addition, it is often the case that the lens becomes cloudy due to glycation.  This is when protein combines with sugar, due to excess consumption of carbohydrates and such along with protein.  Sugar binds protein and some turbidity occurs.  This causes a lot of free radical damage.  There are two types of antioxidants. Some we get from food, while others the body creates itself.  And these antioxidants are more important than those found in food.  So , the right nutrients—selenium, zinc, copper, manganese—with quality protein from grass-fed meats and so on, help the body create natural antioxidants that prevent many complications from glycation, iron, and pollution. Great.  And now a quiz question for our brilliant, and I'm not kidding, for our brilliant viewers.  I ask you to Why is fructose more harmful to the body, although its glycemic index is lower?  I forgot to write what glucose has.  I ca n't wait to hear from our viewers.  And again questions from social networks. Josh from YouTube asks.  What is better for autophagy?  Fast for 16 hours every day or fast for 24 hours or longer once a week?  Good question.  It doesn't work like a switch.  Autophagy is stronger the longer the fast.  At first it may be weak, but then it becomes stronger and stronger when you fast for 18, 20 hours, 23 hours.  And much stronger if you fast for two or even three days.  So I think intermittent long-term fasting, maybe once a week or once every 2 weeks for two days, has a lot of benefits.  After all, the body is forced to switch to a strict economy mode and process many tissues due to the lack of protein.  Will the body eat the muscles?  No.  The body eats damaged proteins first.  He is very smart.  So, the body eats up scar tissue, damaged tissue that seems to interfere with biological functions.  This is amazing.  Cells are cleared of debris, enzymes literally destroy it, and completely new proteins are formed to build new tissues. This is the best anti-aging remedy.  Wow! If you don't mind me, I'm on the 213 fast, but I do like to have a cup of decaf coffee around 10:00 PM with a big dollop of heavy cream.  Does this disrupt autophagy?  Well, it's not I think it will probably stop autophagy and ketosis for a while .   You probably don't want to add too much cream because, yes, cream has a low glycemic index and doesn't stimulate insulin to any great extent, but every food always stimulates insulin to some extent, and elevated insulin throws you out of ketosis and autophagy.  We need low insulin.  So can you drink black coffee?  Fine.  No additives. Quiz question.  Please, Dog.  Fine.  I have already read it.  We have already received the answers.   I 'm sorry, no, there are no answers yet. So for now we continue to answer questions on social networks.  Hell from Facebook.  Can aloe vera drinks harm your liver?  My doctor told me to stop taking them and stop taking supplements except vitamin C. What do you think about this, dog? Yes, we need to replace natural remedies with medications, because they have been tested and approved by the Ministry of Health and are generally recognized as safe.  No, I have never heard of aloe being harmful.  Yes, I think this information is incorrect.  Fine.  Oh, and here are the answers to the quiz question, which went like this .  Why is fructose more harmful to the body, even though its glycemic index is lower than that of glucose?  85% answered that it is processed directly in the liver.  10% said because it is very concentrated, and 5% said it is processed in the body in much the same way as alcohol.  Very interesting answers.  Are they true?  Yes.  Basically, the thing is this. There is fructose and there is glucose.  These are individual sugar molecules.  If they are combined, a disaccharite is formed, that is, two sugars, as in table sugar, in honey - these are disaccharides.  Fructose and glucose are combined.  But starches are simply a chain of glucose molecules.  Starches do not contain fructose. So, fructose, the same high-fructose corn syrup, and it’s abundant in junk food, is metabolized only by the liver.  And when you consume glucose, all the cells in your body metabolize glucose. Think about this .  You force-feed one organ of the body and force it to process it. Poison, excuse me, sugar is a strong stress for the liver.  It is not distributed throughout the body.  And as a result, the liver has so many problems that there is more inflammation, more toxins, almost like from alcohol. High fructose corn syrup, however, causes insulin resistance even faster than glucose. In general, think about it yourself. Now your cells do not respond to insulin due to resistance and do not absorb glucose.  What happens now?  After all, the cells are literally starving.  Although you eat a lot of glucose, your cells do not absorb it.  And the body has a plan B. It compensates for this. The body begins to produce more glucose.  This is called gluconeogenesis.  Neo means new genesis of creation.  The body creates more glucose.  But we will discuss this in more detail at the next meeting.  Don't miss her.