Today I will tell you about 10 benefits of fiber. By fiber I mean vegetable fiber, not grain fiber like bran or something like that. I mean vegetables as part of a healthy lifestyle. I recommend eating a lot of vegetables, whether greens or other vegetables, but there are certain situations in which I do not recommend vegetables. If you have biliary tract infections or if you have a history of digestive problems, vegetables can make things worse. You should keep this in mind. What are the benefits of fiber in general? 1. Fiber has no effect on insulin, even though it is a carbohydrate. 2. It contains many phytonutrients such as carotenoids. And also vitamins and minerals. 3. Fiber can bind to bile and help regulate the amount of bile in the body. I put a link to a video about this below. 4. Fiber feeds the microflora. The beneficial bacteria in the colon consume fiber as a primary food source. The body is not able to digest fiber. Thank God we have bacteria that help. The fiber that microorganisms eat gives microorganisms energy, and byproducts  which are formed during the fermentation of this fiber are called short-chain fatty acids. They not only nourish the cells of the colon, but also help with blood sugar, insulin resistance, and even cancer. 6. Fiber helps regulate pH. If you feed beneficial bacteria, especially lactobacilli, the pH goes into a range that prevents the occurrence of pathogens in this environment. 7. Fiber helps reduce the transit time of contents through the digestive system. 8. Fiber helps regulate lipids and cholesterol. It's not that lipids or cholesterol are harmful, it's just that fiber helps regulate them. 9. Some types of fiber have an anti-cancer effect, probably due to the phytonutrient content and conversion to short-chain fatty acids. 10. Fiber helps smooth out blood sugar spikes. When you eat certain carbohydrates, be it carrots, celery, or tomatoes, the amount of fiber in these foods helps minimize the glycemic response to these carbohydrates. This was a story about 10 benefits of fiber. If you don't know what to cook on Keto, the book "Kita's menu for two weeks" will help you. For three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from readily available products, the basics of ketogenic diets and fasting, follow the link below.