Time for some interesting statistics: 97% of people who diet not only gain the weight back but also get even fatter. Why, in my opinion, is it because they don't have a secondary goal? They put in so much effort to achieve their weight loss goal. They think that after losing weight, everything will happen automatically and they won't have to do anything and they can return to their previous lifestyle. Diets are like marriage: you meet someone, decide to get married, get married, and then think what next? Everything will go automatically, but it doesn't work that way. You need to find out what your spouse wants, what you want, and share it. Because if you think that only your spouse should do what you want, you'll face divorce. The same thing happens to your body. You need to find out what it needs, and it will give you what you want: pleasant feelings, the feeling that you are healthy, and so on. So what does the body want? It wants real food. And what is food? It's a combination of fuel and nutrients. It's very interesting that the real taste of food is accompanied by nutrients in it. The nutrients themselves are often tasteless, and therefore taste attracts us to foods rich in nutrients.  What's so great about them is that it's the perfect combination because what you eat, namely delicious food, has the important nutrients that the body needs. I don't know if you've tried real tomatoes and felt how pleasant they taste. But the sensations are very pleasant. Yes, Doritos are also very tasty, like food at KFC. But along with them come side effects, so it's still worth sticking to real food. Give the body what it needs, nutrient-rich food, and it will give you what you need. Your health if you want to maintain your weight after losing weight. Don't set a goal to lose weight, set a goal to become healthy. Give the body what it needs in return to receive not only good health but also weight loss as a bonus to health. And I almost forgot, cravings for carbohydrates are not a natural state for the body. This is what the body has become accustomed to under current living conditions when you started eating them and it turned into an addiction. This is unnatural. When you become healthier, you will feel that cravings for carbohydrates are no longer a problem for you because they are initially  I unnaturally invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting from Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you are just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials will be available to you. There are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks from which your star is built and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire  new healthy habits for the rest of your life