Someone asked a question about nutritional yeast, how to use it in the diet, I decided to make a short video on this topic. Firstly, what is nutritional yeast? It is a type of yeast, that is, inactive microorganisms. It differs from baker's yeast, which is active, so don't worry that you are consuming live microorganisms. Nutritional yeast has high nutritional value. We have been consuming it for a long time. It contains a full set of amino acids, a lot of macronutrients, and micronutrients. They contain antioxidants, for example, glutathione, one of the most powerful liver antioxidants, as well as another strong antioxidant, selenium. Methionine is an enzyme with selenium, that is, with micronutrients, it is very beneficial for immunity. But let's not forget about B vitamins. This is one of the main reasons why I advise taking nutritional yeast, but there is one problem with B vitamins. Cereals are an excellent source of B vitamins, but on a titogenic diet, we don't eat cereals, so what should we eat? Nutritional yeast naturally contains almost all the B vitamins. There is no B12 because B12 is produced by  Bacteria, but yeast can produce B vitamins. Many nutritional yeasts on the market are fortified with synthetic B vitamins. I don't recommend taking them. They are also fortified with a type of iron that is not advisable to consume. You need unfortified nutritional yeast. The product I sell is not fortified. It does not contain synthetic vitamins, which is why the label says you need larger doses. Because there are no synthetic vitamins in them, which contain more vitamins, but they are synthetic. We need natural ones produced by nutritional yeast. Nutritional yeast tastes a bit like cheese, slightly nutty. Some people like it, some don't. But I always said that the taste will come with time. You just have to get used to it. Nutritional yeast is not the same as yeast extract, which is found in food products. In general, I wanted to show you the differences between different types of yeast. What you need is nutritional yeast. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.