Let's talk to you about the real reason why you should drink lemon water every day. Usually, people don't know about the beneficial properties of lemon water, and there are several of them. These properties are amazing. So, let's go over the main points. First, regularly drinking lemon water can reduce fatty deposits in the liver. Lemon water contains phytonutrients that can significantly reduce steatohepatitis, which means hepato liver, which means bones, otherwise it means fat leaking into the liver, that is, steatohepatitis means fatty liver. Lemon water can dissolve fat in the liver. There are other remedies, purified bile salts, halen, a low-carb diet, for example, can remove up to half of the fat from the liver in two weeks, but if you add a little lemon to the water, you can speed up the process. Second, lemon water will help lower cholesterol. Not that cholesterol is something bad, but let's say you have a sluggish liver or a sluggish gallbladder. You don't produce enough bile and it kind of stagnates. Lemon water helps improve the flow of bile through the bile ducts and remove excess cholesterol from the developing  In the body, 3 weight loss lemon water does not help with weight loss directly, but it can help with it indirectly. Quite a few animal studies have shown this. I want to help you understand this mechanism. Some phytonutrients in lemon water stimulate a significant decrease in blood sugar levels. They reduce insulin resistance. They lower insulin, and that's why this can help you lose weight. If you really want to know how to lose weight, if I were you, I would n't look for a way to lose weight. I would look for ways to lower insulin. Because anything that lowers insulin will help you lose weight. In fact, fat cells can't. They simply can't shrink without lowering insulin, regardless of calories. Fourth, lemon has an anti-aging effect. Before the study, it was on animals, but most studies are conducted on animals and then on humans. The study lasted 5 weeks, and the mice lived an average of three weeks longer. You might say, well, that's not that much, but it's only 5 weeks. Imagine if you start drinking lemon water regularly for the rest of your life. The lifespan will be longer. It was also found that lemon water prolongs the life of the microbiome of beneficial microflora, which is quite interesting. 5 anti-cancer properties. I'm not claiming that lemon water  Heals cancer, that's not the point, but it may be an additional factor helping to suppress cancer. Test- tube studies have found that certain phytonutrients in lemon water can kill malignant cells in the tongue, lungs, and colon. Point six is ​​very important: reducing kidney stones. Citrates in lemon juice bind oxalates, and the most common type of kidney stones are calcium oxalate stones. If you have citrates in your body, they can bind to oxalates, preventing stone formation. People predisposed to kidney stones usually lack citrate. If you are prone to stone formation, I recommend increasing your lemon juice intake to anywhere from half a glass to a glass daily. 7. In principle, lemon water can give you vitamin C, but only if it is juice from fresh lemons that has not been heated like store-bought lemon juice. Store- bought lemon juice is usually stylized, and the problem with vitamin C is that it is sensitive to heat. When heated, it is destroyed if you buy ready-made lemon juice.  There is practically no vitamin C, but if you get vitamin C from lemon, say, you take a lemon and squeeze it into water. One lemon will give you about half of the daily requirement of vitamin C, or more precisely, almost half in one lemon is 31 milligrams, and you need 70-75 per day. Vitamin C is very useful for immunity. It is useful for preventing bleeding gums and spider veins. It helps form collagen. It helps protect arteries from damage. And much more. And finally, lemon water is useful for its phytonutrients, and there are quite a lot of them in it. These phytonutrients are useful against hemorrhoids, against leg ulcers, for blood circulation, against spider veins and varicose veins. One of these phytonutrients is now being tested on X-rays as a possible remedy for Alzheimer's disease. Lemon also has strong antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal properties. So, start regularly adding lemon juice to water. Mix it with apple cider vinegar. I recommend the amount of juice from one whole lemon, or at least a couple of teaspoons, and it's worth it.  Make lemon water one of your regular drinks. If you haven't seen my videos about apple cider vinegar yet, watch them right now. The link is here.