Hi, in this video I would like to discuss 7 lessons I have learned after many failures in losing weight. I have been practicing for 29 years and have worked with more than 40 thousand people. I have interacted with people a lot and you can learn an incredible amount from clients. Apparently, that is why it is called practice. You practice and they are patients and have to wait, and we have a waiting room, this is a great opportunity to find out what works and what does not work. I will tell you about seven lessons that I have learned. Let's start with the first one: fruits. Here is what I learned about fruits. When helping someone lose weight, do not use fruits. I am talking about people with a slow metabolism. In principle, I already assume that a person has a slow metabolism because even if this is not the case, the result will still be if we proceed from the fact that everyone has a good metabolism and no insulin resistance, then the results will be bad, and so a small amount of fruit can stop fat burning for a day or two. Secondly, snacks used to be recommended healthy snacks. I also arranged healthy snacks for myself, especially in the evening. Previously, I thought that this was possible because these were healthy snacks, they were fast food.  By trial and error, I found out that this was very bad advice because snacking increases insulin, because every time you eat, you stimulate insulin production. This data is in Gaitan's physiology. I probably missed it when I was studying this book. But the main thing is that if you give up snacking, this alone will bring enormous benefits. This is a very important lesson that I learned and which will help you get rid of stubborn pounds, especially if you have a slow metabolism or thyroid problems. Even if snacks are healthy, avoid them and don't eat between meals. This is intermittent fasting. The third lesson in my first book was that I advised so- called liver boosting. For this, you needed to consume very little protein or even not consume protein at all. The first two weeks of this advice was bad. I thought that protein would be toxic to the body and that if you don't eat protein, toxins will come out, but the idea failed and patients had problems with blood sugar because the body needs amino acids for recovery. If you don't consume enough protein, then the body will start to have problems, such as hair and muscle loss, especially if you don't eat protein for two weeks, so you need to consume moderate amounts of protein we don't need any protein detox heaven protein anything else fourth lesson earlier I said that breakfast is the most important meal this was in my first book but over time I learned that this is bad advice you fast all night and then just break the fast with breakfast why in an hour you will still want to eat move tomorrow as close to lunch as possible and don't eat until you are hungry and eventually skip breakfast I learned that many feel very good not only in terms of weight but also in terms of health the thing is that you should fast for a longer time and when you wake up you are already in fasting mode you have kind of caught a wave so stay on it no need to ruin everything with breakfast you need to go without food as long as possible this is very, very important I realized that tomorrow is not the most important meal lesson 5 yes I recommended a bowl of fat diet lean protein this is bad advice very bad I took that advice from what I was taught but I never personally evaluated whether it works or not there should be more fat in the diet not too much but more because fat is extremely  It's important because it gives you satiety and you can do intermittent fasting to get fat-soluble vitamins and essential fatty acids. This is especially important for losing weight, looking good, and being healthy. Fat is the only macron, 3, which doesn't stimulate insulin production. You've heard of the glycemic index, it's a scale that shows how different foods stimulate insulin, but there's something else called the insulin index, which is all non-carbohydrate foods that affect insulin. It's a little different, and it just so happens that fat is at the bottom of the list. The purer the fat, the less it affects insulin, so fat can be consumed, especially if you're trying to lose weight. That was lesson five. Lesson six was like this: I didn't pay attention to the patient's history. I didn't focus deeply enough on the details and didn't look for clues in the stories of unyielding patients, whether it was weight loss or something else. I learned that you need to carefully keep a chronology, especially asking the patient when you started having this problem, when exactly you started gaining weight, when your metabolism became stubborn, and what happened right before that.  A very important question, few doctors ask it. You will receive invaluable information that will help you solve the problem. Was this pregnancy trauma, stress, any change, a change in diet? You can get valuable data to fix the problem, change something, or adjust it. I'll give you an example. A woman came in and tried everything but couldn't lose weight. She tried all the diets, and by the way, you can't lose weight on a 500-calorie diet. She tried everything and was very upset. I asked her when you started gaining weight. She said, "I've always been overweight, always, yes, all my life, even when you were a baby." She answered, "No, and at what age did you start gaining weight?" She said, "At 5, thank you, so you were thin at 4." She said, "Yes, well, that's something that happened right before you started gaining weight, when you were 4 or 5." She started looking at the ceiling, remembering, and said, "You know, I had severe asthma." I said, "Oh, interestingly, they weren't given steroids, but here's the clue. It was steroids. Steroids cause a real increase in cortisol and make a person fat, especially  at an early age and then we focused on the adrenal glands and tried to figure it out with them unfortunately now there are few doctors who delve into what happened right before the onset of symptoms and then use this data they immediately move on to medications this is a very important lesson that I learned and finally lesson 7 ignoring the principle of first becoming healthy you do not need to lose weight to become healthy but first become healthy and then lose weight let me tell you how I came to this it was an important lesson a girl came to me the daughter of one of my employees she weighed 140 five kilograms in her early twenties she tried everything to lose weight nothing worked and of course she returned to her habits she did not even eat in the mornings but in the evening she just gorged herself on fast food so she was huge I enrolled her in my program she was only in the first month she lost 0 kilograms I was discouraged I was angry I felt like the last loser but she was not upset on the contrary she thought that everything was fine I was very surprised I asked everything was fine she said yes I began to feel very good I Now I'm much more energetic, look at my skin, but the fact that it decreased, and my aunt, I thought, wow, that's interesting. She continued to stick to the program, and after another month she lost 9 and a half kilograms. I thought, wow, she continued, and by the end of the third month, she lost 28 kilograms from zero to 28 kilograms in three months. And an incredible revelation descended on me. Wow, first you need to become healthy, first you need to become healthy, and then lose weight. It was like a light bulb went on in my head. It was a very important lesson. All those cases that I considered a failure weren't a failure, everything worked. I was just too impatient. If a client doesn't know this, they start a program and don't see results in the first week, that is, they don't lose weight, they get angry and quit the program, when in fact, the program worked, they were just too impatient. The lesson that needs to be learned from point number seven is to pay attention to your health indicator, energy level, the disappearance of some kind of uncle, food, stress reduction. All this is very important when people try to lose weight, without knowing this, they feel terribly tired and still crave something, even though They don't lose weight, no matter how much they train like crazy and relieve stress and think it's healthy. No, you need to focus on your health because a healthy body gradually gets rid of excess weight. That's all. Thank you for your attention. Share your opinion in the comments. There are many people who really need this information. Click the share button and let's spread this video.