Today we'll talk about what to do if you've taken ozempic and lost weight and now want to maintain that weight. ozempic has many advantages, but along with them, there are big problems you should know about. ozempic is a glucagon-like peptide receptor agonist, which means that it essentially acts like a certain hormone in the small intestine. It does three things: it increases insulin, which lowers blood sugar, and secondly, it sends a signal to the brain that you're full and you lose your appetite. This is interesting because trying to diet while still having a working appetite is torture. Without an appetite, everything becomes easier. Ampik delays gastric emptying. Food stays there longer than necessary, which is why AZK causes a bunch of side effects associated with CT. I always say you need to get healthy and then lose weight, and not the other way around. Most people lose a lot of muscle mass, sometimes up to half of their original weight, while also losing fat. As a result, their muscle-to-fat ratio is n't very good. But first, let's talk about protein. Why do we need protein? We need it to keep our muscles strong. And  To have a fast metabolism in the body, to lose weight, for example, after menopause, and you have already lost a lot of muscle mass, say as a result of atrophy. And many women lose muscle mass after menopause, and you start injecting this drug, then you will have problems. After all, you don’t have much muscle left, and you need not so much protein as amino acids from which protein is built. You need eggs, fish, red meat, and the like. On average, a person needs at least eighty to one and a half grams of protein per kilogram of dry body mass. Let's imagine that you have 84 kg of dry mass. This means that you need to eat at least 67 g of protein per day. People make another mistake due to confusion. They take a piece of meat and measure out exactly 67 g. But this is the mass of a piece of meat, not protein. Half or even more of the meat consists of water and other elements. I’m talking about the amino acids and protein that are inside this meat. In such a piece, from 77 to 115 g of protein is about a quarter of the total mass of a piece of meat. One egg contains 7g of protein, regardless of whether you are still injecting with apic or not, you need to eat enough protein to maintain muscle mass. So, we talked about the type of protein and its quantity. And there is also training. Training is an excellent stimulator of muscle growth. You also need different hormones if you are in menopause or you are an older man. And you are already 60 years old. Your testosterone will decrease. In women, estrogen and progesterone will decrease. These hormones help maintain muscle mass. A very important factor for maintaining muscle mass in old age is, of course, training, a sufficient amount of high-quality protein, as well as sufficient hormones. All these hormones are produced from cholesterol. Often people decide to eat lean protein, but they forget about the importance of this. This is not the best idea, because hormones will suffer, especially testosterone and estrogen. All these hormones are made from a precursor, which is cholesterol. That is why a ketogenic diet is so important, especially if you stop using ozempic. Because you need to keep insulin levels low and burn more fat between meals so that your appetite disappears. Naturally, therefore, I recommend a low-carb diet and less frequent meals. Intermittent fasting. Cholesterol is converted into two hormone precursors, pregnenolone and DG. If you need them, you can take them as supplements. I will not go into details in this video, but they can support your hormones. What you need to know is that ozempic deceives the brain, telling it that you are supposedly full. Your appetite disappears and you do not eat foods with the nutrients you need. This can push you later. ozempic has such a side effect as gastroparesis, which is a slowdown in the gastrointestinal tract. Also, the list of side effects includes constipation, problems with the gallbladder, thyroid cancer, and cravings for food will go away. But after you stop injecting ozempic, the side effects may remain forever. Ampik may seem like some kind of panacea. But along with it comes a whole bunch of problems if you stop the diet. Intermittent fasting and powerlifting so that the muscles remain strong. Well, if you want  Better understand the topic of ketosis and help others. Pay attention to this course: Dr. Berg's practical course, a coach on intermittent fasting and the teto diet, more than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which you can adopt in 3 months of training, receive a certificate, become a Keto coach, help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule, do what you enjoy, sign up for the course using the link below.