Hi, in this video we'll talk about the menstrual cycle and food cravings. The menstrual cycle is very complex, I won't go into detail, I'll just talk about what happens during certain phases of the cycle and what to do if you have a craving for a certain food. So, day 14 is ovulation, day 28 is just before menstruation begins. Cravings during ovulation mean a problem with estrogen, and you need to consume more cruciferous vegetables and seaweed. I've been eating cruciferous vegetables because iodine and cruciferous vegetables are good for balancing estrogen. This should be done during this phase of the cycle. But most women have food cravings before menstruation, when PMS appears, bad mood, irritability, depression, a lot of things happen, not to mention cravings for some idea, like chocolate, for example. If problems arise at this stage, you need to take much more B vitamins. I recommend nutritional yeast, and no matter what the instructions say, take a double dose. It's capable of vitamin B1, this will help in this phase. If  Weather permitting, spend time in the sun and get vitamin D, but the biggest impact is a deficiency of B vitamins and vitamin C. Vitamin C is very important during this phase, it reduces symptoms. You can get vitamin C from sauerkraut or buy it in tablets, but you definitely need natural vitamin C. They are synthetic, like ascorbic acid, but sauerkraut is very useful, including for digestion. During menstruation itself, there may be cravings, some ideas, cramps, more excessive bleeding, a whole range of problems during these days. The best medicine would be calcium and magnesium in the form of a rotator cider vinegar. You can take a calcium complex, but I like orotate because it penetrates deeper into the cell. Calcium and magnesium will help perfectly with cramps and food cravings if they occur during menstruation. This is understandable. Further after menstruation, there is probably already a slight blood loss, there may be an iron deficiency. Slight anemia is possible, and also food cravings. Especially if you crave ice, unload it, and ice is an iron deficiency. I would advise eating red meat, but it is necessary. Grass-fed is a great way to replenish iron stores very quickly. Also, various types of iron are found in leafy greens and kale. Ikea, kale, and red meat are very helpful after your cycle ends, especially if you have cravings for anything. If you've gone through menopause, it's a slightly different situation because you no longer have a cycle, but you have cravings for food in general, or it feels like your period is about to start, but it never does. Vitamin E deficiency is common during menopause. A lot of vitamin E is stored in the pituitary gland as a precursor for the production of sex hormones such as estrogen and testosterone. Since there's no longer a cycle, these hormones are no longer needed, and vitamin E levels in the body drop sharply. If you increase your vitamin E intake, you'll notice significant improvements. Raw sunflower seeds are best for this. Other seeds are also good, but be sure to include cheese and unroasted ones. Almonds and leafy greens are very helpful, as are peas and green peas. All green vegetables contain a lot of vitamin E. If you have  You have an estrogen deficiency and hot flashes. God helps a lot. This is a micronutrient that can raise estrogen levels. It won't exceed the norm, but it will raise estrogen levels to normal. That's all there is to it. This is a brief summary of what to do if you are drawn to something during certain phases of the menstrual cycle. Thanks for viewing. If you don't have this brochure yet, please note it's called "not weight loss for health, but about health for weight loss." A healthy diet is a diet and intermittent fasting. See the link in the description.