I have a question Why are there no overweight people in Colorado in this video we will solve this mystery this video is based on a very interesting book It has not been published yet but I have an advance copy when I post this video I think it will already be published and I will give a link below we will figure out this mystery Why are there no fat people in Colorado they do all day training maybe it is about their diet or they can spend more on healthy food this question haunted the author of the book for quite a long time First he made a list of states that suffer from obesity the most he found a correlation with a higher concentration of black Hispanics he took into account and Indian reservations all this is interesting but it will be even more interesting if you look at what is unique here and there is one unique factor which is associated with skin pigment so called melanin And the fact is that melanin is a natural sunscreen in other words the darker your skin the better you are protected from ultraviolet radiation And how is ultraviolet radiation associated with obesity well under the influence of ultraviolet radiation the skin produces  Vitamin D If we look at the level of vitamin D, we will see that certain groups of people have low levels of vitamin D. This is very interesting, but is there any other data that confirms the link between vitamin D deficiency and obesity? There is a direct connection, in fact, and I will give a link to an article below. I don’t know whether this was discovered recently or a long time ago and no one has simply seen it, but vitamin D directly regulates fat oxidation, that is, the burning of fat in adipose tissue. That is, vitamin D enhances the release of fat from fat cells. Vitamin D is also closely related to insulin. In other words, vitamin D deficiency can lead to insulin resistance, and if there is enough vitamin D, it can greatly help in increasing insulin sensitivity. After all, the main function of insulin is the creation of fat reserves, and this seems to correlate with the fact that in winter, when there is not enough sun, we do not have enough vitamin D and fat increases. And in spring and summer, people usually lose more weight, as if they come out of hibernation. Is this related to vitamin D? Well, I think so. If a pregnant woman has little vitamin D, then her child, when he becomes an adult, will be prone to  to fullness he will have obesity And in general, in people with obesity, the concentration of vitamin D is usually lower, in other words, the more weight you have, the more vitamin D you need because a lot of vitamin D is absorbed by fat cells There is a very close connection between vitamin D and fat cells, but before this book, I did not even realize this Take at least the risk factors for metabolic syndrome Among them, there is always a deficiency of vitamin D Metabolic syndrome is a combination of high glucose, high cholesterol, hypertension, abdominal fat, all these symptoms, including insulin resistance, are associated with low levels of vitamin D This also explains the fact that when a person with hypertension takes vitamin D, his blood pressure decreases So, let's return to the geography of the United States. If you take the states Where there are more elderly people, there are more people with excess weight and we know that with age, vitamin D is worse absorbed by the skin, this is another piece of the puzzle that is consistent with this idea If we look at obesity, we will see that there was a big surge in obesity in the United States that began around the year 2015 and the author of the book points out another interesting observation, precisely at the beginning  In the 1980s, experts in quotes or scientists began telling people to avoid the sun and use sunscreen, both of which block vitamin D. I was born in 1980. I was a child and I did n't see many overweight people when I was in school and we ran around outdoors all day long, and we weren't afraid of the sun. We ate a huge amount of sugar and other carbohydrates. And in the 1980s and 1990s, more and more people began to gain weight. Is this related to vitamin D? The fact is that Colorado is located higher above sea level than any other state in the US. This means that people there receive much more ultraviolet radiation and much more vitamin D. We receive much more radiation three or four times more when we are higher up, closer to the Sun, than when we are lying on the beach at sea level. So if you were born in Colorado and live in Colorado, you are constantly getting more sun and vitamin D, and this greatly affects how you burn fat. I think the main thing here is consistency. It's about how long a person is in the sun and gets vitamin D. And here's how this affects what happens to metabolism.  I'll tell you something about this topic when I was practicing I had one patient with a huge belly and every time he went to Florida and got a lot of sun and then came back I swear his stomach was flat and he didn't change his diet he came back and I wow this is amazing but latitude also matters the further away from the equator the less ultraviolet you get and what about the Apalachee Mountains there white people live who have little melanin and they are obese there are a lot more obese people and they live in the mountains interestingly in the Apalachee Mountains people don't necessarily live on the peaks they live in the valleys definitely not that high and there is a lot of shadow from the mountains that is people there live in the shadow of the mountains and therefore do not get more vitamin D vitamin D even affects sleep cycles if you have a vitamin D deficiency if you don't get enough of it your sleep cycles will not be very good for example with jet lag one of the best remedies is vitamin D it just resets circadian rhythms and there is also such a problem as Opya in a dream at its core  I often take vitamin D, and when you give vitamin D to people who snore in their sleep, they tend to snore less and sleep better. There is also a link between vitamin D and stress. Cortisol and stress reduce vitamin D. But if you take vitamin D, it helps reduce cortisol. And this is the stress hormone from which we gain weight. The stress hormone cortisol also leads to insulin resistance. And if someone has a vitamin deficiency and their inflammation increases, you know that inflammation can also directly cause insulin resistance, which is the basis of obesity. There is also data on the effect of vitamin D on mitochondria. With a lack of vitamin D, we have a lot of oxidative stress. Mitochondria work worse, and mitochondria are the energy plants on which metabolism depends. This is just one of the many secrets that this author talks about. I will give a link to this book. You can read it. Thank you for watching and pay attention. I invite you to this course. Vitamin D is a vitamin of health. Vitamin D deficiency occurs in 90% of the world's population and causes many diseases. On the course, you will learn how, thanks to vitamin D. Get rid of these diseases and symptoms, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the 2019 Keto Summit. All this is in Russian. The link is below. I'm waiting for you on the course.