In this video we will talk about hair, nails and skin. There are many reasons why hair falls out, nails become brittle, skin becomes very dry or the body loses collagen. I will tell you about the most common cause of such problems and give a couple of tips. First of all, I must say that most people trying to solve these problems use an outside-in approach. They use lotions, serums and face creams, hoping that they will penetrate the body and make the skin beautiful. These people use different shampoos that will make the hair shiny, fill it with collagen and hope that this collagen will stay there, but all in vain. You can also use false nails. So, how to make nails very strong and healthy and skin beautiful. How to make sure that hair does not fall out? What is needed here is an approach from the inside out. Start building up your body from the inside. Work on strengthening your health. But if you watch my video about nutrition, you are probably already fine. You are probably getting vitamins and microelements. Perhaps you are taking them, but these problems still do not go away. It is likely that a specific client is lacking. The problem here is a lack of microelements, but why exactly microelements and  What are trace elements? These are substances we need in very small quantities and the purpose of trace elements. They help, they make enzymes work. What do enzymes do? They are the body's workhorses. There are thousands of enzymes in the body. They are involved in both building protein and breaking it down. That's what enzymes actually do. If we had no enzymes, our hair would n't grow at all. Hormones are one component of this process, another component is trace elements that activate enzymes so that the body can create proteins. Actually, it's not that a person doesn't have enough protein. Most likely, there is enough protein in food, like collagen. Collagen is just a type of protein. The problem here is in activating the protein so that it can pass through the liver and get to the skin and hair. I've tried this method on many people, it works great. Try it yourself. Consume more trace elements. It seems to me that in the US, the greatest shortage is trace elements because the soil is severely depleted. Farmers return only three elements to the soil. Not everything is returned. Firstly, there are no requirements for the recommended daily intake of trace elements. Although we need trace elements, they help hormones work, like, for example, we need iodine. Try to find food with iodine.  that seaweed, so there are very few trace elements around us, they are essential for building protein in hair, nails, and skin. If you go to a store or order trace elements online, you will most likely see many different versions of trace elements, and they are all salt-based or something like colloidal trace elements based on sea salt. In principle, it is not bad, but only five percent of them are absorbed because these are completely different chemical compounds, they are more difficult to absorb. I recommend trace elements obtained from plants, which means these are chemical compounds in plants that grew in soil rich in trace elements. The plant absorbs these trace elements from the soil, and when we eat it, trace elements are easily absorbed. These chemical compounds are 15 thousand times smaller than trace elements from the sea. Their particles are very, very small, so they are easily absorbed. They work great and you don't need a lot of them. So where can you find trace elements? If there are almost none left in the soil, you can move closer to a volcano where the soil is saturated with what is deep in the bowels of the earth and is ejected with the ash of a volcano. There are some in Italy and Hawaii. You can Move there and eat what grows there and believe me then all the microelements will be yours, perhaps that's why the natives have better looking skin. You can also get plant microelements from prehistoric plants. Now I'll show you what I use. Here are the microelements. The contents of the bottle are 70 million years old, but it still works. It was extracted from a layer of earth that is 70 million years old. At that time, it was full of plants that obtained all the microelements from the soil, and these microelements are preserved in the earth for a long time. There is one company that extracts this material from the earth and turns it into a water-soluble product. I use it daily. You only need a couple dozen drops dissolved in water. This way you can get plant microelements, and although you can't go back in time, historical materials are a good way to get plant microelements. If you have a garden, start enriching the soil. Microelements are perhaps the most important thing you need to solve the problem, but there is something else that is associated with certain fats. Many hair, nail, and skin care products contain fat-soluble vitamins, vitamin A, vitamin D, and vitamin E. They all have a good effect on the skin if you take these.  Vitamins, but the problem doesn't go away. There's one more factor that affects the health of hair, nails, and skin. This is bile. The gallbladder doesn't produce enough bile. When there are digestive problems, for example, bloating, belching, or the stomach becomes like a drum while eating, this may indicate a lack of bile. Bile helps digest fats. If there isn't enough bile, the gallbladder will be overloaded. Bile helps absorb oil. Essential fatty acids and fat-soluble vitamins are necessary for the skin. This is another problem that I've noticed in people with dry skin and a lack of collagen. So, a combination of additional bile and trace elements is the most important thing I can recommend to improve the condition of hair, skin, and nails. Try it, I hope you liked it. See you again.