Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Today I'll tell you why lips crack. I sometimes see people with very dry and chapped lips. This indicates a deficiency of vitamin B2 and vitamin B3. Now, let's figure out what can lead to a deficiency of B2 and B3. There may be several reasons. Firstly, alcohol definitely causes it. Alcoholics always have a deficiency of these vitamins, but usually it turns out that the cause is an excess of food made from white flour. You may have noticed that flour products, for example, bread, are always enriched with vitamins B. Why is that because products made from refined wheat deplete the reserves of vitamins of group B, so manufacturers add vitamins back. If you eat a lot of these products, you will drain the reserves of vitamins. You can get a vitamin deficiency. If you eat a lot of flour products, this includes bread, pasta, cereals, cookies, waffles and all that stuff. I know you don't eat such things, but you probably know people who do. There are other reasons why lips crack. It could be a zinc deficiency. It could be a vitamin deficiency. But usually the problem is an excess of wheat products. What idea is there about vitamins B2? and b3 I like personal veins this is one of the best products before people think that hare increases cholesterol yes it is absolutely true no one argues about it but good cholesterol increases the fact is that bad cholesterol from hare will not increase maybe you already know what I will say but our body produces a lot of cholesterol 3000 milligrams per day the liver produces 2000 other organs produce another thousand 3000 milligrams of cholesterol is 14 eggs that is how much cholesterol is contained in three hundred strips of bacon half a kilo of butter if the body produces so much cholesterol then a few egg yolks will not make a difference the body will simply produce less cholesterol is needed but this is a separate topic and so personal yolks contain B vitamins they contain vitamin and they contain zinc so I recommend them personally I eat at least three eggs a day I think that this is an excellent source of vitamins and microelements but you need pastured pastured organic eggs you heard right they are what you need and here is another interesting thing to note many animal products that you buy come from animals that were fed gamma grain This grain contains pesticides and other things, and this grain negatively affects the nutritional properties of animal products. So, if you compare pastured eggs with regular eggs, or, I don’t know, grass-fed beef with grain-fed beef, regular products have much fewer nutrients. So, if you want to get rid of cracked lips, start eating egg yolks, and in about a week the cracks will go away. I hope you liked it. See you there. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salmon course. It’s for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn’t come back. During the course, I’ll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.