 %5. What's your name? Why do you have such a massive mass? Why do we have such a massive mass of daily potassium? Well, friends, let us know what you think. It's a MCC Trambler. My husband has diabetes. He takes medicine for 10 years. He has been in recent years. He has been in recent years. And recently he has got MRZS. What's your BAD you recommend him take? He needs probiotics. It's the first one. Probiotic helps. He needs to look at my video on how to convert diabetes in 10 weeks by just taking off the drugs, eating intervall, maybe probiotics can help during the training. But here you go to the doctor. He waits until the body becomes disrespected, and then he will be able to treat you. Everything is like a problem, and you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. Therefore you have more information. cut them into the sugar, and then cut them into the liquid, and then you will be able to make it better, and that's why it will be less. So that's the answer. But in my videos, more than that. The guy, right now, subscribe and press the bell to be able to click all the notifications. If you don't choose all the notifications, YouTube can't forget about new videos. This simple action will help you to develop the channel. And we continue. All right, very good. You can see Riki from YouTube. Since all diseases are all in the stomach, how important to be able to get the organic food? I think it's important. In organic food, there are no pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, and pesticides, and that's really important. However, it's not that much. If you take a example, organic food, it's a pot-tarts. Okay? Hey, here you have a pot-tarts. Hey, here you have a pot-tarts. Hey, here you have a pot-tarts. What is it really? Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle Uncle more than 50ElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElElEl and you eat their whole life. And you eat their eggs. Okay, well. Then they have a great egg, but they have 100 000 in one room, and they have the same room, and they have the same room. And then you have a house-based egg, and I mean, it's just a weird thing. In organic eggs, there are no pesticides, antibiotics and all that. And it's important. But some people can buy it, so just do it. But you eat at least a single egg, and you eat a single egg, and I say, I don't recommend eating a single egg. Why? Because it's so much so expensive, and even a single egg, even a single egg, including a traditional egg. It's a very similar, which is a very similar, as the old egg. Therefore, Therefore, there is more. Therefore, there is more. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. Therefore. to regulate the function of the body. 22% said that the body needs to protect the balance of the nitrogen and control the arterial pressure. And 10% said that the body needs to improve the work of the body. Okay, so this is what I'm going to do with you, because it's interesting. RSN for all vitamins, such as B1, where 1,7 mg. Some of a ridiculous amount. RSN microalimenta also a nightmare. RSN natria 2000, 2400 mg. But the cale is 4700 mg, like this is much more than the rest of the body. And that's because cale is working inside the cell, and we have a trillion cells. So, thanks to cale is an electric potential in the nervous system, which allows us to reduce the muscle. And also cale is a PAH. And with sodium, it provides the operation of this battery, creates the power of the battery, so it's very important. And it's needed for the operation of the pump, which is a pump that takes the nitrogen from the cells and takes the nitrogen from the cells. So, if we look at how our ancestors were living, and ask ourselves, how did we get the nitrogen from the cells, we will see that it was very hard to get the nitrogen from the cells. So, that the body has been developed a mass of methods of holding the nitrogen from the cells, so we don't want to lose it. But for cale is no such a thing. We don't want to hold it. If you take 10,000 mg of cale is from your food, all his weight will be removed. So, our body has a lot of kale. We have a kind of uterus of kale. So, apparently, this means that our predates got a lot of kale. Where do we get it? Well, when we eat animals, when we eat animals, especially if we eat them completely, we have a lot of kale, we have a lot of kale, in the 10-10 times more kale, than in the 10-10 times, than in the 10-10 times, than in the 10-10 times, which we eat today. Also, if we consume кровь, кости, all these things, all these things, animals, and the products, we get very much kale, more. Even only more more more more more more more more more more They also had more than in the most of the fruits. So, our ancestors used to get up to 10, 12 to 15 thousand milligrams of calea. That's interesting. Because calea plays a great role in the protection of the blood pressure, it's perhaps a damage to kidney damage. It's possible to keep the fluid, the fluid, the blood pressure in our bodies. So, it's necessary to create energy. So, calea is very important. And the question is, can you just take 15 thousand milligrams of calea in the BAD? No. Now, if you want to take 1-2 thousand milligrams of calea in the BAD, it's fine, that's not a problem. But I would not take 10-15 thousand milligrams of calea in the BAD. If you want to take 1-2 thousand milligrams of calea in the BAD, because we don't know, what are the problems of calea in the BAD, in the BAD, in the BAD, but our body is not going to take 1-2 thousand milligrams of calea in the BAD. That's why we don't know what the important thing is to take. What are you doing about the most important electrolytic calea? Arrhythmia, судороги, tremor, высокое давление и плохой сон, последствия дефицита calea. Как его восполнить правильно и безопасно, я расскажу вам в своем курсе про калий. Записывайтесь по ссылке внизу. До встречи! Субтитры создавал DimaTorzok Субтитры создавал DimaTorzok