Hi all.  Let's start with a quiz question.  Please, Dog.  So, which has more antioxidants: blueberries or pomegranates?  And I'm just talking about the specific concentration of antioxidants. Friends, send your answers. It would be interesting to know.  Now let's answer the questions that have accumulated on social networks. Petra Strumble writes: "When I don't eat, I don't crave sweets, but as soon as I eat something that has protein, fat and no carbs, I get a terrible craving for sweets. It shouldn't happen. What's going on? Well, it just means that you haven't fully adapted to the enzymes that help you enter ketosis. You just need more time, because insulin resistance hasn't gone away yet, so there's a problem with nutrient absorption. It's slow, and these signals are occurring. You're doing everything right. Protein and fat without carbs, but it takes more time, and this craving will go away. I promise you, it will go away. Okay, thank goodness. Alicia from Facebook asks: "What remedies do you recommend for getting rid of parasites?" Wormwood extract and black walnut shells. The combination of these two remedies creates an environment where the parasites are forced to simply turn off the lights and leave. These are good remedies. I  I highly recommend them. Carey from Facebook writes very well. I have a high white blood cell count and swollen lymph nodes in my neck. What's going on? This is a normal reaction, unless there's other information. This is a normal reaction to infection. White blood cells should increase and fight. This is good. People absolutely do not want to get sick, they do not want to catch an infection. Well, but this is how we train our immune system. So, a fever, an illness - this is normal. Just get through it, and eventually your immune system will become stronger. After all, we strengthen the immune system if we do not try to artificially suppress any infection. But if you do everything right, and this goes on for too long, it's a completely different matter. Then you need to increase support for the immune system. And the first thing you need is vitamin D. It is more important than anything. And the second is zinc. This is good, doc, because we are all terrified of problems with the lymph nodes. Usually it is a sign of some terrible disease. Do you know what the purpose of the lymph nodes is, Steve? To collect infection, so to speak. There are lymph nodes in the neck, throat, and armpits. The job of these small areas is to prevent infection from spreading deeper into the tissues, to the arms, and so on. If you start fighting an infection in the throat, the lymph nodes notify the body that the virus has broken through, so the immune system can take action. So the location and role of the lymph nodes is strategically important. They help us. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications. If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you of new videos. This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel. And we continue. Amazing, here are the viewers' answers to the quiz question, which was as follows. Which has more antioxidants? Blueberries, which I love, or pomegranates, which I consider a strange fruit. Although it doesn't matter what I think. 55% answered blueberries, and 45% pomegranates. Almost equally. So, the answer is blueberries. But  Pomegranates contain unique antioxidants found in no other food. Pomegranates are also amazing because they reduce the risk of prostate cancer and directly kill Candida, the herpes virus. There 's also evidence that they effectively prevent plaque formation and help with memory loss after surgery. It's simply amazing. So, they have some fascinating properties. It's not just the amount of antioxidants, but the benefits they provide.