I want to give you very important information about vitamin A And not only about its benefits but also about its dark side Vitamin A is known as underkeratinization - this is a condition that creates skin problems If you have too much keratin, the skin will not be moist enough, it will be dry This is one of the reasons that both deficiency and excess of vitamin A can affect the skin in different ways On the other hand, vitamin A is necessary for the epithelial layer of the skin and the outer layer of the mucous membranes that line the body Vitamin A is involved in controlling what the skin will turn into Whether the skin cells will be normal or not As well as the cells of the internal surfaces, we mean the health of the mucous membranes of the various sinuses of the esophagus digestive system That is why vitamin A is important for immunity Because both the skin and mucous membranes are immune barriers And with vitamin A deficiency, these barriers are weakened and pathogens can overcome them Vitamin A is involved in the work of another part of the immune system T regulatory cells This greatly affects the possibility of developing autoimmune diseases Therefore, there is a link between vitamin A deficiency and autoimmune diseases of the thyroid glands with Graves' disease or Hashimoto's disease. So, its deficiency increases the risk of these diseases. In addition, vitamin A is needed for the absorption of iodine, so there is also a connection between iodine and vitamin A. Usually, with a vitamin A deficiency, problems with night vision occur, and if the deficiency is very severe, you can even go blind. Other possible symptoms include dry eye syndrome, weak immunity, skin problems, and even bone problems. If a child lacks vitamin A, his bones may somehow develop incorrectly. On the other hand, with an excess of vitamin A, there may be the same symptoms as with its deficiency: abnormal bone formation, dry lips, dry skin, double vision, oily skin, peeling skin, ringworm, excess calcium in the blood. This most often occurs due to an excess of vitamin D, but vitamin A is also associated with this. Another symptom is intracranial pressure. You may have a headache due to high pressure inside the skull. Here's what you need to know about the symptoms of poisoning. Usually, for this, you would have to eat more than half a kilo of polar bear liver, walrus liver, or moose liver, and the likelihood of this is extremely low.  A person can most likely get an overdose of synthetic vitamin A, for this reason, I never recommend taking vitamin A in supplement form. Unless it's from a natural source, it's better to get it from food. The fact is that 98% of all vitamins, including vitamin A, are synthetic, and not only Retinol is the active form of vitamin A. But even provitamin A, which is beta carotene, is also sold in synthetic form and it has its own side effects. There is a study showing that it increases the risk of developing lung cancer, especially if you smoke or drink more than one glass of alcohol a day. If you drink synthetic beta carotene, the risk of developing cancer increases, it's just awful. That's why I'm very careful about synthetic vitamin A. It can be added to foods and also included in complexes. It's much better to get vitamin A from food: cod liver oil, egg yolks, grass-fed butter, grass-fed travin cheese, and the liver itself are excellent sources of the active form of vitamin A, retinol. If you get the inactive form of vitamin A from food, beta carotene is also  Well, in this case, you don’t need to worry about poisoning because the conversion of beta carotene to retinol is not very efficient, you need a lot of beta carotene to get the active form. According to some estimates, you need six times more beta carotene to get one unit of retinol. But there is no definitive opinion here, you just know that beta carotene is required much more than retinol. But it is natural and will not cause poisoning. You only need to worry if you take synthetic beta carotene. But if you get it, for example, from kale or other dark leafy greens or even from carrots, you do not need to worry about its toxicity. But remember that you need a lot of it to get the active form. A couple more comments about vitamin A deficiency. If a person does not eat the foods that I listed, he may develop a deficiency, especially if he gets only the precursor beta carotene, and also in case of liver problems. For example, you have a fatty liver. Perhaps you have a protruding belly, there is fat on your belly and you do not know that this indicates a fatty liver, or your liver is damaged by cirrhosis, or there is inflammation in the liver of any kind.  Then you won't have a large supply of vitamin A and your ability to take vitamin A from your stores and use it will be low. This can also lead to a deficiency, especially if you have a gallbladder problem, for example, your liver doesn't produce enough bile or your gallbladders have been removed or anything else. Because of this, fat- soluble vitamin A, which comes from food, will be poor. There is another synthetic form of vitamin A, Akutan, an acne remedy. I don't know if it's familiar to you. This synthetic compound is a form of vitamin A. It has a warning in black frames about an increased risk of depression, suicide, and psychosis. Yeah, synthetic vitamin A has these side effects. Not to mention another serious symptom, a teratogenic effect, essentially, these are birth defects. If a pregnant woman takes Akutan, her child may be born with birth defects and developmental problems, premature or stillborn. So, synthetic vitamin A is a problem. As for vitamin A toxicity, there are antidotes for it that have been tested at least on animals. Large doses of vitamin E can help reduce Vitamin K, or more precisely K1, has a similar effect, as does red yeast rice, which is often taken as a supplement to lower cholesterol. Do you know what superfoods are? These are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these foods and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than 4 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also available. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.