Today we'll discuss how to naturally increase your growth hormone levels by more than 20 times.  Unfortunately, growth hormone levels decline significantly with age. By age 40, growth hormone levels decrease by 40%.  By age 60, growth hormone levels decrease by 60%. Growth hormone helps burn fat, build muscle, repair muscle, restore muscle, and even slow down aging.  Although there is still debate about whether it slows down aging, because growth hormone, if injected, can shorten life.  It causes many diseases.  It has a lot of side effects.  Your goal should not be to simply raise your growth hormone levels as high as possible.  It is important to know how to naturally increase or optimize it, and what can prevent it from increasing, especially when trying to lose weight, because with the loss of growth hormone, muscle mass is lost, the amount of fat, especially visceral fat, increases, bones become more fragile, and the skin becomes thinner and papery.  In addition, the cells' sensitivity to insulin decreases and problems with blood sugar appear. Growth hormone itself does not burn fat, repair muscle, or slow down aging.  It is a kind of signal for another hormone, which does all the work, namely IGF-1.  For growth hormone to do its full work via IGF-1, it must be converted in the liver.  This conversion requires insulin and auxiliary nutrients. Let's talk about what can interfere with growth hormone.  Firstly, insulin, as I already mentioned, obesity, age, sugar, stress, poor sleep, alcohol, overeating, especially in the evenings, and a lack of vitamin D. All of this can interfere with growth hormone.  If you don't have 1.1 activated, then the growth hormone won't provide all of these benefits.  Another thing you need to know about this transformation is that if you have a fatty liver, then all of this will work very poorly.  There are some things you need to know, especially in the context of this transformation.  Yes, carbohydrates raise insulin levels, but proteins also raise them to some extent. Of all the proteins, the protein that raises insulin the most is whey protein powder.  When you eat protein, you don't have to worry about insulin because protein activates hormones that balance everything out. And in the case of carbohydrates, refined sugar and all that, they activate insulin, but they don't activate the hormones that soften its effect.  Animal proteins are sufficient to activate insulin and make this conversion possible. That's all you need to know about insulin. If you eat animal protein, you will have insulin and you won't have to worry about it . I'm saying this because sometimes people say that if you're on ketogenic diet for a very long time , many months, your insulin will drop so much that you won't get any benefit from it.  But what about protein?  Protein stimulates insulin, so this argument immediately falls apart. Dairy products also strongly stimulate insulin. It is also an acid called leucine that does this.  It is found in animal protein.  Now let's move on to things that can optimize and increase growth hormone production by two to three times. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.   Let 's start with gambk.  Gamma-aminobutyric acid is a neurotransmitter that can increase growth hormone. You can increase your GAMB levels with magnesium glycinate, as I do.  Next, melatonin.  If you turn off the lights 2 hours before bed or wear computer glasses before bed, it is melatonin that will trigger your body to fall asleep.  Melatonin can also increase growth hormone levels due to the sleep- growth hormone connection, which we'll discuss later. Elglutamine is beneficial for gut health, but it also increases growth hormone levels. Arginine is also a good way to boost growth hormone, and some people take it. But there is one nuance here.  You should not take it shortly before training. Because if you combine arnine and training, it will lower the level of growth hormone.  If you take arginine, you should take it 2-3 hours before or after training to increase growth hormone levels . Hardening will also increase growth hormone levels .  There is also a supplement that is taken to increase growth hormone levels.  It's called Alpha GPC. Growth hormone helps enhance hypoxic training.  This is when you wear a mask that restricts your breathing to simulate mountain training. This should be done in intervals of 10 seconds at a time to induce stress in the body and stimulate the production of growth hormone.  And, of course, a ketogenic diet will also help with growth hormone production because you reduce carbohydrates, and as I already said, sugar and insulin interfere with growth hormone production.  On this diet you eat more protein.  Women, especially after menopause, do not eat enough protein.  And sometimes you have to force them to do it.  Because if you eat too little protein, once a day it may not be enough because the adrenal glands are in a catabolic mode in which they break down protein. They need compensation.  Therefore, animal protein is very important, as it provides the raw material for the growth hormone to work.  Let's move on to what can increase growth hormone levels by 5-10 times.  To achieve deep sleep, the room temperature should be around 18°. I just cover myself with a sheet to keep cool, but at the same time keep my feet warm. I cover my legs with a blanket and it works.   The room should be dark.  I wear a bandage and insert earplugs.  My wife doesn't do this, but she sleeps normally.  Drink magnesium at night, look at the sun in the morning.  The blue light from it wakes you up and starts your circadian rhythm.  so that you can sleep at night.  In other words, it resets the light-dark cycle and gets the circadian rhythm working properly. Some people live in this light constantly.  Even at night, their computer screens glow and disrupt their circadian rhythms. Exercising during the day will help you sleep at night. Glycine may increase GABA levels and improve sleep.  Zinc also helps in achieving deep delta wave sleep.  Another remedy that will help increase growth hormone by 5-10 times is fasting for 23-24 hours.  If you eat it once a day, the growth hormone increases significantly.  Now let's talk about how to increase it by 10-15 times.  You need to fast longer.  If you fast for 5 days, your growth hormone levels will increase dramatically.  Most of the benefits of a five-day fast will come after refeeding.  I talked about this in another video.  For those who haven't watched it, the link is below.  But the best way to increase growth hormone is through exercise.  They increase growth hormone by 10-20 times, especially when training with heavy weights. In the process, you may get injured. So don't rush into things. Increase the weight gradually.  The more intense the workout, the more growth hormone is stimulated.  The best exercises for stimulating growth hormone are squats and deadlifts because you are heavily loading a specific muscle group and stimulating growth hormone. There are a couple of things that can further enhance growth hormone stimulation . For example, not as long a rest as I usually recommend.  But I don't recommend it.  I'm just saying that if you rest for only 30-60 seconds, you will have more growth hormone.  But I don't recommend it because most people don't recover that well, so you have to do everything safely.  But there is something a little more intense, and that is sprinting.  Hard sprinting stimulates growth hormone better than squats or deadlifts because there's something else involved, namely lactate.  You may have heard of lactic acid, which causes muscle soreness after exercise .  The muscles fill with lactate, a byproduct of glucose, and this directly and dramatically increases growth hormone levels.   Did you remember to press the bell? During sprinting, there is a short-term release of lactate, somewhere around 10-15 seconds.  It is also produced during other types of training , but during sprinting it is produced in greater quantities, so sprinting will produce more growth hormone .  One study, the link will be below, showed that a 400m run and a bike ride are enough for this. And there is also CrossFit. CrossFit is a tough workout.  I can't do them because it's too much for me.  I am already 60 years old.  It's a combination of resistance training and cardio with very short rest periods.  But CrossFit is good at stimulating growth hormone production.   The body must recover well.  By the way, walking does not stimulate growth hormone.  Low intensity training does not increase growth hormone. I think it's really important to understand what stimulates growth hormone and what might interfere with it, so you can better understand your life and understand what you do that improves or optimizes growth hormone. Dr. Berg's workshop course. Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience , which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a KetoCoach, help people and achieve great success.  Work from home on your own schedule.  Do what you like.  Sign up for the course using the link below.