When I was growing up, I had flat feet. I went to the doctor and he gave me arch supports. These are insoles made to the shape of your feet that you walk with. These arch supports were supposed to get rid of my flat feet, but all that happened was that they made me dependent on the arch supports, which I threw away at 19 because it was much more pleasant to walk without them. If you have poor eyesight, you need to go to an ophthalmologist and he will prescribe you corrective glasses. But these glasses do not correct your vision or priapism. But in your sleep, they give you a device with a mask that constantly supplies you with air so that you can sleep normally. Will it correct your sleep? No, it's just a way to live with this problem. Or when you have high blood pressure, you go to the doctor and he gives you a pill. Does it correct this pressure? No, it only helps you live with the symptoms. That's what healthcare is doing now. It doesn't correct the symptoms, but only helps you live with them. That's why I make these videos to tell you what you need to do to solve the problem so that you don't get sick from anything. depended this brings us to the topic of this video the benefits of walking barefoot the foot contains 26 bones as well as 33 joints and 19 muscles this is an extremely complex part of the body that allows you to move and supports the weight of your entire body if you weigh 90 100 kilograms or more then these small feet have to bear a lot of stress and here is a big problem these shoes that you have to wear the problem with shoes is that they are not natural they squeeze the toes but someone buys pointed shoes they try to stick their toes where they do not fit the toes are spread wide if they are constantly squeezed then this creates many problems with gait balance calf muscles muscles of the feet and this can reach the knees so wearing shoes increases the risk of knee pain and even lower back pain because shoes change the dynamics of the foot firstly shoes lift the foot above the ground and the connection with the surface is lost stability is lost and the heels do not contact the ground directly but through something through a spongy cushion that is  the sole of the shoe and if you wear heels it's even worse once when I was still practicing I bought shoes for 300 dollars and they were the most uncomfortable shoes I've ever worn it was a shame to throw them away they were expensive but I remember coming home in the evening and I had terribly 0 and my feet were so uncomfortable the shoes were since we spend most of the day in shoes it is very important to choose comfortable shoes for yourself I recommend shoes that belong to the sandal category I bought several pairs of shoes with thinner soles and in which there is more room for the toes, that is, they are wider they are much more comfortable and they make the foot work harder this is good because it gives stability if you wear the wrong shoes who reduces the number of possible movements increases the temperature of the feet essentially cooking them in this narrow space this causes abduction of the knees, that is, it brings them inward which worsens the dynamics of the knees and increases the risk of pain in the knees in the lower back I already said the Achilles tendon becomes more rigid this tendon on the back of the foot this affects the ability to move and  Playing sports will also worsen blood circulation and can even shorten the length of the lower leg and cause atrophy of the lower leg muscles if you wear shoes with heels, one study showed that if the heel height is more than five centimeters and you wear these shoes for more than two years, then there is a significant decrease in the lower leg muscles and their strength, the longer you wear such shoes, the more you lose strength in your base, this will affect the whole body since the ankle bones are connected to the knees, father, hips, and so on. I will advise two things: first, find yourself a shoe with a smaller heel so that the foot is closer to the ground and which has more room for the toes and, as a result, stability. This is the first thing. Second, start walking barefoot on the grass and on the sand. This is a very useful exercise. At first, your feet will get tired, but then they will become stronger and you will find that there will be less tension in the joints. Let's go over the benefits of walking barefoot. First, your toes will finally be able to straighten out. This alone can prevent curvature of the toes and problems with gait. Second, the more contact with the ground, the better if the receptors that  The soles of your feet are in direct contact with grass, sand, or any other surface. This information will be transmitted through the body to the brain, and this will increase stability. You will be surprised how your body will feel when its base is in contact with the ground. Your joints will be less tense, you will be able to move better, and your stability and balance will increase. If you haven't watched my video about plantar fasciitis, now is the time to watch it.