Hi, I'm Dr. Berg and today I'm going to talk about the multivitamin and mineral scam.  And yes, it's a scam. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. If you go to any store that sells dietary supplements, you will see One AD brand vitamins and other multivitamins and minerals with the worst and cheapest prices in the world.  ingredients.  So let's start with the ingredients.  Let's look at the ingredients listed on this jar.  The first ingredient is always calcium carbonate. What is this?  This is limestone.  And you know, usually the ingredient that is listed first is the one that is in the largest amount.  That's why this jar of vitamins is so heavy. Because there are stones in it.  Beware of two ingredients in dietary supplements.  The first is iron.  It is extremely difficult for the body to remove it.  And the second is calcium, especially in the form of calcium carbonate.  After all, it seems like it has to go through 12 stages in the body before it is absorbed.  This is not the same calcium that is found in cheese and other dairy products.  This is calcium that is in the soil and is very difficult to absorb.  The next ingredient in many of these BDs is magnesium oxide.  This is also a very inexpensive ingredient.   The thing is that the form of magnesium is very important.  Magnesium oxide has the lowest bioavailability.  It is absorbed the worst , by 3-4%. And the more expensive magnesium glycine is absorbed by 80%.  Someone will say: "It's cheap, so take more."  But the more you take it, the stronger the laxative effect.  This may be good if you are constipated, but if not, I do not recommend magnesium oxide.  Next.  Ascorbic acid.  There are two types of vitamins: synthetic and natural.  But even synthetic vitamins from the laboratory can be called natural.  After all, the law does not define the concept of natural.  After all, vitamins can be made from oil, and oil is found in nature, just like coal tar, which means they are natural.  Some medical experts will probably tell you that there is no difference between natural and synthetic vitamins.  After all, the structure of their molecules is essentially the same. But tell me this?  Is it really possible to take coal tar and a couple of other chemicals, synthesize a vitamin from them, and then say that it is the same thing that nature gives us?  It's not the same .  And their chemical structure is not exactly the same.  After all, our body does not absorb some forms of synthetic vitamins, so they are not identical.  In nature, vitamins do not exist on their own , in isolation.  They are accompanied by many different things.  And in synthetic vitamins, this is number four, the so-called cofactors are absent.  A cofactor is something that helps something else.  If we open this book, it is one of my favorite books on biochemistry.  Biochemistry and molecular biology.  Author William Khliot.  When I took biochemistry in college, they didn't focus on cofactors, which are vitamins and minerals. Biochemistry cannot function without cofactors, vitamins and minerals. This is one of the reasons why we need nutrients.  They are essential for the functioning of biochemical pathways, whether it is the creation of hair, body tissue, or even the breakdown of food.  All of these chemical pathways require nutrients.  This is one of the purposes of nutrients.  I'm not going to go into the points in order, but it's important to know why we need nutrients in the first place, why we need multivitamins and minerals.  Because they cannot be obtained from food.  This is true.  But you get them from multivitamin supplements, which contain a lot of other things, including fillers.  You may not be getting what you expected to get.  We need vitamins and minerals as cofactors.  Vitamins and minerals are also needed to activate genes.  For example, vitamin D activates more than 2,000 genes. Other vitamins are involved in the synthesis of neurotransmitters and body tissues.  In nature, vitamins do not exist on their own, but only in the form of complexes. Therefore, I am categorically against taking any one vitamin without cofactors.  After all, you will end up missing out on these cofactors by taking just one vitamin, especially in high doses. One of the typical fillers is maltodextrin. I didn't know about this until I got to know more about the companies that make vitamins and minerals. This is a very common filler. It is found in many vitamins.  To turn something into powder and dry it, you need some kind of carrier.  And often it is maltodextrin.  Maltodextrin is a highly refined industrial starch.  Here is an example of industrial starch. Cornstarch.  It is obtained from inedible corn.  This is field or dent corn.  It is very cheap and is subsidized by taxpayers.  And this corn costs less than $200 per ton.  Imagine how much of this you can buy for next to nothing.  That's why it's used.  This is a cheap filler.  But this is not just cheap filler.  He's not harmless.  It's not even classified as sugar.  It is classified as a complex carbohydrate.  Is there something like potatoes or rice?  No, no, no.  How can it be a complex carbohydrate if it acts like sugar and is already so highly refined?  When you eat it, it causes a bigger spike in blood sugar than any sugar.  But there is a legal loophole that allows it to be called a complex carbohydrate or starch.  But it acts like sugar.  If it's in your supplements, it will spike your blood sugar and can easily negate any benefits.  People think that ascorbic acid is vitamin C, but it is a synthesized form of part of the vitamin C complex, ascorbic acid.  its antioxidant part.   More than 90 percent of ascorbic acid is produced in China and is made from GMO corn, with sulfuric acid added to it.  My God, corn again, what don’t they make from it.  And so, with the help of sulfuric acid, they synthesize ascorbic acid and package it beautifully . And you think, "Wow, I'm getting vitamin C."  It's probably similar to vitamin C from oranges.  No, it's an industrial product.  I'm not saying that vitamin C doesn't work, even synthetic.  I'm just saying that it's important to know what I think it's made from.  And in general, the difference between natural and synthetic vitamins is big, especially when compared with nature. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Let's move on to cyacobalamin. And again, this is a synthetic form of B12.  Many people have a genetic problem with the absorption and activation of vitamin B12 and folates, that is, vitamin B9.  If they are taking the synthetic form, folic acid, and the non-fatty form, cyanocobalamin, rather than methylcobalamin, there may be a problem because that form is not activated but accumulates in the body.  So, if you take too many of them and you have a genetic problem, which over 40 percent of people do, you may experience side effects. Another interesting fact about the ingredients is where the raw materials used to make these multivitamins and minerals come from.  There are only three, maybe four companies now that sell the raw materials for all the synthetic vitamins, and they are chemical companies. This is where these seemingly natural vitamins come from.  Great marketing and label image from a chemical company. Chemicals are used to synthesize something that you think is natural, but there is nothing natural in it.  These were the ingredients, we discussed the fillers. Now let's discuss the owners.  In fact, almost 100% of all these large companies selling multivitamins and minerals in colossal volumes are owned by pharmaceutical companies, food giants, chemical giants or large investment groups.  These are not some small family businesses. It's hard to know who's behind them.  This is a problem with any product.  You need to know who is behind him and whether he can be trusted.  Unfortunately, pharmaceutical companies have been implicated in crimes on more than one occasion.  There is a lot of fraud in the pharmaceutical industry .  Personally, I want to know who is behind my vitamins, whether their hands are clean and what they are striving for.  Does he want to produce quality vitamins or cheap vitamins?  And pharmaceutical companies produce extremely cheap products so that people can buy them, but at the expense of quality.  I said that there is a lack of real natural vitamins, as well as cofactors. So, vitamins, minerals, trace elements or cofactors are needed for our biochemical processes.  But there are also phytonutrients in nature , but they are rarely found in these products I mentioned, unless they are also synthesized. And phytonutrients are both antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents.  Their health benefits are vast and varied. And many drugs were created to mimic the effects of natural remedies, especially antioxidants and phytonutrients.  They tried to synthesize them and failed miserably. And the last point.  Standardized extract does not mean pure extract.  If you look at the label of any nutrient, say you buy ginseng extract, it says 100 mg, and it says it's standardized to 10% benzinosides. This is the active component, that is, there is half a milligram of it.  You think I get a small portion of the active ingredient in the ginseng solution. No, you only get half a percent of the azinosides and 95% of the filler.  Yes.  The filler can be silicon, maltodextrin, or any filler.  This is another loophole. They are trying to cheat more people with the help of such labels .  I even have to pay the companies that make my vitamins so they don't add hidden fillers. And I have to constantly monitor this.  After all, almost all raw materials contain these substances that we don’t need in dietary supplements. Who owns the top multivitamin and mineral brands?  Cent is owned by Pizer.  One Day is owned by Ber.  She now owns the Round Up Ready brand.  Natade is owned by the pharmaceutical company that markets ABFI.  But beyond multivitamins and minerals, the top 100 vitamin companies on planet Earth are owned by 14 companies that are pharmaceutical giants, food giants (that is, junk food industry giants), or chemical giants.  I thought it was important to tell you something that isn't talked about with many multivitamin products so you know that they may not be so natural after all.  Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals.  Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways: from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity.  How to fix this safely?  Will pharmacy vitamins help?  What supplements should I take?  How and when?  In the Nutrient Deficiency course, Dr. Berg will discuss vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them.  More than 100 lessons, notes and lists.  Everything you need to get a clear understanding of this topic.  Sign up for the course using the link below.