I want to talk about why it is so difficult for women to get rid of belly fat after menopause. I will not only answer this question but also tell you what to do about it. What happens during menopause? A lot changes. But just because of one change in the body, the ovaries retire and no longer produce and release eggs, but the ovaries produce not only eggs, they also produce hormones. During menopause, egg production stops and the amount of hormones decreases, but this happens normally. This is what activates the adrenal reserve system. The adrenal glands produce all the hormones that the ovaries produced. If the adrenal glands are healthy and work stably at the onset of menopause, the symptoms will be very mild, if there are any at all, that is, hot flashes are not at all normal. There should be no symptoms at all during menopause. Unless there are problems with the adrenal glands, there are other important points. Yes, estrogen does fall, but at the same time, progesterone levels fall even more, and the proportion of estrogen and progesterone  It may create the appearance of estrogen dominance, but it's not that simple. The ratio of estrogen and progesterone has changed. Sometimes women undergo hormone therapy, but it has a large number of side effects and complications. But now I want to focus on another thing that happens in the body, and it will provide the key to solving this whole problem. Normally, the adrenal glands should compensate for the hormones that are lacking, and no, this is not a mistake of nature. Everything should go like clockwork. Several things happen in the adrenal glands, including the level of the stress hormone cortisol. This explains why, during menopause, a woman may experience anxiety, increased nervousness, sleep problems, some agitation, and generally low stress resistance. This is directly related to the so-called autonomic nervous system. I want to focus on it in this video. The autonomic nervous system essentially adapts the body to the environment. The body constantly adapts to different temperatures and different environments. One part of the nervous system, the sympathetic nervous system, enhances things by adapting to stress. For example, you exercise. You need an increased heart rate and increased blood pressure to increase blood flow.  And as soon as you stop, another system, the parasympathetic, turns on, it calms various processes and returns the body to normal. The balance between these systems, the sympathetic and parasympathetic, is very important. And here's what's interesting: after menopause, a woman usually has an active sympathetic nervous system and a much less active parasympathetic nervous system. Without knowing this, during menopause, a woman may worry about estrogen or start exercising to remove belly fat that worries her, but then she sees that it does not work, and sometimes, on the contrary, it gets worse and starts going to doctors trying to find a solution. The main thing I want to teach you is to pay more attention to the parasympathetic nervous system. This is a recovery system. A system that affects sleep and the ability to recover is burned in the recovery phase. If there is a lot of stress and not enough rest, you will not remove belly fat no matter how hard you try. Training places a lot of emphasis on stimulating the sympathetic nervous system, but does not stimulate the parasympathetic nervous system. I recommend that you change tactics and start training the parasympathetic part. It is like a fire extinguisher that calms the sympathetic nervous system. This helps lower cortisol and improve sleep.  also make your stomach flat but How to train the parasympathetic part well This system is not passive it works to make you calm down actively works on your recovery and return to homeostasis, normal internal balance I will give a specific example let's say you go outside and quickly run up a hill while running the sympathetic nervous system is turned on it greatly increases your heart rate and raises blood pressure and now you have run you are exhausted and breathing heavily this is the peak of the sympathetic nervous system But as soon as you stop and do nothing the parasympathetic part is actively turned on like a wave that calms everything down it reduces the purity of the pu It puts a lot of effort to restore you And you just need to do nothing allowing it to do its task If you just wait until your heart rate is completely normalized you will strengthen the parasympathetic system but Who does this What do people do during training They train their heart rate soars they let it drop a little resting for 30 seconds if not less and return to their training doing So you do not train and the sympathetic system is strengthened not  recovering to the end and gradually losing the ability to recover As a result, the body produces more cortisol and fat appears on the belly, it becomes difficult for you to sleep and in this video I want to put a lot of emphasis on one simple thing Well understanding this you can apply it very widely you need to rest much longer between sets during training and also between days of training, for example, after completing a set of ten repetitions or training for some time completely Stop and wait until the heart rate drops to resting level Before starting the next set the same story and with the training itself in order not to allow overtraining by training during the week You must give your body time to fully recover and during recovery you strengthen the parasympathetic system it may seem that all this is not very important, but this is a very successful practice there were people whom I convinced to stop training three times a week and switch to training once a week and then they finally began to lose weight no need to go to extremes all the time just rest and sleep because intense training and stress are necessary for all this to work as it should at the same time the worst thing for your stomach is long and continuous training of any  I don't mean walking or hiking. I'm talking about things like long-distance running, including marathons. Any prolonged activity with a moderately elevated heart rate is harmful in terms of cortisol and for the parasympathetic system. Because of the wave principle, all processes in nature occur in waves. circadian hormonal rhythms, sleep cycles, heart rate, the heart contracts and relaxes. Therefore, high-intensity interval training is very useful in many ways because it is short and intense, and the rest after it is long. So, here are the main points: do short workouts and rest a lot. Avoid overtraining and training through pain. Try to sleep more. This will improve the functioning of the parasympathetic system, and also the quality of sleep. Any work with the body is useful: chiropractic, massage, physical rehabilitation. Omega-3 fatty acids can also help. It is also a precursor to all these hormones. DHA is an excellent supplement. Especially during menopause, women should not take it in large doses. Follow the recommendations in the instructions. If you overdo it, you can raise your testosterone levels. You probably don't need it. A low-carb diet with interval training is very important. Fasting automatically reduces the activity of the sympathetic nervous system in favor of the parasympathetic. Key nutrients for you are magnesium, Halin and vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 is also important. Some herbs are useful. Adaptogens are good. Melissa officinalis, passionflower, and ashwagandha. To summarize, the parasympathetic nervous system restores the sympathetic mechanism. Bey il Run. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, food lists, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.