Lately I've been playing around with a new research tool called site or seed.  Orc for those who haven't heard of it is a great search engine that allows you to access two hundred million documents where you can find information that is very difficult to find using a regular Google search and I studied the data on apple cider vinegar to find out if it has any other beneficial properties that I haven't talked about yet. The main acid in apple cider vinegar is acetic acid and your microflora produces acetic acid. Acetic acid is the most common short-chain fatty acid. What do I mean by short-chain fatty acid? Your bacteria digest fiber and produce various by-products and acetic acid is one of them. In fact, it's more than half of it. So, vinegar is one of the types of fatty acids. It's very interesting that acetic acid is a kind of fuel for intestinal cells. In other words, 70 percent of the energy that intestinal cells need comes from short-chain fatty acids. If you take all human cells, they get about ten percent of the energy from such acids. In one of the videos, I said that apple cider vinegar adds energy. Now you know why I talked about the benefits in other videos.  Apple cider vinegar for blood sugar and it also lowers your blood sugar by increasing acidity, which reduces the number of pathogens due to its powerful antimicrobial effect and since it reduces insulin resistance, it helps in terms of lipids, cholesterol, and glycerin from fatty liver, which helps reduce belly fat. In addition, it reduces appetite and generally improves digestion. But let's discuss the benefits that you may not have heard of. First, the acetic acid in apple cider vinegar is a powerful anti-inflammatory and is especially effective for the intestines. Of course, before taking it, you need to dilute the apple cider vinegar with water (a teaspoon or tablespoon). That is, you should not drink the vinegar itself, otherwise it will irritate the tissues. This acid needs to be diluted. Second, apple cider vinegar supports mucins, which are part of the immune barrier in your intestines that helps regulate the immune system and prevent pathogens from penetrating this important barrier. So, apple cider vinegar helps with leaky gut syndrome. Third, apple cider vinegar contains other substances, not only acetic acid, but also so-called phenolic compounds such as caffeine, quinine, and caffeine. gallic acid and so on, these compounds have the ability to inhibit the synthesis of so-called beta amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease that create problems in the brain, these compounds are also able to significantly improve cognitive abilities, fourth, and this is interesting, in some medical procedures, acetic acid is used for direct injection into the tumor, which leads to its reduction, so acetic acid and apple cider vinegar have an anti-cancer effect, 5, acetic acid and apple cider vinegar protect against excessive growth of candida in dentures, sixth, apple cider vinegar can be used as a remedy for fungus in the ear, or mycosis, when fungus or candida lives in the outer ear, seventh, apple cider vinegar is useful for a disease called atopic dermatitis, it helps with inflammation on the skin, of course, it needs to be diluted about one teaspoon in 350 milliliters of water and then applied to the skin, this can help reduce inflammation, so apple cider vinegar can increase the immune barrier not only in the intestines but also on the skin, 8, in one study, it was found that apple cider vinegar can  It's amazing how apple cider vinegar slows down the formation of plaque in blood vessels. Apple cider vinegar is a hepatoprotector. It helps protect the liver from certain metals, such as cadmium and aluminum. It also helps protect the liver from certain harmful microorganisms. As you can see, apple cider vinegar is an amazing home remedy that helps in many situations. If you haven't watched my video about apple cider vinegar, which has already received 14 million views, check it out here.