Let's talk about why you really need to sweat more often. Did you know that we spend over 75 billion dollars a year just to stop sweating? For some reason, people don't like to sweat, they don't like the smell, and most of all, they don't want anyone to know that they've sweated. Sweat itself doesn't have a bad smell. Odors arise from bacteria that ferment certain substances in sweat. Often, when using deodorants that clog pores, these substances in sweat are blocked, fermented more strongly, and the smell gets worse. There are two types of sweat glands. Some glands secrete oil and are associated with hair follicles, for example, under the arms. Other sweat glands secrete more salty fluid. But the overall purpose of sweat is that it helps the body control temperature, lowering it so you can keep moving and not get heatstroke. This is a survival mechanism. We can lose a lot of sweat. We can lose 2 to 4 liters of sweat every hour. This is a huge amount of fluid leaving the body. When people experience fear or severe stress and sweat, sweating smells completely different. Let's see what sweat consists of. One liter of sweat contains  9 tenths is almost 1 gram of sodium, so there is a lot of sodium and potassium in sweat. There are only 2 tenths of a gram per liter of sweat, even less calcium, 15 thousandths of a gram per liter, and magnesium, 13 thousandths of a gram per liter. There are also many other substances in sweat: chloride, fatty acids, even glucose, proteins. In general, the chemical composition of sweat is the same as that of the liquid part of the blood, only without red blood cells, and like the fluid that is between the cells and capillaries, that is, it is a salty liquid, and some of these minerals are even reabsorbed through the sweat glands. But here's what you need to know: the average person consumes about three thousand 300 milligrams of sodium every day and about 2600 milligrams of potassium every day. Let's compare this with how much the body actually needs. Let's take sodium, for example. The average person needs less sodium than he actually gets. He needs about 2300 milligrams, but he gets 3300, that is, he gets an extra 1000 milligrams of sodium every day, but a person needs potassium. 4700 milligrams is much more than what he actually gets, and so the average person gets 2100 milligrams of potassium less than they need. Only five percent of people get 4700 milligrams of potassium every day. But the proportion of these minerals is much more important than their amount. So if you get little potassium, just don't consume a lot of sodium. But if you consume more sodium, consume much more potassium. At least two or even three times more potassium than sodium. There are many studies on this topic. The link is below. But these proportions must be observed. This is especially important for the cardiovascular system. That's why I produce an electrolyte powder. It contains a lot of potassium and little sodium, which eliminates this imbalance. So, here's what benefit sweating brings. Number one, it restores the correct balance of sodium and potassium. Because the average person, as I said, has too much sodium and little potassium. When we sweat, we lose much more sodium than potassium. So, by simply losing sodium, you correct this balance and strengthen the cardiovascular system. Number two, you can remove some toxins contained in the blood. Just keep in mind that in doing so, you also lose useful substances.  but toxins will be eliminated if they are in the blood number three you will sleep better people notice that when they sweat especially during training they then sleep better at night perhaps sleep improves during training but the mere fact that we correct the balance of sodium and potassium improves the functioning of the heart and blood vessels improves breathing blood circulation and sleep improves number four more energy but it’s not all clear because if you sleep more you will have more energy if you have an imbalance of sodium and potassium and you correct it you will have more energy but if you lose too many electrolytes especially sodium you will feel tired so if you sweat and do not replenish sodium fatigue may increase but it all depends on how much you train and whether you replenish electrolytes at the same time number five sweating can increase blood circulation and prevent overheating look when you sweat you push out certain fluids this is very beneficial for the skin blood circulation because you push something out and I hope you get something in return unlike inactivity when you do not sweat liquids do not circulate throughout the body and do not stagnate and blood circulation decreases. Number six, sweating creates a hermetic effect. What does this mean? This means that sweating creates a certain stress and the body adapts, becoming stronger. This is especially true for neurons in the brain. I found a study (link below) that says sweating helps preserve brain cells, which is quite interesting. Number 7, sweating strengthens the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands largely control sodium and potassium levels. If you have an imbalance and you sweat, you can restore their balance and thereby strengthen the adrenal glands. This is also ambiguous, because if you lose too much sodium or even lose too much potassium, this can have a negative effect on the adrenal glands. But usually, a person sweats when they exercise, and exercise strengthens the adrenal glands. If you rest enough, yesterday I was mowing the lawn and it was hot. I was sweating like crazy. It was pouring down my face, it was pouring down my eyes, it was salty. I went into the house, took a shower, and by God, how good it was and I felt the rest of the day and slept great that night. I think now it’s best for you to watch a video about training. The unique benefits of training are here.  she look