Today we'll talk about 10 types of fake food that you'll never buy again once you find out what I'm going to tell you about. Number one is fake steaks. It's interesting that certain restaurants and suppliers use pieces of meat that are glued together with so-called meat glue. This glue is called trans glutamine, and there are a couple of problems associated with this glue. The meat needs to be processed, which means an increased risk of bacteria getting into it, and no one talks about how exactly this glue is made. Initially, it was made from cow or pig blood plasma, to which certain things were added, for example, bacteria, and then they started making glue. These bacteria are simply fermented, but the problem is that this process is opaque. It 's unknown how it's made. If you go to a restaurant and they serve filet mignon, ask if they use meat glue. Second, Parmesan cheese. Unfortunately, most Parmesan is not produced in Parma, which is in Italy. I can imagine how delicious real Parmesan from that same Italian city is, but unfortunately, everywhere, especially in the USA, another variation of this cheese is common, made from other ingredients, it's usually made from cheap cheeses like chetvero and powdered mozzarella with added cellulose and mold inhibitor, and the worst thing is that it's legal to sell this fake Parmesan, because the cellulose is taken from natural sources of wood pulp, and in cheese, from 4 to 20 percent, that is, one-fifth of this cheese is wood, that's how the company makes more money due to cheap ingredients, then we have crab sticks, they're called seafood hot dogs, I mean imitation crab meat, it's also called surimi, when making it, they take fish scraps or all kinds of fish offal, add starch from potatoes, wheat, corn, or tapioca, mix everything, add monosodium glutamate to enhance the flavor, then add crab-flavored flavoring because this mixture doesn't taste like crab, add protein, usually egg white or soy, and then add sugar or sorbitol, and also soybean oil or other vegetable oil, sprinkle with benzene, there's sodium so that everything has a longer shelf life, and  Of course, dyes to make this imitation look like crab, now you know how these crab sticks are made, further down the list, not real tuna, I mean semi-finished tuna products or canned goods, one company investigated this and found that in the canned goods of 21 percent of the producers they checked, there was no real tuna, canned goods were called incorrectly instead of tuna there was another fish called scalar, scalar is also known as oil fish, it has been banned in Japan since 1977 because it was considered poisonous, scalar is also called laxative fish because it causes diarrhea and incontinence of stool, if you see that the dance is very white, a pale shade, then it is not tuna, let's move on, extra virgin olive oil, I already made a video on this topic, 80 percent of olive oil is extra virgin, not extra virgin, extra virgin means that the oil is processed very quickly and that it is cold pressed, this is a higher quality process and more antioxidants remain in it when you consume it, it has a completely different taste and smell, it has a fresh aroma, and when  When you use it, it makes your throat a little scratchy, and that's how you can tell it has essential phytonutrients. It tastes like fresh grass, and it's very different from real oil, which is just bland. I didn't even know what real olive oil tasted like until I went to Italy. Now that I know, I can tell real olive oil from fake olive oil by smell. About 80 percent of extra virgin olive oil is n't extra virgin. Sometimes they add canola oil or a mixture of other oils. It's rancid and overheated, processed, and it doesn't have any phytonutrients. Next, maple syrup. Most store-bought maple syrup is made from either brown sugar or refined white sugar with added flavoring and artificial colors. Some of them are even made from high-fructose corn syrup. Since it doesn't contain natural antioxidants, which you've used as a preservative, they add preservatives like sodium benzoate and ascorbic acid to keep the syrup from spoiling. Next on the list is truffles and oil. Truffles and oil are made from very expensive ones.  A flavoring agent was isolated from mushrooms that allows other materials to taste like truffles. This substitute is used in restaurants to save money because real butter is very expensive. Next, powdered instant coffee. It may contain flakes, caramel, starch, malt, and figs. In addition to all this, it also contains acrylamide, a potentially dangerous chemical found in instant coffee. This potentially dangerous chemical occurs during the roasting of coffee beans. Instant coffee contains twice as much of it as other types of coffee. It can affect the nervous system and increase the risk of cancer if consumed regularly. The next item on the list, and I already made a video about this, is wasabi. Most of the wasabi in America is just a mixture of regular horseradish, mustard, and green dye. This has nothing in common with wasabi, meaning it's not real. It's reported that 95 percent of all wasabi sold is not real. I'm talking about the entire world, even in Japan. This is all because wasabi is very difficult to grow and it's very expensive. It costs about one hundred and sixty dollars per kilogram, and that's wholesale. If you take fresh wasabi and grind it into a paste, it will quickly spoil in about fifteen minutes. By spoiled, I mean it loses its flavor. But that doesn't happen with horseradish. Horseradish doesn't spoil for longer. The last item in the store is guacamole. Even if it says it's guacamole, that doesn't mean it contains avocado. Unfortunately, these impostors are made from sour milk, vegetable oil, water, egg yolk emulsions, and a lot of helium. They thicken it with soy protein isolate. They use food coloring for coloring. Some of the store-bought Molly contains only two percent avocado. Incredibly, the next video you should watch is about olive oil. It's not that simple with olive oil either. Just watch it.