I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  Healthy habits for the rest of your life is the question we will answer today Why do most men in India have a protruding belly Women in India Italy also have an enlarged belly Why is this so and what can be done about it When I was practicing I had many patients from India they came to me to get rid of belly fat But it's not just about belly fat to a large extent it is also associated with digestive problems If a person has a belly he definitely has a fatty liver and if we read materials on the topic of digestive problems in India we will see we don't really know this is unknown probably the matter is stress and lack of exercise but the obvious is being missed what is obvious here This is what we will discuss now there are so- called omnivores These are animals that eat food of both plant and animal origin for example Meat is herbivorous animals They eat plants for example gorilla is a herbivore gorilla chews all day to get enough food and gorillas always have a protruding huge belly sometimes It is even wider than the shoulders unlike gorillas chimpanzees are omnivores animals eat others  Animals eat meat, but they also eat plants, and chimpanzees have flat stomachs. We have a goat, Billy, on our farm. Karen left for a few days, and I was looking after the goats. I noticed that little Billy had a huge, protruding belly. I got worried. I drove Billy in my car to the vet for over an hour to find out what was wrong. The vet looked at Billy and said it was normal. A flat belly should be big. And I'm in the World Cup, and what's the matter here? What does this have to do with people? Herbivores ferment fiber, and microorganisms ferment it in the intestines, and the animal gets protein from bacteria that eat fiber, and bacteria are 60 percent protein, and the herbivore digests this protein, because the animal cannot digest the cell directly. The fact is that India is the last in the world in terms of animal meat consumption. Indians have too much fermentation in the small intestine, there is something called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome, which is when fermentation occurs where it shouldn't be. We have a stomach for  There is a long small intestine and behind it is the large intestine. Normally, our cells should be digested in the large intestine. Let's look at what the Indians ate 5,000 years ago. 100 years ago, we will see that they didn't eat a lot of meat. But they still ate it from time to time. They sometimes ate goat, lamb, but not beef. And today, the three main ingredients that are found in almost any ultra- processed food are sugar. This is glucose syrup, it's not even cane sugar, but synthetic. Further, oils from seeds, they are ultra-processed by industrial methods, cause severe inflammation. Of course, starches in the form of maltodextrin, food starch. We're not talking about potatoes, we're not even talking about brown rice, we're talking about refined starches, and all of this is present in the Indian diet. Especially those who don't have money and who can't afford quality food. And when E appears in the diet, the gastric mucosa begins to break down. As a result, ulcers develop, as well as gastritis. When a person starts eating junk food and weakens the digestive system, a bacterium is activated that corrodes the gastric mucosa. This is the bacterium Helicobacter pylori. Helicobacter pylori has a very interesting survival strategy: it reduces stomach acidity. And to do this, it produces ammonia, which changes the pH of the stomach and the bacterium can survive, and as a result, the person's stomach no longer has acid, and food is not digested; the microbes in the stomach do not die. In addition, many take antacids, which further weaken the digestive system and increase the risk of contracting Helicobacter pylori, and the gastroenterologist does not find anything in you. So he simply treats you; he is not trained in dietetics and nutritional therapy. This is a big omission. How can we eliminate this problem? Everything that causes bloating is not good for you. Remove this from your diet. Don't eat it anymore. It could be fiber, vegetables, fruits, and many cereals also contain a lot of omega-6, which causes inflammation at the same time. I would refuse snacks between meals. I would fast intermittently so the digestive system will immediately get a break and a chance to heal, and here's something interesting about meat: the Kornevo diet. I'm not saying that you should or shouldn't follow it, but many people heal their intestines with it. Because we remove all this fiber that irritates an inflamed stomach. Meat contains a lot of glutamine, and it heals holes in the intestines. I tried being a vegetarian, and I had too much bloating. I thought that fiber was needed to have a bowel movement. But this is definitely not true. Will you go on a carnivore diet or not for dietary or other reasons? But you need to start increasing the amount of protein, this could be fish, eggs, and so on. Usually, animal protein is digested much easier. So, I recommend that you eliminate empty carbohydrates. See if this helps you. If you have bloating, keep it and start eliminating some other foods. I recommend a couple more remedies, one of them is called betaine hydrochloride. I would not take it only if you have an ulcer or gastritis. This remedy will increase the acidity in the stomach. Take it.  Five to six capsules of betaine hydrochloride before meals. Soon you will feel that your stomach is getting better and better because its pH is normalizing. If your food contains pathogens, the acid in the stomach will kill them and they will not get into the small intestine and start fermentation and so on. I think this is a great way to start correcting the situation. But to learn more about the digestive system and what to do in different situations, watch this video.