Never take iron supplements. It is the most toxic mineral we can consume. Therefore, if too much iron enters the body, it begins to accumulate in the organs, tissues become overloaded with iron. There is such a genetic problem. Excess iron in the body is not excreted and this is very dangerous. You may not even realize how much iron you get daily. It is very important to have an idea of ​​where it comes from. The sources can be very strange. I will list the risks that arise with excess iron in the body. First, cancer, especially colorectal cancer. Second, liver disease. I mean liver fibrosis, inflammation that leads to cirrhosis. Heart disease. Iron creates rust. Excess iron rusts inside the body. Low testosterone, low libido, diabetes, chronic fatigue syndrome, infertility, and a wide range of inflammatory diseases. In one of the videos, I said that iron deficiency is one of the most common, but at the same time, excess iron is one of the most dangerous things. Toxic iron levels are very poorly diagnosed and too often overlooked. Unlike other vitamins and minerals, let's see where you can most often get it from. Iron without realizing it, one of the ways to get excess is supplements, especially multivitamins. I do not recommend taking multivitamins where there is iron, it is poorly absorbed, which means that a lot of iron accumulates in the digestive tract. This leads to consequences such as constipation, nausea, diarrhea, bloating, intestinal irritation. Iron is absorbed by 10 percent, the rest irritates the digestive tract. Most people get it from supplements. This type becomes food for pathogens in the gastrointestinal tract. Pathogens love iron, they multiply very quickly. If you give them too much food in the form of iron, heme iron from red meat and even from fish is absorbed better by at least 35% and it goes directly into the blood, which leaves very little free iron in the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, red meat contains many other nutrients, for example, vitamins B2, B3, B1, B12, zinc, selenium, and high- quality protein, which can balance iron well, unlike supplements with a high iron content. A few words about a genetic problem with iron, this occurs. It is not so rare in  This disease has one interesting feature: a huge excess of iron in the body is accompanied by an iron deficiency. The topic of this video is when a person has too much or too little iron. In fact, this is an iron dysfunction. This problem cannot be solved by simply taking iron. Iron is available both in complexes and in the form of individual supplements, which I strongly advise against. Get it from food. For example, if you lose blood during menstruation, eat more red meat or drink liver in capsules. Bread and pasta in the US contain a lot of iron and it gets stuck in the intestines, causing severe bloating. Iron affects the microflora and irritates the intestines due to poor absorption. Cereals will not help. Read what they write on the packaging of junk food. Iron is added to it, but it can be described differently. I will name three types of hidden iron that you may not mistake for iron: ferrous fumarate, ferrous sulfate, iron gluconate. These are all types of iron. So, supplements fortify foods. Cast iron pans. When cooking, cast iron cookware releases a lot of harmful iron. Like, if you drink a lot, it damages your liver. And if the liver is damaged in any way, this alone can lead to iron accumulation. But the main reason many people have iron dysfunction is a lack of copper. Copper is higher in level, it helps control iron. There are many different enzymes that depend on copper and are directly related to iron control. The first of the copper enzymes converts iron into a form that accumulates less in the body and makes toxic iron safer. Copper also allows you to transport iron to the body. Without copper, it moves poorly and eventually accumulates. Copper is part of a very powerful antioxidant that reduces oxidation, the source of which is iron. When iron in the body combines with hydrogen peroxide, which the body produces itself, deadly free radicals are created. They cause great damage to the body, and they are formed from hydrogen peroxide and iron. Honey helps reduce this oxidative stress, the formation of rust in the body. Copper is needed to produce the heme protein, which allows iron to carry oxygen. You may think that you do not have a copper deficiency. But you need to know more. After all, you can have such a deficiency, but  Don't rush to drink, add it with copper because in addition to copper deficiency, there is also a problem with its toxicity. Let's go through the list of things that actually cause copper deficiency. The first is glyphosate. This herbicide binds to copper to a greater extent than any other mineral in the soil. If you eat foods treated with glyphosate, you will not get any copper at all. Many modern methods destroy the soil and you do not get trace elements, especially copper. Some antibiotics deprive you of copper, this is another path to its deficiency. High fructose corn syrup blocks the absorption of copper very seriously. When you eat cereal, bread and other wheat products are also capable of binding copper. My main point is that the cause of iron deficiency and anemia is actually iron dysfunction. It very often occurs simply due to copper deficiency. I will list the main sources of copper: oysters, crustaceans, organ meats. And as I said at the beginning, never take iron supplements. Getting iron from animal foods and do not forget about honey because many people have problems with iron simply because of Copper deficiency If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel to stay up to date with new videos.