Silymarin is a group of certain phytonutrients, of which milk thistle makes up 60 percent. Between the forties and nineties of our era, it was used for snake bites in the sixteenth century for jaundice, a liver disease, and gallstones. In the nineteenth century, it was used for liver problems and diseases. By the way, silymarin has a very short shelf life. If you take it medicinally, take it several times during the day. If you take it once a day, your body or liver will excrete it with bile. It should remain in the body all day. When you take it medicinally to get rid of toxins or strengthen the liver in a certain way, let's consider its unique benefits. So, number one, silymarin reduces liver and kidney toxicity. This toxicity can be caused by poisoning with Tylenol AM, alcohol, mushrooms, and so on. This list goes on and on. Silymarin in milk thistle is a hepatoprotector; it protects liver cells. Number two, it is of great benefit to alcoholics because alcohol creates  in liver toxicity, that is, silymarin increases the lifespan of the liver number three, it counteracts toxicity during chemotherapy number four, prevention of fibrosis, the formation of scar tissue in the liver because it reduces inflammation in the liver, so it is very useful for people with hepatitis, not to mention those who have a fatty liver because it can also do this number five, it can reduce insulin resistance, so with high insulin resistance, silymarin will be very useful for you, and with a decrease in insulin resistance, insulin levels decrease and the amount of fat in the liver decreases number six, silymarin helps with mushroom poisoning number 7, it helps regenerate liver cells 8, it even helps with depression 9, can help with an enlarged prostate number 10, according to research, it helps with varicose veins, so milk thistle is a powerful plant, I recommend growing it at your dacha because it is an excellent natural remedy with almost no side effects I invite you to my course if you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you, it will help restore liver health, my  Unique videos, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.