Hi, I was asked what I eat during the day. Let's talk about this now. I usually get up at 5:30 in the morning and immediately drink coffee, a very small cup. I drink organic coffee. I add full-fat cream, also organic and from grass-fed cows, and half a teaspoon of xylitol. I drink this coffee and then take 4 tablets of nutritional yeast. It makes me feel better. I get up early and study materials on nutrition while I work. Sometimes I drink poultry. Well, it's a kind of alternative caffeine drink. And sometimes tea. For the first time, I have had it for 2 days. I love eggs and only organic from the farm. Since then, I add sea salt and pepper and fry them in butter. I also fry six slices of bacon or three sausages, and sometimes two sausages from farm-raised beef. I do n't buy bacon from the store either. I get it at the farmer's market or buy it online from the farm's website. Their sausages and sausages are also included, and then about 100 grams.  I sometimes add olives to it, by the way, I'm very picky about cheese. For example, I like this cheese, it's made from the milk of sheep grazing in the highlands of France. Another example is Sura Swiss, it's made from unpasteurized milk and kept in a cellar. I eat about this much for my modest breakfast. If there is avocado, I add it too. That's all my food. After eating, sometimes I add 4 tablespoons of almond milk, celery, or just pecans. Sometimes I add walnuts to ice cream, but more often for dinner, not at 1:30 pm. I also mix electrolytes and wheatgrass powder, and during the day this gives the necessary boost of energy. Then it gets worse, but at about 5:30 pm I eat a huge bowl of salad, about 10 glasses at a time. I don't eat spinach, but I add cabbage, lettuce leaves, and other leafy vegetables. I chop bell peppers, sometimes I add pieces.  avocado and other vegetables sometimes pork rinds and seeds well roasted seeds are best in sea salt then I eat a piece of farm beef or pork sausage also from the farmers market or a piece of wild salmon for protein the hardest thing is to find a seasoning sauce that doesn't contain soy oil and sugar here is an example of one it contains buttermilk sunflower oil sea salt onion garlic and not a gram of sugar that's what I use here is another example olive oil and balsamic vinegar also works and yet it's very hard to find a sauce without soy balsamic vinegar and extra virgin olive oil also sugar free here is another one I recently found contains extra virgin olive oil and no sugar that's what you need sometimes scientific m sara smoked sausage about half of such a shelf it's cheese I can also buy from farms very tasty made from farm beef without nitrates and sugar then at about 10:15 pm I take striped and after 15 minutes I pass out and sleep for 7 hours and in the morning the cycle repeats again well  That's all, an example of what I usually eat during the day. I want to add something. Only 30 percent of people who open this video watch it to the end. And you watched it to the end. I really appreciate it. Thank you very much.