Let's talk about how to deal with excessive sweating not only of the hands but of the whole body. In medicine, this is called hyperhidrosis. There are eccrine sweat glands. And there are apocrine sweat glands. There are glands of the third type, the sebaceous glands. In general, I will try to explain everything as simply as possible. I will put it in simple language, so to speak, because the ES is a bit complicated. So, they react to physical exercise, nervousness, emotional stress, hot weather. Apocrine glands react to emotional stress, fear, pain. Sebaceous glands are a little different. After all, they secrete an oily substance called sebum for lubrication. Eccrine and apocrine glands secrete salt and other electrolytes, and their main purpose is to cool the body. Something causes a reaction, division, and then the evaporation of the secreted fluid cools the body. So, eccrine and apocrine glands provide thermoregulation, and excessive stimulation of the eccrine glands leads to excessive sweating, and this is usually caused by stress, usually emotions. The body's resistance to stress is simply reduced, and excessive stimulation causes trifles You may not feel stress, but your body Apparently has a very low stress tolerance threshold. That's what. In my opinion, it's very, very strange. In some such cases, it is treated surgically. This is a thoracic sympathectomy, in which part of the sympathetic nervous system is literally removed. In Sweden, this operation is prohibited due to side effects. Removal of part of the nervous system. Is it still too invasive, or are the corresponding enzymes and neurotransmitters blocked with the help of drugs? Again, I'm trying to speak very simply. The body's thermostat is in the brain. You can call it a thermostat. It's in the hypothalamus. It's very similar to the equipment in my studio. I have a remote control. And there's a sensor there. It's set to a temperature of 177°, and when the temperature gets too high or low, a mechanism turns on and lowers or raises the temperature. In general, there is a sensor or receptor that detects the temperature and controls everything. There is also a receptor in the brain that detects the temperature and turns off or turns on a certain mechanism. So, here we have a thermostat mechanism with feedback between the hypothalamus and the skin. It's clear that we won't go into this further. And these drugs seem to stop this communication and turn off this  mechanism so that it does not continue to work and work, so with the help of surgery, part of the sympathetic nervous system is removed, and the drugs act on both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems, that is, in fact, this is an attempt to balance the autonomic nervous system, but it is affected. And here is the question: is there a natural herbal remedy that acts like these drugs but without side effects? And these drugs always have side effects, and yes, there is such a remedy, a very specific phytonutrient that acts like these drugs, called romariki slota, rosmarinic acid is found in rosemary and sage. So, these plants contain this phytonutrient that acts like these drugs. I found another substance related to this, this is vitamin B1, thiamine, one of the side effects of acute B1 deficiency, namely, acute B1 deficiency. If you want to know its name, Wernicke Korsakoff syndrome, it is part of the disease beriberi, which occurs due to B1 deficiency, one of the side effects of this syndrome is excessive sweating. The fact is that thiamine is very important for  the autonomic nervous system, it is necessary for its functioning; with a deficiency of B1, a variety of problems with the autonomic nervous system are possible, in particular, excessive sweating with problems with the sympathetic nervous system, and this is the leucorrhea regime, and even the parasympathetic system needs vitamin B1 in sufficient quantities, and here is such an interesting coincidence: sage is very rich in vitamin B1 and vitamin If we talk about its effect on the brain, it acts on the limbic system, which is closely related to emotions, this is a kind of switch associated with emotions and emotional stress. And the more emotional stress you have, the less vitamin B1 you have, because the need for vitamin B1 increases with stress, and taking vitamin B1 helps reduce stress now. We only care about what is associated with the limbic system. So, I recommend two things number one. If you suffer from excessive sweating, take rosemary acid in the form of rosemary or sage and enough vitamin B1. I highly recommend using natural B1 and not the common synthetic one. I would take four times more than what is indicated in  Instructions to see the changes. I hope I explained everything very simply. I didn't want to get into the weeds. The next most interesting video you need to watch is about vitamin B1. Watch this video.