Let's talk about the health benefits of cocoa and dark chocolate. Cocoa is raw beans that are then fermented and turned into chocolate. These products have great health benefits. 2.7 billion kilograms of chocolate are consumed annually. It is rich in phytonutrients, polyphenols, and flavonols, which are higher in it than blueberries or acai berries. It has almost no caffeine, but it does contain theobromine, which is a stimulant, so if you eat chocolate in the evening or before bed, it can be difficult to fall asleep. I consume chocolate regularly, but in small quantities and always without sugar. I only buy organic because the plant is often sprayed with various chemicals, including glyphosate. I mainly buy these two brands. There are others, but make sure the chocolate is series 3. There is monk fruit or a large selection. So, what is so beneficial about cocoa and dark chocolate? They are very good for the heart. They lower blood pressure because they increase nitric oxide levels, which helps relieve vascular spasms. Also, blood pressure is normalized due to the high content of magnesium, it is rich in iron, potassium, phosphorus, and zinc. Secondly, chocolate increases HDL and decreases LDL, especially oxidized LDL. Third, serious studies have shown a reduced risk of heart disease, and what is very important is a reduction in endothelial dysfunction, which is the beginning of heart disease. Damage occurs in the inner layer of the artery walls, especially coronary arteries, and cholesterol and calcium rush to this place, forming plaques and blood clots. These antioxidants, polyphenols and flavonols, protect the inner layer and the lining of the arteries. But of course, if you consume chocolate without sugar, because sugar acts on blood vessels like sandpaper. Fourth, it reduces cortisol and adrenaline levels, which is why people often eat chocolate when stressed. Fifth, it reduces the risk of some types of cancer. Sixth, it reduces insulin levels, correcting insulin resistance. 7. Chocolate can reduce the risk of stroke. 8. It lifts the mood and brings a person out of depression. How is unknown, perhaps due to an increase in serotonin, perhaps due to theobromine, or maybe due to polyphenols.  Nevertheless, the effect is obvious: 9. Increased physical performance; 10. Improved blood circulation in the skin, probably due to nitric oxide; Improves skin texture; Moisturizes it; and 11. This is related to the third point: Chocolate reduces metabolic syndrome by normalizing blood sugar, cholesterol, and blood pressure. However, I should mention that cocoa and chocolate are high in oxalates, and if you are predisposed to kidney stones, you should not consume them. We are pleased to present the Healthy Chum Salt 2000 2013 Online Summit. 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of health and intermittent fasting. Watch online at a convenient time, exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of chum salt fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. Who spoke at this chum salt summit? Author and popularizer of chum salt, Dr. Eric Berg, will share amazing information about nutritional deficiencies that occur in chum salt and intermittent fasting. Dr. Jeff Gerber, a qualified family physician and nutritionist from Denver, will also be visiting. Dr. Herbert will talk about the rejuvenating effects of the ketogenic diet and much more. Dr. Herbert also holds large annual conventions on low-carb diets in Denver. He is the author and researcher of Dr. and Request Man, director of the Duke Lifestyle Clinic, and will share with us his practical knowledge of ketones, which he gained working with thousands of patients. Professor Stephen K. Nasher of Brooks University in Montreal will give a presentation in which he will share information about the effects of ketones on the aging brain and how ketones help cognitive functions. Cynthia Turnul, a functional nutritionist who has spoken twice on EX, will talk about intermittent fasting strategies and present solutions to potential problems. We have invited Dr. Ali Al-Nah Wat, a therapist working in Oman in the Middle East. He will talk about how this affects the endocrine system and how he uses this diet in his practice. Aivar Cummins, author of books, a biomechanical engineer, will present his report and the effects of ketones on  Explain the cardiovascular system in simple terms. Dr. Natorali, a specialist in invasive cardiology, will share new information about LDL cholesterol and ketones. Everyone who starts this diet should know this. Stephanie, a consultant and trainer with an army of fans who has met thousands of people around the world, will also be there. She will talk about available ways to take your results to the next level. We will have him for 7 years, the author of books, researcher, and biohackers of Estonia. As an expert in intermittent fasting training, he will share interesting discoveries about longevity and physique, as described in his book, Metabolic Autophagy. Finally, by popular demand, Nikolas TCA will return to us from Greece. His story is simply a parasite. He will tell us how he became the first Kita athlete to compete in the Ironman competition in Europe and how he changed his life. Those are the 2020 edition in Russian is waiting for you. Sign up now.