Hello, it's me again today, I'll tell you about my new product, m-city oil, fuel for the brain and body. Let me explain what network oil is and how it works. Our network oil is obtained from coconuts. There is no gamma in it, there are no toxic chemicals. m-city means medium and renal triglycerides. These fats are converted into ketones very, very quickly and this does not require various processes necessary for the digestion of fats. In other words, they are absorbed very quickly and turn into ketones. Ketones bring great benefits to the brain, improve cognitive function, give the brain energy. This oil is very useful in many cases. First, let 's say you are starting the Tetta gene diet and have not yet fully entered Titos. You can drink this oil during the transition period. Because if you have ketones in your blood, your brain absorbs them and uses them as the main fuel instead of glucose. This helps eliminate brain fog and mental fatigue, and this is very helpful during training. You need to drink a little of this oil half an hour before training. It will give you fuel and increase endurance. Some people add it to coffee. You need one teaspoon.  spoon, but at first, don't take a lot of this oil. You don't need to take several tablespoons at once, it can have a laxative effect. You can start with 1 teaspoon. If you have problems, drink half a teaspoon. And adding it to your coffee in the morning will allow you to go longer without eating, so it's also useful for intermittent fasting. You will feel full, and your body will receive fuel so you can go longer without eating. This is a useful transitional stage for training and nourishing the brain. Do you see whether this oil is from ketosis? No, because it adds ketones to you. But here's what I want to say in this regard. If you are trying to lose weight and have reached a plateau, don't drink a lot of this oil, because your body will use it as fuel. It's your own fat, so experiment with it to understand whether it affects your weight. In addition, this oil is useful for people with dementia and people with cardiovascular diseases because it nourishes the tissues of the heart and brain, bypassing damaged tissue and penetrating directly into the cells.