Thinking about a distractor But before doing anything, consult your doctor It sounds strange, but I have to say this I want to talk about the serious consequences and side effects of a steroid Know that 90% of all these operations are done without suppression in 8% of cases, most of the strata are essentially not necessary and you should know what you are signing up for This is the second most common operation in women after a cesarean section If someone tells you You will soon be in menopause, you don’t need your ovaries, they won’t work anyway, don’t fall for it The ovaries continue to work even after menopause They produce a certain amount of androgens, which then turn into estrogen And if the doctor does not agree with you, then ask him Then why do I need hormone replacement therapy after stera Tomi And I need it because without the ovaries you will not be able to produce female hormones Further consequences side effects The connecting tissue that is cut is attached not only to the uterus All these tissues are also attached to the spine, hips and partially to the pelvis after  The operation causes a collapse of the body's interior, so to speak, the center in the lower part of the body. Because of this, the hips expand, the rib cage shifts downward. Also, the middle part of your body may look shortened and thick, and your belly may protrude. When you are given a detailed consent form to sign, I hope it does n't mention such side effects. Second, lower back pain. Why? Because the operation causes instability in the pelvis. Not to mention possible urinary incontinence. Fourth, decreased libido. Fifth, emotional instability. Emotions also suffer. Because if estrogen and/or progesterone fluctuate up or down, it affects the emotional state. Sixth, fatigue. Seventh, an increased risk of fractures because of the distractor sk osteopenia or osteoporosis due to decreased estrogen. Eighth, HSCT increases the risk of dying from various causes, including coronary heart disease. Sometimes doctors tell you to remove your ovaries to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer in the future. That is, they will remove your organ to prevent the development of cancer in this organ, which, by the way, is quite rare, especially when compared to death from cancer. ovaries with an increased risk of dying from 11 pogra during the first year instead of doing a distractor, which is why you need to do it. Let's look at this: uterine fibroids, endometriosis, cancer, I already talked about excessive bleeding and heavy menstruation, how can you cope with all this and the remedy for this is a racemose pogon. It is very effective against uterine fibroids. Second, avoid soy and soy protein isolates, which are contained in many products, they can affect estrogen-sensitive tissues, this is the uterus, ovaries, cervix and other tissues, even the thyroid gland. You also do not need to take additional estrogen and estrogenic products. Therefore, I recommend uterine fibroids or endometriosis to avoid dairy products because milk was originally intended to support the growth of a calf, so there are a lot of hormones for growth. And you need to avoid anything that increases growth. A couple of hormones are capable of this. Estrogen can do this. And insulin can do this, so you should switch to a low-carb diet. insulin is an anabolic steroid, it provokes growth, estrogen also  So avoid soy, dairy products, and carbohydrates, especially refined ones. As opposed to carbohydrates, you need to eat more vegetables, particularly cruciferous vegetables. Cruciferous vegetables help regulate estrogen, they don't increase it, they turn bad estrogen into good estrogen. They also cleanse the liver of substances that can mimic estrogen. Endocrine disruptors include certain chemicals in the environment, pesticides, insecticides, herzyl fungicides, heavy metals, plastic, and one of the herbicides, glyphosate. It's found in various GMO products. These chemicals in the environment are endocrine disruptors, and they also mimic estrogen. Therefore, you need to eat organic food and not expose yourself to these chemicals. Eat cruciferous vegetables, which are beneficial for the body. There is also an interesting link between vitamin D deficiency and the development of uterine fibroids and endometriosis. I recommend taking vitamin D if you have uterine fibroids, endometriosis, or even heavy periods. Here's why. The uterus is a muscle, it needs calcium and magnesium.  What do you do when you take vitamin D? Do you get a tub of calcium and other minerals? And these minerals are good for cramps? I also wanted to mention that glyphosate blocks vitamin A. One study, the link to which will be below, showed a connection between vitamin A deficiency and the formation of fibroids. I'm not saying that you need to take vitamin A. Of course, you need to get it from food like butter and egg yolks. It's useful. I just want to tell you about this. Suddenly, you have a similar situation. And finally, let's say you've already had a distractor. Should I do anything? Besides what I've already said, yes, there is a very good supplement from Standard Process. By the way, I'm no longer associated with them. It's called Win PG. Take two tablets at night. If you've had your ovaries removed, I recommend another supplement from Standard Process called Afin PMG. Take one tablet before bed and you'll most likely see how the symptoms disappear even faster than with these recommendations. Since we've touched on the topic of female hormones, I have a course that discusses in detail their effect on women's health. I invite you to my course.  Ovarian body type is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, product lists, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.