Today we will discuss other beneficial properties of coffee besides the fact that it helps you wake up in the morning. I will name some very important reasons to drink coffee, but I do not recommend drinking coffee if it makes you anxious, increases your heart rate, or prevents you from sleeping. I do not recommend drinking a lot of coffee, only one cup a day. I was like a guinea pig to study the effects of excess coffee in college. I drank coffee by the basin and my adrenal glands really burned out, because from excess coffee, cortisol and adrenaline come out. But why do I even recommend drinking coffee? The fact is that coffee contains different substances, one of them is called caffeine. The beneficial properties of coffee are due to both caffeine and other substances, and for your information, caffeine is a phytonutrient. After all, it has a plant source. In fact, caffeine is an insecticide, and it is found in thirty plants. As an insecticide, it can be useful for us. Well, sometimes a little poison or a little stress can benefit the body. What is coffee? It is just fermented coffee beans, which means that the beans are affected by a certain microbe that improves their properties.  I will tell you about other useful properties in addition to the well-known property of caffeine blocks a certain compound called adenosine and thus prevents us from falling asleep. Adenosine helps us fall asleep and feel tired, and caffeine blocks this substance and thus invigorates. Let's consider other useful properties of coffee. It gives us clarity of mind, helps us concentrate, can even help us absorb information somewhat better, and also increases the speed of metabolism. It helps normalize blood sugar, especially if you add MC oil or butter to coffee to get a coffee bullet. There is evidence that coffee can reduce the risk of developing dementia and also reduce certain symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease and even Alzheimer's. Coffee has properties that reduce the risk of gallstones because coffee increases the production of bile and the outflow of bile. Coffee helps to avoid the formation of kidney stones. There is evidence that coffee has anti-cancer properties. What's interesting is that no, I don't think that coffee alone will cure cancer. Coffee has anti-inflammatory properties for hepatosis. That is, it essentially protects the liver. Coffee contains certain substances such as polyphenols.  which serve as food for our microflora, there is a condition called postural hypotension, this is when a person gets up and his blood pressure drops, he gets dizzy, coffee and here it can help if I drink too much coffee, more than one cup and not in the morning, then I sleep worse at night, so I drink one cup of coffee. Do I add cream? Yes, do I add sugar? No, I do not add any sweeteners to coffee, not even alternative ones, as well as sugar alcohols. It seems that coffee also helps improve performance during training; it increases cardiac output and leads to the fact that muscle pain occurs later, because coffee activates neurotransmitters that seem to help dilate the blood vessels of the lungs. In addition, coffee can help reduce the symptoms that arise due to being at high altitude. Some people have these problems, and coffee can help them. I think it's mainly about the activation of the sympathetic nervous system. And this is essentially the ability to adapt to stress. Coffee can increase mitochondrial biogenesis. What does this mean? Essentially, it increases the number of mitochondria in the body and can also increase the amount of gastric juice. Which improves digestion. There are studies that if you combine coffee with certain substances.  The beneficial effect is enhanced. For example, if you drink coffee with alcohol, you seem to become less nervous. If you smoke when you drink coffee, it seems that nicotine helps remove caffeine from the body a little faster. If you take certain medications for headaches or other pain, caffeine helps enhance their beneficial effect. Therefore, when I drink coffee, I smoked a cigarette. This is a real sarcasm. Even birth control pills, which I personally do not take, can increase the half-life of caffeine, meaning that caffeine remains in the body longer. If you take birth control pills, then if any of you decide to start drinking coffee, you probably need to know how to neutralize the side effects of coffee. You will learn about this from this video. Watch it.