Let's talk about the dark side of taking testosterone. Disclaimer: I'm not saying that you should stop taking testosterone or that you shouldn't take it at all. Testosterone can definitely be useful; it increases libido, increases energy, improves muscle condition and strength. What are its downsides? What should you pay attention to? In the brain, we have the hypothalamus, it's connected to the pituitary gland, which sends a signal to the testicles, which produce testosterone. As soon as there is enough testosterone, the testicles send a signal back to stop producing testosterone, thus preventing excess hormones. And when you take testosterone, you send a signal to the pituitary gland and the hypothalamus to turn off; the testicles no longer need to produce testosterone and they stop working forever. Is this forever? It depends on many factors, including the duration of Prima and genes. Why do some men have these symptoms and others don't? So, first, it can worsen sleep apnea, it can affect mood, it can cause acne, dizziness, it can potentially cause a heart attack, and also reduce fertility. It's unlikely that many men of this age will experience this.  I need another child, it can also thicken the blood. And the most serious side effect is the testicles, that is, they will decrease in size, this can cause erectile dysfunction. If you take testosterone for a long time, you can develop a problem with testosterone receptors and they will stop working normally. Looking at age-related hypogonadism, this is when the testicles do not work as they should. You can say that this is due to age, but this does not always happen and not with all men. More often, this problem appears in young men. First of all, it can be associated with insulin resistance. It can also be due to a lack of zinc. Zinc is associated with hundreds of different enzymes in sperm. For example, it contains a high concentration of zinc, which helps the sperm survive and reach the egg. Another reason may be a protein deficiency in the body if a person has low protein intake. It can also be due to low fat because statins block the production of cholesterol. The reason can also be a large amount of soy in the diet and a lack of vitamins, and insulin can  It can cause problems because it increases cortisol. Insomnia, liver problems, the body's inability to eliminate iron, obesity because fat cells release aromatase to convert testosterone into estrogen. The question arises: What can I do to increase testosterone? Powerlifting helps increase testosterone levels. Second, I recommend taking zinc with it. Also, eat foods rich in it: shellfish, red meat, and liver. Third, vitamin D. Fourth, a sufficient amount of fat in the diet, for example, butter and meat, but carbohydrates should be low. Some may say that they cannot eat saturated fats. They cannot consume cholesterol because either they have elevated cholesterol or their doctor has prohibited it. They may doubt this. They may be confused by conflicting information on the Internet. But if it is so harmful, why does the body produce it? DHA can help you strengthen the adrenal glands if you take it as a supplement. This will make life easier for the adrenal glands, and they will be able to produce more hormones so that the body has more resources to produce testosterone. It is also important to get enough sleep in its rapid phase. Sleep has two phases: the slow wave sleep phase with Delta oscillations. and the REM sleep phase during which we move our eyes rapidly. For a lack of REM sleep, the body produces less testosterone. Therefore, sleep is important for testosterone. I have many videos on the topic of sleep and I will leave a link to one of them below in the description section. It can also help with weight loss. Why? Because if there is less fat in the body, there is less aromatase, which converts testosterone into estrogen. If you are overweight and have just started losing weight, then over time, when you weigh less, you will have more testosterone. If you want to know how to lose weight, the link will be below. You also need to normalize blood sugar levels, get rid of insulin resistance. This can be achieved with a ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting and about. The last point is to eat more protein, I already said that it normalizes testosterone levels. You need to achieve a testosterone level at which all body functions will be normal. And after that, you may not need to take extra testosterone because you will already have everything. Thank you for watching. The next video you should watch is a video about cholesterol. A very important video. It is about PNP. You should know about it. Here is a video.