Today we will talk about the amazing health benefits of raw milk and products made from it, but if you ask someone to name the ideal food for a baby, they will probably answer breast milk because breast milk is a product that has been created for a very long time as a means of survival. It allows you to raise a very healthy child, and those who do not receive breast milk have a high risk of all sorts of problems: sudden infant death syndrome, excess weight, diabetes, allergies, and so on. The list is very long. Our body is designed in such a way that it should first feed on breast milk, but if breast milk is so healthy, why is cow's or goat's milk so harmful? This is exactly what I want to discuss. I think it's all about the quality of such milk in pasteurization. I'm not saying that outbreaks of diseases like tuberculosis have never happened. This happened a long time ago due to poor sanitation. But if a cow lives in a healthy environment and is healthy, what could be bad about her milk in this case? 1. This is pasteurization, you can say, but we want to sterilize the milk, make it safe, kill all bacteria, everything harmful and pathogenic.  What could be happening there? When heated, bacteria die, but they don't disappear completely. When you drink pasteurized milk, you also eat all these dead bacteria. In addition, the pasteurization process destroys all the enzymes in this milk. Enzymes are proteins. Milk contains more than two and a half thousand different proteins. Pasteurization changes or damages their structure. Protein denaturation occurs. I'm talking about proteins that can be useful for the human immune system. For example, luck to peroxidase is an antibacterial enzyme; it is destroyed during pasteurization. The protein lactoferrin selects pathogens; the iron necessary for their survival. And what's wrong with pasteurized milk? There is no longer lactoferrin. The antibodies that are in milk are also destroyed, and you won't get this benefit for your immune system. Lactobacilli also die. These are certain bacteria that produce an enzyme that destroys lactose. Those of us who are lactose intolerant, including me, need the enzyme lactase to break down lactose, and in raw milk, this enzyme is a product of those same bacteria. Thus, in  Raw milk contains many good bacteria that can be beneficial. In addition, raw milk contains about 400 types of fatty acids, and they are destroyed during the homogenization process. Homogenization breaks the fat into small particles, causing the fatty acids to lose their properties. The cream is mixed with the other part of the milk and no longer separates. I don't know about you, but my body simply loves cream from raw milk. I could probably eat only this cream. It is so delicious and healthy. It also contains the so-called wolcen factor, or anti- stiffness factor. I won't give you its long chemical name. It is useful for rheumatoid arthritis and joint stiffness, especially the wrist, due to its anti-inflammatory properties. I confess that I don't eat cheese or milk, but I prefer fermented dairy products. For example, I really love cheese made from raw milk, as well as kefir. Sometimes I eat yogurt, but mostly kefir because it has many more friendly bacteria and yeast. Raw milk products contain much more bioavailable calcium and fat-soluble vitamins. It also contains  The enzyme alkaline phosphatase, which has anti-inflammatory properties, was widely used in the twentieth century as a medicine for a variety of ailments, including digestive problems, intestinal inflammation, allergies, gout, gum disease, and even asthma. You may say that raw milk is banned in your state, but if you go to this website, you'll see, if I'm not mistaken, that raw milk can be purchased in at least 43 states. In some states, you'll have to, I'm not sure what it's called, enter a program where you share a cow's worth of milk and then receive part of that cow's milk. In short, look at this website, there's a lot of interesting information, and in conclusion, I'd like to talk about the difference between A1 milk and A2 milk. The differences are related to the protein content in casino milk. If you have a choice, it's better to take milk from cows producing type A2 because A2 is a type of protein that causes much less bloating and much less inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. On the other hand, milk with type A1 protein, unfortunately, provokes more inflammation and problems with  If you haven't watched my video about how marshmallows help improve sleep, I recommend watching this link.