So, let's start today's program with a quiz question.  Please, Dog. So why is aspirin no longer recommended for those over 60? Oh, that's a big change.  Now let's answer questions on social networks.  Mika from YouTube.  Do you know anything about Amaktin?  This is an experimental drug.  Emaktin, Terry.  So, Emaktin.   Has it been studied?  Dog, this is a question for you .  Well, with all my extensive experience in pharmacology and drugs, I have no idea what you are talking about.  Sorry. Okay, we'll discuss this another time. Lady LF from YouTube asks: "Can anything help with cervical spinal stenosis, which was caused by a severe injury a year ago? The nerves get pinched too easily. What do you recommend? Basically, it means that the lumen of the spinal canal is too small. This can be caused by the appearance of rough tissue or even calcium deposits inside this canal. Perhaps this is the source of the neck problem, and it can cause pain in the arms and everything. I have also injured my neck many times. There is an excellent massager, I don’t know if I have mine here . You can buy it on my website. It is great for massaging the neck. And it maintains the curve and perfectly, perfectly maintains the curve of the neck. Every night before bed, I put it between my neck and the back of the sofa. The muscles literally melt from this, and with stenosis, the curve of the neck is disrupted, which creates a lot of problems. And understand that you probably need to reduce the inflammation in the body so that this canal slightly expands and goes away  symptoms. And for this, you need to seriously take your diet into account. Fasting, intermittent long-term fasting, take vitamin D, and high doses at that. And see if this reduces the inflammation of the istinosis. I would do everything in my power to avoid surgery. I know that arthritis develops in the neck over time , whether due to an old whiplash, compression injury, and so on. In one video, I show how to do it without a massager, but you also need someone to press on the points on the neck. You need to press very gently, continuously. It works magically. This video is called stress. Stress. What is it called? What is it called? I think it's called a stress seminar. Find my video where I show how to do this. And have a friend or relative work with you using this method. It will bring great relief very quickly. And who knows, maybe even without invasive therapy. Good, writes Lin from YouTube. She was recently diagnosed with gout in the thumb of her right hand. I rarely eat  Red meat. I have a fairly consistent diet, which mainly includes skale smoothies, beans, and chicken. What could be causing the gout in her right thumb? You should also check. It could be the kale chelates. After all, you eat kale. Maybe you need to eat less kale and see if that helps. And are you eating anything with fructose, and chicken has some omega-6, which is a pro-inflammatory factor. Perhaps 100% grass-fed beef would help you. Until you are 100% sure that it is gout, check other options. It could be pseudogout. And to lower uric acid levels, people often drink celery juice in the morning. It seems to help. And watch my video about pseudogout and gout, about diet. You will learn a lot more. Great. We have time for the quiz question. Why is aspirin no longer recommended for those over  60? How has the world changed? 92% answered. It increases the risk of bleeding in those over 60, and 8% said, "It can cause stomach problems." These seem like good answers. There's no doubt about it, aspirin, which, by the way, has been used for 4,000 years in the form of willow bark for pain and fever. Aspirin has helped many people prevent blood clots, the main cause of heart attacks and strokes. So, it's been used for many years, but if everyone over 60 is going to take it , then we need to consider the benefit -risk ratio. And that ratio, in this case, is not good, because the risk of bleeding in the stomach or lower in the gastrointestinal tract or in the brain is a side effect. So, unless you have a real problem, you don't need aspirin. There are natural blood thinners. One of them is omega-3 from cod liver oil. After all, how does aspirin work? It blocks an enzyme that causes platelets. Platelets react to stress and sort of stick together. And  Aspirin blocks the enzyme that creates this superglue. So, the omega-3s in cod liver oil replace the raw materials for this superglue, and it becomes like jelly. So it sticks less. It sticks, but not as strongly, so fewer clots form. I think this natural remedy is much better. Get more omega-3 fatty acids from cod liver or cod liver oil . It may help you. Good. Hale Rumbla is patiently waiting for an answer to her question. How can I lower my TSH levels? I had my thyroid removed years ago. Well, your TSH is trying to bind to something you don't have. That's why it's high. You need to talk to your doctor. If you don't have a thyroid, you'll probably need to take a hormone. I would recommend harmothyroid, but I'm not your doctor. They're natural hormones. It's not just T4, but also T3 and some other things. And then you need to choose  dose to increase their levels. And then the pituitary gland, which produces stereotropic hormone, won't have to shout, "Hey, is anyone there?" Reply: It will receive feedback and lower the high level. So, you just need to adjust the thyroid hormone dose. Well, great. Anything else you want to say in conclusion, dog? I want to say that I'm posting quite a lot of new videos every day now, but they're not long ones, but short ones. So check out my shorts. I post four full-length videos and three short ones on my channel. So if you don't see my videos in your feed, just check out my shorts. Don't forget to subscribe and never miss a new video. See you there.