I invite you to my course, Vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90% of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how, thanks to vitamin D, you can get rid of these diseases and symptoms, strengthen your health and preserve youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the Keto Summit 2019. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I am waiting for you on the course. We will discuss seven signs that the body needs vitamin D, as well as why it is so important to take vitamin D every day. First, high blood pressure is one of the causes of high blood pressure. Second, a bad mood, for example, depression or even anxiety. Third, inflammation, whether it be autoimmune diseases, arthritis, or something else. If you have inflammation, you need vitamin D. Fourth, if you have a weak immune system and you get sick too often. Fifth, if your sleep cycle is disrupted, if you wake up feeling tired or have sleep apnea, vitamin D will help you enter the deep sleep phase so that you wake up full of energy. Sixth, almost all types of skin problems are associated with vitamin D deficiency.  Seventh, lower back pain and muscle pain if you have stiff, sore muscles, take more vitamin D and everything will pass and I will share with you very interesting information When they take your blood for a vitamin D test and look at it, they mainly look at two types of vitamin D, they look at bound vitamin D and unbound free vitamin D. 99% of all the vitamin D that they look at during the analysis is bound vitamin D and only a small part of it is free. The half-life of bound vitamin D is 2-3 weeks, the half-life of free vitamin D is 24 hours. What does this mean? This means that when they do the test, they do not distinguish between bound vitamin D and free vitamin D. You may think that you have enough vitamin D to support your skin and other immune organs. But if you do not take supplements or do not sunbathe every day, most likely you have a vitamin D deficiency, especially if you have other problems besides vitamin D deficiency itself, for example, obesity, insulin resistance, diabetes, sitting at home without going outside, lack of vitamin D in the diet. But with age, we are getting worse.  We get vitamin D through the skin. In addition, the recommendations for the daily dose of vitamin D are simply not about the World Cup. We need more and larger doses. You need them every day if your doctor says. You can get poisoned. Just ask him. How much vitamin D will I get by spending 30-40 minutes a day in the sun? The correct answer is 20,000 IU. 10,000 is not an abnormal dose. And finally, the most important thing about vitamin D is that vitamin D can enter into biochemical reactions. It needs certain nutrients, including magnesium, zinc, vitamin K2, and boron. This way, you can use vitamin D to its maximum potential. You will not have a deficiency. If you want to learn about this and also how to prevent poisoning, watch this video.