Why do most men in India have a belly? Although I have an earlier video about this, new information has appeared besides excess carbohydrates in the diet, to get more accurate data about this I invited Dr. Roshani, she is an endocrinologist and she actually lives in India. Hello, doc. Thank you for responding, glad to see you again. Thank you for inviting Dr. Eric. Glad to chat again. I really wanted to discuss what is happening to people in India, especially in terms of belly fat, this is a big problem all over the world, but especially in India, and there are a number of reasons for this. I already have a video about this, and this is, like, the second part. After all, I want to share with people the new information that I received from you, and it is not limited to cutting out carbohydrates to lose weight. So we will discuss this too. It seems that you were born in the USA, but then lived half your life in India. You treat people. You are an endocrinologist. I am so glad that you can tell us from personal experience about what is happening in India. So, could you tell us briefly about what health problems people in India have that cause protruding bellies? Yes, there is a lot to talk about here, doctor. Eric, in fact, we are no longer dealing with type 2 diabetes, we endocrinologists deal with it quite often, it is obvious, we are dealing with polycystic ovary syndrome, insulin resistance is now developing at an ever earlier age, insulin resistance develops even in those who should not have it, say, people with type 1 diabetes have the same problems as in the rest of the world. In India, there are now states where every third child already has high triglyceride levels and fatty liver, according to ultrasound results, these children develop a protruding belly from an early age, the reasons for this are partly natural and hereditary, but in many ways it depends on the environment and fortunately it can be controlled by leading a healthy lifestyle, making the right choices, people's lifestyles are changing dramatically and insulin resistance is everywhere, protruding bellies in India there is an explosive increase in diabetes, problems with metabolism, we may not be in first place in obesity, but we are in the top five countries for type 2 diabetes, Cardimed, I really want to ask you one question on this topic first, I will explain I think most people know about this, but not everyone can, when someone eats too many carbohydrates, it stimulates the hormone insulin not only stores fat but also prevents fat burning. That's what insulin is. Here's my question. You studied at a medical school, then studied endocrinology. A doctor studies so intensively and especially studies insulin, the main hormone, but somehow the connection is lost with the fact that insulin stimulates carbohydrates. That is, now it is obvious to us that if someone has too much fat, they have too much insulin, but tell me what happens in an educational institution when students are taught this. Let's take ordinary doctors. Why do n't ordinary endocrinologists understand that they need to cut carbohydrates? Oh, yes, you know. I didn't immediately understand this. Where is my basic training? First year of medical school, where in biochemistry we were taught that carbohydrates cause the maximum insulin response and require maximum insulin. We studied this in the first year, and then this connection disappeared. In the second year, where we studied pharmacology, there was no connection with this fact anymore and we memorize the types of insulin, NPH insulin, fast-acting insulin, long-acting insulin, new molecules, how to prescribe insulin. And in the third year, we studied the treatment of internal diseases, we had a Harrison textbook and Very little class time was devoted to the topic of lifestyle, but much more time was devoted to the issue of prescribing medications. The presence of pharmaceutical company representatives in our clinics, sponsors' instructions, and the preparation of memos on what to prescribe played a role here. In addition to my first year of training at the medical institute, there was very little time and energy. As for the treatment of internal diseases in people who are so sick that they are admitted to the hospital, actually discussing lifestyle or nutrition with them was somehow inappropriate. It seemed like a bad idea. A person is very sick lying in a hospital bed receiving hospital food. This is not the best time to discuss nutrition with him. Carbohydrates are what they give him. That was the specialization to become an endocrinologist, an insulin specialist. Yes, and I still prescribe medications, but I have not received practical training in changing nutrition, and this is amazing. I graduated from a chiropractic college, not a medical institute. There is simply too little time to really study everything to pass exams. I had to cram because they cram a lot of information into us, but there was no time to apply this or that theory in practice. So you say  that you were taught this, but without any connection to diet, no connection at all, or to nutrients. Yes, I wouldn't say that doctors were seriously trained in nutrition. Apparently, after training, when you started doing what you were taught, there was a turning point. Tell us about it. Yes, when I was studying endocrinology, we students walked along one side of the corridor, went into patients' rooms, conducted consultations, then talked with senior doctors, and they signed off on changes in the drugs that we offered, and among the prescriptions for insulin or drugs, say, for diabetes, there was an instruction to attend a diabetes school. This interested me. Luckily for me, the classes were held in the same building. On the other side of the corridor, when my training was coming to an end, I was allowed to attend some classes at this school where people were given knowledge about diabetes. And I was curious to learn about aspects of behavior and what they taught there, which could be useful to my patients whom I told to take this training. I was a little afraid of missing out on what they talked about there. It was then that I first heard about the influence of nutrition. This is incredible, Dr. Berg, but it was like I had blinders on because  that endocrinologists are the most trained doctors when it comes to treating type 1 diabetes, I prescribe insulin to those who... Well, it's true that they teach you to calculate the ratio of insulin to carbohydrates, that is, how much insulin a patient needs for so many grams of carbohydrates, and I teach patients this, how much insulin they need to administer for a specific dish, but this knowledge is left on the shelf, and only much later I realized, wait a minute, this is a secret formula, if you reduce carbohydrates, the insulin dose will also decrease. Well, that's how people with type 1 diabetes need to inject insulin. After all, they don't have it and they can't regulate blood sugar, insulin lowers it, obviously, the more carbohydrates they eat, the more insulin they need. You say that you didn't immediately realize this fact. It didn't affect other parts of my work. It just sat on the shelf, and to people with type 1 diabetes, I say if you want to lower your insulin, after all, your weight is growing, your belly is growing, and your weight was normal. Many people have a normal weight at the beginning, and with an increase in the insulin dose, the weight increases. I say if you eat less carbohydrates, we will reduce the insulin dose. So, this is an obvious fact, but I  I applied it to all aspects of my work only later when, after a series of events, I decided to leave the US for India. That's when it dawned on me. I love these courses, my patients in Chicago take them, and I wanted to study this data. Welcome to India, these educational materials, and not just my knowledge about prescribing insulin and drugs. I wanted to conduct this training myself. I thought it would help me integrate into the culture of India. I would listen, hear, and understand what was happening in India, because I hadn't been there for 10 years. I wanted to act as a teacher to re-integrate into my culture. When I started listening to people, I began to hear Pi. This began in 2011, and by the year I had already helped many people understand that if they do n't want to take even more drugs or live on insulin because of type 2 diabetes, they should know about the connection between carbohydrates and insulin, which causes the belly to grow and fat to be deposited where it's not needed. Wow, so you moved to India. Let's talk. There are a lot of carbohydrates in the world, they are served in restaurants, they are eaten at all kinds of holidays, everything seems to revolve around carbohydrates. What carbohydrates are in India?  What do you eat the most? I'll list them in order. Breakfast, lunch, dinner, good. So, here's what 's considered a light breakfast here. The idea is low-fat. Unfortunately, in India, they began to listen to these ideas. And probably in the seventies, people here were negatively influenced by attempts to cut calories or fats in the diet. So, people think that a low- fat or light breakfast is preferable and end up eating a lot of carbohydrates. So, here are some options for breakfast or dosa uma poha. Some people, say, in northern India, have pa ratu or roti for breakfast. It's something like bread in my part of the state. And I'm in Gujarat. For breakfast, they can have something like spicy bread. Some people really like tepli. This is usually eaten for breakfast. If someone follows a healthy lifestyle, in quotes, they can choose cornflakes or muesli and juice. Someone eats a cup of fruit. Indians are told to eat only fruit in the first half of the day, and they eat fruit in the morning or. They drink fruit juice before a morning walk to have energy for the walk. And all these are carbohydrates.  Processed, refined, some of them with sugar, oatmeal in India, people also read and hear that oatmeal is good for the heart. So they can eat instant oatmeal for breakfast, or they eat oatmeal with a mind or with, or they think that if you add oatmeal to Indian dishes, this Lena than just rice or wheat and this is just breakfast and it is quite possible I missed some dish as for lunch, someone also has a snack in the morning. And if you care about your health, then fruit, according to someone's advice, an hour and a half after such a breakfast, you will need a snack because it causes hunger, but a strong surge of insulin in the morning hunger, this pattern is typical for those who eat Little by Little. And often they are hungry all day long, they cannot stand 3-4 hours without feeling hungry, they have a strong craving for food for lunch, as a rule, they eat roti or rice. Some people, if they care about their health, replace wheat with millet, and the Indian government encourages people to eat more millet. I am not against it. millet if these are whole grains of millet, but often millet is finely ground into powder from which some kind of snack food is made, roti or flatbreads made from flour, that is, these millet grains are heavily processed. So, lunch is a flatbread or rice with a side dish of vegetables or dal soup if you are a vegetarian if lunch is brought from home, many Indians still do this. And this is good, but we have a very hot climate. If someone cooks you lunch in the morning or if you cook it yourself and take it with you, it usually should be something not very liquid so that it does not spill and spoil. Lunch should be quite dry, therefore, very often these lunches do not have much protein, and if you do not pay attention to this, Lunch will also be poor in protein, in fact, these are cereals or processed cereals and some vegetables. If you eat animal protein, you will have little protein, and there is also a snack during the day. Oh yes, it is at this time that hunger often occurs. All my patients fill out a questionnaire when they come. And many note  that at 5 am 4 pm they The worst thing in India is the tea culture we love our tea and so in the afternoon in the evening or at 4 pm people drink tea and many want to snack on something dry and crispy again it is something light that is without fat and it is something baked or fried but not deep-fried people think that it is healthy It can be puffed rice millet flakes millet chips many different crispy snacks If you want to be healthy Maybe you can snack on fruit And for dinner And for dinner again not everyone has protein as a priority in dinner sometimes if again yay Gujarat these people I know best are vegetarians to the core due to culture So for dinner they do not want to eat bread flatbreads with vegetables and dal soup they want variety in the evening So it can be pizza pasta lasagna or some Mexican dish I will use Indian names because for them it is ragda patis this is lentil soup with potato pancakes this  a lot of carbohydrates I think there is a huge confusion about what a carbohydrate is because it is not just one thing, in fact, it is three things if you keep it simple fiber is a carbohydrate sugar is a carbohydrate There is a third component if you remove the fiber and sugar there will be something else left and I think people don't even know what it is It is starch What is starch it is a lot of sugar more sugar more hidden sugar Especially considering how it is processed all over the world so if you we are discussing how much sugar a person eats per day a lot but if you take into account starches and calculate the percentage of calories that people get from all carbohydrates, it turns out that 60-70 even 80 percent or more of calories do not come from carbohydrates Unfortunately Yes especially vegetarians who no one told about the need to cut carbohydrates more than half of the standard Indian diet is carbohydrates Yes, how can people cut carbohydrates because to solve this problem you need to lower insulin living in India and remaining vegetarians Let's discuss this there is a second problem that you told me about this is the effect of such food on the digestive system it causes severe bloating the stomach appears as if the person is pregnant you see this in  In my practice, people come with bloated stomachs every day. Dr. Berg, every day, and the questionnaires always start with questions about internal diseases, and then questions from the endocrinologist, and I interview him about the symptoms of the digestive system in general. We analyzed people's answers. I was surprised that they had the most complaints about symptoms related to the digestive system. I'm not a gastroenterologist, but people have these problems. People complain of gas, bloating, a bloated stomach, the volume of which varies by 5-8 centimeters depending on food. Fortunately, we found a way to help them change their stomachs. It's just working on their diet. There is a problem. I'm sure many of your patients take antibiotics or STIs and their condition gets worse and worse, and then they start to have an overgrowth of Candida and all that. And as soon as they eat even a little fiber, they feel like they have a balloon in their stomach. A person, any animal, and even an insect continues to eat until they satisfy their protein needs. You see this in my practice every day. I see that people are not satisfied with what they eat, they want to eat something else, sometimes they describe it as a craving.  For some reason, they crave sweets. I think this is because they haven't received nutrition and still want to somehow get energy. It should be used to get energy. But people mistakenly take something for a desire to get sugar. And if, with high insulin, you eat more sugar. This further draws you into a vicious circle. I ask patients what they ate and count how much they eat. Since 2011, I have been teaching my patients and in India, most people when they come to me for the first time eat less than 50 g of protein per day. And the vast majority eat less than 25 g. 25 g of protein per day. This is interesting. After all, if a person eats enough protein, he becomes satiated and the likelihood that he will snack if he minimizes carbohydrates without getting enough protein will be difficult to solve this problem. We are burning for someone who is constantly hungry. But then yes. And how can he then get full? And I found a way to deal with this. Yes, a person eats a lot of carbohydrates, but he mechanically fills his stomach with them to feel that it is stretched exactly and that's what is very interesting.  I think that's why in India there is a myth that protein is a heavy food. I'm sure those who say that protein is a heavy food don't understand that this is how satiety should feel. Protein should fill you up. When a person starts eating more protein, he feels full. And in the end, he says, "Oh, I'm full, I don't need any more." That's what prompted me to change my diet. I used to eat only carbohydrates, huge muffins for breakfast, cereal. I woke up by the sensations in my head only at 11:00 in the morning. But one day I ate protein for breakfast and my God. It was just a miracle. I was able to wake up. How can a vegetarian consume more protein to start his day right? Yes, this is exactly what we try to achieve every day in our practice. But we will talk about vegetarians, because it is much easier for others, and you have many videos about how it is much easier for those who eat animal protein to get protein with each meal. And those who have become vegetarians have a specific problem. In India, there are vegetarians who can eat eggs, and there are those who will not even come close to eggs. This is fundamentally contrary to their Faith, and I cannot force them to eat eggs, and this Excellent complete protein. Many vegetarians in India eat dairy products and we use them often. Let's discuss whether vegetarians can eat dairy products. And you know, Dr. Berg, I also try to make it easier for people to give up their habits. I look at what a person already eats so that he doesn't have to change the grocery list abruptly and do something that is difficult for him to do in his own kitchen. In India, there are many large families living together with different tastes and preferences, and the kitchen is often used all day, so I try not to destroy the working system in the kitchen and start small. I know that ideally, these people need at least 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight every day, but sometimes, to reach 80, 90, 100 g of protein, you have to start with d. How can we reach 30 g with your current menu? I look at what dairy products and legumes a person eats. I explain to him that they contain some carbohydrates and I force people to use my app. After all, other apps mostly count calories. And we, endocrinologists, need people to look at carbohydrates and proteins for the hormonal basis of growth.  belly and not on calories, because simply reducing calories does not work. My team and I read the carbohydrates and proteins in Indian dishes and uploaded it to My app and we are adding more and more dishes to it. You indicate in the app what you ate and see how many carbohydrates and proteins you received per day. Let's say to increase the proportion of protein due to legumes, they need to be doubled and the person sees whether he can have certain carbohydrates, so it is easier for him to take the first step. So, obviously, there is yogurt and kefir. You also have it, in principle, it is here, it is almost a premium food, it is not easy to buy everywhere. I would not say that it is available to the general public in India. It is available in large cities where people care about their health and have a refrigerator. Clearly, we are talking about yogurt and cheese. Yes, this is milk, yogurt, people make Indian homemade paneer cheese. The milk is allowed to curdle and you get fresh paneer cheese. I can eat only cheese and feel good. Personally, I eat a lot of cheese. It is an excellent source of protein, and when the cheese ferments, microorganisms eat a lot of milk sugar in it, and of course, people can eat it.  nuts, seeds, nut butters, but I know that a strict vegetarian won't get 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight without a protein supplement, and they clearly say that you should avoid protein powders from processed foods, and I agree. But someone who doesn't eat animal protein at all still eats processed carbohydrates, eats flour, eats packaged, shelf-stable foods that don't require cooking and aren't fresh. If you have to choose from processed foods, perhaps protein powders are the lesser evil, and of all the processed foods, whey isn't processed that much, it's just liquid from curdled milk after the solids have been removed, it's the least reverse osmotic. Plus, it's a complete protein. So I think this is a great product if you need to get a lot of protein from whey powder. I think the label indicates the correct dose, but maybe you know an easier way. Yes, one scoop in a typical package contains about 25 g. And that's what I ask people. Let's clearly say to someone weighing 60 kilograms  I set a goal to eat G. This is 70-75 g of protein. Usually I count at the upper limits. Because vegetarians eat plant foods, the availability of such protein is low. Here are 1.2 and another 5 or 10 gmm on top, and so 75. 75 is 25 g for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Maybe you need to add a spoon of whey protein. You calculate. You know that today you will eat legumes, lentils, paneer, soft young cheese. You calculate. Some do this in my application. When they plan their day and you see: Oh, here are 40 g, you need another 30-35, and they take a spoon and a half of protein and make a protein shake. By consuming protein, a person begins to feel full if a person is ready to eat eggs. How much should you eat? Some are afraid of cholesterol. What do you think about this? Yes, you know, doctor, I sometimes eat eight or 10 eggs a day. If I haven't thought about what I'm going to eat or what to cook, it's just easier for me to eat eggs. There is definitely no real evidence that dietary cholesterol increases bad cholesterol levels - it's a myth, even American The Heart Association has abandoned these words. This is false information from the seventies, stuck in people's heads, and I am convinced that heart health is not a cause for concern. Other facts are excellent. And in India, there is, say, tofu or something like that. Is this an option or not? Yes, there is such an option. I would say that tofu was brought to India. From the outside, tofu differs from paneer cheese. Tofu has a different texture and a different taste. I love tofu. It has a good ratio of carbohydrates and proteins. We have a lot of tofu in our house. If tofu is made from non-GMO soybeans, then this product can also be Dorogova. If you find tofu made in India, and India grows a lot of soybeans, a colleague told me that India grows non- GMO soybeans. If you find tofu made in India, tempeh is gaining popularity here. They also make it in India now because Indians love spices. Be prepared for the fact that tempeh will contain Indian spices to hide its taste, because its taste is not very good, you need to get used to it. In big cities, there is both tofu and tempeh. So, let's discuss digestive problems in India.  It is famous for its spices, for example, turmeric helps with bloating and improves digestion. These spices probably alleviate some problems. Even in the US, Indian restaurants serve spices after meals. Of course, they are covered in sugar, but they seem to help with bloating. Is it customary in India to use some spice after a meal? In every kitchen, everything starts with turmeric. Not a single meal, not a single day, is complete without it, but with digestive problems. We have it, we use cumin almost every day. There is a small community in India where they do not touch onions and garlic. Religion forbids it. You mentioned antibiotics and STIs. The pro and cons of India is that they can be bought without a prescription. So people. Wow, yes, people prescribe them to themselves. Self- medication. Wow. That's what I think, especially after what you said. If a person has ever taken an antibiotic, he has fewer microorganisms that help digestion, and now he has something that cannot be digested, something causes gas. These microorganisms need to be replenished. We also need to discuss fermented foods. In India, there are fermented foods, yes, those that I prescribe, so to speak.  Borrowed from other cultures, these are sauerkraut, kefir, kimchi. There are also Indian fermented foods, but they also contain spices. This is fermented yogurt. Many Indians drink it to improve digestion after eating. They mix it with water and drink it. Ground turmeric is added to it. Perhaps spices are added and they drink it after eating to improve digestion. People think that the starch in food comes from potatoes, but often it is modified corn starch, maltodextrin, modified food starch. Let's discuss this and how giving up such foods can greatly reduce bloating. We teach our patients. We conduct many classes on reading labels. We teach them to identify hidden ingredients. After all, they don't understand technical terms and don't know that starch is hidden behind them. It's not always obvious, as in the case of pasta and potatoes. We teach people to find and understand these long, complicated words and even how starch affects the body. Here is one of my arguments, so to speak. Of course, each culture has its own traditional wisdom, and we have traditional millet, our traditional grains, our  We have had non-GMO wheat for many centuries and people say We are eating what our ancestors ate The fact is that when grains are ground into flour, the starch that was inside them is extracted from them so that the small grain gets energy in the soil in the dark without sunlight and produces a small shoot that would expose the leaves to the sun to get energy through photosynthesis this starch should feed the plants at a certain time underground And we took this grain and crushed it on the outside it is very sad because people say it is difficult for me to digest protein I think what is happening to them is what you said at first they are affected by starch people have lost good bacteria in the body because of their lifestyle and take dietary supplements with prebiotics and probiotics they take all the drugs and take drugs and they do not get better the basis of the diet is gold and plant foods in the diet of Indians there are a lot of raw vegetables or cooked there are crops Where they eat a lot of greens from a small amount of freshly chopped herbaceous plants such as cilantro mint is an excellent seasoning at our wonderful  Herbs, after all, the climate in the country is warm, so we have a lot of such greens. Microgreens are gaining popularity. And some products are prepared here. There is a whole spectrum of preferences and the gap between them is sometimes almost a generation. My generation likes vegetables to be damaged. Yes, exactly, it's like taking spinach and chopping it to the limit. I think if you eat more greens instead of grains, it also improves digestion and reduces bloating. Yes, we tell people to eat more fresh vegetables and less grains, of course, but all this after we have increased protein intake first. I always make sure the patient eats more protein. Sometimes I say we will not achieve your metabolic goals. If you don't eat protein at every meal, I simplify carbohydrates, because people say, "And I don't eat carbohydrates." They think they don't eat carbohydrates. I eat home-cooked food. I eat freshly cooked traditional Indian food, and I say, "Okay, eat less roti, rice, parathas, and I list the Indian names of these carbohydrate-rich dishes." Uma poha.  haha and so on a long list of Indian names Eat them half as much This is after doubling the protein in the diet After all, most have such a protein deficiency that even if you double its consumption They will be very far from its surplus Yes, this is a difficult problem After all, I know that in the US there are much fewer vegetarians and vegans We advise people to eat some meat but this is not the case in all countries The trick is how to cut carbohydrates I think you're right You need to start with protein so it is much easier to reduce carbohydrates otherwise it will be much more difficult I always talk about protein first I do not work with a hungry person who ate two roti or one and a half cups of rice let's say he eats two chapatis or roti these are flatbreads or two cups of rice just for example he has a cup of vegetables and one cup of beans lentil soup soup gave I say could you cut the roti and rice in half and double the vegetables and soup gave two cups of vegetables and soup you can and it will fill my stomach I but you will not be hungry all day so when a person starts eating more vegetables and  protein, it can independently reduce carbohydrate intake and in India, more and more people are deciding to wear continuous glucose meters. This is a small chip that can be worn on the body for two weeks, thanks to which, after consuming carbohydrates, they see a jump in blood glucose levels and we show them, look, you ate two servings of cereal and your glucose jumped. And tomorrow is a great way to learn, yes, and tomorrow, reduce the serving of cereal by half and see what happens. A person does not need to take my word for it, his own body tells him everything. Great. So, for those who need the help of a very competent doctor, I will leave a link below so they can contact you to look at your site and your program. After all, many people take medications and need help and for them this is something new, and you have several programs and also an amazing book that I have already read halfway and the knowledge in it is gold. Thank you, I will leave the links. It was very nice to discuss these topics and I think you gave a lot of great ideas and people can use them regularly if people just try them. I think they will see that it works. I am very happy to talk with a doctor, especially an endocrinologist. Who works primarily with nutrition, because this is a great rarity, yes, today we talked about nutrition - This is the first step to helping the body do its job, yes, exactly. Thank you very much, doc, for taking the time. Thank you, Dr. Berg L.