Hi, in this video we'll discuss how much vegetables, that is, salad or greens, you need to consume. Of course, this may be a bit over the top and you're unlikely to use such a fork, but I'm just trying to get one idea across. If you look up the word food in the dictionary, it's related to the word nourish, that is, we eat to nourish the body, provide it with nutrition. This is the purpose of food or nutrition. If you look at it from the other side and look at how much food you need to eat to get this nutrition, then we can calculate the amount the body needs, what is called the RDI of various nutrients, the recommended daily intake, that is, the daily intake of nutrients. What is needed to maintain the body is vitamins, macro- and microelements, amino acids, proteins, fatty acids, but most vitamins and elements should be taken from leafy greens. If you look at how much greens you need, it's most likely much more than you usually eat. Let's take potassium, for example. The body needs 4,700 milligrams of potassium every day. This is for a weight of 90 kilograms. If you weigh half as much, half will be enough for you, but let's see.  There are about 300 milligrams of potassium in one banana and obviously, to get 4700 milligrams, you'll have to eat a mountain of bananas and the sugar in them will create a lot of problems or the question is, how much leafy greens do you need per day? Let's talk about leafy greens. You need 7 to 10 cups. If you're small, 5 cups might be enough. If you're large, you'll need 10 cups. If you convert to grams, 1 cup is about 30 grams. Here, about half a kilo of greens is 16 cups. In this package, there are 16 cups of greens, which is about half a kilo. So, on average, if you weigh about 80 kilograms, I don't know, 70 to 90 kilograms, then you need about half of that amount, maybe a little less than half, maybe a little more than half per day. I know you're thinking, okay, that's a lot, it's not that hard because greens are easily digested. You can eat some for lunch and some for dinner and that's it. I eat all the greens. My bowl is half the size of this one at one time. I put all my greens in it and eating it for lunch is enough for the day. Of course, I eat more greens than I don't need simply because I feel good from them, but the quality of these greens also matters. For example, you would have to eat a whole mountain of iceberg lettuce, but let's take types of greens with a high nutrient content. This mix of spinach and kale contains a huge amount of nutrients. Other types of vegetables related to cruciferous vegetables, for example, Swiss chard, even arugula is also a cruciferous vegetable. All of them have a very high nutrient content. Except for cabbage, cabbage doesn't have much vitamin A, and it's unlikely to have any at all, but it has a lot of vitamin C. It has some vitamin C, but it has a lot of phytonutrients. These are additional substances in vegetables that provide better nutrition than regular vegetables, so this is a positive point, but now we are talking about vitamins and elements. For example, this spring mix includes many different plants: arugula, lettuce, spinach, beet tops. Swiss chard, mustard greens, all this diverse, incredible combination of salad greens and other plants, including cruciferous vegetables, this product is truly what you need. I eat it myself because it has a whole range of components, I get vitamins and elements, but you need to eat a lot of this mixture. Half a package of other packages, for example, this one contains 300 grams. If you eat three-quarters of such a package, that will be enough. There are other smaller, square packages, they are about half the size, they contain one hundred and fifty grams each. You can eat a package in one sitting or per day, depending on your build. That's exactly how much you need to support the body's vital functions. Potassium is not only potassium, but also manganese, calcium, and all other nutrients are found in greens. I also want to mention that some people add sprouts to greens, this is very reasonable. 1 teaspoon of sprouts is equivalent to 50 teaspoons of broccoli in terms of phytonutrient content. They have anti-cancer properties, so you can use sprouts. As for salad greens,  It's very important for dressings to have no sugar or very little sugar. Newmans dressings are fine, and just 1 gram of sugar per one or two tablespoons is fine, but it's better to make your own dressing. Olive oil and red wine vinegar are good. I wo n't go into the exact ingredients of the dressing now. Getting all those greens into your body is much more important than avoiding something. The enormous benefits of greens outweigh everything else when it comes to adding greens. Another important thing is that these definitely aren't croutons or cranberries. Why? Because they're full of sugar. Don't add raisins. You can add greens and fats, like bacon bits, feta, olives, and olive oil. All of this is very important because it allows you to extract fat-soluble vitamins and greens from plants. Because plants, greens, and so on, don't contain the vitamins themselves, but their precursors. These are inactive forms that are converted into active forms. For example, vitamin A in greens needs to be converted into active forms. If you add fats to greens, you'll extract more greens.  We don't need any nutrients, just low-fat greens. You need to add a little fat to them. I like feta cheese. As for other additives, add whatever you want, but not fruit or sugar. You can add anything else, for example, other vegetables, nuts and seeds, walnuts, pecans, and blue cheese, and things like that. I want to emphasize again that the amount of greens you need is probably more than what you're eating now, and that more greens will improve your well-being, so start putting this into practice. I hope this information is useful to you.