Let's talk about why vitamins may not work. The first question is, why do we need vitamins? Can we get them all from food? In most cases, you can't get all the vitamins from just one food, especially vitamin D, magnesium, zinc, and even vitamin B3, which is also called cino. The body needs about 180 nutrients for all the necessary biochemical processes to occur. And it's very difficult to determine with a blood test. If you have a nutrient deficiency, because many nutrients are located deep in the cells, vitamins may not work in the body due to insufficient acidity in the stomach, while it, for example, cannot absorb minerals. It will be difficult for you to get vitamin B12 because it is usually linked to protein in meat. And if there is no acid in the stomach to break down protein, vitamin B12 will not be absorbed. Some indicators of a lack of acid in the stomach are indigestion, heartburn, and excess bacteria in the small intestine. The problem with synthetic vitamins is that they are not absorbed like natural ones. The next thing I want to say is that taking an isolated vitamin or mineral is very unnatural. It causes problems because isolated nutrients do not exist in nature. If you take vitamin D frequently, especially in large doses, magnesium deficiency will occur. Know that most nutrients come in combination with other nutrients. I also want to mention the form of nutrients. Take folic acid, you should not take its synthetic form. And if you take vitamin B9, you need to take its active form, folate is the same. And with vitamin B12, you do not need to take its synthetic version, cyanocobalamin, take methylcobalamin instead, because you need good results. Let's move on. When you think you are taking a vitamin, for example, vitamin A, but in fact, you are taking a precursor and not an active form. Retinol. Some people say simply, "Eat carrots or spinach," but it is impossible to eat so much of them to get the active form of vitamin A. Retinol. Retinol can be obtained from pure yolks or cod liver oil, they are from supplements. The same applies to omega-3 fatty acids. People think that if you eat nuts or flax seeds, you can get omega-3. This applies to  That's not true because the active forms of omega-3 are EPA and DHA, they're found in fish oil and cod liver oil. Then, many vitamins add fillers like maltodextrin, which is a starch. They use maltodextrin to turn everything into powder. The problem is that maltodextrin can take away nutrients like vitamin C. It can also deprive you of certain nutrients, especially B1. B1 is necessary for breaking down sugar and empty carbohydrates. If you consume maltodextrin, sugar, or starch, the need for vitamin B1 increases significantly. The next problem is trying to get results from a vitamin or mineral while eating junk food. Don't think that vitamins compensate for a bad diet. This leads us to the next problem with nutrients. If you have diabetes or prediabetes or insulin resistance, your body will absorb nutrients poorly. To fix this, you need to switch to a low-carb diet. Also, if you smoke or drink a lot of alcohol, this  will negate all the work of nutrients if you are not going to quit smoking or drinking, then take nutrients, but know that they will be absorbed much worse. Let's move on. If you read the composition of multivitamins and the first ingredient there is calcium carbonate, then in fact you are taking limestone. The first ingredient in the composition is usually what the product has the most of, which is why these multivitamins are so heavy. Like a press on Pie, if you take calcium together with magnesium, they can neutralize each other because they compete with each other. I want to talk about the World Cup. This is the dosage of certain nutrients, and mainly I mean vitamin D. The recommended daily intake for vitamin D3 is 600 IU, which is laughable. When they came up with this norm of 600 IU, after studying as many as 10 studies, the dosage was calculated incorrectly. I spoke with a pioneer in vitamin D research and he told me that it was not a mistake, they deliberately and gradually presented vitamin D as something toxic. Think about it.  10,000 international units of vitamin D3 sounds very, very scary, but you get them by standing in the sun for 20-30 minutes. It was found that the recommended daily intake of vitamin D3 instead of 600 international units. In general, it should be 8895 international units, if you remove all the confusion in those. If you take 600 IU and do not feel a difference, then here's why. This also applies to the next topic. If you have health problems, say, a chronic disease or diabetes or something else, then small doses of vitamins will not change anything. You need therapeutic doses, especially vitamin D, magnesium and other nutrients, for example, with peripheral neuropathy. When there is less tingling in the feet due to diabetes and the nerves literally die, if you take small doses of vitamins, especially B1, it will not change anything. To get rid of peripheral neuropathy in diabetes, you need a special fat-soluble version of vitamin B1, it is called benfotiamine, and for it to be effective, you need a lot. If you want to get a therapeutic effect from a nutrient, you need a lot of it. And  As I already said, it's difficult to get so much from a diet; you'll have to take supplements. This also applies to potassium. If you take potassium supplements, and one tablet contains 99 mg, then to get the daily requirement of potassium, you need 47 such tablets. So, if you take potassium supplements, one tablet a day, don't expect any changes. I hope I've made you understand why vitamins can affect you and you understand what you need to do to make them work better. I have a video about the mistakes people make when taking vitamins. Here it is, watch it.