Let's talk about sleep. If you have problems with sleep, it is very important to find the root cause of this. If you treat the symptom, you will not achieve much, you will continue to treat the symptom. After all, you are not eliminating the real cause of insomnia, but simply masking it. The more you work on the cause, the better the result. Insomnia has different causes. Number one is breathing problems. Again, the ability to sleep is very related to breathing. If you do not breathe, you will not fall asleep. Interfering with sleep can be an excess of stimulants such as caffeine, restless leg syndrome, because the body simply cannot relax. If something hurts, for example, your back, this can interfere with sleep if you are stressed. And this is perhaps one of the main causes of insomnia. It can interfere with sleep. Jet lag is another obstacle to sleep. Hyperthyroidism is when your engine runs too fast, which can interfere with sleep from excessive training. Your heart rate can be very high, and overtraining before bed can definitely interfere with sleep, especially with poor recovery.  You are exposed to blue light, for example, from a cell phone, laptop, or desktop computer right before bed. This can also prevent you from falling asleep. Eating late at night, especially if you are biting. And even the wrong food, and you are trying to fall asleep with a full stomach. Another reason for insomnia is that with age, we have less of the sleep hormone melatonin and also serotonin. Many hormones work worse, and because of this, a person can begin to sleep less. So, let's say a person does not exercise. And in the past, for example, he was an athlete and his body has good mitochondria. But now, without training, he does not spend this energy. And when he tries to sleep, this excess energy prevents him from falling into deep sleep. Because his body is accustomed to training, but he no longer trains. Vitamin D deficiency can disrupt circadian rhythms. In general, there can be many reasons why someone cannot sleep. The main thing is to find out why you are not sleeping and then eliminate it. There are methods that help you fall asleep. But first, I want to talk about remedies that simply do not work, but imagine that many people use them simply because they heal.  They don't address the root cause of the symptom. This is what's wrong with medicine: everything is done superficially, without delving into the problem. They simply treat the symptom. A person takes a pill, it works for a day, and then he takes another pill, but you need to find the root of the problem. The first remedy that many use is alcohol. People drink alcohol late at night to relax, reduce stress, and fall asleep. But here's the problem. Perhaps after drinking, you feel more relaxed, but because of alcohol, sleep becomes fragmented. Alcohol doesn't induce deep Delta sleep. That's why you don't feel refreshed after sleep. In general, alcohol can even excite you; it actually disrupts circadian rhythms; it impairs breathing and oxygen absorption at night, and you get less oxygen. It can aggravate problems such as sleep apnea because it relaxes the muscles in the larynx, which can worsen sleep apnea. So, although some people think that drinking alcohol before bed helps them fall asleep, in reality, it doesn't help. Number two, over-the-counter antihistamines; many people take them to fall asleep.  After all, they cause drowsiness. But in fact, there is no data that these drugs can somehow improve sleep. Perhaps they cause some drowsiness, but they do not improve the quality of sleep. And they have side effects, dry mouth, which does not help you sleep, and many others that I will not talk about. A product that does not help you sleep is the so-called CBD oil. It is not tetrahydrocannabinol, it is a different substance. CBD or cannabidiol is a substance found in marijuana. Many people take it to relieve pain, it can be taken for anxiety, but if we talk about sleep, cannabidiol has no advantages. In fact, it can even worsen sleep, and therefore, in the description of CBD oil, you cannot write about its benefits for sleep. Further, prescription sleeping pills. There are many such drugs and they are not designed for long-term use. They can be used perhaps for a month, but many people take these drugs constantly month after month and are surprised that they need to increase the dose to get the same result. They have a lot of side effects. This includes severe fog in the head after sleep and increased rhinosinusitis and  There is an increased risk of getting into an accident, there have been cases of respiratory collapse, sleepwalking, and dependence on sleeping pills is increasing. You depend on them more and more, and this is bad. Especially because over time, their effectiveness decreases and there are more side effects. And lastly, these are sleep tracking bracelets. They do not help you sleep, but only determine whether you are sleeping or not. They do not indicate the cause of the sleep problem. So this is not a solution. And what about taking melatonin? Melatonin is a hormone produced by the pineal gland, and the problem with taking melatonin is that it causes in some people. The side effect is insomnia. That is, you take it to sleep, but it can cause insomnia. The problem is that over time you need to increase and increase the dose, and also your pineal gland from the need to work. You need to understand that Melatonin can be obtained in another way. I must say that Melatonin usually decreases when cortisol increases, that is, the more stress, the less melatonin, that is, you do not always need more melatonin, you need to reduce cortisol.  or stress, which I'll say something else about, but if you want more melatonin, there is a much better way. Melatonin is often called the hormone of darkness, because it increases in the dark. If you use a cell phone in bed, say, an hour before bed, you look at this blue light or look at a computer screen, blue light definitely blocks Melatonin. But if you want to increase your melatonin levels, you can also do this by being in the sun. Sunlight has so-called infrared light. Infrared light, different from ultraviolet light, helps restore melatonin production. So when you are outdoors in the sun, looking at the sunrise or sunset, or even when you are sitting by the fireplace, you are exposed to infrared light, which increases melatonin levels. Infrared light can even be obtained from a candle flame and from incandescent lamps. The point is that infrared light increases melatonin reserves. So this is a very safe way to increase melatonin levels. But taking melatonin greatly reduces the production of this hormone by the body itself and appears  Addiction and many people who take Melatonin after sleep have a foggy head, it doesn't really give a feeling of freshness, it's best to get Melatonin naturally. The next point is that in a dream, when a person breathes, this is usually caused by insulin resistance. You need a ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. This will help because the problem with insulin resistance, due to which insulin then increases, leads to the fact that the back of the sinuses and throat thickens, and this interferes with the flow of air. Many people on the ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting no longer need the machine that supplied them with air. Another important point for sleep apnea is that you need to take more vitamin D3, and right before bed. In fact, vitamin D3 greatly helps normalize circadian rhythms. So, when changing time zones and other sleep problems, it is very wise to take about 10 vitamin D3 right before bed. Then you will really zante and wake up. I sometimes take D3 together with B1 or nutritional yeast right before bed.  If you are in stress mode and your head is constantly swarming with thoughts and you want to turn it all off, just take B1 in the form of nutritional yeast, it works great. I already said that with excessive training late in the evening and poor recovery, the pulse before bed will be too high, and with a high pulse, you will not be able to fall asleep. So, another factor that requires attention. By the way, if you want to lower your pulse, take potassium and the pulse will immediately decrease if you have low potassium because you just ate a lot of carbohydrates. You can even feel your heart beating. You can even hear it by pressing your ear to the pillow. Knock-knock knock-knock-knock, it beats at an accelerated pace. You need to quickly take potassium and everything will calm down. Potassium lowers the pulse and the absence of excessive training. Let 's say you are stressed. The best way to compensate for excessive stress is physical work, not training outdoors. This is the best way. Work for an hour or two and you will sleep like a baby. You can do something else. First, control your breathing. If you start to slow down your breathing, I'm not saying too hard, just take a steady breath. Then exhale evenly, say for 4 seconds, that is, exhale while counting to four, inhale while counting to four, the goal is to balance the duration of inhalation and exhalation, you will plunge into a wonderful sleep. Sometimes when I can't fall asleep, I focus on inhaling and exhaling slowly, because this indirectly affects the autonomic nervous system. This will turn off the Bailey-Run mode, which turns on the sympathetic nervous system. Think for yourself. When you are stressed, your breathing is disrupted. So if you have a panic attack, if something is bothering you or worrying you, just slow down, control it. Inhale and exhale slowly. This will wonderfully pull you out of stress and help you fall asleep. So, here are the main points: breathing control; physical work or exercise every day; long walks in nature are excellent; avoid blue light before bed; these things; work on the computer. Use incandescent lamps; they can replace fluorescent lamps. You can even buy an infrared light lamp, or you can sit by the fireplace or by the fire or in the sun. This will increase your melatonin levels and this  It will really, really help you sleep at night. If you haven't watched my video about Melatonin, this is a very important video. Watch it. Here is the link.