Today's topic is high cholesterol on a Chinese diet. Many people are scared when cholesterol is too high. I have a lot of videos about this, but I decided to make a video about something specific that you need to know. So here's an important point. By the way, most of the cholesterol in the body is two organs that produce cholesterol. The first is the liver, but besides it, there is the intestines. The vast majority of cholesterol is controlled by bile salts. Bile salts are produced in the liver and in the intestines. So, the liver and intestines are good, and excess cholesterol is removed in different ways with the participation of bile. That is, bile is needed to remove excess cholesterol. The regulation of excess cholesterol depends on bile. As for the small intestine, it has small receptors called bile acid receptors. Bile acid receptors are also called FX receptors, but you don't need to know this. These receptors work like this: they regulate cholesterol by suppressing cholesterol. The liver also affects cholesterol, but not as much as the small intestine. The small intestine actually regulates HDL, the so- called good cholesterol. It's bad and not bad cholesterol, which is cholesterol sent from cells back to the liver. Look.  Here HDL goes from the cell back to the liver and LDL goes from the liver to the cell. These are just transport proteins. They are either high-density protein or low-density lipoprotein. Okay, that's clear. Let's move on to the next slide. There is a disease called social hypercholesterol and MIA. Social means the cause is unknown. As in the case of social hypertension, the cause is unknown, but we know it is usually a lack of vitamin D and potassium. But essential hyperkalemia includes familial hypercholesterolemia, and this disease is already hereditary. This worries people because they think that nothing can be done about it, but this is not entirely true. I will give a link in the description. And so this is one part, but there are other reasons for this incomprehensible increase in cholesterol. A high-fat diet. But with high cholesterol, a good idea would be to take a detailed lipid analysis to better understand what is happening. You will find that your type of high LDL is actually good LDL. I will not go into detail so as not to deviate from the topic. And so it is genetics. A high-fat diet, because you are a rocket, but also  Hippo terios can cause an increase in cholesterol in the blood, kidney damage and a lack of bile can be due to some kind of blockage from a kidney stone, or this is exactly what I want to talk about now. What causes a lack of bile? Bile is very important for the breakdown of fats and the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. It helps lubricate the large intestine, helps prevent cholesterol in the small intestine, and it also has a very important function in regulating cholesterol. This leads to a lack of bile, mainly liver damage, for example, fatty liver, inflamed liver, for example, hepatitis, or a liver filled with fibrous tissue, or a liver with scar tissue, which is called cirrhosis. All three of these diseases lead to a lack of bile. After all, anything that reduces liver function also reduces bile production. But there is also the small intestine, and this is the next thing I will touch on. In the case of intestinal damage, say you took a course of antibiotics, it simply destroyed your intestines, or say you have celiac disease, Crohn's disease, or diverticulitis, any inflammation or damage to the small intestine.  Reduces bile production and this can cause a spike in cholesterol because your beneficial bacteria microbiome also helps produce bile if there is a problem with the microbiome, you will not produce enough bile beneficial bacteria that you should also pay attention to or it may be that your gallbladder was removed you do not have one in which case you will have less bile all these factors can contribute to an increase in cholesterol I wanted to draw your attention to another cause of high cholesterol that you need to know about because the solution is very about that and the solution is this if the liver is damaged just take purified bile salts this will help normalize cholesterol levels maybe you should also take more beneficial bacteria here is another solution or you may have a slow thyroid the point is that in order to improve something you need to know all the possible causes and which of the causes is most likely thank you for watching and write what you think about this new video format we are pleased to present you the online summit healthy chum salmon 2000 2013 speeches 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of health China intermittent fasting watch  Online at a convenient time exclusively in Russian, take your knowledge of ketogenic fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. Who spoke at this ketogenic summit? Author and popularizer of ketogenic diets, Dr. Eric Berg, will share amazing information about nutritional deficiencies that occur in ketogenic diets and intermittent fasting. Dr. Jeff Gerber, a qualified family physician and well-known nutritionist from Denver, will also visit us. He will talk about the rejuvenating effects of the ketogenic diet and much more. Dr. Gerber also annually holds large conventions on low-carb diets in Denver. Author and researcher Dr. and Request Man, director of the Duke Lifestyle Clinic, will share with us practical knowledge about ketogenic diets that he gained working with thousands of patients. Professor Stephen K. Nasher of Brooks University in Montreal will give a presentation in which he will share information about the effects of ketones on the aging brain and how ketones help cognitive functions. Cynthia Turnul, a functional nutritionist who has spoken twice.  Nadezhda Ex will talk about intermittent fasting strategies and present solutions to potential problems. We invited Dr. Ali Al-Na Wat, a therapist working in Oman in the Middle East. He will talk about how it affects the endocrine system and how he uses this diet in his practice. Aivar Cummins, author of books and a biomechanical engineer, will present his report and explain the effects of ketone on the cardiovascular system in simple terms. Dr. Natorali, a specialist in invasive cardiology, will share new information about LDL cholesterol and ketone; everyone who starts this diet should know this. Stephanie Persona, a consultant for Kita, a trainer with an army of fans who has met thousands of people around the world, will also be there. She will talk about available ways to take your results to the next level. We will have 7 years of experience with him. He is the author of books, a researcher, and biohackers of Estonia. As an expert in intermittent fasting training, he will share interesting discoveries about longevity and physique, as described in his book, Metabolic Autophagy.  And finally, by popular demand, Nikolas TCA will return to us from Greece. His story is simply a parasite. He will tell us how he became the first whale athlete to compete in the Ironman competition in Europe and how he changed his life. Those and their 2020 edition in Russian is waiting for you. Record it now.