Today we will talk about the benefits and dangers of baking soda, that is, sodium bicarbonate, if you did not know. Our body actually produces baking soda. It is produced by the pancreas on command from hormones in the small intestine. When acid comes from the stomach, the stomach contains an extremely acidic mixture of pH from one to three. Then it enters the small intestine, where the pH should increase to 6 or 7. Sometimes even up to 7.5. If you know what pH is, this is an extremely large increase in pH. For a number of reasons, it is very important that the pH is different there. At this stage, it is very important to neutralize stomach acid. What I want to say is that if you neutralize this acid in the stomach, there will be severe irritation and inflammation in the small intestine, and it is baking soda from the pancreas that helps neutralize this acid. Why is this so important? Because most of the enzymes needed for digestion are activated and turned on at a much higher pH value. Let's look at the stomach. Pepsin is a very powerful enzyme that breaks down proteins. It is activated when the pH value is from  units to one and a half, it needs a very strong acid in the stomach. But other enzymes coming from the pancreas to the small intestine need a much higher, more alkaline pH for them to work, for example, trypsin, a very important enzyme, needs a pH of 7.5 to 8. If you don’t have bicarbonates to compensate for the pH and too much acid comes into the small intestine, then the enzyme stripsin cannot work, it is useless, even lipase, an enzyme of the pancreas that breaks down fats, needs a pH of 8. I hope now you see that pH in the right place is extremely important for digestion, especially when it comes to enzymes. That’s why you really can’t say Yes, the body is alkaline or the body is too acidic. The pH in the body is different in different places and you need to understand this if you want to alkalize the body or even increase its acidity, because If you alkalize the body with some product, even baking soda, it passes through the stomach before getting to different places, so bicarbonates are produced not only by the pancreas, they are also produced by small tubes connecting the liver to the gallbladder.  The bile ducts also secrete bicarbonates. What's interesting is, let's say, due to a problem with the pancreas, not enough enzymes are secreted. This rarely happens, because the pancreas has a huge resource for creating enzymes, but it also happens without an enzyme deficiency. It consists of taking enzymes, but at the same time, bicarbonates are rarely taken, if at all, and so you take these enzymes. But what activates them if there is no necessary alkaline pH in the small intestine, for example? Because the pancreas is depleted and does not secrete bicarbonates, what activates them? That is, if you take enzymes, I advise taking baking soda at the same time to help them activate. So, on the one hand, baking soda can help digestion by activating some enzymes. On the other hand, baking soda can be useful. In some cases, such as acid reflux or heartburn, if you do not take it very often and for a long time. After all, if you take it for weeks and months, it will lead to other problems. After all, usually the root cause of heartburn and acid reflux is a lack of acid. They are its excess. That's why  Among the side effects of long-term use of baking soda are bloating, gas, and even the so- called acid rebound, when the body produces more acid to compensate for its lack. So, if 500U is not for long, occasionally with acid reflux, this is normal, provided that you also correct its cause, and this is usually a lack of acid. Therefore, I believe that a much better remedy is betaine hydrochloride and apple cider vinegar, but let's say, for example, that you have a stomach ulcer or, say, gastritis, the stomach lining is just a rider, and betaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar will cause terrible irritation. You can easily drink baking soda to get relief. I just want to show you when it is probably worth drinking and when you should not drink it. Of course, someone will write in the comments. My grandfather has been drinking soda all his life and he is 120 years old. Well, okay, I'm not saying that you don't need to drink it. I am with all my heart for natural remedies. But you must always think why you need to take anything at all. Do you know the cause? I think you need to find natural remedies to cope with the symptoms, but at the same time you need to understand the mechanism.  to ultimately eliminate the cause. And in the case of heartburn, the cause is what you eat. Another interesting beneficial property is associated with improved athletic performance. Yes, endurance increases slightly because during training, especially during intense training, lactic acid is produced. This changes the pH of certain body tissues. Lactic acid blocks oxygen, and during training, you reach a point. When you can no longer continue, you reach your limit. But according to several interesting studies, drinking baking soda 90 minutes before an intense workout can improve your results because soda neutralizes this acid and you will have more oxygen. But that's not all. I think that baking soda does something else. When it breaks down, water and CO2 are formed. Carbon dioxide. It allows oxygen to enter the body. If you didn't know about it, watch my video on this topic at the link below. This is extremely interesting. So, CO2 has another beneficial property that you know about. I dug through a lot of information and found an interesting article about the connection between sodium bicarbonate intake and cancer. In that work, the link  I'll leave it below, a significant decrease in the number of cases of metastasis was noted. The study was on mice, but it's still interesting. What is this connected with? If we compare a normal cell and a cancer cell in terms of pH, we'll see that on the outside, a cancer cell is much more acidic than a normal cell, but on the inside, a cancer cell is more alkaline than a normal cell. This is interesting. So when people say cancer has an acidic environment, you're talking about the environment inside the cell or outside, and cancer cells have a higher concentration of lactic acid and lactate. And this can trigger tumor growth. If you have a way to neutralize this pH, then you can potentially prevent tumor growth. Understand that all this is at the end of a chain of events. That is, this is a kind of consequence of a chain reaction that begins with some damage to the mitochondria, after which the oxygen machine cannot work, and the body switches to another mechanism for obtaining fuel, and a normal cell turns into a cancer cell, which is, so to speak, a backup system for obtaining fuel, while a lot of lactic acid is produced. So, by taking baking soda, you do not in any way affect the primary cause of cancer in the mitochondria, but I like baking soda because it can increase CO2 levels and CO2 allows oxygen to penetrate deeper into tissues we were taught that CO2 is just a waste product but we need it for oxygen if we focus only on oxygen and ignore CO2 So it doesn't work And even if you search the Internet for data on the connection between CO2 carbon dioxide and cancer, we will see that there are therapies showing that tumor growth can be stopped simply with CO2 aceo2 This is a product of the decomposition of baking soda Baking soda is also interesting because it is used to treat skin to reduce rashes or some skin allergies Also baking soda helps well with problems with the sinuses If you take this sweat, dissolve a quarter teaspoon of baking soda and a pinch of sea salt and inhale the vapors into the sinuses, this can greatly reduce irritation of the sinuses This is more of a sinus lavage and the last useful property of baking soda Of course, when I recommend it, I always say that it should be taken occasionally, not constantly, not every day It helps reduce the risk of gout attacks because it can block the formation of uric acid crystals if you just slightly increase the pH of the body, you need to monitor  The pH of your urine and take baking soda until the urine page rises to about seven instead of, say, five. I just wanted to give you a different perspective on baking soda and tell you how it can be useful for you for those who haven't watched the other video about baking soda where I talk about the unusual and amazing beneficial properties. It's worth watching here.