I want to talk about products that actually contain GMOs that you might not know about, but first, I want to share something with you this morning at breakfast, and I love reading what they write on the packaging, I noticed that this product has as much as 2 grams of fat per serving, which is incredible, but thank God it has no cholesterol, but if you look below, you can see an interesting inscription that contains bio-engineered food ingredients, I do n’t know if you can see it, probably still can’t see it, it was engineered, you see, food ingredients, what is this anyway, I found the definitions of white engineered food ingredients, food containing detectable genetic material that has been modified using certain laboratory methods and cannot be created through conventional breeding or found in nature. A few years ago, food companies were a little worried that they would be required to label GMO products with a special label because Vermont and other states passed a law requiring GMO products to be labeled, if anyone doesn’t know, gamma is products in which genes have been altered, that is, DNA, and food companies were worried that more and more states  They'll introduce this law that will force them to disclose which products have been genetically modified and which haven't, and they came up with a truly brilliant idea. They came up with a new term, "bio- engineered ingredients," thereby avoiding the word "GMO." So they draw a magnificent sun rising over fields with a sprout breaking through the earth on the packaging, and the product now seems so healthy, but in fact, "bio-engineered products" is another name for "homo." With its help, companies were able to get around the problem with labeling. If you look closely at the definition of the term "bio-engineered food ingredients," you can see that it says " contains detectable genetic material," and that's the problem when they process food, especially during ultra-processing, which is used for 70 percent of refined foods, detecting this genetic material becomes impossible. Gamma radiation is impossible to detect in ultra- processed foods because they use chemicals, heat treatment, pressure, and solvents to break down gamma radiation. But the particles are so small that they become impossible to detect. So, this means that the more processing a product undergoes, the more likely it is that traces of gamma radiation can be eliminated so they don't have to label the volume of engineered food.  ingredients, and if the gamma labeling was used, that is, if they used gamma, they would have to write about it. That is, it's just a brilliant way to hide the presence of GMOs in products. Companies are now not even required to use the term bio-engineered ingredients. Instead, they can use either a QR code, a barcode that provides much more information if scanned with a phone, or a phone number to call to find out whether the product was bio-engineered or not. Who would bother scanning these choir codes or calling somewhere? Most likely, 99 percent of buyers have no idea what bio- engineered food ingredients are. But now you know. I'd be glad if you share this video with your family and friends so that more and more people know what this new term means. Now let's get back to the main topic of this video, namely, a GMO product that you might be going for but which you'll soon want to give up. 1. Yellow pumpkin squash is gamma, but if you take organic yellow squash, it's no longer GMO. 2. Beets. The vast majority of beets are somewhere around 95 percent, especially  In the US, it's gamova, but they make sugar from it. If something like that is written on the sugar package, then most likely this sugar is made from beets and it is gamma. Third, papaya is gamma, eggplant is gamma unless the package says non-GMO or organic. 5. Green zucchini is GMO unless they are organic. Sixth, certain apples are gamma, and seventh, this is the most surprising thing: salmon is also gamma, but if the package says fish and salmon, then this is for no one. But salmon and salmon that are farmed are also gamma, so you need to choose organic products if possible. But if you don't have this opportunity, then at least buy what says non- GMO. You can learn about which foods are really worth eating for health in this course. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salmon, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.