Today we will talk about skin diseases and dermatitis. In the word dermatitis, derm means skin, and the ending - it means inflammation. There are many different types of dermatitis. I want to name a common feature that unites each of these types without exception. So, inflammation occurs in the skin, redness, itching, there may even be blisters, peeling of the skin. All of this has names, but in this video, I will tell you as simply as possible. It will be useful for anyone with any skin problem to know. There is contact dermatitis. When contact with something causes redness or a rash, there is also atopic dermatitis and also the so- called seborrheic dermatitis. Seborrheic comes from a word that means to secrete or flow. There are many other types of dermatitis: red plo, streptoderma, candidal dermatitis, psoriasis, eczema. So, there are many scientific-sounding descriptions of various symptoms associated with the skin, but in fact, all skin problems are a reaction to something, for example, an allergic reaction or some kind of  Another immune reaction to bacteria, viruses, fungi, and so on, many symptoms that are visible on the skin are generated by our own immune system, which reacts to something. So, many of these ailments can be considered as an excessive immune response, and how this is usually treated with steroids, either externally or internally, they suppress the immune system, and another common remedy is antibiotics, which kill only bacteria. Therefore, people often develop a secondary infection and fungi, mold, or yeast grow. You need to understand that the outer layer of our skin is a whole universe filled with bacteria and microorganisms of all kinds. This is called a braided relationship. They do not bother you, you treat them, and everything is fine. In addition, the skin is a barrier, and underneath it is a huge network of lymphatic tissue, blood vessels, and capillaries, inside which there are a lot of immune cells ready to protect you from external enemies. What is the common feature of all these diseases? Each of them can be significantly weakened with vitamin D. For example, due to contact dermatitis, you have hives, your skin is itchy, so vitamin D is needed.  inhibits the work of so-called mast cells that produce histamine, vitamin D reduces the histamine reaction, vitamin D is the main regulator or controller of your immune system. Look, almost all skin problems without exception worsen in winter, which is exactly the time when we have the least vitamin D, they also worsen during stress. It turns out that when cortisol levels rise during stress, this deprives the body of vitamin D. Even with acne, which is associated with the sebaceous glands, taking vitamin D can help reduce these glands to normal sizes by removing excess production of sebum. Seborrheic dermatitis, its variant on the scalp is called dandruff, creams with vitamin D help well with it, eczema, psoriasis, tiliga, and alopecia. All this is associated with a deficiency of vitamin D. In fact, it is its lack that provokes autoimmune diseases. There is another interesting point: if an infection on the skin or somewhere else is of microbial origin, some of these microbes impair the functioning of receptors to vitamin D on the skin, the receptor is the point where vitamin D can attach and activate if a microbe impairs the functioning of such a receptor helps it survive, but it turns out that some fungi are also capable of this. The decision to take more vitamin D. Vitamin D increases the level of an enzyme that helps produce melanin. Melanin is a pigment on the skin. Therefore, if you have a lack of vitamin D, the risk of Viti League is higher for vitamin D. It has a very powerful antifungal effect. It directly inhibits the growth of fungi, starting with protection against fungal infection and ending with protection against biofilms. Biofilms are a cluster of microbes that have built themselves protection from calcium. To avoid immune attacks, vitamin D prevents the construction of biofilms. When you lack vitamin D, your skin becomes drier and less hydrated. This entire area of dermatology seems very complex, but almost all skin problems have one thing in common and that is vitamin D deficiency. We discuss the topic of autoimmune and other skin problems in detail in my course on skin health. I highly recommend inviting you to my mini-course on skin health diagnostics. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects. The signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.