Let's talk about the best supplements for specific health problems. I believe that everyone needs to know this information. Because when something like this happens to you, it's useful to know what exactly. It can help, especially if you don't like taking medicine. When supplements are studied, people think that scientifically based research is the best way to find out if a supplement works. But this is a false path. Because in scientifically based research you can see a lot of nonsense. When it comes to supplements, because some organizations, I will not name them, deliberately conduct studies that downplay the effect of natural remedies that compete with commercial drugs that bring in a lot of money. Who will pay for research into natural remedies? It's expensive, so there is not enough reliable research on nutrients. Very few such studies are available. And they tell you that no one has proven that it works, but this does not mean that it does not work. It's just that no one wants to pay for research. What I'm going to tell you is based on extensive personal experience working with a large number of people, tens and hundreds of thousands of patients over many years. I simply observed what most often works and what does not, and also studied a lot in depth about how nutrition can solve problems. This video is not a comprehensive overview of every health problem, but I will talk about the most important problems and How a certain nutrient supplement or remedy can help solve them, and we'll start with perhaps the most important nutrient, vitamin D. You need to understand that many factors interfere with its absorption for many reasons, such as lack of sun. After all, we spend little time outdoors, the time of year and how close we are to the equator also affect age, body weight, insulin resistance, diabetes. But all this can be dealt with by increasing the dose. You need to drink from 10,000. This is at least up to 50,000 IU daily, and sometimes more. In some cases, I have a lot of videos about this. One of the most important problems that vitamin D helps solve is autoimmune diseases. A common feature of such diseases is inflammation. Vitamin D in the right dosage can be a very powerful remedy for inflammation. It regulates the functioning of the immune system. For example, in the case of hyperimmunity, weakening on the other hand, the immune system can be too weak. And this leads to things like cancer or AIDS. Vitamin D is effective here, and vitamin D also helps with depression. What you might not know about glaucoma is that many eye problems can be Reduce high doses of vitamin D3 for lower back pain or pelvic problems, such as hip pain, deep bone pain. Vitamin D3 can help reduce both benign tumors and cancer. Vitamin D3 also helps with hair loss and dermatitis. If dermatologists prescribed only vitamin D3 in high doses, the results would be amazing for almost any inflammatory process on the skin. What is extremely important is that whenever you take vitamin D, take cofactors magnesium zinc and vitamin K2. The next recommendation is magnesium glycinate. I usually do not recommend other forms of magnesium because they are less well absorbed. Why do we need magnesium? It allows vitamin D to work. They work together. If you take vitamin D with a severe magnesium deficiency, the results will not be true, and the opposite is true. If you drink magnesium without vitamin D3, this magnesium will work only to a certain extent. Every time someone drinks only magnesium or only vitamin D3, side effects occur. The reason is usually a deficiency of the second cofactor with the body. It occurs early in the morning and that's it.  Due to magnesium deficiency, magnesium works in waves, and the strongest decline occurs early in the morning, somewhere around 5-6 or 7 a.m. Early in the morning, there are many different problems: leg cramps, foot cramps, an increased risk of heart attack, blood clots, strokes, and even the dawn phenomenon, high blood sugar, all this is due to a lack of magnesium, migraines are also a lack of magnesium, but you need large doses of 400 mg and you will see the result, and with migraines, sometimes you need from 800 to 1000 mg or even more for it to work, depending on the severity, magnesium also reduces cortisol and adrenaline levels and therefore improves sleep, magnesium also helps thin the blood and protects against blood clots, magnesium lowers blood pressure well, prevents blood clots, prevents muscle spasms, In addition, magnesium as an electrolyte protects well against arrhythmia, for example, from atrial fibrillation, that is, it is important for heart health, magnesium plays a central role in energy production and with chronic fatigue, lack of energy, and  Problems with mitochondria, the solution is magnesium. There is not enough endurance during training. You need magnesium. How do I know that I have enough magnesium? All the muscles in my body are calm and not tense. And lastly, magnesium protects against the formation of kidney stones. The most important factor in the appearance of kidney stones is magnesium deficiency. The next remedy is betaine hydrochloride. Take it every time you have heartburn or indigestion. Betaine hydrochloride increases the acidity of the stomach by adding acid. It is the lack of acid that creates problems, so the valve does not close. There is not enough acid. Betaine hydrochloride allows you to keep the upper valve closed and adds acid for better digestion. Sometimes you need to drink 3, 4, 5, 6 or 5 capsules before meals for it to work due to the low concentration. The next remedy is zinc carnosine. This is without a doubt the best remedy for stomach ulcers. It also helps reduce gastritis. The next supplement is Selenium. Oddly enough, Selenium is an excellent remedy for AIDS. Apparently, it repairs certain cells, which then correct the situation with AIDS, because AIDS is an acquired syndrome.  immune deficiency, that is, in fact, you lose immunity. After all, you lose your main defender and strength. The right dose will give you just one Brazil nut a day. Selenium also reduces the likelihood of developing Hashimoto's disease. With this autoimmune problem with the thyroid, you need Selenium. So, for Hashimoto's disease and AIDS, the next remedy is vitamin B1. What's interesting is that you need magnesium as a cofactor for B1 to work. If you take B1 and it doesn't work, you probably need magnesium. Vitamin B1 has an amazing effect on nervous tension, anxiety, stress, anxiety, and restless leg syndrome. In the latter case, take magnesium I1 and you will almost certainly get rid of it. There is another type of vitamin B1. Its fat-soluble form is benfotiamine. Benfotiamine is an excellent remedy for any problems with the nerves and problems with the limbs, feet, toes, hands. Take four capsules throughout the day so that it is always in the body. This will help. Another supplement, calcium lactate, helps with chronic  cough, but I usually don't recommend taking calcium supplements, except in small doses. Don't take a lot of calcium, more than 1000 mg, because it increases the risk of heart problems. I recommend getting calcium from foods such as cheese, vegetables, or sardines with bones, but not from supplements. The same applies to iron. I don't recommend taking supplements. Get it from red meat or liver, or drink liver in capsules. It's good for low blood pressure and gives energy. I also recommend potassium for people who are sensitive to salt. They are told to eat less salt. I advise getting more potassium, but the problem with potassium is that we need a lot of it. 4700 mg. It's unlikely that anyone gets that much. The next supplement is coenzyme Q10. If you take statins, be sure to take it. Statins block cholesterol and deprive you of coenzyme Q10. Vitamin E has two forms. I recommend canola, they are 50 times stronger. Tocotrienol protects very well against fibrosis and also helps with angina. It maintains internal vascular integrity and protects against  plaques and help with infertility. The next supplement is one of my favorites. Tutka is a special type of bile salts. Many people have a problem with thick bile, it creates pressure and pain that rises to the right shoulder and neck. Tutka is a problem. It helps with neurological problems in the brain and many others. I have a video about this. Let's talk about iodine. It's an excellent remedy for fibrocystic disease. Vitamin C, probiotics, a lot of diet Cola, ruins the intestines because of artificial sweeteners. Biotin is good for hair, nails, and skin. It is especially good for enhancing hair and nail growth. Manganese is useful for Tourette syndrome and nervous tics. NC is an excellent remedy for accidental overdose of paracetamol and any other liver poisoning. Take milk thistle, a snake bite, or mushroom poisoning. Mastic resin helps with gastritis. If you have tried many supplements to improve sleep, but none have helped, I recommend some people take Melatonin. It helps many people and it has other effects. I will film about this.  video, but I recommend it for serious sleep problems when everything else fails. Niacin is an excellent remedy for everything related to cholesterol. I recommend gradually increasing the dose to 500 or 1000 mg. Niacin causes redness, this is normal, and this is what you need. Clove oil is an excellent remedy for pain in teeth or gums. Of course, I could go on for a long time, but the video has already turned out to be long. And did you learn about the most important supplements and their effects? If you want all the information in one file, you can download it from the link below, save it, and use it whenever you need it. You know what superfoods are. These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short, succinct videos about more than just superfood juice that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.