Hidden reasons why you can feel your heartbeat What am I talking about when your pulse temporarily accelerates, pounds, skips beats, as if shaking, this scares many people, they are afraid, you need to understand that most often the problem is not in the heart itself But usually the cause of this is surges in blood sugar, either too high or too low Or maybe you ate chocolate, it contains two stimulants at once, abramin and caffeine, which can affect the work of the heart, caffeine, especially its excess affects the heart Alcohol, high temperature or low levels of electrolytes, potassium or magnesium, can change the heart rhythm, but there is another reason for this phenomenon that is worth mentioning It is associated with the gallbladder There is an interesting article showing the connection between the bladder and ECG readings electrocardiogram In other words, if you have stones in the gallbladder or it is swollen If the ducts between the liver and small intestine are dilated or there is thick sediment in the gallbladder, all this can change the physiology of the heart, which can manifest itself in VCG I do not want to delve into the jungle about What specific pattern should appear in VCG you can  Google it if you're interested, but the heart's function definitely changes when there's a problem with the gallbladder. If a person has abnormal ECG readings, of course, it could be a heart problem, but the cause could also be in the gallbladder. They're in the heart. I raised this topic because the last thing you need is to seek surgery when the problem is something else. I always ask a person what you ate right before you felt your heartbeat, and it always turns out that he ate something unusual for himself, or for example, he ate a lot of heavy cream, or something new, or chocolate, or a lot of caffeine, or alcohol. Some new product was introduced into the diet, it began to irritate the gallbladder and caused the sensation of heartbeat. If you haven't watched my video about the gallbladder, here are a few more common symptoms: pain on the right side under the ribs, just under the right ribs; a feeling of fullness or pain; the pain can also radiate to the head on the right side, the right eye, or the right trapezius, or the right shoulder, or the right rhomboid muscle, this muscle is between the spine and the right shoulder blade. Another symptom is light-colored stool or Stool floats or you feel nauseous, bloating, air coming out of the stomach or belching, or even constipation. Bile is produced by the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and acts as a lubricant, so it prevents constipation. Too much bile causes diarrhea. Too little bile can cause constipation. Many factors can affect bile, its production and storage. Let me explain what bile is. Bile is a cleanser produced by the body. It is needed to digest fats. It extracts fats, some substances, fat- soluble vitamins, vitamins A, E, and K. It also extracts omega-3 fatty acids and other fats necessary for health. A lack of bile can lead to the formation of stones or bile stasis. Many of these problems are caused by nutrition. The main goal of this video is to tell you about another possible reason for the sensation of palpitations in the gallbladder. If you are interested, I have many more videos about the gallbladder and they are structured in this course. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, should it be removed? And if the gallbladder was removed How to eat right and avoid complications How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating and nausea I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder, sign up at the link below See you there