Let's discuss superfoods that are the best products for the kidneys. I'm not talking about preventing kidney problems. I'm talking about kidneys that are already damaged, let's say you have chronic kidney disease. What you need to eat is what I want to discuss. The kidneys are made up of tiny structural units called nephrons, not neurons. The nephron is an incredibly complex little filter. It doesn't just filter the blood, but largely regulates its composition. It filters out waste, but it returns a lot of electrolytes, hormones, minerals, vitamins, and proteins to the blood. Therefore, if you have damaged these filters, you really need to change your diet because now you will accumulate phosphorus, potassium, sodium, and other nutrients. There will not be enough of them, so you can't eat the same things you ate. Before, I strongly recommend not eating outside the home, but cooking for yourself, and from as whole foods as possible. I would not eat anything refined. You also need to understand that the main cause of kidney damage is diabetes. And this is high sugar levels. So, sugar should be immediately excluded, as well as those things that are more harmful than sugar and act like sugar, for example, starches, malt modified food or corn starch highly refined foods do not eat anything that comes in boxes in cans junk fast food you need to think seriously about what you eat I will show you what will definitely prolong your life other things can destroy your kidneys drugs alcohol especially painkillers smoking junk food after deep technological processing these are all seed oils corn oil soybean oil cottonseed oil canola oil you need to exclude them Let's start with protein What kind of protein should you consume The fact is that you can't eat a lot of protein you need a moderate amount of protein or slightly less than moderate And you need to carefully choose your protein because most proteins have a lot of phosphorus you don't want to overload your kidneys with phosphorus by the way always do this under the supervision of a doctor because the doctor will monitor the levels of these nutrients to ensure they are normal but I will tell you about other things that need to be taken into account and which are usually not talked about online So let's start with proteins low in phosphorus because this is exactly the problem with many types of fish they also contain a lot of mercury and mercury can cause  autoimmune kidney disease and most of all mercury We probably get it from fish but fish also contains selenium at least in fish like sardines and salmon However, both have a lot of phosphorus I would eat them but not as often as other types of fish but definitely regularly I think that of all types of fish the least phosphorus is in sardines and also in sebas I would not eat turkey liver beef and any other because liver has a lot of phosphorus egg yolks and nuts there are also a lot of phosphates they can also irritate the kidneys and block some nutrients that the kidneys need such as zinc and other minerals because of this it will be more difficult for you to get the nutrients you need So When it comes to kidneys you need to choose the least toxic food and I'm not only talking about chemical products and store-bought products I'm also talking about the toxicity of other compounds such as oxalates they are very harmful to the kidneys especially those that are already damaged you need to avoid foods such as almonds spinach and chocolate there are a lot of these three products Oxalates, and oxalates can increase kidney inflammation. There are other substances, too. For example, tannins. I wouldn't drink black tea, but green tea has few tannins, so it's okay to drink it. There are also substances like lectins. I think lectins aren't a problem unless your intestines, liver, or kidneys are damaged, especially your intestines. But if your kidneys are damaged, you probably need to eat something that's low in lectins. This applies to vegetables. There's another problem with vegetables, besides the fact that they contain oxalates. They also contain a lot of potassium, possibly magnesium, and you don't need a lot of it. So, which vegetables are completely safe for people with kidney disease number one? Asparagus. Asparagus reduces the burden on the kidneys associated with waste products such as uric acid and ammonia. Celery also reduces the amount of uric acid and it also contains few of the substances I mentioned. Lettuce is also safe. I'm not talking about Swiss chard and beet tops; they contain a lot of oxalates, so they should probably be avoided. In general, asparagus and celery.  Lettuce, avocado, cucumbers, garlic, cabbage, cauliflower, and mushrooms. Although mushrooms aren't vegetables, these foods also pack a punch. They can help neutralize acid. But vegetables that should be avoided are high in lectins, such as eggplant, potatoes, beans, and grains. And as I said, nuts. If you eat safe vegetables, you'll also get a lot of antioxidants. This will significantly reduce kidney damage from free radicals. Another excellent product for people with late-stage kidney disease is Spirulina. This is a type of algae that is very beneficial for people with late-stage kidney disease. Spirulina contains a lot of vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients, and chlorophyll. Spirulina can reduce toxicity in urine, and at the same time, Spirulina helps with anemia, which is one of the side effects of kidney problems, and it helps with fluid retention due to kidney problems. I want to mention one more factor that damages the kidneys: a CT scan of the kidneys themselves. Unfortunately, I had to have a CT scan of the kidneys two or three times for various reasons.  This should have been done, but the problem is that the kidneys are heavily irradiated. And this can potentially damage the kidneys themselves. So, if you have a choice between CT and ultrasound, or between CT and MRI, choose ultrasound or MRI, but not T. Unless you absolutely cannot do without it. Another excellent type of food for the kidneys that reduces toxicity is fermented foods, sauerkraut, kimchi, various pickles are very good for the kidneys. When you buy sauerkraut, kimchi, take them only from the refrigerator so that they are not pasteurized. Avocado is a very interesting type of fat that is good for the kidneys and liver. This fat also helps extract phytonutrients from greens that dissolve better in fat, like the next item. Virgin olive oil is another excellent fat for the kidneys. It reduces inflammation. It has a lot of phytonutrients, contains vitamin E, and has almost no phosphorus. As for hard cheeses, they have a lot of phosphorus, but not cottage cheese, but take organic, because regular cottage cheese contains modified food additives.  starch, take organic goat cheese, you can also use it. This way you will get calcium. But from food, you need foods that are good for the kidneys, which have enough nutrients, but without excess. I recommend getting nutrients from food and not from dietary supplements. The exception is vitamin D, because it is very difficult to get from food, but it is very important for the kidneys. Also, know that it is the kidneys that convert the inactive form of vitamin D into an active form. The liver also partly does this, but the kidneys are very, very important. So, if the kidneys are damaged, vitamin D will be low. Another mineral that should not be allowed to be in excess is sodium. Even sea salt is a problem. It contains minerals, but there is a lot of sodium, somewhere around 98%. There is another type of salt that is very useful for those who have kidney problems. This is Bach salt. This salt contains about 70% sodium chloride, and the rest is minerals. So, it is much more useful for kidney problems. Don't complicate things, eat these products. I understand them a little, but I think this will prolong your life. Try to take the highest quality products, organic, grass-fed, no  This food is not for preventing kidney problems. It's the food you need to focus on if you already have a problem. You know what superfoods are. These are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these foods and their benefits. Short tutorials and videos about more than 4 superfoods that help improve health, reduce cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also available. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.