Hello, in this video we will talk about bloating, indigestion, constipation, and acid reflux. If you have any of these, then this video is for you. I will tell you everything very, very simply. What they talk about is completely opposite to what you need to do to get rid of it. You only need to understand four things: the stomach, the liver, the gallbladder, and the pancreas. The stomach is here, the liver is here, the gallbladder is here, and the pancreas is here. The stomach digests food. Its purpose is mainly to break down proteins and absorb elements, calcium, iron, and these are its two main functions. Not to mention destroying microbes and bacteria. It should be very, very, very acidic. Page 1 to 3. If you understand, this is a very low pH, and if the pH is not low enough, then such a weak acid will not be able to signal the liver to activate the release of bile from the gallbladder. I will explain what this fluid is that helps break down fats. It draws out fat-soluble vitamins and helps absorb fatty acids, that is, healthy fats, from which  The body is essentially built so it is a very important organ. Bile is produced behind the liver but was stored in the gallbladder. If there is no gallbladder, there is a tube there. Bile is still produced, although in small amounts and often. If there is little acid in the stomach, whoever does not release bile will not have enough bile and you will bloat. Stomach problems become the main one, and with the gallbladder, secondary. The main symptoms of gallbladder problems are belching and pain in the right shoulder. Then the pancreas. It does a lot, but its main task in terms of digestion is the production of enzymes. Enzymes break down food. There are different enzymes for carbohydrates, starches, proteins, and fats. The gallbladder and pancreas work together, they digest food. Then it goes to the small intestine, where bacteria break it down, and so on. If the stomach has low acidity, you will not be able to release bile and enzymes, and then undigested food will accumulate, which rots, remaining right here. I am not even talking about other problems like stomach pain, bloating, and if the page here is not low enough, the valve here will not close, this is called  GERD acid burping because the acid will go here acid burping happens when there is not enough acid and why do people take antacids oh my god what a mistake and now this not only did not correct the situation but worsened it and here's what I do in such cases I usually take a combination of these two remedies I will talk about them later in 99 percent of cases I take them together many stomach symptoms can mimic symptoms of the pancreas and gallbladder often they overlap and it is not clear what causes that the first thing I do is increase the acidity of the stomach and for this I take a concentrate called apple cider vinegar plus this is apple cider vinegar concentrate in tablets together with betaine hydrochloride to increase acidity take two or three tablets before meals and they will increase the acidity of the stomach correct it this alone will help release pathetic pancreatic enzymes this is a very effective and widely used remedy that I recommend to many because many have problems with stomach acidity especially with their growth when the acidity decreases and there are many such reasons in another remedy that I use the formula for the gallbladder there are purified  Bile salts help restore the body to what it lacks. If you don't have enough bile, they will help you restore it. They will help strengthen the liver and gallbladder, and also help with bloating. If there is n't enough tesla in the stomach, sometimes in rare cases this remedy can increase alkalinity because bile is an alkali, and this can make you feel worse, although rarely, but it happens if you take this formula without an acidifier. Sometimes bloating can occur, but if you add an acidifier, everything gets better. You have enough bile, it lubricates the colon, and this helps with constipation. It also helps absorb vitamin A. For the eyes, skin, and sinuses, they depend on vitamin A. I added pancreatic enzymes to the gallbladder formula so that this drug would help fight the organs at the same time. The pancreas will work better, as will the gallbladder, and we add an acidifier for further improvement. A combination of these two remedies will solve many problems. Take one tablet of the gallbladder formula after meals, and the acidifier is apple cider vinegar, plus before meals. I usually take a subspecies and apple cider vinegar tablets before meals and  One gallbladder tablet after a meal to ensure digestion works properly. You'll feel full because you'll begin extracting more fat for your cells. Digestion works properly and will no longer linger in the stomach. There will be no more undigested or partially digested food. Bloating goes away, digestion returns to normal. Constipation is essentially incomplete digestion, and usually everything gets stuck in the stomach. It goes away, gives you energy, and you feel better. I use these two remedies for bloating, indigestion, constipation, and acid reflux. They work very well together. Try them and leave your comment.