Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, I want to talk about which two foods are the most dangerous to consume. You probably think it's about sugar or junk food, but I'm actually talking about corn. ISO. Yes, did you know that corn and soybeans make up half of the crops grown in the US? Yes, that's incredible. The average person gets 700 calories a day from these so-called healthy vegetables. Corn and soybeans make up forty percent of your diet. That's incredible. 93 percent of soybeans and 85 percent of corn grown in the US are GMOs. What is GMO? This modification of food products makes corn and soybeans resistant to the herbicide, that is, a weed killer called Roundup Freddy, and its main component is glyphosate. In other words, corn and soybeans can be pollinated with this herbicide and the crops won't die. All the weeds will die, but not the crops. So, you get much more of this chemical. Why is it dangerous? There are independent studies, the results of which are being hidden. The study was not conducted by Monsanto, the owners of this technology. It turned out that glyphosate causes Serious problems in animals. The studies were conducted on animals, not on humans, but we are all guinea pigs since we eat these products. And it turned out that glyphosate causes breast, liver, kidney, uterine, and ovarian cancer in animals. Yes, it's not funny. The problem is that the World Health Organization requires studies to be conducted for 90 days and three months. If nothing happens during this period, the drug is considered safe. Yes, but now class action lawsuits have been filed. I don't know how far the case goes because Obama quietly passed a law. According to this law, if Monsanto has problems, in general, you can't drag them to court. So, they wo n't have any real problems. Who are you legally defending? Under the video, I'll give you a link. Watch for yourself. Now I'll tell you about glyphosate. We don't know much yet, but over the past 15 years, the frequency of use of this damned pesticide has increased 3,000-fold. Sorry, this herbicide. This herbicide causes changes in the endocrine system. It is considered a hormone disruptor. It acts like estrogen. That's why it so often causes cancer and other allergy problems, possibly autism, and much more. I want to tell you something.  Let 's look at foods that are usually overlooked. How about ketchup with high fructose corn syrup? How about dressings with soy and corn oils? Here are foods with hidden corn. Citric acid is in vitamin C. Confectioners' sugar, corn flour, corn fructose, ground corn, corn chips, corn syrup, dextrin, dextrose, fructose, high fructose corn syrup, lactic acid, lettuce, mono and diglycerides, monosodium glutamate, orbital starch, baking powder, and many synthetic vitamins. And all of this is corn. Now, soy fillers, carob, emulsifiers, guar gum, natural flavors, soy drinks. Many weight loss programs contain soy protein isolate and powders, incredibly soy textured bouillon cubes, soup packets, diet products. More than three thousand products contain corn and soy. The trouble is that they are experimenting on us. We don't even know what we are eating, and as a result, we get a chemical. It's hard to avoid. You need to do three things: first, avoid Soy and corn, read the labels. Under the video, I provided a link to a document that you can print. It lists some products that should be avoided because they contain soy and corn. Tell your friends and family about this to protect them, especially if you are at risk for breast cancer or other cancers. We can all get it. Secondly, make every effort to eat only organic food. Why? Because organic soy and corn are nigma. That's the solution. Thirdly, start eating foods that deactivate some of these poisons, as I call them, in your liver. To do this, you need to introduce some cruciferous vegetables into your diet: kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and so on. They will gradually begin to protect you. These vegetables have anti-cancer properties. This is anti-inflammatory. So, first, avoid this. Second, eat organic food. Third, eat cruciferous vegetables, which deactivate some of the poisons in the liver. Well, on that happy note, I ask you to leave a comment until next time.