Let's talk about how to cope with a panic attack. Over the years, many people have passed through my care and many have had panic attacks. They all followed the same diet. We will return to it. A panic attack is very strong anxiety, it is an almost tangible fear, a feeling of suffocation when a person cannot breathe, and here's what you should do first: slow down your breathing. I'm sure you have noticed that people in a state of panic either breathe rapidly or inhale very differently from exhale. This is approximately what exhale usually does. Therefore, you should count to four or even five when inhaling and also count to four or five when exhaling. You need to equalize the duration of inhalation and exhalation, slow them down, and this will help you get out of this panic attack, get you out of the fight or flight mode, because at this moment the adrenal glands are involved, they are responsible for stress. In addition, there is a certain area in the human brain, the amygdala, and it, like the adrenal glands, is responsible for the fight or flight mechanism. It has been proven that when it is removed, fear as an emotion disappears. It turns out that 1 with the functions of the visible body is fear, this is ours.  A survival mechanism, thanks to it, when we see a snake, we understand that we need to run, and without fear, we may not survive. Second, long walks in the fresh air from 40 minutes to an hour every day, go outside into nature, where there is a lot of free space and saturate the body with oxygen. Third, stop watching the news. I need all this negativity. Nothing should provoke stress. Better rest, watch a comedy. Fourth, vitamin B1 is essential for counteracting stress. A deficiency of vitamin B1 can lead to severe anxiety disorder. Guess what depletes B1 reserves. Simple carbohydrates in the diet of people prone to panic attacks or anxiety are always very high in simple carbohydrates. They consume a lot of sugar. They often drink coffee, tea, and drinks containing sulfites, such as wine, as well as other products with sulfides. All this depletes vitamin B1 reserves. Edible cassava also depletes B1 reserves, and it is recommended to consume quite a lot of nutritional yeast. If you have a severe panic attack or anxiety, also eating African silkworms will deplete it. I know B1 reserves are easy to resist against mini silkworms, but their consumption should be reduced. Eating larvae, which contain a lot of temenose, can also cause problems. Consuming such foods should also be limited. If you live in Africa, this is also necessary. 5. Acupressure is a very effective remedy for quickly coping with an attack. 6. Adaptogens are herbal preparations that help you adapt to stress. They calm the sympathetic nervous system, lower cortisol levels, and help you cope with stress. Thanks for watching. If you haven't yet seen the webinar recording on stress and the video about adaptogens, you'll find links to them on this page.