How to fall asleep again If you don't know Why you woke up between 2 and 3 am I consider myself an expert on insomnia because it has tormented me for over 10 years it's ruining my life I did n't just wake up at 2-3 am Sometimes I did n't sleep at all for a minute the whole night I just lay in bed it was real torture 2 am is a unique time And the thing here is the bottom rhythms and the stress hormone cortisol According to these rhythms, it should be minimal at 2 am and maximal at 8 am I had the opposite I was very alert at 2 am but was completely exhausted by 8 am I tried everything even prescription drugs honestly at that time I didn't know that these drugs actually worsen the situation with cortisol they increase cortisol And what helps to lower cortisol levels one of the important remedies is magnesium magnesium is able to lower cortisol levels cortisol levels can increase with magnesium deficiency if you are sitting and you have tense muscles in the upper back or lower back or Reduces A cramp in your toe when you stretch it is a clear sign of magnesium deficiency. I recommend taking a form of magnesium called magnesium glycinate. It helps relax muscles and reduce cortisol when taken in the evening before bed. Towards the morning, around 6:00 a.m., the level of magnesium in the tissues is minimal. Apparently, this is why many health problems occur early in the morning, such as heart attacks, strokes, and restless leg syndrome, because magnesium influences many of these. The last sign of magnesium deficiency is twitching. If there is twitching under the eye or in the arm, this is a sure sign of magnesium deficiency. Magnesium controls calcium. Therefore, with a lack of magnesium, calcium increases, and calcium causes cramps. Here and there in the body. Cortisol can also increase at 2 a.m. due to low blood sugar. Let's say you eat a lot of carbohydrates, your blood sugar rises. You go to bed and your blood sugar drops. What happens when sugar drops too much? The body increases it with the help of cortisol. And it's all about diet. We discussed magnesium deficiency. By the way.  If you eat a lot of carbohydrates and starches, magnesium deficiency occurs and from the sugar itself there will be a problem with blood sugar, which will affect Cortisol and you will wake up at night. Do this: If you woke up at 2 am, remember what you ate yesterday. Did you eat refined starches? Did you eat at a restaurant or something with monosodium glutamate? It also affects blood sugar. Another factor is alcohol. After drinking alcohol, you think you are sleeping. But in fact, you sleep poorly and most likely will wake up at 2 or 3 o'clock. A snack in the evening increases blood sugar, and at 2 am, sugar drops and this can prevent you from falling asleep. So, it is extremely important not to snack after 6:30 pm. Let's say you ate very late in the evening, and you ate a lot of protein. Protein usually stimulates the body and this can interrupt your sleep. In fact, I noticed that I sleep really better if the last time I ate was in the middle of the day and after that I don't eat. I sleep much better if I don't eat too late in the evening. Another factor is a craving for salt. Let's say you  I crave salty chips in the evenings. Usually, the craving for salt occurs due to a sodium deficiency. Sodium helps lower cortisol. With a sodium deficiency or a lack of salt, cortisol increases. Add more sea salt to your food during the day until the craving for salt in the evenings disappears completely. Cortisol also increases if you watch action films before bed, so I watch boring or very light films, because after an exciting film, I won’t fall asleep. It’s important to avoid blue light from this thing and from the computer because blue light interferes with the production of melatonin, which helps you relax and sleep. And in order to have more melatonin at night, you need to get enough sun. If you get more sun during the day, you will definitely sleep better at night. More than half of the sunlight, as well as light from a fire and even candles, is infrared light, and this light increases the level of melatonin in the cells. With a B1 deficiency in the body, there is excess energy. The problem here is that the body has more energy than it needs, and this energy must be somehow gotten rid of, and if you don’t exercise, then  It will be difficult to fall asleep, so I highly recommend taking long walks and exercising until tired. It’s difficult for me to exercise to get rid of energy. And also, the fact that you wake up at 2-3 am can be affected by what’s happening in the liver. The liver is the organ that detoxifies from 1 am to 3 am. If you have something like this, say, the liver is trying to remove alcohol from the body, or you are taking medications and the liver is trying to remove them, this can disrupt sleep, take milk thistle at night. This is also very beneficial for the liver. Personally, I had restless leg syndrome, this is a typical indicator of a deficiency of B1 or magnesium, probably due to excess carbohydrates in the diet, as it was with me, if this is corrected, restless leg syndrome will go away. It’s easy to do, take natural B1 and magnesium at night, check your pulse, because if it is too high, you may have a potassium deficiency. One day I was trying to sleep and felt that my heart was pounding, I felt my pulse and oh my God, my pulse boom-boom boom-boom-boom, a high pulse can happen for two reasons: potassium deficiency is usually due to excess  carbohydrates or too acidic pH I used to drink kombucha or apple cider vinegar right before bed too concentrated it increased my acidity and that was my problem can someone help if they drink more diluted apple cider vinegar apple cider vinegar perfectly stabilizes blood sugar all night if you suspect problems with blood sugar apple cider vinegar at night is an excellent remedy and it improves the absorption of many minerals And if this does not help And you do not fall asleep for a long time Take a book that is not too exciting and read it until you get tired and fall asleep And the next day I would go for a very long walk not to increase the heart rate but just to get a lot of oxygen and how to remove this accumulated cortisol and adrenaline Try all this and write below How did it help you I invite you to an anti-stress course stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight on the course I will show you how to remove stress from the body and return a beautiful body stress is closely related to immunity Therefore in the Pro package you  A unique course on how to strengthen your immune system is waiting for you. I'll tell you how your immune system works and what weakens it. I'll also give you a list of the best ways to strengthen it. I'm waiting for you on the course.