I'll show you a remedy for candidiasis that you won't need others. I'll tell you how to make sure you never have candidiasis again. All this is based on information that I recently found. I want you to know, because it's very interesting what candida is. Candida is a type of yeast or fungus. To really understand how to get rid of it, you need to understand what it is and why it grows in the body. You need to know a couple of facts about candida. Number one, normally, there should be some amount of candida in the body: in the mouth, in the gastrointestinal tract, and in many other places. The problem arises when it grows. There are many strains of candida, about 150 species, some are more pathogenic, some are less so. Yeast or candida is just one type of microorganism that lives inside the human body and on its surface. In addition, we have bacteria, we have mold, we even have viruses that help us. We need them to restrain the growth of bacteria. But it is not viruses and bacteria that restrain the candida population. Without bacteria, candida grows. The main reason for the lack of bacteria is antibiotics. This is called immunosuppressive therapy.  And when you take an antibiotic, it destroys beneficial bacteria, and now we have nothing to counteract this yeast overgrowth. But that's not all, don't leave, by the way. And this is very curious. Of all the antibiotics sold in the US, almost 80 percent are sold in agriculture and only 20 percent are sold by prescription. For example, animals are given antibiotics not necessarily because they are sick. Antibiotics allow animals to live in an environment that causes stress. They allow them to live in an environment where there is more dirt or less land. After all, antibiotics at least temporarily contain the infection, and the animals gain weight. The problem here is that there is a lot of secrecy in this area. It is very difficult to find information about the sale of antibiotics, and especially in the US, it is very difficult to know whether there was an outbreak of, say, E. coli or salmonella. It is very difficult to know exactly where the outbreak began. In Europe, this is monitored, but in the US, it is not. You will probably be wondering where this E. coli or salmonella comes from. They come from manure added to the soil in which vegetables are grown. This is the manure of animals that received antibiotics.  Why did they develop super bacteria and microbes that can no longer be killed by antibiotics? Because if you give animals or people a lot of antibiotics, resistance to them develops. So all this attention to antibiotics is connected not only with the fact that you take them, but also with the fact that they are given to animals. Antibiotics are given to animals, and their manure is then added to the soil in which we grow our food. Even if you are a vegan or vegetarian and do not eat animal products, antibiotics from the soil can get to you along with plants. The problem is that everything is sterilized. We sterilize products irradiated with radiation so that they do not contain pathogens. We overcook and overcook food so that pathogenic microbes do not get into our bodies. Therefore, even if you bought a chicken in a regular store and started cutting it on a cutting board, there is a high risk of contamination of the board itself. Then the contamination gets on your fingers, gets into your body, and this can cause food poisoning. This is about antibiotics. What are the symptoms of candidiasis? The main symptom is that you are drawn to carbohydrates because candida loves carbohydrates. Number two is itching.  in intimate areas in the vaginal area in the anal area number three white tongue is oral candidiasis number four great fatigue because candida also uses a lot of your nutrients this leads to nutrient deficiencies number five urinary tract infection 6 bloating and digestive problems number seven sinus congestion and number eight skin problems dermatitis dermatophytes psoriasis and so on and number nine aching joints all these are symptoms of candidiasis the next point is extremely curious candida does not like to live in an acidic environment it likes to live in an alkaline environment when your microbes die so-called acidophilic bacteria die these microorganisms produce acid and when you kill them your gut changes it begins to rise and the environment in the colon becomes more alkaline and such an environment is ideal for candida and the problem is that when candida eats its food sugar as a byproduct it produces ammonia ammonia is a very alkaline substance so the presence of candida makes  A more alkaline environment, which enhances the growth of Candida. I forgot about another symptom of Candida: an ammonia smell from the mouth may appear. This gas is a byproduct of this yeast, a Candida infection, and usually with Candida, an ammonia smell from the mouth occurs. There are other factors that increase the alkalinity of the body. One of them is sugar consumption. Excess sugar makes the body more alkaline. They are more acidic. This is why diabetics have high sugar levels. Firstly, this excess sugar feeds Candida, and secondly, sugar creates an alkaline environment. So, here you have food for Candida and a favorable alkaline environment. The next factor that creates an alkaline environment in which Candida thrives is stress. This is how stress makes the body alkaline. It's interesting, because under stress, we lose acid. Anything that increases cortisol levels also increases the body's pH, creating a more favorable environment for Candida. The next factor is birth control and pregnancy, both of which increase the alkalinity of the body, creating a favorable environment for Candida. Another factor is antacids, which make the body alkaline, increasing the risk of Candida. So, all these factors  Can worsen candida, what to do? Number one, your body should run on titanium. Ketones are acidic compounds, and this helps normalize the page. In addition, this diet lowers sugar levels, thanks to which candida thrives. This diet will essentially starve candida. And of course, I would also add intermittent fasting. Next, probiotics. You should take probiotics, including acidophilus bacteria, because we need to restore the microflora that prevents the growth of candida. Next, fermented vegetables like sauerkraut and kimchi. Both contain probiotics and prebiotics. Fiber feeds our microbes. Another excellent product is oregano oil. Garlic is also a good product, but oregano oil is excellent at killing germs without side effects. The next point is apple cider vinegar. Why? Because it's an acid. Any acid is excellent at killing candida, so coconut oil is also excellent because it contains three main acids, and one of them is a very powerful remedy for fungi. So, don't forget about coconut oil, it's important. You can also take m-city oil. So, you need to use these six remedies so that candida never  Never came back next most appropriate and the video that I think you will like is dedicated to beneficial bacteria here it is watch it