Perhaps you are thinking about taking magnesium to improve sleep, reduce anxiety or stress. Today we will discuss. In what cases you do not need magnesium. The worst thing is to buy magnesium and then realize that it does not help, that this is not what you need, or that it even worsens sleep. Magnesium should calm, reduce cortisol and adrenaline. How can magnesium increase stress? That's the question in the World Cup. Anxiety can have many different causes. And magnesium is only one remedy for one cause of poor sleep. And anxiety, as for sleep problems, we will divide them into two types: inability to fall asleep and inability to continue sleeping. If it is very easy for you to fall asleep. When you go to bed, you probably have a good parasympathetic system. What does this mean? One of the two parts of the nervous system is the parasympathetic system. It immerses us in love. Restful sleep. Thanks to it, we remain calm and it is mainly responsible for the first part of sleep, especially for deeper Delta sleep. And the second part of sleep is the so-called REM sleep, and people who have elevated adrenaline and cortisol usually wake up.  at 2 2:30 or 3 am in the middle of the night, while a person is lying in bed and feels more alert than during the day, let's consider the circadian rhythm of the hormone cortisol, the minimum level of cortisol should be at 2:00 am and its maximum level should be around 8 am, but it often happens the other way around and after waking up, a person does not feel particularly rested and then he takes magnesium, which in theory lowers cortisol and adrenaline, but sometimes it does not lower them because in fact this high cortisol is not caused by a lack of magnesium, the problem is that magnesium deficiency is very difficult to detect because a blood test will not necessarily reveal a magnesium deficiency unless it is excessive because most of the magnesium, from 98 to 99%, is inside the cells. Let's say you eat little green food. I'm talking about leafy greens because chlorophyll contains magnesium, but there is a lot of magnesium and in nuts such as almonds, chocolate has a lot of magnesium and pumpkin seeds. Let's say you eat little of all this and let's say you eat a lot of carbohydrates, a lot of sugar from varnishes, and Refined sugar and refined grains deprive you of magnesium If you are tired or have leg cramps at night, you may have a magnesium deficiency. So you go to bed. You lie in bed but can’t fall asleep. It’s likely that your parasympathetic system is weak. If you have a lot of stress and you don’t exercise, this will undoubtedly ruin your sleep. Exercise and long walks help. But what helps even better is physical work, and in the open air, because it also eliminates the mental aspect. It switches attention from stress to something else. In addition, if you have low levels of vitamin B1, then when you lie and try to sleep, you keep thinking around the clock. You solve problems and can’t stop. This means that you need you eat too many carbohydrates and they deprive you of B1. When I was younger. When I was in my 20s, now I’m in my 30s and this is, of course, sarcasm. I ate an insane amount of carbohydrates. I wouldn’t get one at all and I had restless leg syndrome and severe anxiety. If I just took it, I would  one this would help if i only knew about this it would eliminate restless legs syndrome Taking B1 a person experiences relief he can finally stop thinking and fall asleep if you drink a lot of coffee or tea This can also deprive you of B1 but take only natural B1 more data on this at the link below there is another factor Melatonin I do not recommend taking BAT with melatonin Although Melatonin helps to fall asleep it does not help not to wake up I advise you to find out why you may not have enough melatonin there is a precursor that turns into Melatonin called tryptophan but you can do something else and as I think This way of getting Melatonin is better the fact is that the production of melatonin is blocked by blue light for example blue light from a computer screen blue light from a mobile phone and so on actually deprives us of melatonin and enhances the production of melatonin firstly Darkness and secondly a certain type of light red light sunlight more than half infrared light is an excellent way to improve the sleep cycle just spend more time outdoors to get  Sunlight at sunset and sunrise, the sky and the sun are colored orange-yellow at these hours, there is more infrared light and this light is great for achieving calm. It may even make sense to buy a lamp that helps you wake up. This is very useful in winter when we spend little time outside and this is useful. If you spend a lot of time indoors, work indoors, and cannot go outside, in this case you need a lamp that emits light. These lamps are very, very important. We do not need too much blue light. It is best to buy incandescent lamps if you can. If you can sit by the fireplace or fire, it will be great. All these are sources of infrared light and it is also very useful. I have found that when people take vitamin D before bed, it greatly improves their sleep. And one more thing about magnesium, magnesium does not work. If you have very little vitamin D, but vitamin D does not work either. If you have little magnesium. If you are fasting and if you are new to fasting and go to bed hungry, this can interfere with sleep. After all, you have not yet adapted. Sugar begins to be produced due to cortisol and you suddenly wake up. If you have problems with sleep, you have started to have problems with magnesium.  Because of fasting, realize that you may need to slow down and not go to this so quickly. It may even make sense to increase the amount of carbohydrates to 50 g at your last meal, say. Eat enough berries to get 50 g of carbohydrates, that is, add carbohydrates. To avoid a surge in cortisol, because this can be a problem for some people, now let 's discuss the inability to continue sleeping. When a person wakes up and does not sleep the rest of the night, the sympathetic nervous system activates adrenaline, but cortisol can also affect, because both hormones work together during the stress response, and REM sleep (rapid eye movement) is a very superficial wave. In this case, you have realistic dreams, as if you are almost awake, but you are sleeping, and very little stress can interrupt sleep in this phase. To lower cortisol levels, you need to train more, but do not allow the trainer to train hard enough to sweat and expend a lot of energy, but not excessively and not every day, train twice a week. And on those days when you do not train, the mitochondria, out of habit, still create energy. And sleep with this excess energy.  You can't use it up, take long walks. There's one way to lower cortisol. Whenever your blood sugar gets low, cortisol can become high, but here's the thing. If you do everything right, if you start intermittent fasting correctly, gradually everything will go very smoothly without big problems with cortisol because you've adapted to fat, you're burning fat and you don't need to rely on sugar. I also found that it's extremely important to consume a little more salt, especially on a low-carb diet or intermittent fasting. This alone can relieve you of sleep problems even without taking magnesium. Try taking a little salt right before bed. The thing is, salt retains fluid, which means you won't have to get up to go to the bathroom as often. If you have a little more salt, and if you don't have enough salt, you 'll urinate more often at night. What about anxiety? Anxiety seems to be related to insomnia. You just have anxiety. Of course, you need to find out its cause. But if there's no cause for anxiety, believe me, the solution is... Try taking it. If you've noticed that when a person is anxious, the length of their inhalations and exhalations is different, and in the body Not enough CO2 is retained and because of this, oxygen cannot penetrate into the cell. Imagine a person who is having a panic attack, he inhales too much oxygen. You can simply slow down your breathing. I made other videos about this. Especially for situations when you are trying to sleep, including breathing through your nose again, slow inhale, slow exhale at the same pace. This helps a lot. Many drugs, especially metformin, also deprive you of B1. Let's say you really need magnesium. Magnesium glycinate is a good form. Why is it especially good for sleep problems and anxiety? It's all about glycine. Magnesium glycinate actually contains Glycine, and Glycine is a calming amino acid. When should you take magnesium glycinate? Perhaps half an hour before bed. There are other forms of magnesium. There is magnesium citrate. It works, but perhaps not as well. You can take magnesium oxide or magnesium carbonate. They are absorbed worse and are very cheap. They seem to work worse than magnesium glycinate. Magnesium glycinate is an excellent remedy since many people also have a glycine deficiency. If you  Haven't watched my video where I talk about glycine? It's worth watching. This is a very important video. Here it is.