It is extremely important to know about the deficiency of one nutrient that occurs with Lyme disease or Baliosis. You can use all traditional methods of treatment and even alternative ones, but without this nutrient, it is difficult to completely cure. I will tell you about a simple solution that allows you to cope with this nutrient deficiency that occurs with Lyme disease is a deficiency of vitamin D. And here is an important question: why? Because the causative agent of Lyme disease is a special microbe called a spirochete, it uses a very insidious trick: it blocks a person’s ability to obtain vitamin D. In other words, you can have normal levels of vitamin D in the blood and at the same time have a serious deficiency of vitamin D deep in the tissues. As a rule, we get vitamin D from the Sun. Under the influence of sunlight, an inactive form of vitamin D is formed in the skin, which causes a number of changes in the liver and kidneys and becomes the active form of vitamin D, but then it must be received and accepted by receptors, and they are located deep in the cell in the cell nucleus, and the causative agent of Lyme disease is unique in what it does with receptors to vitamin D: it reduces their sensitivity by 508 times.  the immune system essentially loses its ability to fight. What's the point of all these antibiotics and other drugs killing this microbe? The immune system is weakened anyway. I'll tell you how to fix this, but I want you to understand why so many people with Lyme disease suffer for years unnecessarily. Other microbes use the same trick. Especially viruses like the Steinberg virus and even certain types of cancer reduce the effectiveness of vitamin D receptors. This dirty trick is designed to strip our immune system of its defenses. It's essentially as if we were fighting another army and had the ability to strip our opponents of their weapons. The trouble is, a regular blood test doesn't detect this problem with vitamin D receptors. Blood levels aren't an indicator. A specialized vitamin D receptor test is needed. I'll give you a link below to a couple of options. So, you go to the doctor. Your Lyme test is positive. You check your vitamin D levels. They're normal, but deep down they're not normal. And think about how many other diseases are associated with vitamin D deficiency. Autoimmune diseases. Cardiovascular diseases. Cognitive problems. Estimates of up to  30% of people live with a problem with vitamin receptors. A huge portion of overweight people have vitamin D at the receptor level. Other microorganisms, such as chlamydia and mycoplasma, also resort to this nasty trick. That is, our vitamin D receptors are essentially hacked, and this usually goes unnoticed, because a simple blood test does not reveal this. Toxic mold, aspergillus, can also reduce the effectiveness of vitamin D receptors. When testing blood for vitamin D, its inactive form is usually determined. That is, there are various reasons, but this is not the point. But if you check the level of the active form of vitamin D, sometimes it is even higher than normal. This is due to the compensation mechanism of the body trying to overcome the resistance of receptors to vitamin D. If you have taken this blood test and the doctor saw that you have a high level of vitamin D in the blood, he will tell you not to take vitamin D. Therefore, no matter what stage of Lyme disease you are in, it is very important to take vitamin D to reverse the disease. But how can we overcome this resistance to vitamin D? I am writing to you with many remedies, after all.  The darker your skin, the more vitamin D you need and the less you get from the sun. The older you are, the worse you absorb vitamin D. If you have low cholesterol, say, liver problems, or have had your gallbladder removed, or are taking statins, all of this additionally interferes with vitamin D, so you need things like zinc and magnesium so that vitamin D can work. If you consume seed oils, this can block the absorption of vitamin D, and of course, smoking can also be a problem. How to increase vitamin D levels: First, take large doses of vitamin D, but I would not take it every day. To improve its penetration and overcome resistance, you need to take a lot of vitamin D, say thousands, irregularly, perhaps once a week. Sun exposure will also help. Omega-3 fatty acids are also important. Resveratrol is another remedy that can be taken to improve the functioning of vitamin D receptors. Intense exercise will also help. Phytonutrients. Quercetin can also help, as well as zinc and boron, and even progesterone and sulforaphane. All this helps to cope with the problem. There is something else.  What can help you? Tutka is a type of bile salt that also activates vitamin D receptors. I searched for information on this topic, looking for all the alternatives that can improve the functioning of vitamin D receptors, and it turned out that bile salts are one of them. Amazing. Now you know about one of the most important nutrients for Lyme disease, which can potentially get rid of problems and help achieve remission. I invite you to my course, Vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90% of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how to get rid of these diseases and symptoms with vitamin D, improve your health, and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my presentation on longevity and health at the Keto Summit 2019. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I look forward to seeing you on the course.