ADHD is not a genetic problem. The reason is only in nutrition, and I will prove it.  ADHD stands for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, a lack of attention and hyperactivity.  First, let me briefly explain how ADHD is diagnosed.  makes mistakes often, doesn't pay attention to details, doesn't listen when spoken to directly, doesn't follow through on things , doesn't finish things, can't play quietly, disorganized, loses things, fidgets and fidgets, has too much energy, talks too much.  Most of these points are normal for children, but any of these points can be aggravated by poor nutrition. Two drugs, Adderall and Ritalin, are used to treat ADHD, and they are real cash cows for the pharmaceutical giants.  The definition of ADHD has expanded significantly over time. More people were diagnosed, and drug sales increased.  There are no objective analyses, everything is subjective.  And how did this diagnosis come about?  A group of psychiatrists got together, they voted, and that's what happened.  There is nothing even close to scientific here. Drug manufacturers conduct research and create groups and organizations that support ADHD, its diagnosis, and treatment.  By the way, Adderall, which acts on dopamine, is very similar in its molecular structure to the drug methamphetamine.  But here's the catch.  A recent meta-analysis showed that, according to a double-blind study, after 36 months, all benefits of Ottoderal disappear and all symptoms return.  Naturally, such a medicine produces results for some time, but then it stops working.  What about side effects?  There are a lot of them.  Aggression, dulling of emotions.  After all, the drug affects neurotransmitters artificially.  I looked at what they write about ADHD on Wikipedia and its causes.  There is a lot of talk about heredity. Genes that are suspected of causing ADHD are listed.  And it's presented like this: "Alas, it's heredity, nothing can be done. Take the medicine and hope it goes away."  But lifestyle changes, food, nutrient deficiencies and stress are what cause these genes to act this way.  There are some facts related to DVT.  We know that there is a specific problem with metabolism in the prefrontal cortex of the brain.  Changes in metabolism are related to how the brain processes fuel.  And this is logical.  If some part of the brain lacks fuel, it tries to compensate.  And symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder may appear.  When you add in things like food colorings, artificial sweeteners, sugar, hidden sugars like starch, and MSG, all of these junk food ingredients have a huge impact on behavior.  I assure you, if I start eating these cookies for breakfast, my behavior will become completely inappropriate.  I won't be able to think normally and study normally.  This will affect my brain.  There are all sorts of food components, and there are deficiencies of certain things that I will talk about.  Take dopamine, for example.  Increasing its level can improve concentration, attention, and also make a person calmer.  At the cursor of dopamine, the amino acid eltyrosine.  It converts into dopamine.  When I was still practicing, I gave patients with ADHD Elterozin, and they got much better, just from one amino acid. I wouldn't recommend taking it now.   It is much better to eat foods rich in elterosine: meat, fish, eggs, cheese. Think about how many children don't eat meat, fish, eggs and cheese.  They rely on carbohydrates and various junk foods.  Teens now get 63% of their calories from junk food, not high-quality protein.  In 2021, an interesting meta-analysis was conducted. Broad-spectrum micronutrients , especially B6, zinc and magnesium, significantly reduce ADHD symptoms. Another double-blind study showed a reduction in hyperactivity and aggression after taking just two things: magnesium and B6.  Omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil also led to some improvement in attention.  And all this without side effects.  And definitely the most underrated nutrient, especially for psychiatric problems, is vitamin B1.  The natural form of B1, alithiamin, is obtained from garlic.  Vitamin B1 enables the brain to use fuel, especially glucose.  When a child gets a lot of glucose from food in the form of refined carbohydrates and sugar, this is what happens.  His brain, especially the front part, which is responsible for concentration and calmness, is not receiving fuel.  This is because refined carbohydrates deplete the body of B1.  B1 is necessary for the synthesis of acetylcholine, a key neurotransmitter for cognitive functions.  Based on all these facts, I conclude that ADHD is a glucose metabolism disorder.  The child ate too many carbohydrates for too long.  This deprived him of micronutrients and his behavior changed.  Even if we take just one of these micronutrients, B1, and create a deficiency of this one vitamin, we will get brain fog, fatigue, irritability, nervousness, memory problems and emotional instability.  So I think vitamin B1 is key for anyone with ADHD.  It acts as a kind of spark plug for neurons.  But at the same time, that child, that teenager, or that adult needs to change their diet and go on a low-carb diet so that the body runs on ketones.  Ketones can bypass the damage in neurons, and the neurons can finally get fuel.  As a result, the child, teenager or adult will calm down, the ability to manage attention will improve, inflammation in the brain will decrease, and hyperactivity will disappear. ADHD is caused by poor nutrition - it is a nutrient deficiency issue, not a genetic problem.  It can be easily managed by changing your diet.  You don't even have to get into genetics.  It is only necessary to correct the diet, give the person nutrients to control these genes, if genes influence this at all.  If you have any questions about which keto diet is right for you or your child, the links are below. Get rid of junk food that is full of chemicals, dyes, preservatives and refined carbohydrates.  Give it a try and then come back to this video and leave comments about how much better it made your child or you feel .  I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy ket.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.