The richest zinc food in the world is oysters.  They are champions.  Oysters contain a lot of zinc, which is bioavailable and easily absorbed.  Next comes red meat, then fish.  And the list goes on.  For example, there is a little zinc in pumpkin seeds and a couple of other foods.  That's the problem with zinc.   The body does not have a storage system for zinc. If you don't get it from your diet, you will develop a deficiency. 25% of the world's population is zinc deficient.  It is very difficult to recognize this deficiency based on these symptoms alone, because it is not detectable even in a blood test.  It can only be detected after a long-term deficiency or severe depletion.  Let's talk about the consequences of zinc deficiency in the body. Firstly, the number of lymphocytes, white blood cells, will decrease.   It will be more difficult for the body to fight infections and pathogens. If the deficiency is severe, your spleen will be enlarged, your response to pathogens will be impaired, not only will you have fewer white blood cells, but your response to pathogens will be slower, and you won't be able to fight infections as well as you would with normal zinc levels.  The thymus gland, the training ground for white blood cells, shrinks, increasing your vulnerability to infections, meaning you'll be much more likely to get sick. Where one person is unlikely to get sick, you can get sick. Next, loss of smell and taste. Wound healing will also be impaired and testosterone levels will decrease.  And because zinc fights inflammation, you'll lose the ability to fight inflammation, and you'll end up with more inflammation.  There are also a couple of other reasons why people might be zinc deficient.  The main one is phytates. Phytates are found in the fiber of whole grains.  You get them when you eat flour products: bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, rice. Phytates are found in bran.  This is fiber. Phytates block zinc.  This is the first reason.  The second reason is stress.  Stress depletes zinc.  If cortisol remains high for a long time, there is no zinc left in the body .  Sugar.  And not just sugar, but also fructose, corn syrup, honey and other sweeteners. Diabetes, a condition in which blood sugar levels are elevated, can also be added here.  This can also deplete zinc stores.  These points are similar.  The longer the infection is in the body , the less zinc there will be. I have already told you why zinc is needed. Antacids replenish zinc reserves.  To absorb zinc, you need acid in your stomach.  As you age, your stomach acidity decreases, and you may no longer be able to absorb zinc as well as you once did.  Impaired learning. If you have damaged intestines, you will have difficulty absorbing zinc. Liver damage.  Even a fatty liver, even an inflamed liver, even a liver with scar tissue will interfere with the absorption of zinc.   So many people have fatty liver and don't even know it.  If you're a vegan, you'll have a much harder time getting zinc because you're eating things that block it. You don't eat animal products, so you don't get bioavailable zinc. I told you about zinc and how important it is to have enough zinc in your diet.