Hello, today we'll talk about the thyroid gland. In previous videos, I talked about the underlying causes of thyroid problems. This is either excess estrogen, since estrogen can block the thyroid gland. It comes from the ovaries, from the environment, and is produced during pregnancy. Or it's the liver or gallbladder. Let's say the liver or gallbladder is dysfunctional, and these hormones are not converted. After all, up to 4 can only turn into 3 if the liver and gallbladder are completely healthy. But first, I'll outline the very basics. Thyroid-stimulating hormone is produced by the pituitary gland in the brain. It goes to the thyroid gland and orders it to produce its hormones. So, if the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone is high, then the level of thyroid hormones is low. This is hypofunction. This hormone does not convey the order, so the pressure increases to convey the order. Like with insulin, it is high when the receptors do not accept it, and its production increases. The same thing happens here, and a low TSH usually means hyperfunction of the thyroid gland, excess thyroid hormones, and  Hormones and the production of this hormone decreases to zero. You see, if it is high, it is hypofunction; if it is low, it is hyperfunction. This is 4. It contains four atoms of iodine. At3 is three. This is how they differ. Note: 4 is an inactive thyroid hormone. At3 is an active form. At4 must turn into 3. Here, to convert these hormones, you need strength. You see, and for production, you need iodine and zinc. These are the microelements you need. There is a chemical called glyphosate. It is a herbicide. It kills weeds. It is in the herbicide Roundup, which you can spray on weeds. But glyphosate can not only block the thyroid gland directly like estrogen, it also disrupts liver function. It disrupts the liver's ability to remove toxins. It blocks the first and second stages of detoxification. That is, in fact, it is a toxin that blocks the removal of toxins and it suppresses enzymes, and now all the toxins begin to accumulate in the body. It also activates autoimmune reactions like Hashimotosis. A diet like intermittent fasting greatly increases the body's efficiency. You burn more efficient fuel.  and you need less and less thyroid hormones your thyroid hormones can drop from the upper to the lower limit of normal this is absolutely normal if they are within the normal range because you no longer need so much because these hormones are involved in metabolism but glyphosate is sprayed on wheat it is most often found in corn high fructose corn syrup and sugar beets in all soy products and they are fed to animals so you need to really realize this and switch to organic products someone will say I can't afford organic products but with intermittent fasting you eat less often save a lot more money I would in your place use that money to improve the quality of food cruciferous vegetables they are very important for increasing the liver's ability to remove toxins so cruciferous vegetables are good for the thyroid gland you just also need seaweed or some other natural source of iodine selenium is also very important for increasing the liver's ability to remove toxins perhaps that is why it is used to facilitate these transformations I wanted to record this video to raise your awareness and convince you to switch to more organic products avoid  Chemicals like glyphosate. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course. You have a thyroid body type, hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, enlarged thyroid glands and nodules, and excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.