I think you've seen this ad many times, you don't need Nikita. Neither paleo nor intense workouts. You don't need to starve or go on a vegan diet to burn fat and get a toned body. Write in the comments if you've seen this. The best way to burn fat and get a toned body is not intense workouts. How do people apparently buy this program? No one would spend so much on advertising if it weren't for sale. The usual method is to shock people so they click on the link. What if there really is such a chance to do nothing but still lose weight? You can even eat pizza instead of salad. I'll eat it for lunch. Well, that's definitely not it. You just need to focus on your body type. What does this Wishread recommend you eat? Here's an example: for breakfast, you can have oatmeal and fruit. Before lunch, you can have an apple and nuts. For lunch, you can have salad and chicken. For an afternoon snack, carrots and hummus. For dinner, teriyaki chicken with vegetables and a few berries. You can even have popcorn and bread. The main thing is no added sugar or processed foods. Let's break this down in detail, just the most important ones.  Important points so that you don't end up on such a program and waste your money and decide that this is another diet that doesn't work. And you were hoping that you could finally lose weight. Maybe you're just on a diet or you've been exercising too much. They tell you that 70 percent of the results will come from diet and 20 percent from training. What does this mean and is it true? I have to tell you that this is not entirely true. And that everything depends on one more factor. In any diet, there are two points. First, you go out. If you understand anything about fat burning, you know that it's related to insulin. You lower your insulin and your body stops storing fat and starts burning it. You achieve this by lowering your carbohydrate intake. The fewer carbohydrates you eat, the more fat you burn. But it does n't always work. There's another parameter. When you eat, because I know many people who switched to theta, reduced carbohydrates, ate healthy foods but didn't lose weight, and it turns out that they ate 3 times a day with three snacks. Well, the date is healthy. Why does someone lose weight and someone can't?  It is connected with one factor - insulin resistance. And by the way, 70 percent of people suffer from insulin resistance. Those who only need to reduce carbohydrates, remove simple sugars and some refined foods are much less likely to lose weight because they do not have insulin resistance. They never had it, possibly because of their genes. Or maybe they did not live on carbohydrates alone like others. The point is that the stronger the insulin resistance, the more important it is not only to reduce carbohydrates but also to reduce the purity of meals. This is called intermittent fasting. These are the two main reasons for the rise in insulin: carbohydrates and frequent meals. When you eat and snack frequently, if you compare these two factors, you can say that the purity of meals and snacks is much more important and has a greater impact than reducing carbohydrates. Because there are many people who can eat whatever they want and still lose weight. The secret is that they eat once a day and they do not have any snacks. There are people, much fewer of them, who reduce carbohydrates but do not practice intermittent fasting, and some of them lose weight. But this is a small percentage. As for this The guy from Wishred turns out that his audience is only a small percentage of people who can lose weight simply by partially eliminating unhealthy foods, added sugar and processed foods, but leaving fruits and the like. And I know this well because my first diet was very similar to his. There was no intermittent fasting. I advised snacking, eating apples and nuts, reducing fats. Everything is very similar and it gave some results. I can’t say that the success was as great as it is now. If you are interested, is it possible to lose weight while eating anything? Yes. If you belong to that small category of people without insulin resistance, then just remove carbohydrates, but the remaining 70 percent with insulin resistance will have to fast, for example, eat once a day. This will definitely give a positive effect, but the main idea is why not combine reducing carbohydrates with intermittent fasting? It’s not just about extra pounds; it will reduce inflammation, help remove fat from the liver and help you look good while losing weight. Your skin will become better. And you will not shove into the body what spoils the health of cells, you will also reduce the risk of various chronic degenerative problems, but My main goal in this video is to show what things affect the weight loss process so that you can see it and understand. Why does someone lose weight on a certain diet and someone doesn't. And how to fix it with insulin resistance, it's not enough to just reduce carbohydrates. Yes, this will help, you will lose two weeks of water weight, but without intermittent fasting, which is much more important than reducing carbohydrates, you are unlikely to see big changes. So, I recommend not only reducing carbohydrates but also improving the quality of your food. This is called healthy ketogenic diet. Add intermittent fasting and proper training. And by the way, why do some famous athletes eat a lot of sugar without consequences? Because training stimulates mitochondria, which kind of neutralizes to some extent the effect of sugar on mitochondria. I don't recommend doing this, but I believe that training is very important not only for weight loss, but also for stimulating mitochondria. And this is the root of a huge number of health problems. If you are interested in how to switch to healthy theta, the main points. Pay attention to this course. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again during the course. I I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.