In the mornings I usually bring my wife coffee and I usually get up much earlier and dive headfirst into various studies along with the coffee I bring her interesting topics for conversation when she's still half asleep today I came up to Karen and asked, "Did it ever occur to you that there is a connection between bad breath and the diversity of microflora?" of course she looked at me, "what?" and I continue, "Does an imbalance in microflora affect a person's mood or does this mood affect the microflora?" she replies, "I'd like some coffee." I hope you're already awake I can talk to you. There is a very interesting relationship between mood and microbiome. If you are in a state of anxiety, chronic stress and worry, or depression, your microbiome changes significantly and your breath also changes. That's why a person under chronic stress has quite foul breath. When a person is chronically depressed, they can develop halitosis. Even pathogenic microorganisms that produce this sulfuric smell increase when a person is in this state, and the number of many protective beneficial bacteria decreases. Even the risk of infections and periodontal diseases increases when a person  In chronic stress, but in a normal state of stress, anxiety, or even a panic attack, the smell from the mouth changes greatly. On the other hand, when a person takes an antibiotic or antifungal agent and thereby destroys the population of their microflora, this can significantly affect the mood and the smell from the mouth because it upsets the balance of microorganisms. This is why one of the common side effects of antibiotics is the overgrowth of yeast in the mouth, candidiasis, which gives a bad smell. If you read about the side effects of antibiotics, among them are psychosis, severe depression, anxiety, and even panic attacks. As for the physical causes of this phenomenon, with panic attacks and chronic stress, there is a surge in cortisol, and with anxiety, there is a surge in cortisol. Cortisol suppresses the species diversity of your existing microorganisms and essentially paralyzes the immune system, an important part of which is microflora. This is why chronically elevated cortisol affects breathing. It destroys microflora. If you think about it, for example, when a person cries, it affects the physiology of the whole body. The same thing happens when a person is chronically depressed. Brushing your teeth is not recommended for using perfumes or breath fresheners.  It will work until you eliminate the source of depression, the source of anxiety or worry. If you took an antibiotic and it affected your mood, you need to restore the balance of microflora. But you need to understand, and for many this is new, that microflora is not only various bacteria, it is a whole complex of beneficial bacteria, beneficial yeast, beneficial fungi, and they all work together. Very similar to microorganisms in the soil for gardening, you need the right proportions of bacteria and fungi. If there are too many bacteria and not enough fungi, then the mobilization of nutrients will not occur. So, we do not need an imbalance in numbers. We need the right proportion of fungi and bacteria. The same thing happens in the intestines. You need to eat, for example, fermented foods that contain beneficial yeast and bacteria. For example, kefir, machine cabbage. These kinds of products. We have a microbiome, which is a collection of all beneficial bacteria, and there is also a microbiome of M and K, and this collection of beneficial fungi in the body. We need both. When bacteria die, a live infection occurs because yeast and fungi begin to fight and stop being friendly. I just want you to know that mood can affect microflora, and microflora can Influencing mood, you need to establish the real cause. Bad breath is an indicator of the state of microflora because the quality of this smell directly depends on the correct balance of microflora. I have a whole course of chronic stress and depression. Their cause may be in some nutrients. For example, vitamin D is the best nutrend for depression, and vitamin B1 is the best antidote for anxiety. You can try it, but also just being in the sun in nature, free space, a change of scenery. All this is very, very important. Being under a roof all day long. Watching the news is very harmful to mood. As for training, if you compare physical work outdoors with a treadmill in a gym, physical work is undoubtedly a much better therapy because it pulls you out of stress much better than a treadmill. Especially if you are on a treadmill and watching the news. I found that one of the best exercises for mental stress is a climbing wall. There is nothing better than a climbing wall to pull you out of stress, but you can also go hiking in nature and many other types of activity. Of course, your diet requires serious attention because with the wrong diet, with an excess of carbohydrates,  If you don't follow the diet and especially intermittent fasting, you will definitely not be in the best mood. Intermittent fasting alone significantly improves cognitive function, relieves anxiety, and gives a great mood. Below are links to excellent videos on how to restore beneficial microflora in the intestines. But to learn much more about how to cope with stress, its symptoms, and panic attacks, what you need to do for this and what to eat, I would recommend paying attention to my anti-stress course. The link to the recording will be below. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, restore a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package you will find a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.