One of the main reasons for low testosterone is the chemicals and plastics around us.  Plastic in our food, eternal chemicals, pesticides, insecticides, herbicides. The cells that produce testosterone suffer the most from the excess chemicals around us.  This problem is more serious than most people think.  I will talk to one of the leading experts. This is Mark Richards, a specialist in testosterone replacement therapy.  I learned something I had never heard of. In materials on testosterone replacement therapy, much is written about side effects: an increased risk of cardiovascular and prostate diseases.  I wanted to know more about this because I don't know if it's true. Interestingly, the FDA recently removed the warning about heart disease and stroke from the label of a testosterone booster because it was proven to be false, and proper testosterone therapy significantly reduces the risk of heart attack and stroke.  Interesting.  There are different ways to use testosterone.  There are injections that need to be done frequently.  There are granules, there are creams.  Tell us a little about each method.  What is their effect compared to each other?   The delivery method of testosterone therapy is directly related to the health benefits it will provide.  Let's start with creams.  They provide a therapeutic range in only 20% of cases, and even then only for hours, not even a day.  The injections provide a powerful surge of testosterone.  Because of this, all other hormones and elements created by testosterone are produced in excess for a short time. In the first 36-48 hours, estrogen levels increase significantly .  This can make a man irritable and aggressive.  Many wives say that they do not enjoy their husband's company for the first 2 days after his testosterone injection.  That is, a testosterone injection increases estrogen.  All estrogen in the cells of both men and women is produced from testosterone.  I've had people ask me questions about wanting to get testosterone injections, but they have to be done once or even a couple of times a week.  This means you need to go to the doctor regularly.  Yes.  Yes, that's right.  And testosterone goes up and down, up and down.  But nature did not prepare us, or anyone else in the animal world, for such leaps.  Testosterone is the predominant active hormone in both men and women. What about granules?  Granules are used in the USA.  Granules are compressed pure testosterone without coating.  The size is the same as that of a pellet, and they are injected into the fat by piercing the skin with a thin metal tube.  Is docaine anesthetic?  In the USA, granules have been used since the 1940s.  They are very effective.  They are administered to both men and women.  60% of my patients who receive granules are women.  They are introduced to ensure that the condition of tissues and cells becomes optimal. And it becomes optimal.  After all, we see that symptoms go away, illnesses recede, and illnesses are prevented. Apparently, it is some kind of mixture with testosterone that dissolves slowly and releases it gradually. Yes, excellent question, Dr. Berg.  Based on my seventeen years of experience with this, it appears that fat cells absorb testosterone and release it when the body needs it.  That is, if you lift heavy weights in the gym 5 days a week, you can use up the granules faster than if you sit in the office all day and eat candy.  The release is more stable.  Release is 100% guaranteed.  There are none of these problems as with cream.  And the condition remains completely stable, almost unchanged for 4 months in men and 3 months in women. This is a fantastic opportunity because very little can go wrong.  Is the form of testosterone in pellets different from the form of testosterone in injections?  The injections typically contain testosterone cypionate, which is then activated by enzymes in the muscles, while the pellets contain 100% human testosterone.  White crystalline powder, pressed. These are granules.  Granules.  Clear.  This is pure testosterone.  And when the compound is injected, it still has to be broken down by an enzyme in the body.  Maybe cepionate in the body is not such a problem.  The real problem is these huge ups and downs.  The cells cannot adapt and cannot produce the required amount of estrogen and anti-inflammatory compounds.  What are testosterone pellets made from ?  What raw materials are used? Basically, testosterone is a very simple compound.  It is easily formed in nature.  It takes six, seven steps in the lab to turn that ring into testosterone.  People who have received injections report complications with mood and so on.  But I haven't heard of many problems with pellets. Right.  Our body is designed to receive testosterone at a rate that is consistent.  health is optimal, and then we are the least likely to get sick and the least susceptible to obesity, diabetes, depression, anxiety, all these disorders.  And this is a typical manifestation of low testosterone.  I think someone will say: "Why do we need testosterone at all ? Why do we need pellets? They're not natural."  I also had this question 17-18 years ago when I was studying all this.  I didn't find the answer right away, but it's clearly stated in the literature.  Today, in 25, compared to 1970, testosterone levels in people are on average 60% lower.  And hormone-disrupting chemicals seem to be to blame.  When we get a testosterone test, there is a normal range listed for comparison.  On the website you indicated that this may not be the most accurate way to know if we have enough testosterone. Tell us about it.  We have more than 60% less of it than we had in the seventies. Today one can laugh at all these ranges that I see in laboratories.  After all, they include extremely low levels that double the risk of death within the next 5 years.  In the US, testosterone is not studied at all in women, although it is also the predominant bioactive hormone there.  It is almost impossible to avoid contact with hormone disruptors.  You can eat from glass containers, avoid processed foods and tin cans.  You can only eat organic food if you can eat organic meat.  But there is microscopic plastic in the air on every continent , and it gets into us through the lungs.  We are losing this battle.  You can try your best to stay healthy, but in the end the poisons defeat us. And to stay healthy, I think most people need testosterone pellets from a certain age.  What about women?  Any concerns?  Oh, the voice will be low, a beard will grow.  Do you know what I mean?  Is this true?  Let's first eliminate aggression, and its cause is estrogen. Look at girls and boys in their teens.  Boys may use force differently, but the aggression and anger themselves are caused by estradiol.  This is a natural defensive reaction, an instinct. When it comes to hair, testosterone stimulates the growth of hair follicles. Women are not genetically born with beards, but they do have hair follicles on their chin, above their lip, and so on.  Eight out of ten women over fifty remove facial hair, plucking, shaving, or waxing.  I don't create this problem with testosterone pellets.  I just lower the dose so they don't have this problem and they don't stop taking the medication.  If you are prone to a strong window, testosterone may make this problem a little worse .  But there are ways to treat acne during this therapy.  Well, that's probably all. Testosterone makes us calm and happy.  What benefits do you see in patients?  Doctors taught us that the cause of menopause is estrogen deficiency.  But this is not true.  Menopause is caused by testosterone deficiency.  And testosterone creates all the estrogen in the cells. Estrogen as a treatment for menopausal symptoms in women was proven in 1985 to be completely useless.  I was taught that it is estrogen that is declining.  And they never really talked about testosterone, because it’s not really for women, but it turns out that it’s what turns into a stage show.  I didn't know that.  Amazing.  And what benefit does this bring to men? Similar.  People don't realize that men experience exactly the same menopause symptoms as women.  Well, except for vaginal dryness.  But otherwise, they have everything the same: affective disorders, hot flashes, night sweats, depression.  And all this goes away if you restore testosterone in the cells to a healthy level, so that it is enough for the functioning of this entire living machine.  People are afraid of harming their heart, but you say that sufficient testosterone levels, on the contrary, improve the condition of the heart.  This is an excellent solution. Bioidentical hormone from Wild Yam, unlike injections.  This is for those who are thinking about it.  Yes, that's exactly it. Without a doubt, that is exactly it.  Nowadays, too much attention is paid not to total testosterone, but to free testosterone.  But judging by your website, you don't focus on that .  Testosterone, as we say, is actively transported. Imagine that there is a kind of grasper on the surface of each cell.  And when testosterone flows past through the bloodstream, she grabs it and pulls it into the cage.  You are also checking iodine.  After all, iodine is a cofactor that promotes absorption in addition to zinc and probably magnesium.  Yes.  Quite by chance, in the forties of the last century, it was discovered that iodine is a cofactor, so to speak, the fuel for this very grabber.  It is thanks to iodine that the cell is able to grab testosterone and drag it inside.  So, if iodine levels are low, this mechanism does not work, and intracellular testosterone levels will be low, even if they are high in the blood .  Amazing information.  Robert Kennedy receives granulomethosterone therapy.  Yes.  Yes, he talked about it in one of the videos.  Yes, and he is over 70. But he looks quite good.  He is in shape.  He seems to be doing well with these pellets. Simply amazing.  Yes, and at the very beginning you said, and I didn’t debunk this myth, that testosterone causes prostate cancer.  We found that testosterone causes prostate cancer cell death .  In addition, research began to be conducted in the laboratory.  Testosterone is added to prostate cancer cells, causing the cells to die.  And this has, in general, been confirmed since about 2008 by work at Harvard and elsewhere.  Wow.  This is completely contrary to popular belief.  But I'm not surprised.  I will leave a link to your site.  You also wrote a book.  I want them to know everything too.  You have a lot more data on this topic.  This is amazing.  Thank you so much for taking the time to talk to me.  It was nice.  Dr. Berg's workshop course. Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach.  More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a keto coach, help people and achieve huge success.  Work from home on your own schedule.  Do what you like.  Sign up for the course using the link below.