Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog. Fine.  How do you like this question?  When compared by weight, which has more protein: red meat or spirulina?   An interesting question.  We know, friends, that you will deal with him.  Now let's answer the questions our viewers ask us on social media.  writes to robbers from YouTube.  When I fasted, my belerubin increased to 3.2. The doctor says that I have hyperbilirubinemia and that I can continue fasting.  What do you think about this?   Keep fasting .   Keep fasting . This is the beauty of fasting, especially long-term fasting, when you fast for 3 days once a month.   My God. This brings enormous benefits to the immune system, including blood cells.  There is also another interesting technique. I'll make a video about it.  This is called dipoxic training.  This is a training with limited oxygen supply, and the oxygen supply is increased cyclically.   I don't know the exact scheme, maybe 3 by 3 minutes.  The oxygen supply is sometimes more, sometimes less. I received this device.  I will experiment. But if you do four of these cycles, someone who is experimenting with this said that if you don't turn on oxygen on the fourth cycle , it forces the spleen to release a lot of red blood cells into the blood. This is an incredible oxygenation and rejuvenation system.  Perhaps you should pay attention to this too, in order to improve the situation with red blood cells and their processing.  It is related to belerubin. And cleanse this disposal This is the spleen.  This is a recycling machine.  How complicated is it all, asks Sarah from YouTube.  Is it possible to reduce food sensitivities if they are triggered by a single food?  I recently had a reaction to organic coffee and now, no matter what I eat, I break out in itchy hives.  I wonder what else was in that coffee? Yes, I would try another coffee, because there might have been something in that one.  You know, even organic coffee can contain something called aflatoxin.  This is some nasty stuff.  It is secreted by mold.  Aflatoxin is found in coffee, peanuts, cereals, and so on.  If you've had coffee with aflatoxin in it, oh my god, that can cause your liver to react to a lot of things.  So, is there any way to get rid of mold, mildew, or anything like that? Yes, there are a couple of ways.  First, propolis.  An excellent remedy for fungi. It is produced by bees.  And there is also, what is it called , milk thistle.  It also strengthens the liver.  I would start taking them.  See if these two areas improve and the reaction goes away . Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Yes. Now let's look at how viewers answered the quiz question, which was as follows: if we compare by weight which has more protein, red meat or spirulina, 62% of respondents chose spirulina, and the remaining 38% said that red meat has more protein.  Who was right, Doc?  There is more spirulina, but it is not the same thing.  They can't be compared because spirulina is a dehydrated product and you need to eat a lot of it. And the big problem is that spirulina protein is not bioavailable.  It can't even be compared to red meat in terms of absorption and utilization.  So red meat provides much more protein. But if we compare the specific gravity of protein, then spirulina contains more protein.  But this does not say anything about how this protein is absorbed and used by us. And here's what else you need to understand about protein.  Spirulina does not contain heme iron.   It doesn't contain the active form of vitamin A. It contains a provitamin, but it's of little use.  It has antinutrients in it, so you won't get the same from it.  It does not contain all the cofactors.  So even though it is a protein, it doesn't mean that it is a better protein.  So, I will cover this topic in great detail very soon.  Steve