Let's talk about a natural antibiotic drink. You can make it at home. It's very effective and non-toxic. Drink it at the first sign of a cold or flu. But first, let's look at the big picture. Here's what's important to know about antibiotics: First, they only kill bacteria; they don't kill viruses; if you have a viral infection, they won't help you. The problem is that doctors prescribe too many antibiotics, especially in the US. When you take unnecessary antibiotics for a long time, resistance develops. Antibiotics kill quite a lot of beneficial bacteria. But those that survive become stronger, their resistance grows, and they turn into pathogens. So you take this antibiotic again, and it no longer works. You also need to understand that an antibiotic only kills bacteria, but it doesn't affect Candida or yeast or other microorganisms in the microbiome. This upsets its balance. In other words, the killed bacteria inhibit the growth of other microorganisms, such as yeast and other bacteria. The effects of antibiotics include excessive growth of Candida or yeast. There are two types of antibiotics. There are antibiotics that act more gently; they slow down the process of microbial reproduction. Examples  Penicillin and Tetracycline are other types of antibiotics, such as Ciprofloxacin or Levofloxacin, which are more powerful. They have a warning in a black box on the packaging, which can cause serious side effects, such as tendon destruction. If you have to take these antibiotics, always take three more things with them: magnesium, vitamin E, and probiotics. You should always take probiotics with any prescribed antibiotic. Antibiotics have been around for a very, very long time, they just weren't called that before. People had some knowledge in this area. A thousand years ago, a lot of tetracycline was found in a Nubian mummy. Where did it come from? The natural source of antibiotics is mold, as well as other microorganisms in the soil. Even mold on bread contains antibiotics. I think in the past, people accumulated a lot of knowledge about natural remedies for different occasions. Who knows how Tetracycline appeared in this ancient culture, but it has existed for thousands of years. There is another very important point: after taking antibiotics, it can take weeks or even years to restore the original As far as I know, the microbiome is 80% of immunity. My recommendation is to use the beneficial properties of herbs. Natural antibiotics in their composition, which plants have been producing for a very, very long time, can be used. You can use their anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antidiabetic properties. Regular garlic contains 33 different sulfur-based antibiotics. Compare this with penicillin, where there is only one such substance. It is obvious that the microbiome is much easier to cope with one antibiotic. It is much more difficult to neutralize the whole complex of substances contained in garlic, and this will not happen right now. Research is underway on the use of natural antibiotics. Resistance is developing in bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics. So we borrow. There are no side effects and we use them to our advantage. A couple of notes before I move on to the recipe. First, if you have a high temperature, you should not immediately try to bring it down. This will increase the duration of the illness. It is much better to dress very warmly, wrap yourself in blankets, perhaps first take a hot shower and sweat well to raise the temperature to boil these harmful microbes. Both bacteria and viruses. The second point is stress. Stress through cortisol paralyzes. the immune system, the number of leukocytes decreases, their action is suppressed. In my practice, I noticed that almost 100% of people who came with some kind of illness had some kind of stressful event right before and it made them vulnerable to illness. Just be aware of this. And try to keep stress to a minimum, especially if you feel worse. So, you need to drink this drink at the first signs of a cough. At the first signs, when you sneeze a lot and have a sore throat, drink it right away so you can stop the process before you get sick for 10 days. The first ingredient is garlic. Take three cloves of garlic and put them in a blender. As I already said, garlic contains 33 sulfur-based compounds with antimicrobial properties. Garlic is a strong antiviral agent. The next ingredient is Echinacea. A big plus of Echinacea is that it stops the disease at the very beginning. It is a good remedy for a sore throat from streptococci and other pathogens. A fairly large dose is needed in a half-liter jar of water. I recommend 90 drops. Some people drink 30 drops with water each.  An hour and 90 minutes, not too many, dropped them into a blender. Another plus of echinacea is the pain-relieving effect on the throat. Then you put a whole organic lemon in a blender, not just the juice, not lemon juice. You need a whole lemon. What's in a lemon? Vitamin C is also very useful. Lemon zest contains essential oils with antimicrobial properties. The seeds also have an antimicrobial effect. Break this whole mixture into a blender and add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar. I like Fairchild brand vinegar, not Breck UCC. Fairchild. More than a spoonful of apple cider vinegar. Apple cider vinegar acts as an acid, stimulating what's called phagocytosis. This is the process when the immune system cleans out certain cells from the body. Vinegar stimulates and starts it, and the cleansing of mucus and other things begins, especially pathogens. Then add one tablespoon of raw honey. You can also use Manuka honey. Raw honey contains enzymes and plant- based substances from many different flowers. Raw honey contains Honey was the first human antibiotic, but these properties disappear when heated and pasteurized. Honey contains a lot of things, for example, hydrogen peroxide, a natural antiseptic, and its pH is slightly lower, that is, slightly acidic. Now add half a liter of water to the blender and stir at 45°C. Then drink a third of it, and put the rest in the refrigerator. Wait a few hours and drink the next portion, just three times a day, 1 portion at a time. Drink the last portion a little later in the evening. This will relieve the symptoms. You will feel better and sleep better. You may need to do this for 2 or 3 days, and if you are already sick, I advise you to do this throughout the illness. This will speed up your recovery process. And don't forget to also take 50,000 vitamin D3 as a magic kick for your immune system. D3 has a wonderful effect on the immune system; all parts of the immune system need it. I would also add zinc, somewhere around 100-150 mg, so that the immune system is fully armed when fighting the infection. Give yourself time to go through the entire cycle. If  If you do all this, your recovery will come faster. I have a large course dedicated to various superfoods. If you haven't taken it yet, I highly recommend it. You know what superfoods are. These are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these foods and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. You will also find notes, recipes, and additional materials. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.