Surely you have heard about the vagus nerve. Many videos have been made about it. Many therapies are associated with it. In this video, I will try to explain to you the main reason why this nerve may not work and also tell you about a very important function of the vagus nerve that you might not know about. This is the function of producing hydrochloric acid. Gastric acid is regulated by tone. Problems with this nerve can lead to a number of digestive problems. But if you know how to easily fix this, you can quickly get rid of many digestive problems. So, what neurotransmitter is associated with the vagus nerve? Acetylcholine is the main one. Acetylcholine is needed. Vitamin B1 is extremely important. Vitamin deficiency is the most common deficiency in people. Because people eat a lot of carbohydrates, experience a lot of stress, drink too much tea or coffee. In general, this deficiency can have many causes. With a lack of B1, the vagus nerve cannot start producing hydrochloric acid in the required volume. I will now tell you what will happen with a lack of hydrochloric acid. There are other reasons why you may have a deficiency.  Hydrochloric acid, age, taking antacids, taking antibiotics, or not enough salt in the diet, whatever the reason, hydrochloric acid is very important. The pH should be between one and three, it is very acidic. If the pH is higher, the valve at the top of the stomach will not close and you will have acid reflux, heartburn, and GERD. This is the first thing you may also have. Your throat may be sore because the acid and enzymes enter the esophagus and dissolve the tissue there. You will also not be able to properly digest protein. Protein will not be able to break down into amino acids, and this can increase the risk of allergies, bloating, and constipation. By the way, vitamin B1 is a good remedy for constipation. Why? Because it improves not only digestion and acid production, but also intestinal peristalsis, that is, intestinal contraction. Without hydrochloric acid, you will not be able to digest protein. You will not be able to absorb minerals like iron, calcium, magnesium, and potassium, and you will develop anemia. You will also become more vulnerable to Helicobacter pylori, and Helicobacter can cause gastritis or ulcers. By the way, if you have this bacterium, it is good  The remedy for it is sulforaphane. Sulforaphane is found in cabbage, broccoli sprouts, and generally in cruciferous vegetables. A lack of hydrochloric acid also increases the risk of stomach cancer and the number of pathogens entering the small intestine from the stomach. Then, the number of bacteria in the small intestine will grow. You shouldn't have many bacteria in the small intestine, otherwise, bacterial overgrowth syndrome develops there. These bacteria will take away your food. They will begin to steal nutrients, creating bloating and gas. The more fiber you eat, the worse it will be due to abnormal fermentation. The more you take probiotics, the worse it will be, and all because of the lack of acid in the stomach to kill bacteria. Stomach acid also activates the release of bile. Bile also acts as a detergent, killing bacteria in the small intestine. Therefore, the only part of the small intestine that can help absorb bile salts is its lower part, where the small intestine passes into the large intestine, where up to 95% of bile salts are absorbed.  it is absorbed there and the recirculator does not digest it, it ends up in the large intestine and this can cause a lot of problems, because the purpose of the large intestine is by no means to completely digest proteins and the like. 90% of digestion occurs in the small intestine. The large intestine is needed for the fermentation of fiber and the processing of electrolytes. Now imagine what will happen if the large intestine is tasked with digesting food. All sorts of problems: gases, diarrhea, constipation, as well as inflammation, which can lead to leaky gut syndrome, allergy problems, and autoimmune diseases. Otherwise, everything is fine with you, but intestinal problems lead to problems with the head because of such a thing as the gut- brain axis. If you have poor digestion, then you will have cognitive problems. Mood problems. And in general, mental problems. In this case, immediately take it. You can get it from nutritional yeast. There is also a supplement with natural vitamin B1. Perhaps it will solve all these problems. Most likely, you will also have a lack of hydrochloric acid and you will have to replenish it. It depends on how much  All this continued for this you need to take betaine hydrochloride, it can be obtained from supplements and take not one piece, but five at once right before meals and then increase the dose to 10 pieces because you may need a lot to replenish the acid in the stomach and this takes time, you can take other remedies, for example, for gastritis or ulcers, zinc carnosine for bacterial overgrowth syndrome. Add garlic to the diet, and for inflammation in the lower intestine, you need to switch to a carnivore diet for some time because vegetable fiber will not help. Today I only talked about one property of vitamin B1 - that it increases the tone of the vagus nerve. I have a large course dedicated to many deficiencies, not only B1. Sign up at the link below. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to fix this safely, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about  Vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes, and lists. Everything you need to fully understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.