Let's talk about the product that contains the most vitamin K2. First, I'll tell you a little about the history of vitamin K2. This book is called Nutrition and Physical Degeneration. It was written by Dr. Western Price. He is a dentist, but he did a lot of research in the thirties and forties. He visited distant countries where people ate very, very healthy food. He tried to find out what in their diet gave them such amazing teeth. Today, people all need braces. We have wisdom teeth removed because there is no room for them in the jaw. We have crooked teeth. There are a lot of problems with the bite. I'm not even talking about my teeth. I had cavities in almost every tooth. So, attention to calcium and fat-soluble vitamins is possible. At first, he thought that the problem was vitamin D, vitamin A, or vitamin A. But at that time, they didn't know about vitamin K2 yet, and it's very interesting that instead, Western Price used the term activator X, so to speak. Factor X. This is something besides the usual fat-soluble vitamins that creates very good teeth, very good bones, good bone structure, and  good health in general, he just didn't know about vitamin K2. It hadn't been discovered yet, and after conducting research in the Swiss Alps, he found out that people there ate a lot of butter and grass- fed cheese and other completely natural foods, and he saw that their teeth were very, very good. Today, we already know that it's all about vitamin K2. Vitamin K1 is needed for blood clotting, and vitamin K2 is needed to transport calcium. Vitamin K2 works together with vitamin D, and vitamin D, in turn, increases the absorption of calcium in the intestines by 20 times. When there is a deficiency, thus, vitamin D provides an increase in calcium levels in the blood, but vitamin K2 takes it to a new level. It takes calcium from the blood and sends it to the bones, and it does this by activating certain proteins. That's what's also very interesting about vitamin K2: it uses a transport system called lpnp, the same supposedly bad cholesterol that everyone is afraid of. Calcium moves throughout the body with the help of lpnp and eventually gets into the bones, and the bones become very dense, and certain parts of the teeth are very strong. Vitamin K2 prevents calcium from being deposited in the vessels, it prevents calcification.  It also prevents calcium from entering the blood vessels, causing joint problems like arthritis, etc. That is, it is associated with calcium transport, activating very important cells in the pancreas, which increases the effectiveness of insulin. If you have insulin resistance, and most people have it, K2 will lower blood sugar levels by lowering insulin resistance. After all, when insulin sensitivity is higher, the body creates less of it. K2 helps create more ATP energy in muscle cells. So you have much more energy for training. K2 also strengthens the cells that create testosterone, and two affects the brain by improving spatial learning and memory, which is great, and as I said, K2 prevents calcium deposits in blood vessels and joints. As you can see, this is a very, very important vitamin, and we must get it from food. Unfortunately, there is no single recommended daily intake for vitamin K2. Although we need it, we get most of the vitamin K2 from bacteria. When a cow eats grass, which has a lot of vitamin K1, vitamin K1 is converted into vitamin K2 with the help of bacteria. Vitamins K1 and K2 are fat-soluble vitamins. This is  This means that they are stored in fat. Therefore, if someone eats little fat, or, for example, takes a drug that blocks cholesterol, then he may have a lack of vitamin K2. But at least the microbes in the intestines produce part of the K2 that is in our body. They make it from K-1. That is, K1 becomes K2 in the intestines. And by the way, E. coli is one of the bacteria that help us create. And we are not talking about the pathogenic version of this bacterium. I am talking about the version that is quite friendly. It creates certain B vitamins as well as vitamin K2 with K1. It is interesting that the main product that contains the most vitamin K2 is cheese. There is a product that has even more vitamin K2, but it is unlikely that anyone will eat it. So, I don’t even want to name it. Cheese is in second place, but I put it in first place, because most people eat cheese, and in first place is NATO, which is fermented soy. If you ever try it, you most likely will not like it. It’s not very much of an acquired taste. It’s about the same as with my father. He loved Limburg cheese, which has, let’s say, a unique smell, and none of us could stand it, but I recently tried it.  and I generally liked it, its taste does not match its smell, but as for the content of vitamin K2, cheese ranks first, these are mainly hard cheeses, but in soft cheeses there are two too, but of all the hard and soft cheeses, there is one cheese that ranks first and it is called Munster cheese, they are grown in the mountains of France and there this cheese is made from raw milk, they are spasterized like the USA. Yes, vitamin K2 is indeed preserved with some pasteurization and heating, but this kills the microbes that create K2. So, vitamin K2 is always more in those products that are less processed. This is especially true for cheese. There are a great many versions of vitamin K2, there are, as it were, subgroups of versions of vitamin K2, there is a version mk4 mk-7 and so on, but cheese contains mk-4 mk5, it contains mk-6 mk-7 mk8 and also mk-9. So, it does not contain a huge variety of versions of vitamin K2, unlike other products where there may be only one version. Perhaps mk-4 or mk-7 if you find cheese made from raw  Milk is always better, usually it's high- quality European cheese. Hard cheeses have a little more, soft cheeses have a little less. But any cheese contains a lot of vitamin K2. Some people will say, "I thought saturated fat in cheese was harmful and led to heart problems." How can that be? Vitamin B2 removes calcium from blood vessels. And this helps prevent heart disease. What's more important: removing calcium from blood vessels or cholesterol deposits from fatty foods. To avoid confusion, there are links to clinical studies below. I think you'll be interested to know that they completely refute the information that saturated fat leads to extreme death, increases the risk of heart attacks, or creates other problems. There is no evidence at all that saturated fat worsens health or causes. Unfortunately, we are advised to consume more unsaturated omega-6 fats and replace saturated fats with them. This is a lie. So, cheese is an excellent source of vitamin K2, as well as grass-fed butter. Butter from the milk of cows fed on grain has very little vitamin K2. Why? Because grain has little vitamin K1. And grasses have a lot of vitamin K1.  and vitamin K1 turns into vitamin K2, that is, cows must be completely on 100% grass-fed food. This is what butter and other products will get boring. If you want to get more K2, butter is good because it has a lot of vitamin A, vitamin E, it has vitamin D and vitamin K2, it is very useful for osteoporosis, osteopenia, osteomalacia and even rickets, all of these are bone problems. There are also products such as goose liver, duck liver, pictures of fat, eel. Yes, eel is very rich in vitamin K2, beef and lamb liver, liver contains vitamin K2, ground beef, sausages from grass-fed meat, but not technologically processed like those sold in stadiums and in similar places. I am talking about high-quality, sugar-free, pure sausages from grass- fed meat, they contain K2, bacon, but not ordinary bacon from the store, but high-quality bacon, it contains K2, in fact, all types of meat, pork has the most vitamin K2, which is interesting. There is also a fermented product such as Sauerkraut contains vitamin K2 thanks to bacteria. Cod liver oil is another excellent product. Especially for growing children, a nursing mother or growing child should regularly eat high-quality cheese. Unless there is some kind of allergy, high-quality plum butter and cod liver oil will not only help them avoid having to wear braces but will also improve their overall health. If you take vitamin D, be sure to take vitamin K2 with it. After all, they work together. Sometimes people are afraid of vitamin D toxicity. But if you take vitamin K2 and magnesium, you will greatly reduce the toxicity that is possible if you take large doses for many, many months. And there is a lot of information about vitamin 2. You should watch this video; it already has a lot of views.