Hello everyone. Today we'll start with a quiz question. It's your turn, doc. True or false. Progesterone is primarily a female hormone and doesn't benefit men. Dear viewers, I'm sure you've already started answering. Jay Toronto writes from a tube. Please advise the doses of methylene blue for regular use. I don't prescribe doses. But of course, you shouldn't take it in large quantities. Food-grade methylene blue is usually sold in a bottle. I would fill one pipette full. How much will fit? I would squeeze it into a glass of water and drink it through a straw so my lips don't turn blue. I would drink this once a day. I think it will bring great benefits. You'll understand that the body is already saturated with methylene blue. When your urine turns green, blue and yellow make green. You 'll see green urine. And what happens? Methylene blue is one of the first drugs in medicine. It's just very beneficial. Amazing. And watch my video about it. Well, maybe you need to look for it. It might not be on YouTube. Three more of my videos have been blocked. So just You know there are videos on Ramble. YouTube bans many of them, but they are on Ramble. So if you can't find the name of something using the phrase Dr. Berg, look for it on Ramble. It's a great alternative to Facebook. We love our viewers from Facebook, but you can watch all of Dr. Berg's materials on different platforms. KZI 245 is a shame. How to reduce chronic OTC, adenoids, tonsils in a 10-year-old child. She also has nasal polyps. I tried using a low-carb and gluten-free diet. Help. She also contributed money to Ramble. I'm not sure what that means. Well, okay, this is one of those videos Steve is blocking about problems with tonsils. I recommend zinc and, of course, vitamin D. It is sold in liquid form for children, but zinc, zinc, zinc, zinc is the main thing in this case. In children, the main immune gland is the thymus, the thymus gland, it is located above the heart, it begins to shrink, and to compensate for this, everything else is connected, especially the glands, the lymph glands, and especially the tonsils. So zinc is needed. Besides  That is, immediately after reaching puberty, the thymus begins to atrophy, and by the age of 2-35, it is already much, but this gland teaches our T-cells to distinguish pathogens from their own cells to prevent autoimmune diseases and the thymus needs zinc, zinc is an essential trace element. Don't forget about it, and the best source of zinc is oysters, any marine invertebrates also contain a lot of zinc, as well as red meat. Who would have thought? Great. Well, the viewers have already answered the quiz question that sounded. So, true or false, progesterone is mainly a female hormone and does not benefit men. 99% said that this is true, one person insists that this is not true. Steve. I would like to talk to this one person. Yes, this is not true. This is not true. Men need progesterone no less than women. Progesterone works a little differently in men. Progesterone is one of the most powerful protectors of everything related to the brain. It protects the nerves and the brain. Therefore, with low progesterone levels, the risk of dementia, cognitive problems, and all that is higher. Unfortunately, progesterone  Progesterone also significantly decreases with age, preventing the formation of a very powerful form of testosterone, DHT. DHT burns the hair on your head, causing prostate enlargement. So, progesterone can help prevent this. I will be recording a video about this very soon, you will learn more from it, so wait for this video. By the way, another video about junk food in America did not escape the attention of viewers. Our director, Terry, reports that they ask a lot of questions about this. Perhaps some companies are trying to hush up this topic, and I believe YouTube is helping some people with this. This is clearly not liked. Yes, I think I will be releasing a lot of videos about junk food. So, this is the primary goal, but the fact is that we will soon release something. Only the finishing touches remain. This is a free application. It makes it very easy to scan product labels and it automatically shows it. If you can see it, scan the product label and you will see the content of three ingredients that almost all junk food consists of: sugar, starches, which is the same sugar, and oils from seeds. Scan the label and immediately see a diagram. Start scanning.  products in the refrigerator in the pantry you will be shocked when you find out what is in your food it's amazing we will try to release it within a week so wait for the release of this application great Emanuela called us a little but I think we will hear from her Ask one question to Dr. Emmanuel Thank you very much Hello Dr. Berg Hello I have a question about this I took the body type test that was sent to my email and they told me that I have a thyroid type body type and that my fat is of hormonal origin I started intermittent fasting sm ago the question is how do I reconcile this with the diet that is needed for a thyroid body type because I really Oh it seems we are stuck And in fact I gain a lot of weight when I eat eggs and milk in which in fact we continue to depend but maybe the question is already clear Yes Let me answer your question You filled out the questionnaire and Judging by the result you have a thyroid body type I always advise doing this switch to a regular  Healthy chum salmon for a couple of weeks. If things aren't going so well, you may need to adjust your diet to your body type. Judging by what you said, you may need more iodine-rich foods. This is kelp kelp, and that's what will happen. Iodine brings many benefits, it strengthens the thyroid gland, it also increases fertility, and counteracts the production of excess estrogen. So, this is a good remedy for fibrocystic breast disease, ovarian cysts, and helps with hot flashes. That is, iodine helps with many problems, and to get it, you need to eat seaweed, say, kelp. Anything that resembles estrogen is harmful to the thyroid gland. It has estrogen properties. So, you need to avoid soy products. You need to avoid inorganic foods so that pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides don't harm the thyroid gland, because it is very sensitive to them. In general, you can read about all this on my website, and you can at least start with this. Excellent, thanks for the question. Emanuela I hope this helps