Balancing your omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acid intake can be quite challenging. I'll show you a simple way to do it, but let's start with why you need it at all. The fact is that there's a big problem in the world right now: people are consuming too many omega-6 fatty acids and too few omega-3 fatty acids. The ideal ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids is one to one. For the average American, this ratio is about 21. Let's take the ratio in seed oils: 70 to one. In potato chips: 60 to one. In grains: 20 to one. In chicken: 17 to one. In grain-fed beef: 9 to 1. In grass-fed beef: 2 to 1. In pastured eggs: 3 to 1. And in store-bought eggs: 29 to 1. Why is that? Because these chickens are fed grain. Next, we have leafy greens: 1 to 1. In wild game meat: 3 to 1. In fish: 1 to 1.  What's so bad about omega-6 fatty acids? One problem among many others is that omega-6 fatty acids can penetrate cell membranes and become part of them. This double layer of fat in cell membranes is extremely important, especially in the cerebral cortex, the retina, the testicles, and even in sperm. The largest reserve of DHA is one of the omega-3 fatty acids found in the cerebral cortex, this is the part of the brain that helps think, make decisions based on logic, and, as they say, do a lot of other things. The retina is also necessary for this, so there is a lot of this acid, as well as in the testicles and sperm. So if you have an omega-3 fatty acid deficiency, your brain will not function well enough. You will not be able to see well. Your body will not produce enough testosterone, and you will probably be infertile. Otherwise, you are completely fine. If there is too much omega-6 and not enough omega-3, red blood cells are immobile, they lose flexibility and cannot pass through the capillaries. As a result, the vessels become clogged. A Blood  It becomes thick, obesity increases, especially in the form of visceral fat, insulin resistance and diabetes develop. Omega-6 has a strong pro-inflammatory effect, it increases the amount of inflammation and also increases the risk of blood clots. It increases the risk of coronary artery spasm, which can lead to a heart attack, and blood vessels definitely narrow more. The easiest way to solve this problem is to increase your intake of omega-3 fatty acids. If you simply reduce your intake of omega-6 fatty acids but do not increase your omega-3, it will not work. So, just start consuming more omega-3. It's simple. Choose one of the two: fish oil or cod liver oil. The advantage of cod liver oil is that it contains not only omega-3 but also vitamin A and vitamin D. But of course, in addition to this, I recommend a few more things: 1. Replace your salad dressing with olive oil. Be careful when buying olive oil in the store because there are a lot of counterfeits on sale; somewhere around 80 percent of all olive oil is  oils, especially cheap ones, are counterfeit. If you try olive oil, it has one special feature: it gives a slight tickling sensation in the throat; it is by no means bland. It is usually some kind of canola oil, corn oil, or some other of those that we want to get rid of. This is the first point. 2. When you are in a cafe or restaurant, do not eat anything fried simply because they fry in corn, canola, cottonseed, or soybean oil, and so on. So, make sure you do not eat such things. Fortunately, in a restaurant, third, eat fatty fish, for example, salmon, at least twice a week. 4. Make sure that the meat you eat is grass-fed because grain-fed meat will upset the balance of omega-6 and omega-3. 5. Limit your chicken consumption. Of all meats, chicken has the most omega-6 fatty acids. It is interesting that they will advise you to eat more white meat, chicken or turkey, but not much, but lean, and exclude red meat. After all, it is Chicken is harmful, no, it's harmful. And of course, limit grain-fed animal products if children eat nuts. Eat more walnuts because they contain alpha- linolenic acid, which converts to omega-3 fatty acids. It's easy to balance these acids correctly. I think the next video would be best. Watch this one about olive oil.