Hi all.  Let's start with questions on social networks.  Ribash from Facebook asks what works best for those terrible hot flashes.  This usually happens after menopause when estrogen levels decrease. Some women take black cohosh as a remedy for hot flashes. Some women find iodine helpful. Some women find that tocotrienols help.  This is a form of vitamin E. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Some women use ashwagandha to strengthen their adrenal glands . The point is that there are treatments for hot flashes that are much better than estrogen replacement therapy.  There is even testosterone therapy and even testosterone for women using granules.  The fact is that estrogen in women is controlled by testosterone.   It is this that is mainly converted into estrogen with the help of various enzymes and so on. So very soon we will be releasing something that will make it much easier to understand what product is needed by which person. After all, there are often too many options.  And how do you know what's best for you?  We will solve this problem and I'm excited about it, but I won't say anything until I release it in 1-2 months.  Now for the quiz question.  Everyone managed to get a glimpse.  Please , Dog.  True or false?  Excess potassium is harmful to the kidneys.  So, friends, true or false?  And we will return to questions on social networks.  Asks Khlus Trumble.  My wife falls asleep as soon as I start talking to her .  But sometimes she wakes up at night and can't fall asleep.  Before bed, she takes two of your magnesium supplements.  How can we help them? I think she needs to wake up her husband so that he can talk to her and she can fall asleep again. There are a couple of points related to sleep cycles. You can try. When the sun comes up, go outside to let sunlight into your eyes and reset the cycles.  This will reset your circadian rhythms.  And in the evening, two or three hours before, start dimming the lights. If you watch TV, wear blue light blocking glasses.  This will begin to reset your circadian rhythms. Furthermore, too many stimulants, such as too much coffee, can also disrupt sleep. Chocolate in the late afternoon can be a problem. Regular aerobic exercise greatly improves sleep and reduces stress.  High-intensity interval training or strength training two or three times a week can also improve sleep.  So there are a lot of things that can be done .  I'll film a video that's a kind of master class on sleep.  After all, there are tons of great ways to fix whatever part of your sleep you're having trouble with. Great.  Erics Rambla.  Why does my heartbeat clear up periodically only after eating?  Overall, my blood pressure is normal. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. You eat something that your body reacts to. change in pulse or even the sensation of heartbeat.  There is a way to find out if you are allergic to something.  Just check your pulse after you eat this. Your body is reacting to some food. You need to find out which one.  The problem is that we eat a lot of things at once. So you need to eat one thing, check your pulse, then something else to see what you're reacting to.  So, we found out that Steve has a reaction to donuts.  We ruled them out and the pulse returned to normal.  I would put up with a pulse of 150, just so I wouldn't have to give up eating donuts.  Just kidding, Dr. Burke weaned me off them.  And now we have a beautiful lady named Fyr on the line with us .  She has one question for you, Dr. Berg.  The floor is yours, Fer. Good morning, Dr. Berg. My question is related to a variety of problems with internal organs.  It's the liver, fatty liver, a large gallstone, and probably leaky gut.   I've had very good success with keto and intermittent fasting for the last 3 years. I have only one problem. I'm not sure if it's a kidney, but it seems to be somewhere on my right side and in the back area, but I don't have any kidney problems. I take tutka to improve digestion.  And I don't drink much water. You said that I need to drink 2.5 liters of water, but I never drink that much. I'm just wondering if it's a kidney problem. What happens if a toxin or stone gets into another part of the body but is not eliminated?  And how long can you drag it out if there is some problem with the kidneys? So, the typical picture of kidney stones is a burning pain in the side, deep in the back.  But I had patients with gallstones, and their pain was reflected there. Let's just imagine that there is a rock there or something is forming and it's not visible yet because it's small, it's sharp and it's irritating.  It depends on whether it is located in the kidney or not in the kidney, but in the tube that goes from the kidney to the bladder. And, let's say, it floats there back and forth. I know this well.  I had this problem.  So yes, drinking more water will help. Yes, drinking water with lemon will help.  And yes, if you don’t eat anything that contains a lot of axalates, this will help.  But the most important thing is to get more magnesium. So I would double or triple my magnesium intake.  After all, magnesium has a much greater chemical affinity for axalates than calcium.  So magnesium prevents stones from forming, breaks them down, makes them less sharp, makes them smaller, allowing them to come out so they don't get stuck.  Thus, magnesium deficiency is at the root of this problem .  About the gallstone.  Oh yeah, about the fatty liver.  Luckily, you can eliminate liver fat super-fast.  It goes away super fast if you cut carbs and get enough halene. So that's good.  You are already accepting this here, that's right.  I would probably take a little more of it so that nothing would form in the bile ducts. Take two capsules on an empty stomach in the morning.  And two during the day, so that the bile drains well.  But I think your problem will go away if you take a lot more magnesium.  Thanks so much for the great call, Föhr. I hope you keep watching because we're about to find out the answer to the quiz question.  True or false?  Excess potassium is harmful to the kidneys.  64% said it was a lie, while 36% said it was true.  Who's right, dog?  If you want to know the truth, Steve, watch the news, because it constantly tells us the exact opposite of what we need to do.  I'm convinced that if something is talked about in the news and some research is advertised in it , it immediately raises alarm bells.  After all, news stories are usually supplied by industries with vested interests as part of their advertising campaigns. That's how it all ends up in the news, and it always makes me wary.  We're told: "Too much potassium is bad for your kidneys. That's why dietary supplements contain 99 mg of potassium per tablet."  But here’s the question: how much potassium does our body need?  Do you know that he needs not 99, but 4,700 mg? This is 4.7 g of potassium.  That's a lot.  This is how much potassium we need to protect our kidneys.  Potassium is only harmful if you have late-stage kidney disease and are taking certain heart medications.  In other cases, potassium protects the kidneys, maintains the elasticity of blood vessels, reduces the risk of stroke, and also reduces blood pressure.  Finally, potassium is involved in the production of energy for the nervous system and muscles, as it is needed for the functioning of the potassium pump.