Let's talk about what happens to the brain in Alzheimer's disease. What is the essence of this disease? Our brain consists of neurons. Between neurons there are gaps called synapses, through which signals are transmitted. Electrical impulses pass. An interesting fact: the brain accounts for only two percent of body tissue, but it consumes 20 percent of the fuel received by the body. It is voracious, but it does not contract, unlike the heart and other muscles. It does not move. It is constantly at rest and does not filter blood like the kidneys. It does not participate in metabolism. Like the liver, it absorbs the energy of chemical bonds to convert it into electrical energy to send signals and information to its various parts, controlling various processes throughout the body. That is, it is an electrical organ. The essence of Alzheimer's disease is that neurons atrophy, become thinner, and synapses lose conductivity. If you dig even deeper and look for the cause, it turns out that neurons will die of starvation. They die due to a lack of their own fuel, glucose. This is what happens in Alzheimer's disease, but there are other problems: amyloid plaques, that is, plaques made of protein.  This is glycation, another type of sticky protein that clogs everything. Another problem is the loss of oxygen entering the brain. Oxygen is used primarily to oxidize glucose. This is the main reason why a lot of oxygen is needed. There are tests that measure how much oxygen and glucose the human brain consumes. To find out how glucose is being metabolized, you need to know the level of cerebral metabolism. This is the name of this test. Ask your doctor about it. With Alzheimer's, this is how the disease starts in your 20s and 30s and initially proceeds completely without symptoms. There are no manifestations, but there is a problem with the level of glucose and oxygen metabolism. Some parts of the brain are affected more severely than others. Most often, the so- called hippocampus is affected. This part of the brain controls, let's say, access to the database. Therefore, if the hippocampus is damaged, problems with memory, learning, and spatial memory begin. For example, it becomes difficult to remember where you parked or where you put your keys. Many people experience these problems in their youth and they do not realize that this could be the beginning of Alzheimer's. What's also interesting in the brain of a person with Alzheimer's is that insulin is low in the brain itself, but  Outside the brain, insulin levels are high. Obviously, blood glucose levels are high. This is outside the brain, but inside it, and especially in neurons, glucose levels are low. It's the other way around. I think you already know this. But let me remind you that there's a lot of data on the connection between diabetes and Alzheimer's. They often go hand in hand. These diseases have common features, for example, insulin resistance. Yes, all this is interesting, but what should we do with this information? Let's say you or a loved one has Alzheimer's, or you want to prevent the disease. You need to know several very important points. Here's the first: if you have high insulin outside the brain, and this will most often happen if you eat the way people usually eat, the brain will not be able to function on alternative fuel, which it simply adores. This fuel saturates the brain with oxygen, which increases the rate of neurogenesis, the formation of neurons, this fuel is antioxidants, thereby reducing inflammation and improving cognitive function. But the brain will not be able to function on alternative fuel, ketones, with high insulin and glucose levels. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return during the course.  I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. Here's the problem: the brain is forced to work on glucose, but the body can't absorb it because this mechanism is broken. Here's what needs to be done to prevent diseases or relieve symptoms if they already exist. Ketones should be allowed to work on titans. Ketones are capable of bypassing the broken absorption mechanism and directly nourishing neurons, improving the condition of synapses. There is one very powerful remedy. If senile dementia or Alzheimer's has begun, start taking ketones yourself. You can take exogenous ones, that is, externally, and ketones or M-City oil in addition to intermittent fasting. If you're new to my channel, follow the link under the video to learn more. Here's what you need to do to eliminate at least some of the damage. However, there is also a point of no return. But if you look for the causes of Alzheimer's, they are unknown. There is no cure yet. We don't know how to fight the disease. Research is still ongoing. For now, I just wanted to share some interesting data on symptom relief. Links Thank you for watching the video. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.