Hello, today we will talk about all the possible causes of sleep problems. In the description there will be links to videos on what to do about it. Well, let's start from the very beginning. Let's say you like coffee. You drink too much coffee and it contains caffeine. This can easily interfere with a night's sleep. But also don't forget about tea. Tea contains caffeine. There are stimulants in chocolate too. If you overeat chocolate, it will be difficult to fall asleep. There is an optimal amount of physical activity. If you exceed it and feel that your pulse is just crazy before bed, there is a roar in your ears when you lie on the pillow, then the load is too high. This is easy to fix. Exercise more easily and also take long walks. If you have problems with sleep, I highly recommend long walks, preferably in the evenings. There is almost no stress. A lot of oxygen is good for the adrenal glands. Especially if you watch the computer all day like I do. I constantly have to exercise, go for walks, get outside because I sit at this damn computer all day and this can also have a bad effect on sleep. There are two more reasons.  rapid pulse 1 too acidic pH let's say you take a lot of apple cider vinegar or drink a lot of kombucha at night because of this powder your pulse may become too acidic and you won't be able to sleep I had this so I know about this firsthand another reason is potassium deficiency potassium is a physiological sedative it calms the nervous system does not allow the pulse to quicken with a lack of potassium the pulse quickens or you eat too many simple carbohydrates and they remove potassium from the body a good electrolyte where there is a lot of potassium will not allow the pulse to quicken and the pressure will not rise further carbohydrates if you eat too many simple carbohydrates or sugar in the first half of the day say for breakfast pancakes and fritters orange juice and so on then in the evening you will be irresistibly drawn to carbohydrates and you are unlikely to resist and this alone can prevent you from sleeping and what micro and macroelements are necessary for the media in fact it is potassium and poppy seeds we need a lot of potassium and not  On low heat, you get these macronutrients from vegetables from vegetable salads. I recommend a lot of vegetables to everyone except those who can't digest salad. If you can digest it, eat at least 7 glasses or even more, up to 10 glasses of them will give you gallons. On days when I eat more salad, I sleep a little better. Meat, fish, eggs, all these proteins have a lot of phosphorus. Phosphorus accelerates the nervous system. So, if you eat too much protein and not enough vegetables, this may be why you don't sleep now. And late meals are bad only when there is too much fat in the food. If you eat too much fat in the evening, say you are on a diet and your second meal is closer to the evening, this can irritate the gallbladder, have a bad effect on digestion and prevent you from sleeping peacefully. I advise you to eat most of the fat earlier than at night. There are a couple of things that can prevent you from falling asleep. 1. Watching the news before bed is definitely not necessary. Watch something humorous or read a book. Then, the electromagnetic field, if a cell phone lies right next to your head or is working from the network nearby and some other device is very often a large alarm clock or other electronic device they also generate m p of a certain frequency and you will sleep worse so do not keep an electronic device next to your head please no trance format raw this can create problems light darkness stimulates the production of melatonin melatonin is a sleep hormone it is produced by the pineal gland if your room is brightly lit and you say watching TV it will be difficult to fall asleep so you need to turn off the light the light should be absent this will make it easier for you to fall asleep inhalation and here's what I advise if you are lying down trying to fall asleep and and can't focus on breathing if you can slow down your breathing 5 seconds to inhale and then 5 seconds to exhale this will calm the nervous system because when the body is under stress you breathe something like this I exaggerate but exhalation takes less time than inhalation they need to be balanced this will help you fall asleep also I advise sleeping on the right side simply because the liver is on the right and the heart on the left in most people if you sleep on  On the right side, the heart will be above the liver. If you sleep on the left side, with fatty liver, the heart will experience pressure. Falling asleep will be uncomfortable. It is best to go to bed around half past ten. This is based on circadian rhythms or waves or hormonal waves. It turns out that if you miss this moment and sit up, say, past midnight, then falling asleep will usually be more difficult because you missed this wave and now you have to wait for the next one so that the body can fall asleep. I advise going to bed at half past ten is a good time. Say, go to bed at 10:15 and try to fall asleep before 10:30 or 10:45. This is a very good time. If all sorts of thoughts are constantly spinning in your head at night, if you just can't stop thinking, vitamin B1 will help you. Nutritional yeast is an excellent source. Sometimes people wake up due to muscle cramps. This means there is not enough potassium and magnesium. Sometimes you need more sea salt. Pickle juice also helps. If you don't have electrolyte powder or if you ate few vegetables but need to fall asleep, you probably have pickle juice at home.  You can drink it and the cramps will quickly pass. Now about digestion. If you have a condition like Siber. The link below is for bacterial overgrowth syndrome. There are too many bacteria in the wrong places. You add vegetables, that is, fiber. Your stomach will bloat and it will be difficult to sleep. Eat salad only if you are sure you can digest it. If you can't, there is a link in the description on how to resolve this. If you are developing gases or have an upset stomach, this can be caused by sugar alcohols, for example, xylitol, which is unusual for you, or even retrit, which can cause irritation. The cause may also be m-city oil in some products that are supposedly good for Tetta, but you need to get used to it and start using it little by little. I personally raise my product formula for sleep. 1 capsule before bed, mainly for the adrenal glands. I also use a massager. There is a technique for reducing stress, because overactive adrenal glands interfere with good rest. Let's talk a little about the adrenal glands. These glands are 2. They are located directly above the kidneys, here they help regulate stress if you are all day.  I insured that you need to remove this stress so that you do not try to sleep when the body is stressed. I want to advise the following: if you can’t fall asleep, then scan your body and just become aware of which part of the body does not want to turn off, for example, the head, or say, the chest or lower back. Usually, some muscle is tense or cramped, and a recent injury seems to keep the body in an agitated state and does not allow this part of the body to relax. If, for example, you have a cramped muscle, there are many ways to relieve this stress. Do stretching in the description. A link to my in our process is described there. This technique can be tried. I want to add something. You know, I noticed that sometimes, especially when a person is trying to sleep but his head is not yet tired, he is not sleepy at all. Usually this happens due to an old head injury. An interesting connection. Let 's say you were in an accident, something hit you on the head. You can use the technique in the link in the description to relieve stress. It works great, but this was just by the way. In addition, if you had a fight with your husband or wife, received bad news, mental stress will not let you sleep. Of course, this needs to be sorted out. You need to resolve the situation first. than to lie down and try to fall asleep, despite the fact that it will be difficult to fall asleep if there is pain or inflammation or fibromyalgia, you don’t need to rack your brains in the description, there is a link, we have ways to get rid of inflammation, the main thing is intermittent fasting, it is very, very important if there is inflammation or pain, there are other techniques for getting rid of pain and tension in the body, the work of the adrenal glands says a lot in such a symptom, you wake up at two in the morning, two o’clock in the morning for Nokia predators, this is just a classic, because at two o’clock in the morning the cortisol level is the lowest, you understand, and 8 am is the highest, adrenal hormones, cortisol is a stress hormone, or slipper said too high early at two o’clock in the morning, then it will wake you up, I had this, as well as I had restless leg syndrome, restless leg syndrome is just a deficiency of vitamin B1, take more B vitamins, especially B1 and give up sugar, I had this problem many years ago I had to rub my legs or get up to release this energy in my legs at two o’clock in the morning, but it may be connected with the adrenal glands, that you can’t fall asleep or somewhere 30 minutes before your alarm, wake up. Take the time to examine your adrenal glands and improve their condition. If you were once an athlete and exercised very actively, but now you don't. Your mitochondria, the energy plants of your cells that are involved in energy production, are better developed than others and store more energy, so you need to continue exercising to somehow spend this energy. If you sit at the computer all day and don't exercise, all this energy remains in the body. You lie down on excess energy in the body. Perhaps the problem is that you are a former athlete and your mitochondria are ready to store and use more energy. You need to use it. Do physical exercise. If you have a bladder problem, there may be several reasons. Usually, this is insulin resistance. This is a diabetic condition. Consider diabetics. Constant thirst and excessive urination are insulin resistance. How to get rid of it. The link in the description is needed. Healthy body fat and intermittent fasting are needed. Let's say you have increased septum and this prevents the bladder from holding urine better.  Just completely give up dairy products, milk, butter, cream, and cheese, and you'll be dairy-free for a while. It's possible your estrogen levels will simply decrease in size. This is just a little advice, but there are other solutions. Let's say you're going through menopause. Your estrogen levels are dropping, and your progesterone levels are dropping even lower. The ratios indicate that you have too much estrogen, even though it's low. There's a sensor in your bladder, and it should be covered with estrogen. If you're losing estrogen, you may frequently have the urge to pee. In this case, it's best to use progesterone cream. You can buy progesterone cream yourself. You can rub it into your thighs. This cream will help with menopause. I think we've covered all the possible causes of poor sleep. Choose the ones that apply to you and watch the video. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.