I'll tell you about the best remedy for preventing heart attacks. Many will be surprised. Why haven't I heard about this before? Why isn't it advertised? Because you can't make money on it. This is the main reason who will talk about something for no monetary gain. No one has a bottle of this product. According to real scientific research, it can prevent heart attacks and costs only $3.19. It's unlikely that anyone will be able to afford it. I'll leave links to the study below in one placebo-controlled study. This substance has shown incredible results in the treatment of coronary diseases and this remedy is not. My father's son had heart problems. He suffered from atrial fibrillation. Without my recommendations, he swallowed a handful of niacin tablets every day and he's doing well. There are many studies of niacin that have been conducted for decades. You need a version of niacin that causes flushing. I recommend niacin. Extended- release 500 mg at least once a day. So, I'll tell you about its properties. It significantly lowers cholesterol. Especially oxidized LDL is the type that  Niacin causes inflammation and provides powerful cardiovascular protection. It has been found that it reduces the reaction of white blood cells inside the arteries. When plaques form in the vessels with atherosclerosis, the immune system is involved, which is usually responsible for inflammation. Who needs inflammation in the arteries? Well, it doesn't matter. Niacin reduces the number of monocytes and other white blood cells, as well as the inflammation that occurs. Niacin significantly reduces something called CRP (C-reactive protein). C-reactive protein is an excellent predictor of mortality. It is an excellent independent predictor of heart attack, that is, myocardial infarction, as well as peripheral arterial disease and stroke. High levels of C- reactive protein indicate inflammation, and niacin can correct this. The formation of blood clots and plaques in the vessels is always preceded by oxidation, and niacin suppresses this oxidation. It acts as a powerful antioxidant, this is just one of its properties. Why is it so effective? It removes vascular inflammation and prevents the deposition of lipids or fats on the vessel walls. It also reduces the level  triglycerides and at the same time increases HDL niacin has the ability to slow down and reverse atherosclerosis many will be surprised why I have not heard about this why is it not promoted this is not beneficial to anyone niacin can reduce the risk of death in people with cardiovascular diseases niacin can prevent dysfunction of the inner layer of the vessel called the endothelium where everything begins and it significantly reduces the adhesions that form on the walls many people with cholesterol take statins I will touch on this topic Since we are talking about this, statins do block and lower cholesterol, but there is no evidence that they reduce the risk of heart attacks in fact, statins block the production of cholesterol in the body The problem is that cholesterol is necessary for the production of bile salts without bile salts the absorption of vitamins A and D is impossible especially important K1 K2 which prevents calcium from entering the blood vessels cholesterol is also needed for the production of testosterone statins ultimately lead to low testosterone in fact there are no long-term placebo-controlled trials Statins are not tested on humans, so it is unknown whether they actually increase life expectancy, but they have many side effects, especially those related to muscles. They block Coenzyme Q10, which is needed by mitochondria in muscle cells, and the heart is a muscle. Some side effects include muscle atrophy, heart failure, and all kinds of muscle pain, including lower back pain and other issues. I am not advocating for people to give up statins. I only advise researching this topic, finding data, and showing this data to a doctor. I will leave links below and make an informed decision rather than blindly relying on the opinion of the majority. Therefore, if you have heart problems and are taking heart medications, pay attention to Neocin, it is very inexpensive. Extended-release niacin 500 mg at least once a day. If you haven't watched one of my recent videos, it is the best for protecting the heart. Oh, watch this video.