Today we will discuss the number one product that significantly increases coenzyme q10. What is coenzyme q10? This coenzyme is slightly different from an enzyme. It is an auxiliary enzyme. How does it help with the production of ATP, the body's energy currency? This occurs in the energy stations of the mitochondria. Coenzyme q10 is actively involved in the production of energy. It is involved in maintaining ATP levels, that is, energy. It is also involved in reducing byproducts formed during energy production from oxidative stress and damage by free radicals. It is a very powerful antioxidant. It is like specialized gasoline for a car that does not emit exhaust gases. Exhaust gases are oxidation and damage from free radicals. That is, we need so much coenzyme q10 in the heart because this organ produces more energy than any other. The heart needs to produce a lot of energy because it beats continuously around the clock and never relaxes. Therefore, this specialized coenzyme is necessary to maintain energy. During energy production, a lot of waste is generated that also needs to be cleaned out. Therefore, coenzyme q10 is so important. Many They take it for the heart and blood vessels, it gives them a lot of energy and lowers blood pressure, I'll tell you why because coenzyme Q10 supports the coronary vessels, namely their inner lining, it also helps maintain the necessary energy reserves so that the heart always has enough energy and it does not fall, because if the energy level of the heart is low, then blood pressure will rise higher and higher. The heart compensates for the drop in energy by increasing the pressure and volume of pumped blood to replenish the loss of energy. Q10 is actively involved in the contraction of the heart muscle, and if there is a lack of it, it will contract weaker and fluid retention, edema, and everything of this kind can develop. For the body, this coenzyme Q10 is a very important auxiliary substance for survival, because if the heart fails, you are not a survivor. Coenzyme Q10 reduces oxidative stress. The heart helps lower blood pressure. It helps reduce cholesterol production. One of the many problems with statins is that they have a side effect of muscle toxicity due to the fact that statins deplete coenzyme Q10. It's interesting because this clarifies  What does this coenzyme do? It protects the heart from things like muscle inflammation, muscle weakness, muscle damage, and of course, all of this increases fatigue. Imagine that you are running uphill. At some point, you can no longer run. You become exhausted and lose your stride and start to gasp for breath because the heart cannot maintain the required blood flow. Eventually, you stop and bend over, hunching over because the heart is working so hard that it needs support on the sternum and back, so you bend forward. So, coenzyme Q10 increases and optimizes the energy reserves of the cardiovascular system. As you understand, the more coenzyme Q10 you have, the longer your heart will last. Now the question is what depletes coenzyme Q10 reserves. What is it? 1. Age, the older you are, the less you have. 2. Chronic diseases, diabetes, various inflammatory diseases. Then, stress, stress depletes it. Then, I already mentioned statins. And lastly, a lack of vitamin B6. Coenzyme Q10 requires vitamin B6 for work. This was theoretical.  Now, what product increases the level of Q10 in the body? What is product number one? Are you ready? Beef heart. Before you close the video, there are other sources. If you don't want to eat beef heart, you can also eat beef liver. That's also an option. Unfortunately, no matter how much I've tried liver, I don't like it, although some people do. A good dose of coenzyme Q10 can be obtained from offal. This is a feature of beef heart and beef liver. But if you, like me, need another source, you can get it from leafy greens. The main source of energy on the planet is the sun, but we can't take energy directly from the sun. Plants can, through so- called photosynthesis, convert sunlight into carbon dioxide from the air. A chemical energy reserve called chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is green. Any green plant contains chlorophyll. Other non- green plants also carry out photosynthesis, but they don't have as much chlorophyll. The more green foods you eat, I'm not talking about pistachio ice cream or lime jelly. I mean green salad.  Parsley, especially, and any leafy greens, will increase your coenzyme Q10 levels, not to mention the other benefits of vegetables, such as potassium, magnesium, and of course, plant fiber, which nourishes the microflora and also indirectly provides energy. Chlorophyll can also be obtained from algae, such as blue-green algae or other types of algae. This is another source. As for fish, red fish contains slightly more coenzyme Q10. For example, yellowfin tuna is a good source. If you feel a decline with age, and where perhaps you simply need coenzyme Q10, why not start eating foods that will help you increase your coenzyme Q10 levels? I think now you should watch a video about the cardiovascular system. Here it is. Take a look.