Of all the possible health problems, stroke is probably one of the most devastating. Today we'll talk about how to protect yourself from a stroke, especially a silent one. What is a silent stroke? It's a ministroke. Its symptoms are many people don't even notice, but it causes damage. It affects areas of the brain that don't control speech or movement. Therefore, you won't notice a stroke in these areas. There is no paralysis or speech impairment. You may notice slight memory loss, but nothing serious. Silent strokes occur 14 times more often than regular strokes. If you read about strokes, you'll find out that there are risk factors: diabetes, hypertension, cholesterol, obesity, atrial fibrillation, irregular heartbeat, as well as metabolic syndrome and sleep apnea. What do all these problems have in common? These are all symptoms of high insulin. Now let's talk about what you can do to protect yourself from blood clots and stroke. 1 DHL. And what is it? These are two special types of omega-3 fatty acids. The name is rich in fatty fish, especially salmon. Halibut, sardines, and cod liver oil also contain  algae But you need both components It is interesting that the brain literally thrives on these healthy fats, they activate genes that create not only the structure of the brain but also its functions, and also repair brain damage and help with inflammation, so they are very important for the prevention or protection against strokes 2 garlic in its pure form there is one phytonutrient that pharmaceutical companies are now trying to isolate to use it as a medicine for blood clots But why not just eat garlic, it thins the blood and without side effects, there are certain medications for blood clots, for example, kum-1, which not only blocks vitamin K but also limits your diet, you cannot eat leafy greens, you need foods low in vitamin K If you take kum-1, read under the video about what diet you need and what vegetables you can exercise is very important, they increase blood circulation in the brain and also in the heart, there are also so-called exogenous ketones Usually I do not recommend taking exogenous ketones because you can produce ketones yourself, but there are two situations in which I recommend taking them I mean ketone salts, there is another form in which they are released Ketones are ketone esters. Especially for athletes who participate in competitions, they need more energy. They are very expensive. Salts are much cheaper, but they are less effective. A stroke or Alzheimer's disease means that brain cells are damaged, so it is very difficult for glucose to penetrate the cells to provide them with nutrition. The underlying cause of dementia is that cells do not receive fuel and therefore cannot work. But the good news is that ketones can bypass damaged tissues, and not only in the brain, but also in the heart. So you directly feed the damaged cells, and they begin to revive. The brain simply loves ketones. If it has a choice, it would rather take ketones than glucose. So, if you have brain damage, Alzheimer's disease, memory problems, or dementia, or even heart damage, I advise drinking exogenous ketones. They will help nourish these tissues. The second situation is if you participate in competitions and you need more energy, you should also take them. The fifth point is vitamin E. A very important vitamin helps thin the blood and clots, but it is very important not to take synthetic vitamin E. You need one that contains a natural complex of trienols. This is a whole complex. And of course, the most important thing is to switch to a healthy ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting. This will reduce the risk of stroke, and you will get to the real reason that underlies all this: high insulin with insulin resistance. After all, ketogenic diet and fasting lower insulin and eliminate insulin resistance. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic diet course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.