I wonder of all the foods which product do you think best increases testosterone and not only testosterone increases fertility but also the number and motility of sperm. You can guess oysters. Of all the foods, oysters contain the most zinc and not just zinc but bioavailable forms of zinc and copper. In general, this is perhaps the richest nutrient-rich product after the liver. They contain a lot of nutrients. A small note: if you have a zinc deficiency, you can develop something called hypogonadism. This is when the sex glands shrink due to a lack of zinc, and testosterone is produced by the sex glands. I know that they will write in the comments that you cannot eat shellfish, especially oysters, because they contain microplastics from the ocean. But in general, if you eat oysters from the Pacific Ocean, they are canned, they will have the least microplastics. But our diet is so poor in nutrients and lacks complete foods that we have to find a balance, and oysters are almost at the top of the list of nutrient-rich foods. When we want to raise testosterone, we need to do more than just raise one  This hormone needs to be supported by the entire endocrine system. Keeping all hormones in proper balance is crucial. Oysters help in many ways. They are rich in zinc and copper in the right proportions. They contain a lot of vitamin B12, iron, vitamins D and B6, omega-3 fatty acids, and choline. However, it's important to know that there are things that can negate the benefits of consuming oysters. For example, taking statins, which block cholesterol, which is necessary for testosterone production, can negate the effects of all testosterone-boosting foods and supplements. Soy lowers testosterone. Cereals are a serious hindrance. Why? Because they contain phytic acid. Phytic acid blocks zinc. Insufficient stomach acidity. Hydrochloric acid is necessary for the absorption of trace elements, especially zinc. How do you know if you lack acid? You're most likely taking antacids because of heartburn, GERD, indigestion, and acid reflux. These are all indicators of hydrochloric acid deficiency. Sugar. Excess sugar will kill testosterone. Excess empty carbohydrates. Stress is also harmful. Lack of sleep.  a very serious obstacle and the more fat in the body, the more estrogen you produce and the less testosterone the body will begin to convert testosterone into estrogen and iron. Excess iron can seriously damage the liver and cause a sharp drop in testosterone levels. Although oysters themselves contain a lot of iron, with some diseases it can be too much. On the other hand, there are things that increase testosterone and I have many videos about them. Intense training with enough sleep for recovery. Intense, abundant exercise with good recovery will help increase testosterone, but it is imperative to recover. The formation of testosterone in the body is the same as the formation of growth hormone. If one of them becomes more than 2, it will also increase a little. They work together. Cholesterol. You need to eat enough fatty foods with cholesterol. That's why eggs are good for you. That's why butter is good for you because testosterone is produced from cholesterol. Low stress. Good sleep and red meat are another product rich in iron. The strangest thing is that there is a new diet that some organizations want to put the entire planet on. It is presented in the report of the Irish commission. They want to put the entire planet on it. Basically, they call it Soybeans and beans, no red meat and very few eggs, this is the perfect recipe to make everyone infertile with very low testosterone, if you haven't watched the video about it, here it is.