Can you guess which product most often causes cravings? I'm writing it and let's see if you can guess. Of course, cravings come from what the product can do to the taste buds and its texture, which is very fatty and creamy. This product has quite a lot of fat. It has a unique taste and aroma, it's sweet. If you eat it, it can bring a lot of pleasure due to the combination of texture, taste, and sweetness. But what can it do to you? This product reduces the amount of a substance called adenosine in the brain. Adenosine is a substance that helps you sleep. If you eat this product, it will block this connection and drowsiness will decrease. It also contains tyrosine, which can increase the neurotransmitter dopamine, which gives a feeling of pleasure. This product, which is the one that everyone is so drawn to, contains substances that affect the brain. It improves cognitive function. You may feel as if your head is clearer. It can make you more focused and collected. It also affects your mood. If you have depression or anxiety, this product can pull you out because it helps with stress.  It often helps women cope with emotions during menstruation. Here's a tip for you. It also affects insulin. It can increase insulin sensitivity. If you have insulin resistance, it can help stabilize blood sugar levels. 28 grams of this product contains 64 milligrams of magnesium. Magnesium relaxes us, gives us energy, and is also part of 300 different enzymes. This product can also affect the body in other ways. It helps with coughs, can help the cardiovascular system, and can lower blood pressure. If you thought about it, you guessed it. Chocolate cravings are the most common craving in people. I have nothing against chocolate, provided that it is an unusual chocolate bar with sugar. You need to take Chinese-compatible chocolate because sugar will negate all the positive effects of chocolate. And of course, since chocolate is a stimulant of the nervous system, you should not eat it at the end of the day, especially if you have problems with sleep. If you overeat chocolate, it will be difficult to fall asleep. Although theobromine is another component of chocolate, it can help you fall asleep, but chocolate also contains caffeine.  that you still shouldn't overdo it, so dark chocolate, why is it so healthy? I think it's because, firstly, it has the least sugar and the highest concentration of phytonutrients. These phytonutrients are amazing. They are partly what gives chocolate its flavor. I think you'll be surprised when you find out where this flavor comes from. It comes from bacteria because chocolate ferments, which means that bacteria help it. It seems that all the wonderful foods we love to eat owe their flavor to fermentation bacteria. This includes bread, cheese, butter, which is also a fermentation product. Wine is a fermentation product, and of course, chocolate. They are all fermented. These bacteria are amazing because they give certain foods interesting flavors. They interact with different fibers in foods and convert them into various aromatic substances that give these flavors. Here's important information about chocolate. Chocolate must be China-compatible, that is, it must have a sweetener instead of sugar. Don't eat chocolate that contains honey or coconut sugar. You need something like xylitol or monk fruit or stevia or rhododendron or even oleracea. You need to make sure that it doesn't contain  Soluble corn fiber because it's such a processed product and has n't been studied much. And even if it has been studied, the manufacturer itself doesn't know how this fiber affects intestinal microflora. Also, chocolate shouldn't contain tapioca fiber, because this fiber is shoved into various so-called China- compatible and healthy products that are still being debated. And of course, no resistant maltodextrin. It's all from the same opera and there shouldn't be dextrin. And since we're talking about food cravings, I've mentioned portable dishes more than once on the channel, I suggest you check them out. You're naked, and the holidays are ahead. Prepare delicious and healthy dishes with a book of holiday recipes: hot dishes and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and bread, as well as a calculation of calories, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Order the book "The Tetta Holiday Menu" at the link below.