Hello everyone Today we'll start with a quiz question, it's your turn, doc. True or false. If the label says spices and seasonings, by law there can only be spices. I'm even afraid to find out the truth about this, and now we'll answer the questions that have accumulated on social networks. The computer decided to take a nap. Amar from Tuba asks what, in your opinion, is a healthier alternative to allulose lit stevia. Arhat. Excellent. I became an avid stevia fan thanks to you. Sylvia from Facebook. Would you recommend eating only rice with lemon juice to lose weight? I wouldn't recommend it. Someone else could, but not me. Clearly, pure carbohydrates are good. I had gout. It's terrible for 5 months. I've been on a healthy ketogenic diet for 3 years now. What should I do to prevent gout attacks? The fact is that there is also so- called pseudo gout. It's not gout, and I would actually make sure that the cause is not oxalates, because if you eat chocolate, even those that are compatible with almonds and spinach, the oxalates in them can  aggravate gout so let's say you don't eat this and let's say you don't even have pseudo gout, you have low uric acid levels, but you still have gout and your relatives do n't have it, one holistic dentist told me something that made me think, it was amazing when I talked to her. If you have an open root canal in your tooth, you can even get an infection under the tooth and not know about it. Apparently, teeth are on certain meridians in the body and there is definitely something to this and she said: Every time we remove an infected tooth, and people may not even have symptoms, but there is a way to identify a cavity or infection under the tooth. We are talking about a specific tooth and many people, after removing a specific tooth due to infection, the so-called gout in the thumb of Nadya and I disappears. Wow, I would never have thought about this in my life, but thanks for your question. If someone has this problem and he has already tried everything. Why not go to a holistic dentist, because an infection under the tooth can  create a lot of problems even in plaques inside the vessels biofilms of dental bacteria were found what they do there how they got there curious well asks a beginner who is trying to switch to a vegan diet Yes, I'm not an expert in this So But I'll tell you a couple of things I would follow the low-carb version and you know I have a colleague with whom I'm going to make a video She's from India she's an endocrinologist and she has an excellent program on how to follow or a vegetarian version of ketone Wait for this video I think the hardest thing is to eat low carbs and eat a lot of protein So when we talk with her we will discuss good ways to do this perfectly And now back to the quiz question It was a True or False question and our viewers answered unanimously the question was if the label says spices and seasonings by law There can only be spices and 100% answered that this is not True and you are 100% right other substances can be added to improve the taste I only recently learned about this so if you see the word seasonings it does not mean  only herbs or spices it could be other things too Why in the past Even I myself I ate something and thought Wow this is actually too tasty and then I saw spices and seasonings on the label and then I Hmm MSG is not listed So Apparently everything is fine but you know I feel when something has MSG or something else Which greatly affects my taste buds I feel it So unfortunately you need to be careful with certain foods especially in boxes and so on in it What don't they put even natural flavors in food can add up to 200 different substances in it they can stuff a lot of things in the company always has loopholes one of them is generally recognized as safe you may have heard our ingredients are generally recognized as safe who controls this is the Food and Drug Administration and who conducts the research the companies themselves and how by magic something becomes safe margarine with spendthrift was once recognized as generally safe many of the things that are now banned used to be recognized as generally safe So this is one of the loopholes that allow companies  Drinking these things without attracting attention for pork may be tasty, but who knows what's in it? Let's get back to the questions of our viewers on social networks, Thomas from YouTube asks. Do you have plans to release Bat Nad and id Bat Nad? Maybe it's together with vitamin A and id vitamin, you understand. Yes, I don't release vitamin A because it is in cod liver oil. Vitamin A is basically very difficult to find natural vitamin A in anything other than cod liver oil. So, and liver is not in tablets. If you extract vitamin A, you need to be careful, it can become toxic. Vitamin A works with vitamin D, but vitamin A is in butter, in liver, in fish, especially in caviar, it is of course very appetizing, and even in dairy products and especially in egg yolks. That's where I advise getting vitamin A. I'm terribly guilty, but Terry told me that we were talking about a sleep supplement. Let's start from the beginning. It's a great thing. As for me, I won't release it. Because it is already being produced. It is very easy to buy anywhere. An antidote for paracetamol poisoning and other  It protects the liver as well as milk thistle, so it's good to have in the house; you never know when it might come in handy. It's a great, amazing nutrient for increasing glutathione. And it's an antioxidant that improves liver health. It's wonderful, but I don't know where the time went, Steve, but thanks for your wonderful questions. Subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.