I often recommend turmeric because it is one of the most effective herbal remedies for inflammation and for many other things, but in the comments they often write that it cannot be heated, saying that this destroys phytonutrients. So, just so you know, this is a myth. You can assume that heating destroys beneficial substances, but in the case of some herbal remedies, heating seems to enhance them, which is surprising because heating destroys enzymes. By the way, I also used to think that heating destroys beneficial substances and once made a video about sardines and said that when canned, omega 3 is destroyed in sardines. This was just my assumption, of course, and I did not check this and just posted that video. But then I felt strange because in fact I did not check how much omega-3 is in canned tuna or sardines, so I sent samples to a lab. It cost 4 thousand dollars, but I found that both sardines and canned tuna have a pretty decent amount of omega-3 fatty acids. I re- shot and  I posted a new video. I was surprised because canning uses heat, which means that when heated, some substances are destroyed and others are not. But this video is dedicated to turmeric, a very powerful and popular substance. Data based on research. The link will be under the video where they measured the total antioxidant content. Turmeric is added to drinks, food additives, and put in tea, in food, and often they are heated. So, in the study in question, they tested frying, cookies, and baking at a temperature of one hundred and eighty degrees Celsius, that is, three hundred and fifty- six degrees Fahrenheit. This is hot, and over the course of 70 minutes, certain compounds were detected. I will tell you about three powerful antioxidants that were not only preserved but also enhanced by heating. This phenomenon has a name: thermal degradation. An increase in the concentration and solubility of certain phytonutrients. The first substance is pearl acid. This antioxidant is very useful for protecting the skin and fights damage from sunburn. This phytonutrient was enhanced. The next one is 4 vinyl 2-ya kol. This compound enhances the so-called n-RF2, which performs  It has two functions: it reduces cellular stress and enhances the body's antioxidant defense mechanism. It strengthens the immune system and helps with inflammation. Vanillin, a powerful antioxidant with anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties, is also found in vanilla. It's used as a preservative. So, next time you add turmeric to your cooking, don't worry about heating it up because it has certain benefits. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.