Hello, the topic of this video is a comparative analysis of the healthy eating model called My Plate. I will compare the model proposed by the US Department of Agriculture with a healthy diet so you can see how they differ. As you can see, approximately 25 percent should be fruits, 25 percent vegetables, grains make up 40 to 60 percent of the plate's volume, the rest goes to proteins plus dairy products. With a healthy ketogenic diet, your plate should have vegetables, fats, proteins, and carbohydrates outside the plate, since there should be very little of them. On a healthy Tetta diet, you eat 7 to 10 cups of vegetables, whereas with the My Plate model, it's only 22 and a half. But here you can drink vegetable juices, for example, Vi Aid, eat canned vegetables, iceberg lettuce, and you can also eat potatoes, that is, starch, this is acceptable, while here, leafy greens are important. They should fill half of your plate. And here's what's interesting. Look at my pie chart. Vegetables make up 5 percent of the total calories, but if you look at the volume of vegetables, they take up  Fifty percent of your plate is a huge amount of vegetables and very few calories, and judging by this diagram, five percent is a very insignificant amount, but in terms of volume, on the contrary, vegetables take up half of your plate. As for fats, on a healthy ketogenic diet, the recommended volume of total calories is approximately 70 percent. In this diagram, the proportion of fats looks huge, more than half, but it is necessary to remember that collagen is more than twice as much as proteins and carbohydrates, so the total volume of fat will be much less. If you look at this diagram, 70 percent seems like a lot, but the actual volume is much less. This is what confuses people because they think that this is a huge amount of fat, but in fact, this is not the case. Of course, we keep carbohydrates at five percent and should not exceed 20-50 grams per day and a moderate volume of protein from 85 to 170 grams per meal. On the My Plate website, low-fat lean proteins are recommended. It tolerates yeti. We recommend proteins with a high fat content, because as we know, the more you fast on protein, the more insulin will jump. We also do not combine proteins and sugar, as well as proteins and fats whereas here it combines proteins with grains and this leads to a very strong release of insulin and that is why specifically they recommend that half of this grain norm should be whole grains which means that the other half of the grains can be refined why this is even allowed and I have no idea unless it is for the purpose of fattening people, this is exactly what they will succeed in doing. They do not recommend from 170 to 200 grams of grains as a daily norm and this is only part of the meal let's take a closer look 28 grams is one piece of bread that is, they allow the consumption of 7 pieces of bread per day the same 28 grams is half a glass of cereal 28 grams is also one pancake that is, they allow eating seven pancakes per day let's look further this is also 3 glasses of popcorn it turns out you need to eat twenty-one glasses of popcorn incredible this is also one piece of whole grain bread that is, you can eat 7 pieces of whole grain bread corners what an amazing high-carb diet and of course vegetable oils with gamova soy corn are also allowed  Cottonseed and rapeseed oils all contain GMOs. Unfortunately, I tried to provide you with a visual comparison of these two diets and show why this plate is thousands of times healthier than this one. Thank you for watching. If you liked this video and learned something for yourself, please write an objective review. The link is under the video. Thank you.