Let's talk about the best home remedy that allows you to find out if you have hypothyroidism or not. The problem with hypothyroidism is that sometimes it is very, very difficult to understand whether it is or not, because you can have many characteristic symptoms, tests may be normal, how is this possible? Or, say, your tests are not normal, the doctor says that you have low thyroid hormones, that you have hypothyroidism, but you do not have many symptoms, no excess weight, no, no, everything can be difficult to figure out. I will tell you interesting things about the thyroid gland that you may not have heard of. This is what I do: I summarize the amazing knowledge that I have accumulated working with tens of thousands of people. This is one of my advantages. I have been practicing for 30 years and have managed to work with real people. Unlike other experts who do not have so much experience, they essentially receive a diploma and begin to teach research. Unfortunately, now it is difficult to find good knowledge. Because when you try to find something on YouTube or Google, and often excellent knowledge is deeply hidden and hidden, it is difficult to find. For example, now there is a site called Google Health.  YouTube is owned by Google and recently Google Health has partnered with various groups that believe that the health data that most experts agree on is trustworthy, so their definition of quality information is very different from mine. If someday in the future you can't find any information from Dr. Berg, you know that I have a site with useful information from me. The link will be below in the description, so just remember this. Back to topic number 1. 90 percent of all cases of hypothyroidism are caused by a disease called Hashimotosis. Surprisingly, only 10 percent of cases are caused by something else. So, it's an autoimmune disease and Hashimotosis is extremely common. In an autoimmune disease, antibodies attack the thyroid gland itself. Here's what you definitely need to know and this is the most important thing. Gluten is a protein in certain grains, especially wheat. It can mimic something that is in the thyroid gland. What does this mean? What is the significance of this? It means that if you have an allergy to gluten, you will also have an allergy to your thyroid gland and this can lead to chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland. Therefore,  If you have thyroid problems, you need to completely give up gluten at all costs. This alone can immediately and greatly alleviate the thyroid problem associated with Hashimotosis. You also need to know that a big problem with this disease is the conversion of T4 to T3. T4 is an inactive form of thyroid hormone. T3 is its active form. The number in the name T3 and T4 indicates how many iodine atoms are present in the molecule of this hormone. When T4 loses one iodine atom, it becomes active. Everyone says that the thyroid gland needs iodine, but this conversion requires selenium, another trace element, selenium. If you don't get enough selenium, T4 won't convert to 3. So, the trace element selenium is very necessary for the thyroid gland. Selenium is in Help, as well as iodine and many other nutrients for the thyroid. You also need to know that 80 percent of T4 is converted to T3 in the liver and gallbladder. If the liver is damaged, say, you have fatty liver or hepatitis.  or cirrhosis of the liver or gallbladder removal or some problem with it, maybe that's why the thyroid gland doesn't work, so maybe the problem is not in the thyroid gland itself, but in something else, and so you've been treated for years, taking the new Synthroid, and it doesn't get better. That's why when people sometimes take purified bile salts, the thyroid gland begins to work better because it accelerates when turning T4 into T3. The liver and gallbladder give 80 percent of T3 and the rest is given by the kidneys. If you have diabetes, then you probably have some kind of kidney weakness and this is a possible cause of the problem with the thyroid gland. The point is that the kidneys convert 20 percent of T4 into T3 and the liver converts 80 percent, but as I said, the problem can also be in the lack of selenium. By the way, one Brazil nut contains the daily requirement of selenium. Here's more data on the thyroid gland. I'm telling you the most important information that you probably won't find anywhere, even if you search, you will find a lot of information, but perhaps not the most important information, but something banal, because not everyone has the knowledge. Ignorance is of equal importance, much more important than others. I am now conveying important knowledge to you. Probably, in most cases, hypothyroidism is not primary hypothyroidism, but is caused by someone else from what I am talking about now, but I want to say a couple more things about this. Number one, the thyroid gland may not work due to high estrogen. Due to its dominance, when estrogen increases, thyroid activity decreases. This is another reason. Women with menorrhagia with estrogen dominance often have problems with the thyroid gland. They need to deal not with the thyroid gland, but with the estrogen dominance, otherwise there will be no sense. Another point about the thyroid gland. If you have a nodular goiter, this is a typical iodine deficiency. There is a very simple way to identify iodine deficiency. I will also tell you about it. Here are the typical symptoms of hypothyroidism: you are cold, you are tired, your cholesterol is high, you are depressed, your face is puffy, your excess weight is distributed evenly throughout your body, you have constipation, your hair is falling out, your hair is thinning, your eyebrows are falling out. temples dry skin dry hair and consciousness is clouded otherwise you are in perfect order how with all this confusion to know that your hypothyroidism is true they are caused by someone else I will show you a great method that you may have never heard of and it is very accurate especially if you compare the result with the symptoms that I mentioned I will soon release a video about the adrenal glands with a very simple way to identify their fatigue my whole goal is to give you the opportunity to identify problems at home so that you can potentially prevent the aggravation of some problem because if you identify the problem at the very beginning and use natural remedies you can protect yourself from big trouble before telling about this method I will share with you one of my favorite words is the word proactive what is the definition of the word proactive this is what it means controlling the situation making something happen they react to something after it has happened so you are proactive if you do something to prevent the problem this includes the diet and of course I recommend a healthy version of the ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting I am simply shocked by the answers of some people to whom I recommend this They say I don't have a weight problem so I don't need any diet I don't need to change my diet and they are fat so apparently I only need to change my diet because of my weight and what about my health or better yet someone told me he can't follow the keto diet because he has diabetes and I was just like wow this is amazing this is the only diet you ever need okay if you watch my video my whole goal is to give you important knowledge so you can survive better so the method you will use to find out if you have hypothyroidism is called the walkman symptom and here they use the heel reflex you will need a neurological hammer and if you don't have one the handle of a table knife or a screwdriver handle or anything else will do even a felt-tip pen because you will be tapping on your Achilles tendon there is an Achilles tendon reflex if you tap on it it should do this the foot should jerk down then up such a small jerk in the same way if you tap here there will be a reflex there will be this movement you will be tapping on the Achilles tendon  You can do this with both ankles. So, with true hypothyroidism, you will see that your foot will twitch when you hit the Achilles tendon, but it will return very, very slowly. The muscle will contract quickly, but it will not return to its original position quickly. You understand this is very important because muscles affected by hypothyroidism cannot relax as well as muscles in a normal state, although the muscles are controlled by the nervous system. With hypothyroidism, nerves and muscles act more slowly, so you need to pay attention to the reaction of the foot. You step, the foot twitches and relaxes, returns to its normal position. This is what you need to look for. If the foot returns more slowly than it should, you may have hypothyroidism. It's very simple. You can kneel on the couch, then you step on the Achilles tendon, your feet twitch, watch for its return movement. If the movement is very, very sluggish in both feet, you should suspect hypothyroidism. In fact, this is a fairly accurate way to identify true hypothyroidism. If the movement is normal, then you need to look for other causes.  Thyroid problems, perhaps these problems are caused by something else, you can also measure the iodine level with an iodine spot, this only reveals iodine deficiency, but if you have Hashimoto's disease, which is 9 times out of 10, the problem may not be iodine, but it may also be iodine. To measure iodine deficiency, apply a 2% iodine solution (available at the pharmacy) to the inside of your shoulder or thigh with a cotton swab. Just smear iodine on a 5-centimeter circle at the elbow or in the popliteal fossa and wait about an hour. If after an hour the circle has disappeared, then you may have iodine deficiency. The iodine should not be absorbed into the skin and a yellow spot should remain on the skin. This is an iodine deficiency test. Much more information about the thyroid gland and how to get it in order can be found in this course. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type: you have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, enlarged  Thyroid parts and nodes. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.