Today we will discuss the problems that arise when trying to prevent a heart attack. The worst thing is when you stumble upon a solution that does not prevent the heart problem but causes it. Let me explain, let's say you have hypertension and you take a diuretic. A side effect of diuretics is increased insulin resistance, which in theory can increase insulin levels and worsen the problem with the arteries. Let's say you take a statins, a cholesterol drug. Statins increase the risk of calcium deposits in the arteries. In addition, they suppress testosterone and can reduce the level of coenzyme Q10, which the heart needs. Another example: let's say you take anticoagulants to thin the blood, warfarin, it blocks vitamin K. The problem is its side effects. One of them is an increased risk of calcium deposits, and not only in the arteries throughout the body, even in the trachea, because the drug blocks vitamins K1 and K2. If anyone doesn't know, or for those who don't know, I would like to remind you what vitamin K2 does: it does not allow calcium into the arteries and soft tissues and directs it to the bones. The longer you take the drug, the higher the risk.  The risk that calcium will cause clogged arteries is the most important thing in all these problems is to prevent calcium from forming plaques in the arteries. Why is this because the amount of calcium in the arteries, especially in the coronary artery, the biggest risk factor for death from a heart attack. This is why the most important test you can take is much more important than a cholesterol test. This is the so-called coronary calcium test. Bonnie is so expensive, not so invasive, it will pretty quickly give a lot of information about what is happening in your arteries. The test should show 0, but it can be more than a thousand. For example, you found out that the indicator is high, this means that there are a lot of calcium plaques in the arteries. There is a good natural solution that has no side effects: taking vitamin K2. If you don’t know what this vitamin is, follow the link under the video. This is a very important vitamin for us. It is potentially capable of removing calcium from the arteries. You need to take the MK7 version from 200 to 300 micrograms every day. The effectiveness of this has been proven. What should you do if you are taking warfarin and the doctor insists on continuing to take it. I recommend talking to your doctor to discuss whether there is another  A drug that does the same thing but allows you to take vitamin K2. If it doesn't help, you need to discuss with your doctor whether it's possible to take vitamin K2 and a little more warfarin. This way, you'll at least get CO2 to prevent calcium deposits in your arteries. What if you're taking diuretics and trying to lower your blood pressure? By the way, I don't advise you to give up any medications. Decide with your doctor. I would consider taking 40,000 international units of vitamin D3 and also increase your potassium intake. We need 4,700 milligrams of potassium. Most people don't even come close to that amount. To get that much, you need to eat 7-10 glasses of greens a day. It will greatly help with hypertension. As for cholesterol, it's all just a healthy diet with intermittent fasting. This is usually enough to solve the problem. For beginners, check out the link below.