If there was one product that could get your brain in order, what would it be? Write your answer in the comments. There are many products that are beneficial for the brain, but some products are much better than others in terms of nutrient content. Today I will talk about the main nutrients needed by the brain and about products that have more of these nutrients than others. Speaking about the brain, I will talk mainly about improving cognitive functions. I will focus on improving attention, perception, memory, the ability to learn, reason, plan, solve problems, make decisions, and multitask. There is a close connection between what you eat and how your brain works. I think that the most important thing is not even the nutrients themselves, but probably what fuel the brain runs on. Does your brain run mainly on glucose or on titanium? We will discuss this in more detail. Glucose as the main fuel for the brain has a huge disadvantage, but ketones as fuel for the body have practically no disadvantages. The brain responds much better when you feed it ketones. 1 nutrient that I will talk about is vitamin B1, thiamine, what does it do? As for the brain, B1 is a necessary factor for energy production. I am talking about  ATP in the mitochondria, which are the brain's energy plant, vitamin B1 is very, very important. In fact, without B1, the brain and nerve cells that make up the brain cannot receive glucose in dementia or Alzheimer's disease. In fact, nerve cells die of starvation, even if you are on the gene diet. Some part of the brain still needs glucose, but the body can make this glucose itself through a process called gluconeogenesis. So, in fact, you don't need any additional glucose to power the brain, but you definitely need B1 to use this glucose, otherwise these cells will die. So, of all the nutrients that the brain needs, B1 is at the very top of the list. If you want to learn more, there are links to videos below. Just watch what beriberi is and you will get a good idea of ​​this. B1 deficiency, when it comes to the brain, can cause many other problems. It impairs memory, greatly reduces the ability to concentrate, causes agitation, irritability, and depression. A very common symptom of B1 deficiency.  If you are depressed, I highly recommend taking B1 and I would also add vitamin D3. These two vitamins will most likely pull you out of depression. Another symptom of lactation is the inability to absorb glucose, which causes a lot of lactic acid to accumulate. This can manifest as restless legs syndrome. Another interesting symptom of B1 deficiency is dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system. For example, you get up and feel dizzy, or you may experience the so-called spot. A very serious syndrome is that you cannot get up because severe desaturation occurs. So, B1 is absolutely essential for supplying the brain with fuel. There is also the so-called brain-derived neurotrophic factor. This can be called a plant for the brain. It ensures neurogenesis, that is, the formation of new neurons. There are three ways to increase the amount of this substance. Two of them are not related to nutrition. The first intake of vitamin D3. Vitamin D3 is very, very important for the brain. Basically, it needs to be obtained from the sun. It is also found in fatty fish, for example, in salmon. It is found in cod liver oil. I even have a video on how to make vitamin D yourself. sun-dried mushrooms, the link to it will be below, vitamin D is necessary for the formation of new neurons, exercise is another very important factor because they provide blood flow to the brain and fasting is one of the best ways to activate the production of this substance, it brings great benefits to the brain, I have a whole video about this, the link to it is also below, then zinc, zinc is the most important trace element, it ensures the work of many enzymes more than all other trace elements combined, and zinc is vital for the brain, and how to get zinc, zinc is found in red meat, in fish such as salmon, it is found in shellfish and crustaceans, it is found in Kelby kelp and in many other products, but the main reason for zinc deficiency is not that people do not eat foods with zinc, but that they eat something that depletes zinc, usually cereals, cereal products, they contain a lot of phytic acid and of course sugar, alcohol, and so on. The next nutrient that is very, very important is the so- called maidenhair, this is a type of omega-3 fatty acid, what do you think it is in, fatty fish, for example, in salmon, like  You see, I mentioned salmon over and over again, and this is the main theme of this video. It's vital for membranes, for the sheath around nerve cells, neurons. These sheaths are made up of fat, mainly from children. We need a lot of this unique fat for brain health. On the other hand, we don't need a lot of omega-6 fatty acids for brain health. The more you get omega-6 fatty acids, for example, from corn, soy, rapeseed, cottonseed oil, the less you get omega-3 fatty acids. I think the big problem for many people is that they don't consume enough omega-3 fatty acids. Salmon, halibut, dance, cod liver oil, sardines are extremely important. Another important factor is improving cognitive function, which is related to the intestines. Speaking about improving cognitive function, we can't help but mention the intestines. There's a very close connection between the intestines and the brain. Many microorganisms in the intestines produce neurotransmitters, and they also produce B vitamins, for example, vitamin B1 and other B vitamins, which are essential for cognitive function. Fermented foods are needed for intestinal health, one of them being fermented foods.  cabbage as well as kefir kimchi fermented vegetables and other fermented foods from around the world gut flora feeds on the fiber in these fermented foods in general there are many nutrients good for the brain but the most important of them are vitamin B1 then D3 zinc and omega-3 fatty acids and now we just need to know which foods are rich in B1 or which product has a lot of vitamin B1 vitamin D3 omega-3 fatty acids and zinc and so I think the most useful product for cognitive functions is salmon because it has a lot of B1 and vitamin D3 and zinc it has omega-3 fatty acids and many other nutrients good for the brain that I did not mention I'm not telling you to eat only salmon these nutrients are also in many other foods but salmon has some very important nutrients for the brain and of course I'm talking about commercial salmon and they and there is salmon and which is raised on farms I strongly recommend eating salmon  You can bake it with the skin. Bake it with the skin. It's actually very tasty. Returning to B1, there are other foods that are a good source of this vitamin. One of them is nutritional yeast. You can sprinkle it on salads and cook with it. Take it as a dietary supplement. Nutritional yeast contains not only B1 but almost all the B vitamins. I love nutritional yeast because it's a natural source. Brock has fortified yeast, which I don't recommend. You need unfortified nutritional yeast. Good yeast can be found at the link below. Sunflower seeds also contain B1. All meat contains B1, and meat, including beef and chicken, contains B1. But pork has the most B1 out of all meat. I'm not insisting that you eat pork. I'm just saying that it has more B1 than other meats. We've discussed nutrients for the brain, now let's talk about what depletes nutrient stores in the brain, especially B1 stores. After all, you need to not only get B1 from food, but also prevent its depletion, and this is probably what people have the most problems with.  I will list what depletes B1 reserves, thereby affecting cognitive functions. Number one is alcohol, and the most severe B1 deficiency occurs in alcoholics, and this affects cognitive functions. Number 2 is sugar, Venus Van, and sugar, empty carbohydrates, this is a common problem with tea because tannins interfere with the absorption of B1, so if you are a tea lover, take B1. Caffeine, caffeine definitely depletes B1. If you drink a lot of coffee, you may think that it improves your cognitive functions, they may improve for an hour, but if you drink a lot of coffee, over time, cognitive functions decline, and the ability to concentrate and learn also decreases. If you consume too much caffeine, excess caffeine actually reduces blood flow to the brain. The next factor is stress. Stress actually harms the brain, it increases glucose levels, which affects the brain, and in fact, it simply destroys the brain. If someone has chronic stress, this greatly affects cognitive functions, but a sufficient amount of B1 protects against excess stress. High-carbohydrate foods, which turn into glucose, nourish the brain, albeit not for long.  It requires a lot of B1, it depletes it, when you no longer have B1, you can't use this fuel and your nerves are starved. Why is that because you don't have enough B1 to absorb this glucose? Antibiotics can deplete B1 stores. Some medications deplete B1, for example, metformin, as well as diuretics and chocolate deplete B1 stores. So if you eat a lot of chocolate, I say the same thing. And with ketogenic chocolate, you may have a B1 deficiency. I read an excellent article on this topic. I'll leave a link below. The author writes that overfeeding the brain with carbohydrates is like washing it with hunger. It's hard to believe, but that's exactly what happens. Another thing is fasting. Don't think that fasting is starving yourself. In fact, the brain loves fasting. When you've adapted to some diet, the body converts fat into ketones and the brain loves it. So, the most important thing you can do for your brain is to start a healthy ketogenic diet with periodic, that is, intermittent fasting. This is the most important, second most important action, and that is, food rich in B1. We've already discussed this. but at the same time, you need to avoid those things that deplete B1 reserves. I just imagined a typical college student. He sleeps little, puts a lot of stress on his brain, probably eats a lot of carbohydrates like donuts in the morning, drinks coffee, maybe smokes a cigarette, and probably drinks in the evenings, experiences severe stress, and all this leads to a B1 deficiency. oh yeah, and what my life was really like. This is a video about my previous life, about how I developed a severe B1 deficiency, so I experienced some of its benefits myself. I think now it’s best for you to check out my course, and fasting. The link to the recording is below. I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it’s for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn’t come back. During the course, I’ll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.