Today, let's discuss the first sign of iodine excess. The symptoms of iodine deficiency are no better than the symptoms of iodine excess. Iodine is a trace element. This means that we need it in very small, tiny amounts. We're talking about micrograms, not even milligrams. Our regular iodine requirement is between 150 and 200 mcg per day. We don't need a lot. There's an iodine supplement called potassium iodide. It's intended to protect against the effects of nuclear radiation. You can't take potassium iodide constantly as a source of iodine. In general, iodine deficiency is more common. Many people don't have enough of it than they do have excess iodine. But you should be aware of what happens if you overdo it with iodine. Since we're talking about iodine, it's probably worth discussing Hashimoto's disease a little. This is an autoimmune disease, a type of hypothyroidism. It was first discovered by a Japanese doctor named Hashimoto. This is a Japanese surname. By the way, Hashimoto's disease is more common in Japan than anywhere else in the world. I think that's why the disease  Hashimoto's is not caused by iodine deficiency; it is aggravated and sometimes provoked by excessive iodine consumption. In Japan, people consume huge amounts of iodine in the form of kelp, seafood, and so on. But I want to emphasize that if you take 150 to 200 mg of iodine, you are unlikely to develop Hashimoto's disease. You need to take a lot of iodine to provoke it. If Hashimoto's disease has begun, the thyroid gland can begin to produce large amounts of hydrogen peroxide, and hydrogen peroxide has an irritating and destructive effect on the thyroid gland. But normally, the body has enough neutralizing factors that mitigate the harm from hydrogen peroxide. One of these factors is selenium. By the way, selenium is very useful for diseases of the thyroid gland. It is also necessary for the conversion of T4 to T3, the active form of thyroid hormone. Selenium is also a recurrence of the luteinizing enzyme Theon, an antioxidant of the liver. So, it is likely that with Hashimoto's disease, the body develops a situation of selenium or glutathione deficiency, or the liver is weakened.  or there are some problems with the intestines, because it contains the immune barrier of a leaky gut, it increases. This permeability is caused by inflammation, this is usually how Hashimoto's disease begins. That's why there is a strong link between something like gluten and Hashimoto's disease, but you need to understand that Hashimoto's disease is not an iodine deficiency, on the contrary, its excess can cause this disease. There are also other factors that I will briefly touch on. With the spread of DNA testing, you can now test your DNA and find your weak spots if there is some kind of mutation in your genes. This is called polymorphism. You may have a weakness or a tendency to develop autoimmune diseases, especially thyroid disease. This is Hashimoto's. For example, if you have a problem with your intestines. You consume a lot of gluten and you don't have enough selenium, your risk of developing Hashimoto's will be much higher than others, but I think hypoglycemia can also be a protective mechanism, a kind of compensation for excess iodine in the body. This is just one of the hypotheses, simply because excess iodine can be harmful to the body. Now let's move on.  The first symptom that can be caused by excess iodine in the body is high excitability and energy that prevents you from sleeping. Let's say you are in Bailey Run mode. Your body is wound up and you can't sleep. This is usually one of the first signs of excess iodine. This symptom can also be caused by other reasons, say, a lack of vitamin B1. And also due to stress because the adrenal glands are overloaded. But you know that excess iodine can activate the thyroid gland, which excessively activates the sympathetic nervous system. This mode is one of the first signs that occurs with an iodine overdose. Here are some more: a rapid pulse, the heart pounds like crazy, but this can also happen for other reasons, for example, a lack of potassium or a lack of vitamin B1. Another symptom of excess iodine is atrial fibrillation. And arrhythmias in general are another symptom of intolerance to heat or diarrhea or tremors in the hands or an increase in body temperature, despite the fact that you do not have a fever from an infection, the body simply heats up or even bone loss can occur. and osteopenia is a precursor to osteoporosis, there is also a menstrual cycle disorder or excessive sweating, or even, although rare, the so-called thyrotoxic crisis. All of these symptoms can potentially be caused by excess iodine. Anyone who has symptoms of excess iodine should also do this. Well, the most important thing is to find the source of this iodine and start getting rid of iodine in the diet or in supplements. Let me go through the list of iodine sources. I want to mention a couple of points about how excess iodine occurs. Firstly, you may be consuming too much kelp or other seaweed, or a lot of iodized salt, or too much seafood, or a combination of several dietary supplements at once gives excess iodine. Read the ingredients on the label. And calculate how much iodine you are getting if it is more than three hundred micrograms. Reduce your consumption. Another question is, is there some kind of blood test or something else that shows excess iodine? There are a couple in previous videos. I mentioned a skin test. You need to apply a little.  iodine on the skin, stick a plaster and after some time see if the iodine is absorbed or not, this is the first test. But with it, the problem is that it only shows the state of the body right now. There is a much more accurate test, this urine test. If I'm not mistaken, it can even be done at home. I'll leave a link below. You can order this test, it will be sent directly to your home. This analysis is carried out on a urine sample. You send urine to the lab and they measure an indicator called the iodine to creatinine ratio in the urine. When you find out this indicator, it should be no more than 100 micrograms per gram. If it is more than 100 micrograms per gram, it means that there is some source of iodine that you don't know about, because of which you have elevated iodine. We figured out if you have Hashimoto's disease. I have a lot of videos about it, but I do not recommend taking additional iodine. Instead, it is better to take Selenium. It is best to get it from food. And the product richest in selenium is Brazil nuts. A couple of nuts a day will be enough, or you can find a supplement and take as much as it says in  Instructions: Don't take too much Selenium because it's also a trace element. There should just be enough. For Hashimoto's disease, there are two important points. Actually, there are a lot of subtleties, but Selenium is definitely needed. I would also take vitamin D. This is important. It is reliably known that vitamin D reduces antibodies in Hashimoto's diseases. I advise taking 20-30 thousand of them daily. Finally, I would find a good natural source of vitamin B1. B1 can also help here if you noticed that many of the symptoms coincide almost identically with the symptoms of B1 deficiency. So, one can also help with these symptoms, especially if you have a dominant sympathetic nervous system. There is also a hidden source. Although this is unlikely to be your case, this is the consumption of large amounts of flour bread, pasta, and the like, because iodine is often used in dough conditioners. They contain its dates. This is a form of iodine. I want to say one more thing when taking purified bile salts. They are in my formula for the gallbladder and in many other supplements for bile, and even in the form of Tutka. If you have symptoms of hyperthyroidism, you know that these things can aggravate the situation because they increase in the liver.  The conversion of T4 to T3 effect may be barely noticeable, but it can aggravate the problem if you have excess iodine. However, if you need more iodine, bile salts are an excellent option because, as I already said, iodine deficiency is more common than its excess. If you have Hashimoto's disease, I'm not saying that you should completely exclude iodine from your diet, but know that you cannot get rid of these symptoms with just one element of one mineral. You must understand that in nature, everything exists in a complex. If, for example, you have an iodine deficiency, it is better to eat kelp than just take iodine because it does not exist in this form in nature. If, as you understand, a separate mineral to cure something. Calculate with your doctor or a medical specialist the required dosage of this mineral. Sometimes this is a complex calculation and you also need to understand that 80 percent of the conversion of T4 to T3, the active form of thyroid hormone, occurs in the liver and kidneys. If you have problems with the thyroid gland but not Hashimoto's disease, the problem may be in the liver or kidneys. It is not always only the thyroid gland. I advise you one very  A good book if you have a problem with your thyroid or want to learn more about the gland itself. The author's name is Isabella Vance. She has several books about the thyroid gland. I recommend the book Hashimoto's Protocol. Since we've raised the topic of iodine and the thyroid gland, I think it's very important to understand other factors that affect it, for example, factors affecting the conversion of T4 and much more. This information is in my course on the thyroid gland. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type. You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis. Enlarged goiter. Cysts and thyroid nodules. Excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid gland, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, food lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.