I want to tell you about the best product for kidney toxicity, for a better understanding, I will give some general information when kidney failure is detected, especially in the late stages. The problem is that there are no good solutions that would give a good prognosis. They may tell you that you need to go on dialysis. But this is terrible. This is a very difficult procedure and the prognosis is not rosy. They do not give you any natural solutions. The essence of the kidneys is that they are a filter, that is, any medicine will cause them even more harm. When dealing with a damaged filter, you need to use something natural. Without side effects, they almost filter and remove chemicals, pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, heavy metals, plastic, and excess minerals. In addition, a lot of things are recycled, they are you, excess sugar, and of course, if you eat a lot of sugar, it destroys this filter and diabetes is the main cause of kidney disease. They also remove excess formed during protein metabolism. When we eat proteins and they are broken down, they undergo a chain of reactions and in the end, ammonia is formed, which is very toxic for many organs, especially for neurons in the brain. That's why ammonia, when in excess, enters the brain. When there is too much of it in the blood, dementia and all sorts of terrible consequences can develop. Normally, the urea cycle occurs in the body. During the cycle, proteins are converted into ammonia and then into a less toxic substance, urea, which, in theory, should be excreted in the urine. The liver also participates in this process. If your kidneys are very sick, most likely the liver is also not in order because its work is connected. Unfortunately, we are swimming in a sea of ​​​​toxins in the environment. More than a thousand new chemical compounds are created in the world every hour. We are under attack from all sides. And we need healthy kidneys and liver to cope with these toxins. The kidneys are also the main organ that helps activate vitamin D. The liver is also involved in its activation, but the kidneys are even more important for converting the inactive form of vitamin D into the active form. And you know how important it is, as I already said, diabetes is one of the main causes of kidney disease. What are the symptoms of kidney disease? Gout can develop. This is an accumulation of uric acid, usually in the joints of the big toes. This mainly occurs due to the fact that they cannot effectively remove uric acid kidney stones are concentrated and calcified calcium oxalate in the kidneys stone formation can be prevented by drinking plenty of fluids to prevent the solution from being so concentrated swollen eyes you can look around the eyes and see kidney problems if there is swelling especially below and above usually there are kidney problems and fluid retention also with kidney problems ankles swell if you press on the ankle it leaves an indentation the skin may itch glucose or proteins may be detected in the urine urine may have a strong ammonia smell and as I said with normal kidney function there is only urea if there is a lot of ammonia in it it means the proteins are not completely broken down due to damage and as I already said ammonia is very toxic to the brain urine can acquire a very dark shade and foam usually this means that the kidneys are not filtering well it's like an oil filter in a car if you don't change it for a couple of years the oil will turn black and fill with all sorts of slag foam in the urine usually  means excess protein Because its processing is impaired and there is also high blood pressure now the question is Which food product of all is best to eat to support weakened kidneys I looked at what the kidneys should do and what happens when they can't cope with their work and this is the conclusion I came to Pak Choi Why pak cho is the best here Well, firstly, it is a cruciferous vegetable This means that it contains enzymes that help in the second phase of detoxification since we are trying to remove poisons from the body, eating cruciferous vegetables will help us in this process because they convert poisons into harmless particles, that is, they relieve the load on the kidneys Secondly, pak choi is rich in potassium, potassium protects the kidneys well They often say You should avoid sodium No, you need to increase potassium because potassium is a protective mineral Pak choi is also rich in magnesium, it also protects the kidneys Also, this vegetable does not contain oxalates at all, unlike almonds, spinach and many other vegetables, as well as legumes, cereals, and so on, they have a lot of salads, abundant consumption of foods with  Oxalates can lead to kidney stones. And here there are few oxalates and little protein too. If you have protein in your urine, it is better not to eat a lot of protein because you do not absorb it. You need protein in smaller quantities but of better quality. It reads everything you need in itself. Propane it, sprinkle it with garlic. You can add a little sea salt and it will be very useful. The second product is to consume apple cider vinegar during the day, diluting it in water. What will this give? Acetic acid has a protective effect on the kidneys. It will help you and also normalize blood sugar, which, I repeat, is initially the main cause of kidney problems. I did not say, but of course, you need to follow some kind of separate diet. Of course, with fasting, juice because it contains citric acid, which can reduce the risk of stone formation. Lemon juice, although in fact it is an acid, turns into an alkali in the body. And this also helps with gout. Because if you have uric acid crystals accumulating in your joints, alkalizing the body will delay this process. Celery juice or celery itself reduces ammonia and helps remove urea. ammonia and also helps reduce the risk of developing stones 5 as I already said, reduce protein intake to about 90 grams per meal, especially if there is high protein in your urine 6 Try to eat more foods rich in potassium a lot of lettuce less protein more salad give up cereals sugar and the like and a lot of potassium such a diet will protect your kidneys as I said You need not remove sodium because we need sodium and its chloride we need to balance sodium with calcium and usually for this you need to get more potassium and not reduce sodium intake distilled water This is water without minerals and other substances drinking distilled water will help remove many poisons from the body it removes them So you can get the necessary minerals and not get unwanted excess of some substances, say calcium in general distilled water helps well with kidney stones with gout And in general in the presence of toxins The worst thing would be to drink tap water with diseased kidneys because it contains a lot of chemicals fluorine chlorine and all that stuff  Eighth, probiotics, the intestines also produce some ammonia. If you consume foods with probiotics, such as kimchi cabbage, or take probiotics, this will relieve some of the load on the kidneys. The same applies to the liver. You can take milk thistle, this will be useful and will also relieve some of the load on the kidneys. Zinc is reliably known to reduce ammonia and urea in the urine. Try to get enough zinc. Finally, there is an excellent supplement called Argenex from the Standard Process company. I am not affiliated with this company in any way. But I have used this product in my practice. Argenex consists mainly of ordase, an enzyme that helps convert protein metabolism products into something more easily excreted, so it is excellent at removing toxins from the kidneys. It especially improves biochemical parameters at the end of the urea cycle. Argenex is very good for gout, kidney stones, and kidney toxicity, and it can be taken in large quantities and every day. It can be ordered online. What do you know about the most important electrolyte: potassium, arrhythmia, seizures, tremors, high blood pressure? and poor sleep consequences of potassium deficiency, how to replenish it safely and correctly, I'll tell you in my course about potassium, sign up at the link below. See you there.