Today we will discuss the best diets, there are several of them for cancer. Let's talk about several diets.  This video is about what to do if you already have cancer, how you should eat.  If you have cancer and ask your doctor what you should eat, you'll often hear, "It doesn't matter, eat whatever you want."  But I think this is fundamentally wrong.  Depending on what you eat, you will either feed your cancer or starve it.  I'm not going to sell you any diets, sell you any supplements, or sell you any products.  Consult your doctor before using any of this. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Some people will criticize this video and say, "What does Dr. Berg even know about cancer?"  Well, I'll leave a couple of links below to some of the studies I'm involved in.  You can read it.  I think this is pretty reliable information. Read and see for yourself.  If anyone discourages you from even looking into this information, I would suggest asking that person if they have the best solution to your cancer problem.  The fact is that the statistics on cancer are now horrifying.  In the US, trillions of dollars are spent on cancer research , but the problem remains unsolved.  The mortality rate for cancer patients is about the same as it was 20 years ago.  This is clear. Now, a couple of important facts about cancer.  Cancer is very heterogeneous.  What does this mean?  From the Greek khteros, meaning different.  And genus, genus, type or source?  The point is that there are many different types of cancer. It's not just one disease.  Secondly, it is important to know that cancer itself is very painful.  He lives on the edge.  Cancer actually arises from normal cells.  When mitochondria are damaged, plan B is activated , which the cell switches to.  Why am I telling you this?  We want to understand the nature of cancer in order to find its vulnerabilities or weak links.  which can be attacked. People undergo certain types of therapy to get rid of cancer, such as hyperbaric oxygenation.  Exercise also saturates the body with oxygen, which creates stress for cancer.  This is called AFK.  You can look at it this way. Oxygen supply helps kill cancer.  This is another point.  The next fact.  Cancer usually spreads to parts of the body that are inflamed and lack oxygen.  One more point. Cancer constantly hides from the immune system, which has special cells to destroy it.  The topic of chemotherapy comes up here.  It kills cancer, but it also kills part of the immune system.  In general, we need to remember about the immune system.  Better understand its work and strengthen it.  which I will talk about later.  By the way, vitamin D is extremely important for the immune system.  And cancer cells have an interesting feature.  They block vitamin D receptors. They know it will help them survive better.  Given this information, you would need to significantly increase your vitamin D levels to overcome this resistance, the blockage of vitamin D receptors by cancer cells. We'll talk more about this later. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.   The next important point.  There are different types of fuel that cancer cells live on.  For example, for certain types of cancer, the primary fuel is glucose.  They need it to live.  This fact immediately gives us a strategy.  After all, if we understand what type of cancer a person has, understand his genetics, we will know what fuel he needs, and we will not give him this fuel.  This is precisely the basis of the diets being discussed.  Most cancers live on glucose and glutamine.  This amino acid is especially effective in fast-growing forms of cancer.  But another problem arises.  If you deprive a cancer cell of one type of fuel and continue to eat the same diet, the cancer cells will adapt to a different fuel. Some cancers can also live on lipids, or fat.  Especially those types of cancer that are influenced by hormones. Some cancers can live on branched-chain amino acids , using them as fuel. Contrary to popular belief, and I hate to say it, some cancers can even live on ketones and use ketones to build their membranes.  Mostly in the late, advanced stages, cancer begins to feed on tetons.  To fight cancer, one remedy is not enough; you need to do a lot of things.  After all, cancer adapts very well and tries to survive at all costs .  Chemotherapy kills all this cancer, but a few cells always survive, and they become supercharged and very resistant.   Just like an antibiotic, it kills most bacteria, but some survive and become resistant.  This is why you are told that chemotherapy and radiation will destroy all your cancer.  But this does not happen.  Don't get me wrong.  I am in no way discouraging you from chemotherapy and radiation therapy.  It's up to you and your doctor to decide. I show what can be done both with and without chemistry.  I'm not telling you what to do, I'm just giving you information.   It's always good to have multiple strategies. And one of them is alternating different diets.  If you alternate diets from time to time, which I'll show you soon, you'll deprive the cancer of its ability to adapt and ensure that it runs out of fuel.  I also highly recommend intermittent fasting, eating two or even one time a day.  Why?  Because during fasting, you are not giving cancer cells the fuel and resources they need, while the body itself can carry out repairs, as well as activate autophagy, and process all damaged tissue. I would also make sure that all the foods in these diets have anti-cancer properties.  So you won't just be eating for the sake of eating.  Okay, that's all for now.  Let's move on.  Now let's talk about diets.  For your information, I have created a very detailed document that can be downloaded for free using the link below.  It contains all the smallest details.  After all, if I talked about every diet for every type of cancer, it would be an 8-hour video. I went a different route.  Instead, I'm giving you general information about what to do.  You can download the document and learn all the details: the meal plan, how to alternate diets, and all the products.  We talked about the different fuels that certain types of cancer prefer.  Some cancers prefer glucose, some prefer glutamine, lipids, branched-chain amino acids, or ketones.  Particularly aggressive forms of cancer in the late stages.  I have listed here some types of cancer: glenohumeral cancer, colorectal cancer , breast cancer, lung cancer, head and neck cancer, cervical cancer.  They all love glucose.  Once you download the document, you can find the desired type of cancer and see what fuel it primarily uses. And here's another point, you see, there's breast cancer here .  But breast cancer is also here and here.  The thing is, there are different types of breast cancer.  And if you have genetic data for your breast cancer, you will know which section it falls into. And we must understand that breast cancer in the last column is already a late stage, probably already the fourth stage of cancer, when it has penetrated into other tissues. You may have two types of cancer cells .  Some people like glucose, while others prefer glutamine.   This is why diets are written exactly as they are . For example, the anti-glucose diet does not contain glucose.  You eat this way for 10-14 days, and then switch to an anti-glutamine diet.   You don't get glutamine from food for 4-5 days. This way you will starve the tumor cells, which need glucose.  And then deprive those that live on glutamine of nutrition.  This way they won't have the opportunity to really grow and take control.  After all, you are constantly alternating diets.  First you're on an anti-glucose diet, which is essentially a ketogenic diet, and then you're on an anti-glutamine diet, which is mostly plant-based, and you keep alternating between the two.  First one, then another, and so on in a circle.  Another example is melanoma.  Then you are on an anti-glucose diet for 5-7 days, as you can see, the number of days here is different, and then on an anti-glutamine diet for 7-10 days.  Then you go back to the first diet and alternate them again and again.  Another example is prostate cancer. It needs lipids to survive. You start with an anti-glucose diet, but only for 2-3 days, a very short time. And then an anti-lipid diet.  On this diet you eat little fat.  However, if you read about this diet, you will see that some fats are ok to eat, such as omega-3.  Because for some reason they are not suitable for cancer.  They are more anti-cancer.  So when you look at this diet, you'll see that it's not completely fat-free, but you're restricting fat for a period of time.  Our goal is to deprive cancer cells of a certain type of fuel and resources. This is one of the strategies. Another example is liver cancer.  First, an anti-glucose diet for 5-7 days, then a diet without branched-chain amino acids .  This diet was difficult to develop.  These amino acids are found in many foods.  By looking at this diet, you will see your diet.  There are more plant foods there.  And after 7-10 days you return to diet number one. As for the diet for cancer prevention, it is very different from diets for those who have cancer.  Once you have cancer, you have to go through this whole process.  It's scary because during chemotherapy people are sometimes frightened by different prognoses, and this is very stressful.  And you may be confused by different opinions.  If you are watching this and you don't have cancer, I would recommend a healthy teto diet with intermittent fasting to avoid cancer. Next are these tones.  There are many controversies on this topic , and there will definitely be comments from those who disagree with me.  But please read the research data.  Personally, at first I did n’t even want to hear about the fact that Titons could, in principle, be fuel for cancer. But when I looked into it, I said, "Wow, that's bad, but that's true for the more aggressive, late-stage cancers, the cancer is doing everything it can to survive."  And I think this is very useful to know, because there is a diet for this situation of late, advanced stages of cancer.  number one. You might not even start with an anti-glucose diet, which is a keto diet because of the ketones.  But the problem is that the anti-glutamine diet, as well as the anti-ketone diet, are mostly plant-based and low in protein.  So you'll probably have to do a short period of time, 1-3 days, on an anti-glucose diet to get some protein in, and then move on to other diets and alternate between all three.  This scheme is a little more complicated.  In other videos, I talked about the most effective treatment for advanced forms of cancer.  This is a long fast.  I have videos of people who had stage four cancer who fasted for literally a whole month, and some even longer.  And it completely eradicated their cancer.  Someone might say, "But wait, during a fast we're living on ketones. Won't they feed the cancer?"  Apparently, ketones do not help with cancer during fasting .  For each type of fuel that cancer uses, I've also listed key supplements that can help block glucose, block glutamine, or block ketones.  The next point is vitamin D. You need to raise your blood vitamin D level to somewhere around 90 or even 100 nagra per milliliter.  Spend more time in the sun, both vitamin D and the sun are very beneficial for the mitochondria.  and for the immune system. Exercise is also great therapy for mitochondria, and oxygen actually helps kill cancer cells.  And once again I remind you about fasting.  Eating two or one times a day should become the norm. And here's what's really important to understand about fasting.  The longer you can fast, the better.  I would recommend once or twice, every 2-3 weeks. fast for a day or two days or three or even longer.  But do this without a system, because cancer can adapt to any ordered system . Let's say one week you fast for two days, wait two weeks and fast for three days, and then the next week you fast for five days.  This will be an excellent strategy to fight cancer.  I hope I haven't burdened you too much.  I will place this file in the description.  Download, print, follow it, study it, and show it to your doctor.  If you haven't watched my video on how to eat to prevent cancer, here's a link to it.  This is very important.  Take a look.