Warning: Sugar destroys the brain. Sugar's effects are very similar to those of cocaine and heroin on certain parts of the brain.  And given a choice, a laboratory rat prefers sugar to cocaine.  Sugar can alter hormones and literally make a person anxious, even though there is no reason for anxiety .  But long before this, a mild form of dementia occurs.  You start to lose your memory, forgetting things, like, where did I put my keys?  You may forget names.  You lose clarity of thought.  And finally, the sugar enters the hippocampus.  This part of the brain is responsible for memory.  So if you eat a lot of sugar and you end up developing prediabetes or diabetes, it's all caused by sugar.  You are told that the brain needs sugar to survive. Indeed, the brain can run on glucose.  The problem is that when there is excess glucose, something develops that interferes with the absorption of glucose.  At any given time, we should have one teaspoon of glucose in our entire bloodstream , but people eat much more than one teaspoon of sugar.  Where is he going?  insulin stores sugar as glycogen and its excess as fat.  Most of the excess cholesterol comes from carbohydrates, from sugar.  When there is an excess of sugar in the diet, more than one teaspoon, the insulin level rises and it has to work harder.  But doctors never check fasting insulin levels.  But on average, it is very, very high among people. The pancreas works more and more, the insulin level gets higher and higher.  And over time, insulin resistance develops in the brain and other tissues . And now, when there is more than one teaspoon of sugar in the blood, insulin no longer works and does not remove sugar from the blood. Blood glucose levels rise.  This is diabetes.  Due to insulin resistance, glucose is no longer absorbed and does not nourish brain cells.  Brain cells are not receiving energy.  And it’s not so much about sugar, but about hidden sugar.  I'm talking about starch.  It is often worse than sugar.  Of course, you drink juice and think: "Oh, it's made from oranges." pure sugar.  The most important thing you can do in terms of diet is to reduce your carbohydrate intake.   A low-carb diet provides maximum benefits and allows you to begin reversing diabetes within 10 weeks. Every newspaper should be trumpeting about this, but they are not writing about it. Sugar and starch are highly addictive.  All sorts of chemicals are added to them .  Foods that are low in protein are very difficult to fill you up with.  When you cut carbs, you stop feeding your brain cells glucose.  After all, you are forcing your body to use ketones, which is a completely different fuel, from its own fat.  And ketones feed the brain.  And your mood improves.  You concentrate better, learn new things better, remember things better, and brain fatigue disappears.  I want to add something here. I got my genes checked and it seems like I have some sort of weak spot in my genes when it comes to satiety.  If I don't eat enough fat or protein, I literally can't feel full.  So, carbohydrates plus frequent meals and snacks are very bad.  But one day I discovered that if I ate more protein, I felt more full and didn't need to snack.  Protein is the solution to the carbohydrate problem.  If you eat enough protein and fat, your cravings will disappear and your need to snack will decrease .  It's not just about cutting out carbs, but what we replace them with.  And they need to be replaced with grass-fed meat, eggs, and fish. Believe me, the protein and fat it usually contains will quickly help correct the insulin problem, and the brain fog will go away very quickly.  This is one of the simplest, most amazing pieces of advice you can give to anyone.  Eat enough quality protein without carbohydrates. Some people are so used to eating junk food that it is very difficult to motivate them to do so.  But there is great food.  which is very similar to what you are used to eating, imitates it.  Let's take fat and sweets for example .  You can finish your meal with Greek yogurt without sugar.  There is chocolate that does not contain any sugar at all. There are a sea of ​​alternative recipes for bread, pasta, and cereals. All flour products can be replaced with healthy alternatives.  You don't have to deprive yourself of something, you have to replace it with something better.  There are recipes such as chicken in creamy tomato sauce.   An incredibly delicious Indian dish. True, in Indian restaurants it contains a lot of sugar.  I will provide a link to this recipe below.  The taste is almost the same, but without sugar.  There are only spices.  Finger- licking good.  You can enjoy food, but without sugar and without snacking.  Yes, the brain can live on sugar, but it doesn't need a lot of sugar.  It's like with a plant.  It needs water, but from its excess it dies.  And the teaspoon of sugar that should be in our blood, the liver can create from something that is not sugar.  So in fact we don't need sugar.  Let's sum it up.  The most effective way to reverse cognitive problems—bad mood, mental fog—is to eliminate sugar, hidden sugar, and starches and replace them with high-quality protein and fat. Thanks for watching and see you soon. I was recently asked the question: "Dr. Berg, if sugar is so bad, then why is fruit so good for you?"  Well, first of all, I never said that fruits are healthy. They are not included in the healthy diet. And in connection with this, I want to tell you something else.  Today we eat crossed fruit species, that is, hybrids.  This means that through selective breeding the fruits are becoming sweeter and sweeter. For example, one Honey Crunch apple contains 19 g of sugar.  But take the wild apple tree.  There are 19g of sugar missing from the candies.  That is, we consume fruits with a high sugar content.  This is the first thing. Secondly, the fruits must be seasonal.   It's not very natural to eat them all year round .  Some people don't see the difference between whole fruits and fruit juices. They say it's the same thing, but it's not .  The socket contains not only fiber, but also nutrients, because the juice is pasteurized, it is subjected to heat treatment, and this kills many enzymes and heat-sensitive vitamins.  This means that juice is essentially just sugar, while the whole fruit contains vitamins, macro- and microelements, phytonutrients, and fiber.  Yes, these fruits contain nutrients.  They protect against DNA damage and complications of various diseases, such as diabetes. Yet fruits contain large amounts of a certain sugar called fructose. Fructose does not go to all the cells of the body like glucose. It goes to the liver.  100% of fructose goes to the liver.  What does it mean?  And the fact is that it won't cause the same spike in blood sugar.  If you eat fruit and check your blood sugar, wow, your blood sugar doesn't go up.  This must be a useful thing.  But what people miss is that all this fructose has to be dealt with by the liver.  Its excess can lead to insulin resistance, which will cause insulin to increase.  When the liver is exposed to excess fructose, it has to do something with it , and it converts it into fat, cholesterol, and triglycerides.  So here's my advice.  Because so many people have blood sugar problems and pre- diabetes, I recommend limiting yourself to small amounts of berries and not eating other fruits.  Think for yourself what diabetes is.  Diabetes is high blood sugar.  So why bother with those whose illness is related to excess sugar?  Are there fruits that will only add sugar?   That's all.  Thanks for watching and see you soon.