In this video, I will recommend a diet and by body type, I will repeat some things, but there will be differences, so I will talk about each in detail to make it clearer. There are two options for action: 1. If you are sure what your body type is, you can immediately follow the diet plan and choose products depending on your body type. But if your body type is mixed or it seems to you that they are all suitable, then it is best to start with the suprarenal type. Why, because in my opinion, 80 percent of people belong to this type. Let's say you choose a diet plan for the suprarenal type and if you don't like it, ideally you should like it, then immediately move on to a diet plan for another body type. So I would start with the suprarenal type. If it turns out that you do not feel better and do not lose weight, then immediately move on to the liver. You understand that both the ovarian and thyroid body types are very specific; you cannot go wrong with them. The thyroid type is very rarely primary, but if you take thyroid hormones, then immediately move on to this diet plan. The ovarian  The body type is very similar to the thyroid, but in his case, excess weight is mainly gained in the lower part of the body on the hips and nearby. If you are unsure, you should start with this scheme and then move on to that one. With a high probability, scheme 1 will suit you, so let's talk in more detail. It is a point type. The main food groups that need to be included in the diet are the first high-protein food. I say no to the bathroom high norm. My high norm is very low if compared with the food pyramid or whatever it is called. They recommend, it seems, 125 grams of protein, and this is very, very much. We recommend from 85 to 170 grams of animal proteins per meal. But with a point type, you need to consume more protein because the body breaks down protein in muscles faster, collagen in the skin, and the breakdown is thus faster, so protein needs to be replenished, otherwise you will feel weak. I'm not saying that you should consume more, yes, that you lose protein from the condition of your hair, skin, and nails worsens, but this does not mean that protein will help here. You need to solve the problem at the hormonal level so that you can absorb hormones, absorb proteins so that the body can In my opinion, the liver type diet can sometimes be more beneficial with less protein and more vegetables. The liver is cleansed, hair is restored, and so on. So, we are talking about 85-170 grams of animal protein per meal. Vegetarians can add spirulina or another protein or protein powder. I would advise eating eggs, fish, chicken, and so on. These products should be organic and from Sverdlovsk farms. So, in this diet, high-protein, high- fat foods are needed. I'm not talking about deep- fried food or eclairs. I mean nuts, avocado, cheese, and organic yogurt without any additives. The goal is dairy yogurt. High-fat foods are needed because cholesterol is involved in the production of these hormones, oddly enough. So, what we have here is that you need to immediately understand that avocados and vegetable fats do not contain cholesterol at all. We also cleanse the liver, so you don't have to worry about cholesterol. High-fat foods are necessary because people with the kidney type often have problems with sugar. If you don't have enough fat in your blood, you won't feel full after eating. It's better to consume proteins in the first half of the day, not before bed, but rather immediately after or during breakfast. This is our recommendation. We don't recommend cruciferous vegetables, such as broccoli and Brussels sprouts, although you can probably have kale in the form of a kale smoothie. We don't recommend other cruciferous vegetables because people with a prerenal body type suffer from abdominal pain when eating these vegetables. If you suffer from abdominal pain, flatulence, and bloating, it's best to avoid these vegetables. Instead, eat other vegetables, such as lettuce, spinach, tomatoes, carrots, and celery. There will be a link to a detailed list in the description under the video. We recommend 7 cups of vegetables. Why? Because the body needs nutrients, and vegetables contain the most vitamins. Here's a brief overview of what people with a prerenal body type should eat. These are the main foods for the ovarian type. The diagram is similar: high-protein and high-fat foods, but Here we recommend more dairy products, specifically kefir, yogurt, cheese, cottage cheese, but be sure to use organic ones. You can buy all of this in different stores. Look for the labeling without R&B, STB, ST, or BTS. No, without, you're right. This means it doesn't contain hormones. You should pay attention to this when buying cheese. Dairy products are also beneficial, especially for your type, and people with this type usually crave them. But instead of ice cream, cream cheese, and cheesecake, we take cheese, cottage cheese, dairy products, kefir, yogurt, and so on. It's clear that cruciferous vegetables are necessary for people with HIV. Cruciferous vegetables block estrogen. These vegetables help balance estrogen. Cleanse the body of it. This is very important because with Yushchenko, a lot of estrogen is produced, and it needs to be removed. So, drink kale shakes. Don't be afraid to introduce broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and so on into your diet. This is also a good cancer prevention tool. I recommend no soy.  Everyone should abstain from soy, but especially those with ovarian type. What's interesting is soy isolate, fitness bars, protein bars, smoothies, and all pre-packaged dietary sets contain soy as protein, which is very harmful. Low- quality soy, by the way, can provoke the formation of fibrous tumors. So, the ovarian type is characterized by high estrogen levels, and cruciferous vegetables even it out. Further, liver problems require low-protein foods, about 85 grams per meal. Why is it that the worse the liver's condition, the worse proteins are absorbed? Because this is the organ that helps process protein? If a person with a diseased liver is fed high-protein foods, they will have problems with digestion. By the way, liver cells are destroyed by large amounts of cooked meat or fat, or deep-fried foods. That's why low-fat, low- protein foods are recommended here. And with age, it becomes more difficult for people to digest red meat and other proteins due to deteriorating liver condition. The first sign of a diseased liver is the ability to digest red meat and fatty foods, but people of this type are very  I'm craving fatty foods. You don't need to deny yourself anything, but it's worth taking so-called bile salts. You can buy them in my assortment. I also have a product called Gallbladder Formula. This supplement will help digest fat. It's very helpful for bloating and belching. Also, if you have liver problems, you often have problems on the right side of your body. Your liver is on the right side. The more fatty foods you consume, the more often you will have pain in your right shoulder, bloating, and even headaches. Most often, this problem with the liver or gallbladder is the cause of headaches. For this type, it's very, very important to eat cruciferous vegetables because they contain a lot of not only nutrients, but also phytonutrients. What kind of thing is this? These are phytochemical compounds with unique properties. They help fight many diseases, such as macular degeneration, prostate disease, breast cancer, and many others. Therefore, pharmaceutical companies conduct extensive research to isolate these chemical elements from the food we eat in order to then patent them. For example, the body contains over 600 carotenoids. Carotenoids are  Phytonutrients are, how do you explain it, a kind of natural pigments. A ton of green, dark purple, dark red, orange, yellow. They can also be called antioxidants, but the correct term is phytonutrients. They have incredible properties. They protect the body and maintain health. Iceberg lettuce does not contain any phytonutrients. You need to know and take all this into account because the liver weighs one and a half kilograms and it needs raw vegetables or vegetable smoothies for cleansing and healing. The liver loves bitter vegetables, which is why cruciferous vegetables are very suitable. So, these vegetables need to be eaten in large quantities, 7-10 glasses a day, to heal the liver. There are two pieces of news: good and bad. A good liver is the only organ that can completely regenerate. A bad liver requires three years of healthy eating to completely regenerate. So, I repeat, cruciferous vegetables will help you. They will protect the body and will be good for your skin. They contain a lot of vitamin A, which is very beneficial for the skin. If you add bile salts, they will help absorb the fat-soluble vitamin. This will improve the condition of the skin. If you eat kale and your skin remains dry, it means you don't have enough bile.  To absorb this fat-soluble vitamin, and one more thing: people with liver type do not tolerate peanut butter well, and nuts get worse when consumed. Pain in the right shoulder and bloating appear. If this applies to you, exclude them from your diet. The next body type has accounts with excess weight visible throughout the body, but such people have a very slow metabolism, they do not tolerate protein well in large quantities, so they are recommended to reduce proteins to 85 grams, reduce fat, and since they cannot digest fat, no cruciferous vegetables, since sometimes their consumption leads to iodine deficiency. You can eat them if you add them to the diet and j or kill. Add kill. This is seaweed, you can just add it to a salad, and then you can eat cruciferous vegetables, otherwise they lead to iodine deficiency. This is a diet plan for the thyroid type. I want to add something else. This is a general rule obtained through observation, this is not the ultimate truth. You need to understand this information. You can change this plan by adding something from these, depending on your well-being. Let's say you chose one of the diet plans. You noticed. There are two reasons for bloating: problems with the gallbladder, and then you need bile salts. If you have bloating or belching, or it's all about the nuts and peanut butter you eat, then you need to add bile salts or reduce your consumption of nuts because you don't digest these fats, or it could be about cruciferous vegetables. Why is this because many people, especially those who suffer from digestive problems and adrenal problems, cannot digest the coarse fiber found in broccoli, which causes bloating and abdominal pain. If this is the case for you, these vegetables need to be excluded. It's all about a lack of a certain enzyme and some bacteria in the intestines because the adrenal glands have destroyed them. They can be replenished, but for now, it's better to exclude cruciferous vegetables. If you start to get tired on any of these plans, then you have a protein deficiency. This means you need to eat more protein. Some people need more. You can't put everyone on the same diet. Keep increasing your protein intake until the fatigue goes away. In my book, in chapter ten, I made adjustments for the point type, it says  If you are following the diet plan for this type, don't eat protein foods, but you will get tired. If you don't have a spot type, if you are craving sweets, it means you are not eating enough vegetables. So try and give at least 7-10 cups of vegetables. This is not a lot of body parts, necks, and a couple of servings of salad, but this is the main thing because this is how we work with Cylin. Your body, with a potassium deficiency, will crave carbohydrates due to a lack of vegetables. The craving for carbohydrates will disappear in a couple of days once you start eating vegetables. The last pain in the right shoulder is due to liver problems. You eat too many nuts, peanut butter, and similar products. People often rely on nuts and end up with pain in the right shoulder and bloating. This is a general guideline. Try this program. Choose a diet plan. Start today. See you soon.