I warn you, you may never want to eat bread again after watching this video. I know that even the slightest hint to take bread away from someone can kick rocks, a storm of emotions, disappointment, resistance, and so on, but just watch to the end because the question is why do people love bread so much? What is so special about bread that people love it so much? You know, there is mass propaganda. I am leaning everyone on the planet toward eating more grains. The problem is that we already eat too much of them. I want to introduce you to one neologism, healthy camouflage, when claims are made about the healthy properties and benefits of certain foods that are not always true. Wherever you look, they write that zlate is natural, it is healthy, whole grains are part of a healthy diet, as if they have a lot of fiber, although in fact they do not have as much as other products, as if they have a lot of vitamins and minerals, but they do not say about phytic acid, which blocks these minerals, and that zlate is good for the heart and can even remove belly fat, but most of these studies are questionnaires and  questionnaires, they are peer-reviewed controlled studies with placebo, and where are such studies? They are sponsored by the industry itself. The point is that when we are told that we need to eat 611 servings of grains as the basis of our diet, and half should be from whole grains and the other half can be from refined ones, this is a monstrous amount of carbohydrates for our diet. But today I want to discuss just one tiny feature of bread. I will not talk about how it turns into sugar and leads to excess weight. I will consider just one little thing called gluten. What is gluten? Gluten is a protein in many grains, especially in wheat. The term gluten refers to a set of different proteins in this category. One of these proteins is called gli. One derivative of an opioid peptide. What else is this protein? It is capable of producing an opioid effect. In other words, it can, to some extent, mimic morphine. What are the effects of opioids? Now, all over the world, there is a huge problem with addiction to synthetic opioids. Fentanyl literally destroys people's lives. It causes The most addictive thing about opioids is that they increase endorphins. Endorphins are certain substances in the body that make us feel good. They help reduce pain. Our body produces them. There is another similar term, exar, finns, exar, finn & the end or fin, which is activated by food. You eat something and it gives endorphins, and the effect is very important to know because that's why you love bread so much. Bread stimulates endorphins. It gives a feeling of euphoria. It can stimulate appetite. But why do people drop bread before eating so that hunger increases and you order more food? The reason people love bread is that it changes the body's chemistry. It increases our endorphins. The problem is that it's a double-edged sword. You may have heard of celiac disease, which is when a person's digestive tract reacts severely to gluten and he experiences typical symptoms of diarrhea, bloating, and abdominal pain, and many other conditions. Inflammation of the intestines is a gradual atrophy of the villi, which are located on the inner wall of the small intestine and which should absorb food, they become  less and less until they disappear completely and severe digestive problems develop. The problem is that celiac disease is difficult to diagnose without a biopsy. You can say, well, I don't have celiac disease, I don't have bloating and abdominal pain after eating bread. So what's the problem? What is such a thing as gluten sensitivity or paternal sensitivity? It's essentially asymptomatic and celiac disease. In other words, celiac disease can occur without symptoms in the digestive tract, at least without the typical symptoms of diarrhea, bloating, and abdominal pain. But at the same time, there are other problems because intestinal problems still exist. Damage to the villi is still caused. Inflammation and atrophy develop, which will eventually manifest over time in the form of other problems. But you may not have any symptoms at all after eating bread. But I want to give you an idea of ​​some other possible symptoms that are associated with bread, but you may think that they are not related. Let's first discuss the mental state. How this affects the psyche. Firstly, symptoms of ADHD, depression, anxiety, and even autism may arise. A link to the study is in the description. This is  It can even lead to schizophrenia. Research on this will also be in the description. Another point is the problem with intestinal permeability. Have you heard about intestinal permeability? This is a disease when, during inflammation, holes appear in the intestines due to the fact that bread and cereals contain a huge amount of omega-6 fatty acids. If you compare the amount of omega-3 and omega-6, you get one to twenty-two, that is, omega-6 fatty acids are 22 times more than omega-3. Extensive inflammation occurs, leading to holes, that is, to problems with intestinal permeability. Proteins penetrate through these holes inside the body and cause all kinds of immune reactions. Thus, allergies arise, and as a result, autoimmune disorders, especially in the thyroid gland, such as Hashimotosis. Another such disease is psoriasis, an autoimmune disease. So, the intestines are damaged, malabsorption begins and it stops being absorbed. This leads to a deficiency of vitamins and minerals and a whole host of other problems. I will not go into them further. Another common symptom  Insomnia leads to fatigue and confusion. Anemia can also occur because iron is not absorbed. Digestive problems can also occur, for example, GERD, severe acid reflux, headaches, migraines, and this is not a complete list. Sometimes people living in America drink pizza, for example, and feel severe bloating, and then the bloating goes away. But sometimes they go traveling overseas and fight pizza in Italy, but they no longer get this reaction and think why I can eat grains in some countries, but in others, for example, in America, I can’t. One of the reasons is that when grains are fermented for bread or pizza dough, bacteria eat protein during fermentation, significantly reducing the gluten content. For example, sourdough bread has much less gluten than other types of bread. This is why it may not cause bloating. In the USA, bread is not produced correctly; it is not fermented for two or three days, but only for an hour at most, and all the gluten remains. The more gluten in a grain product, the more problems it will cause. I want to discuss one more point.  For years, we have been breeding different varieties of grains, for example, wheat, to get more gluten, and this is an additional problem, but there are other problems when flour products, especially bread, are supplemented or enriched with synthetic vitamins and iron. Many people also have a reaction to this. I am trying to convey the idea that I took only one aspect of grains, gluten, but this is not the only problem. I think even when people stop eating grains and switch to those, one of the reasons for improving well-being is not even a reduction in carbohydrates, but abstaining from eating grains, which stops many inflammatory processes in the intestines and removes all the symptoms associated with it. So, I want to offer you a challenge: just give up bread and flour products for just a week. Give them up completely and see how you feel, and next week start eating them again. See how you feel and compare it with before, and then decide for yourself whether you should eat bread and grains or not. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type: you have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis; enlarged parts and nodes of the thyroid gland; excess weight is evenly distributed.  Distributed throughout the body, this course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, a list of products, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.