The topic of today's video is how to convince teenagers to eat right, well, let's discuss this. The problem is that teenagers have a poor understanding of the consequences of what they eat now. I have been practicing for 29 years, worked with tens of thousands of people, I always study their past. People don't come to me immediately after some minor problem has only worsened over time, which ultimately forced them to seek help and come to my appointment. They come here with a whole bunch of ailments. During the consultation, it becomes obvious that a certain pattern of behavior appears here and gradually takes root until finally the person decides that something needs to be done about it. But people don't understand that many health problems, even Alzheimer's and diabetes, do not arise instantly; they develop over years, but it all begins with the fact that a person exists, and everything depends on the degree of motivation. What a person is ready for is very high motivation. When a person is dying, then he is ready to do anything to change. Pain is also a very good motivator, especially if it is constant pain, and with minor discomfort, motivation is unlikely to be enough. Motivation is at a minimum if there is no problem or it seems that there is none. Let's say a person goes  I go to the doctor with some symptoms, the doctor prescribes medication, many people think the class of medication will solve my problem, they don't understand that the problem has n't gone away, you can drink an energy drink and feel better, you can drink coffee and feel a surge of energy, but the fatigue hasn't gone away, you're just giving the body a stimulant, high blood pressure, you can lower it with medication, pain, and pills for it, there is inflammation, did you know that on planet Earth, the most drugs sold are precisely this type against inflammation, many people are concerned about inflammatory processes, erectile dysfunction, there is also a medication for this problem, but do they eliminate it, diabetes can be lived with taking medication, that's why people are so careless about their ailments, because they take medication and think that everything is under control, they think the problem is solved, motivation appears in people when they start to gain weight, this motivates them greatly, because it spoils their appearance, then the desire to change something comes, it's good if in their search they find something that will help them become healthier and get rid of all these problems, so try to make your teenager realize all this as early as possible, and again, the trouble is in  The fact that teenagers have a poor understanding of how health is related to what a person eats at this stage, teenagers don’t even think that the problem exists, so why change anything? I was like that myself then, I told myself that I would eat healthy food after finishing school, the thunder had not struck yet, I was not at death’s door, everything was quite normal, I drank coffee, took heartburn pills, everything was quite normal for me, of course, after graduation, I did not change for many years, I continued in the same spirit until it became really bad and out of despair I decided to seek help, and so we discussed the problem itself, we will consider what to do with it, so that the teenager changes, you need to help him understand how events are developing for most people, to understand the main thing is that what he is now will have a strong impact on his health in the future, the teenager must realize this, understand that this is real, but parents make one big mistake, they constantly impose their decision on what to eat before the teenager realizes that he may have a problem. I would do the same with my children when they are full and they have no problems with blood sugar, we would sit down at the table, take paper and pen and consider how we could Events will develop and thus children will be able to understand the consequences of eating certain foods. I would show them, take belly fat for example, I would explain what it is. It means that the liver is overflowing with fat and it is coming out because there is no longer room in the liver. Fat accumulates around the organs. This is called visceral fat. In this case, fat surrounds other organs and even fills them from the inside. Fat overflows other organs and eventually begins to clog arteries. This problem already affects the heart. Over time, fatty liver causes inflammation and cirrhosis. This is scar tissue in the liver. The liver is eventually so damaged that blood pressure becomes constantly high. Medicines do not lower it because the arteries are too stiff. With cirrhosis of the liver, scar tissue appears everywhere and eventually fluid begins to accumulate in the abdomen. In medicine, this is called ascites. A person's stomach becomes like a basketball full of fluid. This is very dangerous. You need to go to the doctor to have the fluid drained. The problem is that it returns every two weeks. But the question is why? Because the liver is already so badly damaged that it is no longer possible to rewind it. Because of this, many problems arise, high blood pressure, diabetes, and by the way.  Did you know that 65 percent of the population has either diabetes or prediabetes, that's more than half of the US population. Many people suffer from it, and they don't understand that it all starts with food, with poor nutrition. Then I'll give them another example: if you eat poorly, inflammation appears in the arteries. Now I'll show you something: an artery. Arteries look like a pipeline, only blood flows through them. The walls of the arteries become inflamed if a person eats something, something that shouldn't be eaten. When inflammation appears, the body tries to close it, and plaque appears in the arteries, and these plaques become larger and larger. Only at first, a person doesn't feel anything. This problem develops over years. A person doesn't even suspect a problem until one day a heart attack occurs. In half of the cases, a heart attack is not preceded by any symptoms. A heart attack just happens suddenly, like a stroke. But with a stroke, a person doesn't die. He only has half his body paralyzed, and then, without constant care, he can't walk like a person himself, usually sits in a wheelchair. They are locked in their own body. This situation could have been prevented. Here, the disease takes years to develop. Let's take another  Alzheimer's scenario, I'll explain that it's a severe degenerative brain disease in which a person loses memory, doesn't know where he is, doesn't remember names, in a word, a severe case of Alzheimer's doesn't appear suddenly, it develops over the age of twenty or thirty, fogginess and consciousness begins, this is one of the first symptoms, then forgetfulness appears, over time it intensifies gradually, the brain essentially dries up, eventually they are diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, the problem here is that the person is forced to move to a nursing home, what's good about a nursing home is that its residents enjoy the view from the window of the pond all day, can play board games, they have blood, three meals a day, they are treated to cookies, people are introduced to them who ride around the house and even bathe in the nursing home, they often play lotto and sing in chorus, well, life is just not raspberry jokes are jokes, but such are the prospects for people, this is how these diseases develop over time after I enlightened my teenagers, I ask them that they themselves, not at my instigation, want to be helped, I want that They said, " Okay, Dad, what can I eat?" My children did just that. They asked me to tell them about proper nutrition, and then I give them the solution. The right healthy ketota with intermittent fasting for beginners is on the channel. The link is under the video. Study the issue, but don't force solutions on your children until they realize the potential problem that will arise if they don't decide to change. The point is for them to decide to change sooner, not when it's too late. They need to avoid what they may have gone through. I invite you to my healthy ketota course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too. At the last summit, there were 500 people. I talked to different people. Every single one of them had some kind of serious health problem in their lives, absolutely everyone, and only after it, did they want to change. But isn't it better to realize everything early and start changing. Get your way.  A proper solution is the right one, not the right one. Many people probably understand this problem, but they've been solving it incorrectly for years, and I'm getting better. So, I need to not only help my children understand everything so they want to get help, but also give them the right solution. Well, thanks for watching. Try talking to your children and tell me in the comments how it goes. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos. How can you not miss new videos? Just click the bell.