There is a syndrome called mitral valve prolapse, and today we will discuss the main nutrient that is lacking in this syndrome. First of all, what is mitral valve prolapse? There are valves in the heart, like doors that open and close. If they close and open correctly, then your motor pump works effectively, you feel great and everything is fine. But in the case of mitral valve prolapse, this valve sags, leaks, is enlarged in size, can bulge, and this bulging is called prolapse. The word prolapse means that some tissue is displaced and is not where it should be, that is, the valve occupies the wrong position, and because of this, the pumping action of the heart becomes very ineffective. This leads to symptoms such as weakness, fatigue, palpitations, anxiety, and shortness of breath. If you read about this condition online, you will see that it is often described as idiopathic, which essentially means we do not know what causes it. Usually, this condition is treated with beta blockers or calcium channel blockers. There is a very interesting study on this topic.  I'll tell you what I learned and leave a link below in the American Journal of Cardiology, a double- blind study is described, this article is called the following, the clinical symptoms of mitral valve prolapse are associated with hypomagnesemia, a word in front of your friends, ask them, have you been tested for hypomagnesemia, just don't mention me, essentially, this means low levels of magnesium in the blood and attenuated for magnesium deficiency, and it turned out that in the group with mitral valve prolapse, 60% of people had a magnesium deficiency, and in the group of healthy people, only 5% had a magnesium deficiency, and the results were as follows: a significant decrease in anxiety, weakness, shortness of breath, and palpitations was revealed, and a significant decrease in levels was also revealed. If you don't know, with low magnesium levels, adrenaline is usually elevated, and here's what's interesting: magnesium deficiency accelerates the aging of fibroblast cells, which is essentially a cell that helps create collagen, elastin, and hyaluronic acid. So, as we age, these three substances become very important for the skin, ligaments,  tendons of the valves It seems that this is one of the theories explaining why mitral valve prolapse develops Because there is a magnesium deficiency which affects the formation of fibroblasts of these elastic valves from collagen Perhaps you watched my other video about magnesium in which I said that the first symptom of magnesium deficiency is titania twitching this happens under the left eye in any other place if you look at titania And on the heart we will see that titania Similarly, lapsus is a symptom such as arrhythmia, because titania is a problem with the connection between muscles and nerves And if this problem is in the heart, arrhythmia is possible and listen, 80% of people with mitral valve prolapse have titania in other places of the body and now let's look at the drugs used, how beta blockers work, they block adrenaline, the same adrenaline that increases with magnesium deficiency when you take magnesium, do not rely on the recommended daily intake, because usually people already have magnesium deficiency, and for a deficiency to occur, it takes many years if a person has magnesium deficiency all his life, then Taking the recommended daily allowances most likely will not solve the problem, the body strictly regulates the level of magnesium. If you take magnesium, its level will not jump immediately, but will slowly increase over months, it may even take a year. Someone contacted me and said I have arrhythmia. I took magnesium, but I do not see any changes. I took it for a week and I do. Do you know how long it takes to eliminate a chronic magnesium deficiency that has existed all my life? This takes a lot of time. I would take 400 mg two or even maybe three times a day. I would increase the dose gradually. First, I would take 400 mg for several days. Then 800 mg per day. I would take part of the dose in the morning and part of the dose in the afternoon, perhaps for several weeks, and then even slightly increase the dose. I would also take enough vitamin D, and this is important. Magnesium does not work without vitamin A, this is very, very important, and I would take at least 10,000 vitamin D3. And of course, I would avoid what deprives us of magnesium, which is sugar and other empty carbohydrates such as bread and pasta.  cereal crackers cookies look what sugar does to magnesium If you ate sugar let's say you ate just glucose And that's half a sugar molecule it takes 24 atoms of magnesium to process one molecule of glucose And if we're talking about fructose then in order to metabolize a lot of magnesium in America 50 percent of the population consumes so you can be sure all these people have a serious magnesium deficiency So here's the main takeaway from this video it takes years for a magnesium deficiency to manifest and it takes a year to eliminate a magnesium deficiency in the body I recommend taking a form of magnesium called magnesium glycinate I have another video about magnesium it's very popular and I highly recommend you watch it here it is and