Hi, in this video we'll talk about how to get rid of a stomach ulcer. I had a stomach ulcer in college. It was very, very painful and I swallowed medicine like crazy. I bought them in such large packages. In general, I have personal experience here. I know what it's like to live with an ulcer. It's actually a pretty serious problem if you think about it. An ulcer literally eats a hole in the stomach. It bleeds and it's a huge problem. You have to be very sick to get it and I was unwell. I'll tell you about it a little later, but first I want to talk about the difference between an ulcer and acid burps or heartburn. Normally, the pH level in the stomach should be from one and a half to three and it's a very, very strong acid. There's a small valve above the stomach. If the pH level starts to rise, that is, it becomes more alkaline, then this valve stops closing properly and the acid starts to rise. This is what feels like acid burps and indigestion. Everything gets worse because of food because food dilutes the acid and eventually burps.  and up, but with an ulcer, food usually covers the damaged area of ​​the stomach and the patient feels better, albeit temporarily. I wanted to explain to you the difference. With an ulcer, damage is caused to the gastric mucosa, this is the layer that protects it. The body produces from half to one and a half liters of gastric juice per day. Gastric juice consists of hydrochloric acid, potassium chloride, and sodium chloride, so you need potassium and sodium for digestion. Now let's talk about the four main causes of ulcers. The first is Helicobacter pylori. I have a separate video about this if you want to watch. The link will be in the description. This is a bacterium that can destroy the mucus of both the stomach and make a hole in it. The second is NSAIDs, which are anti-inflammatory drugs. 3. Stress. Why? Because the nervous system that controls the stomach is the autonomic nervous system, and its main division is entirely responsible for digestion. Parasympathetic stress activates the sympathetic nervous system. Fight or flight, thereby slowing down the parasympathetic nervous system. Try to digest something when a tiger is chasing you or you are stressed, it is unlikely that digestion will work better.  when you are calm and 4 very interesting point idea potye maybe you don't know what it is or apathy is when the cause is unknown but there is always a cause I will tell you that in my opinion it can cause first excessive alcohol consumption second hypercalcemia is when there is too much calcium in the blood and one of its side effects is just an ulcer third is refined foods especially when you lack vitamin E vitamin E protects the stomach from ulcers vitamin E is a very powerful antioxidant and it also protects arteries if you think about it an ulcer is oxidative damage to stomach tissue this means that the body lacks certain antioxidants to protect itself the body will be more susceptible to problems if you eat refined foods without antioxidants and I'm not talking about taking antioxidants separately but about eating foods that contain them vegetables for example people with ulcers always have a deficiency of any of these nutrients from vitamin B1 B2 B6 and B12 vitamin C or folic acid now let's talk about the remedies you should not take for stomach ulcers of course I recommend healthy chum and interval  Fasting is a given, follow the link in the description if you don't know what it is. Here are 4 very effective remedies: 1. Cabbage juice. Cabbage contains certain compounds that are good for ulcers, and this has been thoroughly studied. I'll leave links to the research. You can harm your stomach if the juice is fermented like sauerkraut, since it can be an irritant. But if you drink regular juice or even just eat cabbage regularly, it can bring relief. Chlorophyll can heal stomach ulcers very well. Chlorophyll is found in leafy greens or in juice. Powdered grass can also help heal ulcers. Zinc carnosine is a special zinc attached to an amino acid that helps deliver zinc to the stomach. This is a very, very effective remedy. You can try one or more of them. I want to tell you how I earned it. It was clearly a combination of extreme stress and refined foods. I ate only and I did n't have chlorophyll in my diet. I didn't eat anything green. Everything I ate was green. Pistachio ice cream and lime jelly, but it didn't help. I didn't know the basics of health back then. That's all. Thanks for watching. See you soon. I want to thank you for watching my videos. If you haven't subscribed yet, subscribe to receive notifications about new videos.