Here's what's interesting: when you have skin problems, you go to a dermatologist, he diagnoses you, then prescribes medications, for example, Hydrocortisone or something else, you go home, apply this ointment and are surprised that you have to smear the same place over and over again for weeks. Perhaps you are simply solving the wrong problem. If you make a list of all the places in the body that cause skin problems, the liver will be at the top. Let's go through all the skin problems that are associated with the liver or arise from the liver, and then I will give you a solution. First, itchy skin. This is definitely because of the liver because the liver produces bile, which then goes through small tubes through the bile duct into the gallbladder and from there into the small intestine. If some kind of blockage occurs in this pipeline, so to speak, bile enters the bloodstream and then onto the skin, which causes itchy skin. The next manifestation is a red nose. This usually happens with diabetes. A diabetic may have red skin on the nose. But this can also be caused by food, such as fast food and other unhealthy foods. Red nodules can appear. Due to a certain liver-related disease, white and yellow deposits on the eyelids are cholesterol that accumulates on the eyelids, and these cholesterol or fatty deposits on the eyes are actually related to the liver. Further, dryness is a condition when the skin and whites of the eyes turn yellow. The reason for this is bile stagnates in the bile ducts and enters the bloodstream and then into the skin. I remember once my skin turned orange, but it was not jaundice. With jaundice, the skin has a yellow tint. The reason was that at that time I was drinking a lot of carrot juice. I don’t drink it anymore. The next symptom is a spider nevus, which is also a liver problem. It looks like something like a red dot from which lines diverge, similar to a web. This indicates an excess of estrogen. After all, the liver is a kind of buffer for estrogen. This is another function of the liver that is important for men. The next manifestation is red-purple plaques on the elbows, arms, or legs. This is also caused by a liver-related disease. Red palms are another symptom with the liver. There are also such skin changes in some places on the body. On the stomach, legs or arms that look like red threads under the skin. These are found in banknotes. If you have too much iron in your body due to a certain disorder when iron is not excreted from the body at all, becoming very toxic. Your skin acquires a gray or bronze tint. This indicates the presence or development of cirrhosis of the liver when its tissues are replaced, but connective tissue, I already talked about the redness of the nose. There is also rhinophyma or the so-called pineal or wine nose, this is also due to the liver. The next manifestation is eczema, often a symptom of liver problems, but how do people treat this disease with skin ointments, including hydrocortisone. The problem is that ointments with cortisone, as well as with prednisone, synthetic cortisol, destroy the liver even more severely, that is, they aggravate the condition. White nails, or rather, a white nail bed, the skin under the nail can also indicate liver damage. Rosacea or rosacea on the cheeks is a symptom of liver problems, with possible disturbances in the functioning of the intestines, but at the same time Possible liver problems may be detected, red papules may also appear on the skin, such small red dots, this is also associated with the liver. So, as you can see, there are a lot of skin problems related to the liver. I also want to say a few words about medications. When someone takes medications, for example, statins, this can cause blisters on the skin, peeling, burning, red rashes for various reasons, including due to the fact that the medication depletes nutrient reserves and this creates skin problems, for example, a deficiency of vitamins B2 and B3 can cause all these symptoms. What to do about all this? Of course, you need to improve the condition of the liver. There are things that you can start doing right away and get good results. First, take the supplement tutka tutka. This is a synthetic type of bile salts. However, it seems to have no side effects, only positive ones. It is produced artificially, but this substance is very close to bear bile. At first, it was a natural product, but then they decided that too many bears were being killed, then a synthetic version of tutka tutka was developed. It is unique in that it helps increase the flow of bile, which stagnates in the liver and gall bladder.  bile begins to flow freely in the ducts and since many skin problems arise due to the backflow of bile from the liver into the blood and then onto the skin, this is a really good remedy. Take it on an empty stomach. Capsules in the morning and maybe one after lunch or two after lunch. It depends on the severity of the situation. I think you will see changes very quickly. So, this was the first point. Then you need to start correcting the real cause. A. This is most likely nutrition and switch to a healthy diet. Also, practice fasting, which will significantly improve the skin. Milk thistle is another excellent remedy. One of the best herbal remedies with very few side effects. It protects the liver from toxins and also helps restore liver cells. And finally, fermented foods with probiotics are very beneficial for the liver and also for the colon. If you want to learn much more about how to restore the liver and what else should be done so that the liver says thank you, sign up for my course about the liver. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and  exercises for effective training sign up for the course using the link below See you there