Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. I was asked another question about proof coffee. Because of the frequent questions, I decided to record a video and share my opinion on what blood coffee is. It's coffee with added butter or coconut oil. People drink this mixture in the morning as a replacement for breakfast, and these fats allow you to last longer. Personally, I think it's a good start to the day simply because for most people, these fats allow them to not feel hungry all morning. This is great for a start. I think you can drink this kind of coffee, it's not necessary, but it's not a bad idea. Another option is to just eat and then move your meal time an hour later, and then another hour, and another hour. You get used to it, and suddenly it turns out that you only eat twice a day. This is the ideal scenario. 2 meals a day. Most people feel good. The fact is that insulin spikes after each meal. Yes, there will be proof coffee. It does stimulate insulin a little. This is true, although fat doesn't stimulate insulin, it's neutral. The fact is that the stomach starts working, it releases hormones that stimulate insulin. This is not the problem with the food itself, but with how it works. You can start your day with your stomach. This is one option. It's not necessary, but the idea is not bad. My recommendation is this: when you adapt, when you feel more comfortable and get used to it, you will be able to go longer without hunger. You will stop craving sweets and you will have a lot of energy. You will not be tired after eating. You will not need sweets for dessert. This is adaptation. Queda. Then you can replace butter, butter, and coconut oil, say, with cream of any fat content. Add a little cream because this will produce even less insulin, and then your insulin will not jump at all, and you will be able to hold out. The author should have lunch without a single surge of insulin. During the transition phase, butter should probably be excluded. The fact is that for some people, it can prevent them from achieving better weight loss results simply because of excess fat. The point is that during some adaptation, we strive for the body to burn its own fat. This is our goal. Then you will notice that when you eat, you no longer need so much fat. In the end, you will understand that there is too much fat and you no longer need so much fat after eating.  Because you might even feel nauseous, keep an eye on your fat intake. You'll need less and less of it because your body burns its own fat between meals, and that's great because you're losing weight, and that fuel is much better. If you want to gain weight, you can continue drinking this coffee, but keep in mind that it might slow down the process a little. That's my opinion, and I'm confident in it. Thank you for watching. You've probably already subscribed, but if not, click the button below and stay up to date with the news.