I want to discuss the first early signs of kidney failure. What do the kidneys actually do? They filter blood. This is the main filtering organ of the body. We have two of them. About 1,700 liters of blood passes through them per day, which is a very large volume of blood. They remove waste, and a significant portion of this waste is made up of proteins. The body does not store proteins. If you consume more protein than the body needs, it will be excreted by the kidneys as waste. The kidneys remove excess minerals and chemical compounds, and many nutrients are reused. The kidneys control blood pressure, bone growth, and the production of red blood cells. So, the functions of the kidneys are much broader than filtering blood. Before I move on to the symptoms themselves, I want to touch on one very important point. I am involved in the cause of chronic kidney disease. It is called diabetic nephropathy. What does nephropathy mean? Nephropathy is a disease of the nephrons. The kidneys essentially consist of tiny filters. These are the nephrons. A nephron is a small filter consisting of tiny capillaries. All the blood that flows to the kidneys passes through the nephrons, where the blood is converted into urine and  A common cause of nephron destruction is high blood sugar levels. Sugar is very destructive to the capillaries that supply blood to the nervous system, the brain, and also toes and all nerves in general. If you delve into the details and look at a complex microscope, what's happening there is sugar, caramel, zohid, the smallest fibers of blood vessels, and these vessels begin to collapse, and blood leaks into the tissues. If we consider the kidney as a vascular organ, high blood sugar causes leaks in the kidneys, and things like proteins leak out of the kidneys, and excess protein in the urine is an indicator of kidney disease. When you lose proteins, a protein deficiency in the blood begins, and you experience an imbalance in the liquid part of the blood, and swelling occurs. When protein in the blood drops, fluid begins to leak into the tissues and form swelling. That is, the first early sign of kidney damage is a decrease in urine volume because fluid leaks into other places in your body: in the ankle, in the legs, in the feet, around the eyes, in the hands, instead of coming out with urine, fluid accumulates in  tissues and when you go to the toilet to pee, you will not see large volumes of matcha, this is the first symptom, and the second you will encounter frequent urination. Frequent urination does not necessarily mean large amounts coming out, but what does it mean that you pee often, but a little at a time. This is in addition to a large fluid retention throughout the body, that is, the fluid does not come out but accumulates under the eyes above the eyes in the ankles when you press on the ankle there remains a dent, this is pastosity. Someone will ask, is n't this connected with the liver? Think about this: every time you have kidney problems, you will also have liver problems. It doesn't happen that the liver is very sick. Absolutely healthy kidneys and the liver work very closely together and they have many symptoms in common. So, the first is a decrease in matcha production. The second is frequent urination. The third is the smell of ammonia from urine from the body and from the mouth. You know, ammonia has a distinct smell, but this ammonia is essentially just waste because the kidneys cannot do their job.  When your kidneys lose their function, with chronic illness you lose up to half of these little filters, the nephrons. Imagine what happens to toxins in your body. Sometimes people think I have a protein deficiency in my blood. Maybe I need to eat more protein. This won't help. It will only create more waste and put even more strain on your kidneys. 4. Foaming matcha is an excess of protein breakdown products. This also happens with intense training, but if you have foaming matcha and you haven't just trained and haven't eaten a lot of protein before, it could probably be a kidney issue. 5. You're constantly cold. One of the functions of your kidneys is to help produce red blood cells, and if you can't produce them, anemia sets in and you're constantly cold. 6. Itchy skin. The skin can dry out and itch. These symptoms can indicate kidney problems. 7. What happens with many diseases? You'll get tired now that you know the main early sign of kidney damage and some other signs. What can be done about it? It shocks me when patients come in with chronic kidney disease. They go to the doctor, some of them go on dialysis, and they're not told anything at all about it. What to eat, what diet to follow, no one advises them to get rid of the consumption of a huge amount of carbohydrates, yes, this is shocking, of course, the first and most important thing, especially for diabetics, is to eliminate carbohydrates, cut them down as much as possible, get carbohydrates from vegetables, not from grains. If you look at chronic kidney disease, they most often recommend whole grains, limit red meat, limit salty foods, why would anyone eat more grains? What benefit do grains have for the kidneys? No benefit, zero benefit. And secondly, you should quit alcohol completely. If you google about kidney disease, you will see advice to reduce alcohol, no, you should eliminate it. Why? Because you are already in a very fragile state and your kidneys are damaged, and even a little alcohol brings you closer to the abyss. You are not in a position to allow yourself even a little. The diet must be impeccable if you want to recover. And the third thing I wanted to say is the amount of protein. You don’t need to completely give up protein. You need to consume it in moderation, and high-quality protein, for example, eggs or fish, or grass- fed meat, etc., but not some protein powders or protein shakes.  Soy protein isolate is not necessary, and as I said, get your carbohydrates from vegetables. Eat lots of vegetables and moderate protein. I have a great addition about what you should eat if your kidneys aren't in the best shape. Watch this video.