Cancer thrives in a vitamin D-poor environment. I'll explain. There are many different mechanisms by which vitamin D reduces the risk of cancer, but a vicious circle arises. On the one hand, vitamin D is extremely important for protection against cancer. But on the other hand, when cancer already exists, it reduces the effectiveness of vitamin D to a minimum. Cancer somehow knows that vitamin D greatly complicates its life. Firstly, vitamin D is able to force a cell to commit suicide if this cell is damaged. After all, what is cancer? A normal cell that has become cancerous due to some kind of damage. Usually, if a cell is damaged, it must kill itself. Get rid of itself. Vitamin D directly affects the cell's ability to prevent it from becoming cancerous. Secondly, vitamin D helps stop excessive control cell growth. If a tumor cell does not receive nutrition and resources, it dies. Thirdly, vitamin D reduces inflammation. One of the hallmarks of cancer is inflammation, and vitamin D gets rid of it. Several things are characteristic of a tumor or cancer: firstly, inflammation; secondly, a lack of oxygen; and thirdly, a change in pH levels. In other words, an acidic environment is favorable for a tumor. As for vitamin D, it improves almost all elements of the immune system and also increases the effect. Chemotherapy increases insulin sensitivity, and insulin resistance increases the risk of cancer. Vitamin D suppresses genes that cause cancer and supports the intestinal microbiome. This is 80% of immunity. This is what vitamin D does. Now about what cancer does: inflammation goes into cancer cells, there is not enough oxygen, hypoxia. In addition, there is a very acidic environment, and all three of these things block the absorption of vitamin D. They do not allow it to work. Cancer also directly blocks the enzymes that help convert vitamin D from an inactive form to an active one. In addition, cancer causes serious damage to the liver and kidneys, two of the most important organs where vitamin D metabolism occurs. Before moving on to the solution, I will tell you about one more piece of the puzzle: the parathyroid glands. Four small glands on the thyroid gland. Here is how it works. I will show you something interesting about tumors and cancer. 80% of all tumors produce one specific hormone. It is very similar to the hormone of the parathyroid glands. I will explain in simple terms. Para means near the thyroid gland. There are four of them. The thyroid gland is here and there are four on it. parathyroid glands the main reason why cancer produces this hormone is to extract calcium from bones because the job of the parathyroid glands is to always have enough calcium in the blood cancer somehow knows how to create a hormone that extracts calcium from bones and one of the signs of cancer is high levels of calcium in the blood hypercalcemia Now you know why this damn rag produces a hormone that extracts calcium and other substances from bones this is the mechanism of cancer survival but the problem is that when the level of this hormone increases it suppresses vitamin D as well as excess calcium in the blood that is two more factors arise that suppress vitamin D we have so many different barriers genetics and also resistance to vitamin due to microbes or infections and with cancer the need for vitamin D increases even more now about the solution there are two systems associated with vitamin D vitamin D which affects bones and calcium and another system that is not associated with calcium it is not associated with bones And with the support of the immune system the bones need a small amount of vitamin D and you can drink it once a week But for the other system high levels are needed  doses and daily with rata you need much more than 10,000 to 50,000 IU every day along with magnesium K2 and zinc I must make a disclaimer I am not claiming that this will cure your cancer This is just information But even the WHO confirms that vitamin D is an antican with severe inflammation, higher doses are needed There are quite a few diseases in which the level of vitamin D3 is low autoimmune diseases osteoarthritis - This is an inflammatory disease tuberculosis and also HIV and part of the solution is to simply take more vitamin D3 In addition, there are other means this is information from studies links to which will be below all this is epigenetic factors supplements that can be taken as well as changes in lifestyle and even in nutrition first - magnesium is very important omega-3 - fatty acids fish oil or trisca liver oil then resveratrol quercetin is found in onions and various herbs curcumin - a substance from turmeric berberine improves blood sugar and the functioning of receptors to vitamin D regular intense exercise can improve the work  Vitamin D receptors, sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts, ginger, fasting and intermittent fasting, increased insulin sensitivity through a low-carb diet. insulin resistance and diabetes also reduce the ability to absorb vitamin D3, while probiotics, on the contrary, help absorb it. Infrared light therapy can increase melatonin levels, and melatonin helps absorb vitamin D. It's interesting and reduce stress levels because elevated levels of adrenaline can impair D3 absorption. I talked about high doses of vitamin D3, and it's very important to understand whether they are toxic. Here's a video about it if you haven't already.