Today, there's some very interesting information. There's a very common China-compatible ingredient that can stop weight loss. We know that ketu is a low-carb diet. We know that sugar needs to be eliminated. We know that grains need to be eliminated. We'll talk about grain oils, or more precisely, about seed oils. They're also called vegetable oils, but they're not actually vegetable oils because they're not made from plants, from plant seeds. That's a big difference. What's the problem? The problem is omega-6 fats. They cause inflammation and provoke insulin resistance. They're no better than sugar and refined grains. If you look at the time period from the seventies to the present day, sugar consumption has increased during this period, and the consumption of vegetable oils has increased dramatically. I'm not even mentioning the fact that soybean, cottonseed, rapeseed, and corn oils are all good options, but the effect is much more complex than can be covered in one video, and I don't want to go into detail right now. There's also safflower oil, sunflower oil, almond flour, and peanut butter, which contain a lot of honey. I'm not saying you can't eat them, but you need to balance them out. Some guys.  3 The average American consumes 15 times more amide 6 than omega 3. They consume 45 grams of omega-6 fats every day, that's 10.8 teaspoons of oil, that's an insane amount. There's another problem besides insulin resistance and inflammation. The half-life of some of these oils is 600 to 680 days. In other words, they're not used as fuel, they stay in the body and cell membranes. They clog the liver, they clog the brain. At least some of these foods, Nikita, are genes. I'll tell you about the foods with the highest amounts of omega 6. 1. Chicken. Did you know that chicken contains a lot of omega-6 fatty acids? 2. Cereal desserts. If you're naked, of course you won't eat them, but they contain a lot of honey. 6. Salad dressings. You might eat them and didn't even know it. They contain a lot of copper. 6. Even though they may not contain sugar, they cause inflammation and insulin resistance. What about potato chips?  and corn is fried in these oils and they contain omega-6 fatty acids, nuts and seeds are mainly omega-6 fatty acids, I'm not saying that you can't eat them, I'm saying that they need to be balanced with omega-3 fatty acids, pizza, of course, is omega 6 bread, French fries because it is fried in these oils and of course pasta, that's a low-carb diet, it doesn't clearly indicate what type of fat should be consumed, it will be much healthier for you to cook in coconut butter, olive oil or avocado oil, if you are on keto but have reached a plateau, perhaps you are consuming too many of these oils or too much almond flour, some people on those get inflammation when they consume it, it could be either from oxalates or from copper, 6 can cause them, and peanut butter I recommend consuming peanut butter and almond flour in moderation, they are possible, but they need to be diluted with omega-3 fatty acids, and their ratio is debatable, but you can try three  to one or even one to one for some time until everything is balanced, but it is definitely worth doing. What is high in omega-3 fatty acids in fish? Cod liver oil, grass-fed beef and other animal products. Walnuts and chia seeds. Brussels sprouts and other products that contain alpha-linolenic acid. This is another reason why you need a healthy version of ketone. If you are new to my channel, I will leave a link in the description, but do not eat these Gamova oils. Limit your intake of this and eat less of this. If you have inflammation or if you have reached a plateau and want to speed up your weight loss. If you haven't seen my videos about the diet yet, here it is. Watch it.