Today I'm going to show you a very good technique for scalp massage again. This technique is not like those you might have seen on the internet. We're going to work on this seam. It's called a detailed seam. This seam is a connection. For some people, this connection has grown together. For others, there are still fibrous tissues that can diverge over a very, very small distance. Here's what we're going to do. Take your thumb and start here. This drawing is a view of the skull from above. I'll show you everything. Start here from behind, then slowly move forward a couple of centimeters, pressing forward toward the forehead. I'll show you how long you need to do this. I'll demonstrate everything. Why it works. I have no idea. All I know is that it makes you feel good. I've used it literally thousands of times and it brings relief. It helps you sleep. It helps you breathe better. It reduces stress. You just need to try it. You need someone else to do it for you. You can't do it yourself because you need to be completely relaxed. You only need a chair. I'll show you how to do it right now. Look, I'll show you on a person, but first, my partner will be this  Friendly skeleton, here they are, these seams, this seam goes here, take your thumb like this and move it forward slowly, as if sliding your finger along the skull while pressing on it with your other hand, hold your forehead, press on the skull with both hands and slowly move forward with finger pressure on the skull, like this, I'll show it on a person a little later, but it's done approximately like this, you kind of create spaces here or relaxation along this line, like this, you need to get to the very foreheads now I'll show you on a person, here are the seams, one goes right down the center 1 here 1 here, take your hand, hold your forehead, then take your thumb, put it here and press it on the skull, the side of the cube, with pressure, we move forward little by little, you need to put your finger and rest and maintain this pressure, I rest my finger and press on the side of the forehead, like this, there is slight pressure on the skull, but I direct it forward, I want you to see this barely noticeable forward movement, hold your finger for a while while supporting the head, then move a little forward straight to the center along  The most important thing here is not to ruin the hairstyle, otherwise the person might get angry. You shouldn't do such a massage only if the person received a blow directly to the head, it will be painful, you shouldn't press on the old wound. I'm slowly moving forward. These are the movements he should feel, how the head relaxes, how the skull relaxes. In theory, the sensations are super good. If there were head injuries on the left or right side, this is very important. In this connection, there is little connective tissue. In childhood, there is a place that later heals, that is, it could well heal. My finger is already starting to go numb, so I'll bend it and help him press with this finger. You see what I'm doing, it's very pleasant. Yes, I'm gradually moving forward. Another couple of minutes. Did you hit your head as a child? Yes, if you shave your head bald, your head will look like a moon and have a bunch of marks from hitting the corner of the table, but there were no serious injuries. There were stitches, yes, now I'm getting to this part. Good. The feeling is just wonderful, very relaxing. You did it. Yes, that's it. All that's left is to fix your hair. That's how it's done. Start from here, gradually move forward. That's all you need. Try leaving comments if you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.