I decided to make a video about what I actually eat on a typical day. I doubted whether it was necessary to make it simply because there is nothing exciting here and I can’t say that I’m an ordinary person. I can eat the same thing every day. My wife needs variety. I don’t. I eat mainly for health, unlike most people, so keep in mind that this video only shows what I eat. You can eat whatever you want if it’s compatible. Ascetic. Most beginners will find this necessary. Desserts need variety and what’s boring, so watch, but remember that this is just an example. What I eat now? I’m on one and a half meals a day. Now I’ll tell you why I usually eat once a day. But if I do this, I start to lose too much weight and it’s very difficult for me to eat so many calories at one time, so I distribute them, but these are not two full meals, rather one and a half. The first meal is between one and two o’clock in the afternoon, the second meal is between five and six in the evening. This gives me a fasting interval of 19 hours to 21 hours. I also want to emphasize the difference between ghetto and healthy keto. Ghetto is essentially low carbohydrates without much attention to the completeness of food to nutrients, while the benefit comes from reducing carbohydrates. A healthy ketogenic diet prefers foods rich in nutrients, so I recommend following a healthy ketogenic diet with the addition of intermittent fasting. It seems to work great for almost everyone. What I eat in 1 meal is mainly a combination of proteins and fats and very few vegetables. I can eat 4 eggs with onions and fermented vegetables. I buy these vegetables at the farmer's market, sometimes I order online, but I make sure they don't have sugar. I can also eat asparagus. I eat it raw. I just chew it raw. About 5 stalks of asparagus. Someone once took a piece of my video out of context and said that Dr. Berg eats all these foods in one sitting. This is not true. Just because I give you these examples doesn't mean that all of this should be eaten together. I don't eat it all at once. It'S4. It's with onions or fermented vegetables, or a 200 gram steak, but not  I just wanted to clarify that I eat a lot of beefsteaks because they are much fatter than steaks. I never take lean, low-fat beefsteaks. I take regular ones because they have more fat. I eat about 200 grams with cabbage and that's my protein dish. I only take completely grass-fed meat and fattier ones. I buy meat products at the U.S. Wave Smith store. They don't pay me for advertising. If there's another option, what can I eat? Especially when I'm in a hurry? Smoked sausage. I found one that has less than one gram of sugar. I'll give a link in the description. It's quite tasty and completely organic. This is good. It's very difficult to find smoked sausage that does n't contain dextrose or other sugars. I eat a little more than 200 grams, it's very fast. I just cut it and sometimes I add cheese. I can take Swiss cheese. The cheese is always organic, grass-fed, and mostly European-made. I don't eat cheese well with it, and sometimes I eat salmon. I'm spoiled.  good salmon because sometimes you get old salmon and in restaurants they overcook it and the taste is no longer a fountain of salmon I cook it myself, I just fry it in olive oil, add sea salt and pepper, then I add mayonnaise I like Primal Kitchen mayonnaise because it has no sugar and it is made with avocado oil that's what I eat sometimes I add olives I mean I like jerky that's basically what I eat right after a meal I can have a few pecans if I'm not full somewhere a handful of pickles sometimes I eat celery with peanut butter with organic Valencia peanut salt I buy it at Trader Joe's I have them a video is pretty good post sometimes I add chocolate of course without sugar there are many chum- compatible types of chocolate I like the kind with only cocoa and stevia I will give you some links you may not like it because chocolate with stevia has some aftertaste it doesn't bother me but Karen doesn't have that She eats chocolate lilies, it's a little tastier, but it seems to me my stomach doesn't get along with it, and if I eat chocolate with stevia, my digestive system doesn't mind at all, I count about 90 grams of this chocolate. Here's a simple example of what I eat for the first meal, the second meal, I almost always start with vegetables, usually 8 cups of greens, sometimes 7, sometimes 10, that's a whole bowl of greens, I use it. I like arugula or a mix of green salads from the farmer's market, simply because a green salad from the store is often a complete dud. In an ideal situation, it would be good to eat greens from your own garden. I'll make a video about this. This is the best option because you can control how many nutrients will be in these greens. I think people don't like greens because they've never tried truly tasty greens grown in good soil, so I highly recommend you look for good greens so you can feel what they should taste like. I salt the greens with sea salt, I can add avocado or nuts, but not too much. I pour a lot of olive oil, but it's unusual for me. They send it from Italy, I'm sure there are other good producers, the main thing is that the oil is fresh, because large ones I saw on the market are completely tasteless, it should taste like freshly cut grass, a little spicy, I pour a lot of olive oil on the greens and add balsamic vinegar and that's all I can eat other types of salad, shredded cabbage and carrots, I eat a mixture of white cabbage and red cabbage, I have a small chopper, I chop everything in it, and in the case of this mixture, I don't use 8 cups, but about three and a half because it's very filling, I add mayonnaise to it and I love this mixture, it's easily digestible, this is my daily dose of vegetables, sometimes I can steam cauliflower, 4 cups, adding more butter, sea salt and pepper, what about protein, sometimes I eat half a can of cod liver, not the oil, about the liver itself, look for it, it's sold, it's very tasty, basically  Of the commercial fish, it tastes good and it has a lot of fat and also has protein, although not much if you eat a whole can of cod liver, you risk overeating. Sometimes I still eat it when I have worked out intensely and I need to eat more. I can also eat smoked sausages, not 200 grams, but about 100, it’s quick, it gives protein and sometimes I add Swiss cheese. I can add pecans. I can add the same celery with peanut butter just for satiety. That’s basically what I eat. What do I fry eggs on? In beef salt. Where do I buy greens? I try to get them at the farmers market. Sometimes I can’t go to the market, then I buy arugula at the store, organic, of course. During tomato season, I consume them in huge quantities, whether from the farmers market or my own garden. But I don’t eat tomatoes unless they are really tasty. If a tomato is tasty, it has a lot of nutrients. Well, here’s what I eat, guys.  A boring diet, but it works. Don't know what to cook for chum salmon? A diet menu for two weeks will help. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from readily available ingredients. The basics of chum salmon and fasting. Follow the link below.