You have symptoms of thyroid disease, you go to the doctor and he diagnoses you with hypothyroidism, then you are prescribed synthroid or another drug so that you receive hormones, you ask the doctor what is causing my hypothyroidism and the doctor can tell you that you have low levels of thyroid hormones, you say, “Well, I understand,” you go home and take the drug, and about a year later you think, “I don’t feel any changes,” I still have low energy and excess weight, what’s going on, and if you ask what causes low levels of thyroid hormones, you might hear the answer, “Well, we don’t know, maybe it’s a hereditary problem,” you might hear, “They’re still doing research,” this is very upsetting, because they don’t normalize your thyroid gland, but help you get along with low hormone levels, and if you treat your thyroid gland with thyroid hormones but there is no improvement, then the question arises: is this really the problem or is this just the tip of the iceberg? What I’m going to talk about does not replace medical treatment. Consult your doctor before following any of this advice. I’m just trying to raise a couple of very important questions. If you really found the root cause of the problem, then the problem is solved. If you haven't found the root cause and continue to treat the symptoms, you're essentially marking time and creating a future problem. One of the side effects of long-term use of thyroid hormones is that the thyroid gland no longer needs to work, and you encourage your own thyroid to become lazy. It loses the ability to produce hormones on its own, and now it is heavily dependent on thyroid hormones. You also need to ask the question: what does this gland produce? It produces T4 and T3 and another hormone called calcitonin. Do you get calcitonin in the drug? No. That's what I'm very interested in about the thyroid gland. This is my personal opinion, but I think that a problem with this gland is a symptom of something else. The problem is rarely in the thyroid gland itself. Many organs capable of influencing the thyroid gland are ignored. I'll tell you about these other organs that can influence the thyroid gland. You need to know something. The 4th main hormone that the thyroid gland produces is not an active form.  Thyroid hormone is a kind of cursor of the active form of the hormone, namely T3, and the numbers 3 4 indicate the number of iodine atoms in the molecule of this hormone. When the body takes iodine from T4, the hormone becomes active. 80 percent of T4 is converted to T3 in the liver. So, any liver problem, be it fatty liver, cirrhosis, or liver inflammation, can affect this conversion. So, you treat the thyroid gland without paying attention to the liver. This is one possible mistake. The rest of the VT4 is converted to 3 in the kidneys. In case of kidney problems, if you have diabetes, rick diabetes, or insulin resistance, then you probably have a kidney problem, and this reduces the conversion of T4 to T3. For this conversion, you also need zinc. There are two very powerful hormones that can not only block this conversion but also interfere with the production of thyroid hormones. 1 hormone is estrogen, which is why thyroid problems often arise immediately after pregnancy. This could be  Hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism, but most thyroid problems are autoimmune problems. This problem is not a thyroid problem at all. It's an immune problem that arose either after stress or after a surge in estrogen. The fact is that estrogen controls those cells or helps regulate them. The second hormone I want to talk about is cortisol. Excess cortisol essentially paralyzes the immune system. This alone can create the basis for an autoimmune disease, including Hashimoto's disease, and this is essentially about 90 percent of all cases where there is loss of life. Since the vast majority of hypothyroidism cases are 90 percent Hashimoto's disease, we should also discuss the intestines. After all, ninety percent of immunity is in the intestines. If there are problems with intestinal permeability, like leaky gut syndrome, some proteins can leak into the tissue that is located just behind the colon and create an immune problem, and the body will begin to create antibodies against certain things. There is a close connection between gluten sensitivity, gluten intolerance, and allergies to gluten. Hypothyroidism, especially Hashimoto's disease. Many people with Hashimotos disease suddenly experience relief by giving up gluten, so this is a very important factor. I would not just give up gluten, I would give up grains completely. With autoimmune diseases, especially with Hashimotos disease, there is always inflammation, and it is inflammation that actually creates all the problems that causes all the destruction. If you just got rid of this inflammation, no matter what else you do, the body's functioning would improve enormously. For this purpose, you can take a natural and very powerful remedy, vitamin D. Vitamin D is not actually even a vitamin, but a hormone that acts like cortisol, but without side effects. Regular vitamin D needs to be taken in large quantities, about 40 thousand e, to get rid of the inflammation that accompanies autoimmune diseases, and you need to take strong ones. So, these two remedies are necessary for autoimmune diseases in general, and with Hashimotos disease, hypothyroidism occurs in both men and women, but in women it is 8 times more common. I think this is due to estrogen, which I just mentioned. Estrogen regulates cells, and this can cause out  A woman's immune problem. Besides, as I already said, cortisol paralyzes the cells, and so a very important question. When did you start noticing symptoms of thyroid disease? Did it start after some kind of stress? So you'll understand whether it's a problem in your chart or not. Let's look at the early signs of hypothyroidism. Number one: eyebrow loss, especially on the outside. Number two: thinning hair, as well as dry hair. Hair becomes completely dry, begins to thin out, and falls out. By the way, otherwise, everything is fine with you. Number three: cold intolerance may develop. You can't stand cold water for a long time. You don't like the cold, especially in winter. But even with this, you need to wear socks all the time. Number four: your metabolism is very slow, and no matter what you do, it doesn't speed up. I would also look at insulin resistance, but more on that in another video. But the thyroid gland can definitely slow down metabolism. Number five: weight gain throughout the body. This is n't fatty tissue, but so-called mucous edema. That is, it's a different type of tissue, but I won't go into it now. This substance is more like a sponge, it's kind of loose.  and number six, fatigue, there can be many reasons for fatigue, but the thyroid gland can undoubtedly cause fatigue and depression. You are simply dejected and despondent, you have no energy and enthusiasm, unfortunately, because everything is suppressed by the thyroid gland. The question is what can be done about it, and here is the plan of action number one. Find out the real cause of the problem. You will have to conduct your own investigation. The question is: do you feel normal? Are you taking your EDNA and hormones? Have you seen a doctor and are you taking Synthroid? Are your symptoms decreasing? If not, start asking questions. Because it is possible that this is the wrong decision. If they tell you, well, you have been taking the medications for a year or sometimes it takes several years. No, this is not true. If something solves the problem, it will solve it relatively quickly. It shouldn't take many years. But so many people start taking hormones and in fact, they never get better. Yes, it is possible that the medications normalize hormone levels, but are the T4 hormones converted to T3 properly? Is the problem really in the blood or something else? That is the question. You can do an iodine test to find out if you have an iodine deficiency. Just take a cotton swab.  You can buy iodine at the pharmacy, for example, two percent iodine. Apply iodine to the inner bend of your arm or thigh. You can seal this area with a bandage and then just wait a day. If after a day the yellow spot has disappeared, then you have an iodine deficiency. If this spot is still completely yellow, you most likely have enough iodine. If the spot has faded a little, you may have a slight deficiency. This is not the best test in the world, but it gives an idea. If you have an iodine deficiency, there is also a test for detecting classic hypothyroidism, the Achilles tendon test. You need to take a hammer to check reflexes. Tap on the Achilles tendon or have someone tap on it. This is what usually happens: if you lie on your stomach and your foot hangs down, you tap on the Achilles tendon here and the foot should twitch. With hypothyroidism, the foot twitches, but it doesn't go down as quickly, that is, the reverse movement occurs slowly. This is a good test for determining whether the thyroid gland itself is sick. Another important question is when it started immediately.  After pregnancy, you have a problem with estrogen, and you need to decide whether it started after stress. In that case, you need to pay more attention to the adrenal glands. Or, say, you have fatty liver, then perhaps you need to work on the liver and thyroid to eliminate the primary cause. Number two, trace elements are important not only for J, but also for selenium and zinc. Take a good product with trace elements. Perhaps kelp will help. Number three, eliminate gluten. I would eliminate all grains. Giving up gluten can lead to huge changes. Vitamin D in high doses (1040 IU)  It's just that most thyroid problems are autoimmune in nature. I'll let you in on a little secret: Tide Ruffian PNG from the Standard Process company. You need to look for it yourself. Take one capsule before bed for three months. It seems to work great. Here's what happens when you take it. It's an extract of an animal's thyroid gland. You take this product before bed, it enters the stomach, and apparently this hasn't been proven, but that's the theory. Your immune system, your antibodies attacking the thyroid gland, begin to attack this bait and leave the thyroid gland alone for a while so it can recover. This is an excellent strategy that can potentially help you. Much more information on how to get your thyroid in order is in this course. I invite you to my course. Thyroid body type: You have hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis; enlarged parts and nodes of the thyroid gland; excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos and exercises are waiting for you.  and a special massage technique for the thyroid gland, sign up for the course at the link below, see you there