You get absent-minded, I'll tell you how to fix it. What is absent-mindedness, essentially a lapse in consciousness, you become forgetful, you are easily distracted, and all this is because neurons, brain cells, get tired and desperately need energy. You see, neurons are usually dependent on glucose or lactate, these are fuel sources, but when you consume this fuel, side effects appear, cognitive dysfunction, and also absent-mindedness. It's good that the body can use another type of fuel, this fuel is called, as I remember it now, yes, exactly, ketone, and ketones suppress the consumption or use of glucose. Now I'll explain to you if you have ketones and glucose in your blood. Now I'll show you a blood vessel in which there are ketones and glucose. The brain will not use glucose because titans do not allow the brain to use it if they are in the blood while not in the brain. Everything is the opposite. If you are trying to enter ketosis, consume ketones and then carbohydrates and glucose appears in your blood. The body moves to the python and to the side and will use glucose, but if in  There are already ketones and glucose in the blood, the body will select ketones, but when you have impaired cognitive function and absent-mindedness, nerve cells, whether due to aging or constant glucose consumption, begin to damage neurons in certain parts of the brain, from the prefrontal cortex to the hippocampus, then you begin to, as I wanted to say, become absent-minded. A simple solution that can work even with damaged nerve cells is to increase ketones, and ketones will do a lot of things. Firstly, they will give the neuron what they need to work. Ketones also affect potassium channels, and these channels are closely related to the exchange of signals between neurons, so this exchange will improve. And by the way, don't forget to get a lot of potassium from food or supplements so that there is enough raw material. Also, mitochondria, which are cellular power plants, burn ketones, leaving less waste. When the body burns glucose, a lot of garbage remains, but with titans this is not so, they are more efficient and you get more energy and calories eaten. How to create more ketones, everything is very simple. You need to eat fewer carbohydrates, less than 50 grams. Many people need Reduce them to 20 grams or even less if they are older and have a slow metabolism. Another very important thing is to increase the fasting time. Intermittent fasting is very important for restoring a damaged brain. You will not only produce much more ketones, but also activate certain genes that stimulate the growth of neurons. This triggers the so-called autophagy, a state in which damaged proteins are cleared out in the brain and the rest of the body. The body cleanses itself in order to function well. Therefore, fasting is very important. You need to fast for at least 18 hours with a six-hour window for eating, combined with reduced carbohydrate intake, since ketones and suppress glucose consumption. You should also take ketones and exogenous ketones are expensive, but less expensive, although an effective way to get them is to consume m-city oil. Some people use net oil to get half the fat in their diet. Of course, you can, but if you take this oil, start slowly with small doses, because otherwise it can cause cramps. Start with a teaspoon, then a tablespoon, then more, more and more gradually over several weeks. If you are absent-minded, you have cognitive problems, you need to reduce  carbohydrates and start intermittent fasting, and if you want to speed up the process, you can add oil to it and stretch it out throughout the day so that ketones are constantly in the blood so that the brain takes them for itself, regardless of how much glucose is in your blood. There are definitely other things that need to be done to get rid of this symptom. Yes, this is a symptom, not a disease, it is a symptom of damaged nerve cells. The first is sleep. If you don’t get enough sleep, I guarantee you that you will be absent-minded because it affects cortisol, stress levels, and blood sugar. This literally destroys the brain. Then, the second thing is to stop stressing so much. Because of the amount of stress in today’s world, people very often constantly analyze something, think about problems 24/7, even when they sleep, exercise, or go for a walk in nature, they don’t look around, they are stuck in their thoughts in continuous analysis. It is extremely important to set aside a small part of the day, at least an hour a day, to stop stressing, go out into nature, direct your attention to the ram. This is not easy because attention is very focused on this problem. 5 to 10 of them is not done, but it must be done, you need to reboot and return. Third, the gut microbiome. There is a huge connection between the state of gut bacteria and cognitive function because these bacteria produce amino acids, which are then converted into neurotransmitters. In general, there is a two-way communication channel between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain. Remember that if your gastrointestinal tract is not in order, take care of it, take probiotics, improve your diet, and you will see that your brain will function much better. There is a strong connection even between Alzheimer's disease and the gastrointestinal tract. I will leave a link to this video. This video is over, but there is another video about brain physiology that you should like, and here it is.