Firstly, I want to say that I don't smoke, secondly, I don't recommend smoking. In this video, I want to talk about one phenomenon associated with quitting smoking too suddenly. I strongly recommend quitting smoking, but you need to do it right. I've observed many, many people who were chronic smokers. If they quit smoking suddenly, they gained weight in the abdominal area due to adrenal hormones, and they began to have heart problems, blood pressure, and health deteriorated. Many people don't have this problem, but I've observed many people who had such problems, and it was associated with nicotine. Let's talk about nicotine. Nicotine stimulates the production of certain substances, neurotransmitters. What is a neurotransmitter? It's a substance similar to a hormone, it moves through the nervous system, and hormones are substances that are carried in the blood. So, nicotine stimulates the production of neurotransmitters, and neurotransmitters stimulate the adrenal glands and other organs. Let's talk about the adrenal glands. Over time, chronic smokers who consume a lot of nicotine stimulate the adrenal glands.  It's so bad that they can only relax while smoking because nicotine opens and dilates the coronary arteries around the heart, these are the main arteries located around the heart, and as a result, you feel relaxed when you smoke, and it's a little strange, and smoking also relaxes the bronchioles, so when you inhale smoke, because of nicotine, it seems to you that breathing is easier, not because of the smoke, but because nicotine opens the bronchioles. At first, this is true, but over time, the effect becomes weaker, and you need more and more nicotine to experience this effect. Usually, people smoke to reduce stress, it calms them down. The fact is that nicotine manipulates the production of substances in the body and gives you the illusion that stress is going away, but in fact, stress is increasing. Nicotine only increases blood flow to the heart and opens the lungs, creating a lot of problems for the body. Over time, nicotine leads to this: receptors in the adrenal glands that react to it, as well as receptors in the brain and other parts of the body, gradually lose sensitivity to it and begin to resist. It's like with sugar when you eat  Too much sugar, the receptors to sugar, or more precisely to insulin, lose sensitivity, this is insulin resistance, this is type 2 diabetes, its cause is excess sugar, also with excess nicotine, your body tries to adapt and rejects nicotine, the body tries to some extent not to absorb nicotine, so the receptors lose sensitivity to it, they do not let it through, as a result, the adrenal glands, the glands that react to stress, become so dependent on nicotine that if you suddenly quit smoking, then due to the weakening of the sensitivity of the receptors, your number of neurotransmitters will sharply decrease, there will be very few of them due to addiction, imagine a child who is terribly dependent on his parents, they do everything for him, but then he turns 20, he is kicked out of the house, he cannot survive, he does not know how to do anything, I mean, nicotine causes addiction in the adrenal glands, you quit smoking, the adrenal glands fail and this greatly undermines health, I advise you to quit smoking, but you need to do it correctly, how, how to do it firstly, right before quitting and in the process of quitting After you quit smoking, you need a replacement for the substances that make up neurotransmitters, specifically phenylalanine, which you can buy at a health food store. phenylalanine, tyrosine, and dioxin are all available. You can buy these three amino acids. They will help you create the necessary reserves so that you can gradually quit smoking without causing serious problems with your adrenal glands and excess weight. B vitamins are very important because they are precursors for neurotransmitters. So, I recommend getting B vitamins from nutritional yeast. They are made from synthetic vitamins. Here's how you should proceed. Let's summarize. Let's say you ask a person when they started gaining weight. You often hear in response, "Well, when I quit smoking, yes, maybe the person started eating more," but more often this is due to the adrenal glands, which cannot recover from years of nicotine addiction. I hope this was helpful. See you next time.