Let's discuss the beneficial properties of nutritional yeast. I usually recommend nutritional yeast primarily as a natural source of vitamin B1. When buying nutritional yeast, you know that they are often enriched with artificial B vitamins obtained from sources such as coal tar, acetic acid, ammonia, and hydrochloric acid. I just want to say that artificial B1 is not equivalent to natural B1. Synthetics are much cheaper than natural B1, because it is necessary to process much more natural raw materials to obtain a meager amount of vitamin, but you yourself will see that it is worth it. The effect that B vitamins, namely B1, have on the body is very significant, especially these days, since this is associated with such a thing as stress. But most people have a misunderstanding when it comes to nutritional yeast. They think that if you eat nutritional yeast, you will get a yeast infection. Nothing of the sort. You consume deactivated yeast, but mainly the products produced by yeast. Yeast is a vitamin factory. They produce B vitamins. They produce amino acids. Nutritional yeast is a complete protein containing  They also have all the essential amino acids and microelements, for example, silene, which converts T4 to T3. They also contain zinc and copper, which are essential for immunity and testosterone production. They contain chrome, which is very beneficial for blood sugar. They contain a lot of phosphorus, which is part of ATP, adenosine triphosphate, the body's energy currency. It provides energy. Nutritional yeast also contains beta-glucan. You may have heard of it in the context of oatmeal or oat flakes. These are the so-called heart-healthy cereals because beta-glucan is a type of fiber that can lower cholesterol. What about the carbohydrates in these cereals? While you'll have to learn insulin from them, other problems will arise. Beta-glucan can also be beneficial for immunity. At least nutritional yeast contains vitamins and microelements, proteins, amino acids, and beta-glucan. I usually take nutritional yeast for vitamin B1. Everything else is a bonus. Let's talk a little about vitamin B12. It's the most important water-soluble vitamin, and vitamin D is the most important fat-soluble vitamin. That's all.  Because one participates in the biochemical processes of all cells, or more precisely, mitochondria, the energy stations of cells, never has oxygen, fuel, and a spark plug produces energy. So this spark plug is thiamine, vitamin B1, without a spark plug, without vitamin B1, we cannot produce energy. If you flood the mitochondria with fuel, like on a high-carb diet, you will flood the engine, like I did on my ATV last week, it wouldn't start. As a result, I unscrewed the spark plugs and there was too much gasoline. The engine was flooded. I had to completely clean everything so that the spark plugs would start working normally. In our body, with excess glucose, excess carbohydrates, the need for vitamin B12 will increase to enormous heights, and if you don't get B1, you will be constantly tired. This is chronic fatigue syndrome. One of the main benefits of nutritional yeast is that it provides energy. This is useful for athletes and provides endurance. There are other beneficial properties that I want to talk about, but first, I need to explain the part of the brain called the limbic system. It has different structures responsible for different things related to homeostasis. This The body's ability to adapt to the environment to maintain constant functioning within itself, and there is also the autonomic nervous system working together with the limbic system, that is, we have a fight or flight mechanism and a parasympathetic nervous system for rest and digestion. The sympathetic and parasympathetic systems speed up everything and adapt to stress. The other system tries to calm everything down and helps digest food and sleep at night. So, of all the brain structures, the limbic system requires a huge amount of oxygen. The limbic system undergoes many oxidative processes, so its need for vitamin B11 is very high and this part of the brain is very vulnerable to a lack of vitamin B1. One part of this system, the amygdala, is responsible for the emotion of fear. This is a survival mechanism. So, with a lack of vitamin B1, you will find yourself with various types of fear, for example, anxiety, nervousness, panic. If you have nightmares at night, it means you have a B1 deficiency. What is a nightmare? These are various images that cause fear. Experiments were conducted on animals, their amygdala was removed and their fear disappeared. This is very dangerous because it is  a survival mechanism if you see a poisonous snake and are not afraid, it will bite you and you will die, so fear is necessary for us to survive, but what about panic attacks, this is a serious deficiency, one dose of nutritional yeast will greatly help with anxiety and stress and calm you down, the usual effect occurs a few minutes after taking, by the way, nutritional yeast is also sold in powder, it is a little more difficult to take because it needs to be mixed with something, they are also sold in tablets, I will leave the links below, if you take tablets, I advise you to chew them and not swallow them right away, because these tablets are large, what do they taste like, well, some people like it, some don't, I would look at it this way, although the taste of yeast may not be so great, new ones will improve after using it, improving well-being will be a serious plus, and so nutritional yeast reduces anxiety, stress, panic attacks help with nightmares, helps reduce irritability and definitely helps cope with anger, if you have low stress tolerance, let's say you are stressed out by the fact that you have to babysit 18 and small children in the same room  8 o'clock or for some reason you don't like that someone is driving very slowly in front of you, then nutritional yeast may be useful for you, or let's say you drink a lot of coffee and you have that characteristic nervous shaking, nutritional yeast boom and all this disappears as if by magic, or let's say you go to bed and all sorts of thoughts start to creep into your head and they keep creeping and creeping and just don't subside, nutritional yeast is an excellent time to take nutritional yeast just before bed and although they increase energy, they will not prevent you from falling asleep, on the contrary, they will calm you down and you will be able to calmly fall asleep and they improve the quality of sleep more than anything else, also due to the fact that nutritional yeast has a lot of trace elements and amino acids, they are very useful for hair if you are losing hair, nutritional yeast can also help you with an ailment such as spot, this is when you get dizzy when you get up and it seems that you are about to lose consciousness, this is the inability of part of the autonomic nervous system to adapt to stress, stress when getting up when all the blood should If you lack vitamin B1, you will develop a condition called undernutrition. Nutritional yeast will give you so much B1 that you can even climb a certain height without getting out of breath. If you climb stairs and your legs are heavier, this is an ideal indication for taking nutritional yeast, because it supports the ability of the autonomic nervous system to cope with physical exertion. Another useful property is its effect on the pulse. The autonomic nervous system controls, among other things, the heart rate and heart rate, and with a lack of B1, you may find that your heart beats faster and faster. You may even begin to feel your heartbeat. Nutritional yeast will help here. Another point associated with a lack of vitamin B1 is breathing. Let's say you are sleeping, but breathing this way happens during stressful events. Nutritional yeast can help here too, because everything related to the autonomic nervous system can be improved with vitamin B1. Another interesting possible manifestation of deficiency would be either excessive hunger or lack of appetite. A mild deficiency.  B1 will cause a lack of satiety after eating, you will want to eat non-stop, as if you can’t get enough, and a very severe deficiency of B1 can lead to loss of appetite. Apparently, the centers in the brain that are responsible for the feeling of satiety are very susceptible to a lack of vitamin B1. The last symptom that occurs with a lack of B1, which nutritional yeast can help with, is general confusion, lack of clarity of thoughts, lack of concentration, this is associated with another part of the brain. I will not go into details, but with a lack of B1, you can be confused when you do not clearly understand everything. This is what I wanted to tell you about the benefits of nutritional yeast. If you have not watched my detailed video about vitamin B12, I released it on my channel a couple of years ago, it is quite interesting, here is the link, take a look.