Hello, I wanted to record a personal video and say thank you very much for filling out the survey. I am very grateful to you. Today I will tell you about the results of this survey, you should know them. After all, you filled it out. More than 50 people filled out the survey and you are one of them. The first question was about what you think about the change that VL YouTube has made by becoming a partner of Medina organizations such as WHO. By the way, WHO is not an independent government organization. So, when answering the first question, most people expressed categorical disagreement with this decision. People think that this is very bad. There were a lot of epithets in their answers. I will not repeat them. But they don’t like it. This is the first question. People don’t like that doctors decide how to take care of their health. People want to choose their own path to health. This is the most important thing for them. And the next question I asked people was why this is important. And the overwhelming majority answered this way: because an alternative is needed, and by alternative, people mean a natural, non-toxic remedy. When a person has an alternative, he can choose from two or more options. Let’s return to what false information means, because the purpose of this new partnership is to remove false information.  information and provide quality information about health and not just false information but medical false information. I looked up this term. It has a special meaning. So, medical false information is anything that contradicts the opinion of doctors or the World Health Organization. According to a survey, people want to have alternative options, but according to the meaning of the term medical false information, this opportunity is no longer there. That is, in essence, people have been deprived of an alternative, all alternatives have been taken away, leaving only one. After all, everything else is classified and presented as false information that is harmful and dangerous. There is no choice at all. That is, you are not given the opportunity to choose a natural, non-toxic alternative. It is brilliant to get rid of competitors simply by introducing new meanings for words and presenting something in a certain way. You come to a restaurant and there is only one dish from the WOT on the menu and you will not get anything else. But I say based on a survey, this is not what people want. People want to have alternative options. That is why they look for natural remedies on the tube. Next, the question asked what you consider truthful and trustworthy information. The answer was: information from a reliable source from someone with experience. This is very interesting and I agree with this. After all, the more experienced you are in something, the better you are as an Expert. But if we apply this approach to the Keto diet and type in the search strategy keto diet, we will see health experts on the first pages. The names are different. But there is the word health and we will get a number of videos. In the search results and on almost any topic related to health, you are given the generally accepted opinion in medicine and these videos were filmed by people who have no experience in this area, especially in keto, and they are essentially criticizing they probably search data and keto in Google and made a video about it and they are on the first pages. And someone like me who has a lot of experience and rich practice who has worked with tens of thousands of people or even more. I have more than 900 videos about the Keto diet, but it is difficult to find any of them, so this is some food for thought. If someone has experience in some area, this is extremely important and a person has achieved an understanding of how something actually works, but unfortunately, these people do not take this into account. I have no experience in prescribing drugs in this area. I am not an Expert. So let doctors do this, but I have a lot of experience in  working with natural remedies with nutrition with Keto but this does not agree with the opinion of doctors and the World Health Organization I noticed another interesting phrase in these materials about health policy there is a phrase medical ignorance and this is one of their explanations for why they introduce this policy In other words, it means that you are not smart enough medically to have your own opinion Yes, I'm not kidding, this is another brilliant tactic this phrase sounds a little nicer than the statement that we are stupid but this is not what people want people want to decide for themselves I know for sure that people are smart and they can see through all these tricks So that's not what worries me I'm worried about the filtering of alternative points of view it is becoming increasingly difficult to find the right information and By the way, I spoke with a representative of UBA on the phone I was very polite and he was very polite and I essentially said I conducted a survey among 50 people and the overwhelming majority do not like it and he said This is a pilot project we are just experimenting we are always changing the algorithms the decrease in your views can be seasonal and all that I say No see for yourself  recommended videos flat graffiti views and he Thank you this is valuable data we will pass it on to management and see what can be done Yes, we will definitely see So the question is what can we do about it I have researched many different ways so to speak gently fight back do something about it I found one organization I completely agree with it and I like it the Alliance for Natural Health this organization is represented in the USA and in Europe This is the largest organization of its kind and it has won many victories in various battles around the world I wanted to join the organization are able to change the situation These people really support freedom of speech in the field of health and they absolutely agree that one of the most important freedoms is freedom of access to natural Alternative in the field of health especially with regard to creating it health So I ask you, which I rarely do, please donate as much as you can to this alliance because we need resources and we need to carry out various campaigns and very effectively In general, any of your donations is very welcome I thank you in advance for this these funds will go to very effective strategic companies to change This and so please make a donation link below I am very I am grateful to you for your willingness to help