Hi, today I want to tell you what happened when I increased my fasting time to 21 hours. It's quite interesting. I tested it on myself. I usually eat somewhere around 12:00 or 1:00 and at 6 or 7 o'clock I fasted for 18 hours with a six-hour eating window. I usually record videos like this from 12 to 2 or 3 and my experiment simply consisted of the fact that I ate after I came back from filming. My first meal was at 3 o'clock and the second meal was at 6 o'clock. This is a 3-hour eating window. This gives me 21 hours of fasting. They are 18 like before. The change seems small but in fact it significantly affected my cognitive functions. I noticed that when I was on this schedule I had more mistakes and corrections when preparing videos, and on this schedule with 20 one-hour fasting there were almost no mistakes. This is quite surprising. There was a noticeable improvement in my memory. I became more focused and began to study better in the mornings. I always study something and I began to better remember and absorb information. I became  I remember where I put things and find them. I became more creative. My mood improved. I became less grumpy and irritable, although I am rarely like this. My productivity increased. I already talked about this. Now I have time to do more. I became more organized because of my composure. I became more decisive. To be sure of this, I didn’t need to study anything. I just conducted this experiment and saw everything myself. But if you figure it out, here’s what’s happening: the amount of NGF increases. This is a neurotrophic factor from the brain. This is a protein that helps the growth of neurons and synapses. It’s just a plant for the brain. It helps restore brain cells. It also slows down aging. Also, when fasting, the amount of ketones, which naturally support the brain, increases. It prefers ketones to glucose. Autophagy also increases. Autophagy cleans damaged proteins like amyloid plaques from the brain. Fasting also improves the connections between neurons. You must understand one thing: if someone develops Alzheimer’s disease, it doesn’t appear quickly, it develops over several years. Sometimes it appears 20, sometimes 30 years before you notice it first.  The manifestation is always a loss of cognitive function, and this disease is a big problem because it is hidden. It is unknown whether you have it until a certain time. I suggest you conduct an experiment on yourself. Perhaps you are already on this schedule eating once a day or even less often. But if you fast for 18 hours or less, I suggest you switch to this schedule: eat the first time at three o'clock, the second time at six o'clock, fasting for 21 hours. Do this for three days. Evaluate your cognitive functions and tell us about it in the comments. Finally, watch the video that will now appear on the screen. In it, I talk about different types of intermittent fasting for various conditions. You should like it.