Hello, it's me again in this video we'll talk about GERD gastroesophageal reflux disease I already have a video I think this will be the 3rd video I decided to record it because a couple of people asked about it on my stream they took the usual measures but it didn't help I decided to record it in a third video for those who have successfully used the usual remedies firstly what is GERD what is GERD with this disease acid from the stomach does not go where it should, it rises from the stomach up through this tube esophagus it should not rise but passes up through the stomach valve the problem is in this valve it does not stay closed it would be great to call a plumber he would replace the valve and the problem would be solved usually this disease is caused by the fact that there is not enough acid in the stomach imagine you have severe acid burps and you think I have too much acid this is logical but in fact if there is not enough acid in the stomach this valve will register that there is not enough acid and will not close completely it will remain open when the pH in the stomach is from one to three this is strong acidity the valve will be closed that's how everything works but there may be  Other reasons: The problem may be in the nervous system, in the part called the autonomic nervous system, which controls this valve. Due to weak adrenal glands, this cause of the disease is possible, but in most cases it is a lack of acid and that it is not strong enough. These are the reasons why it may seem logical to a person that you have too much tesla, but in fact, everything is just the opposite. This is why this problem is difficult to pinpoint because people do not do what they need to do. Doctors will say that, firstly, you need to change your lifestyle. Personally, I don’t quite understand what they mean. Just change your lifestyle without going into details. Secondly, there is a cure. Thirdly, if this does not help, you will be offered surgery and very little attention is paid to proper nutrition. Unfortunately, medical reference books write something strange about this disease. The reason is the hereditary form of acid belching. This is the same as saying hypothyroidism is the cause of a lack of thyroid hormones. This is just a description. It does not say what actually caused the problem. They simply do not know. Obesity and pregnancy are always listed among the risk factors. This also does not really help, but if we proceed from the fact that acids  There's not enough acid in your stomach and you'll be surprised to find that the situation has improved. It may even resolve completely. I'll digress and say a few words about antacids. In the US alone, more than 15 million people are prescribed antacids. This doesn't include those sold over the counter. It's a nine and a half billion dollar business. The only problem is that taking antacids doesn't solve this problem. Patients must take them again and again, and again and again, while experiencing a bunch of side effects, for example, from medications, etc.   These are proton pump inhibitors. Their purpose is to reduce stomach acidity, but they are associated with minor complications: a 25 percent increase in the risk of death, a 44 percent risk of dementia, a 20 percent risk of heart attack, and A-50 percent increase in the risk of stomach cancer. It's terrible, but people are prescribed these drugs, and they continue to take them. So, we figured out what it is now. How to deal with it. First, I recommend starting to take apple cider vinegar in tablets or liquid form during meals. I would also add betaine hydrochloride. It naturally increases acidity. Take it before meals. Before each meal, take three, four, five, or even take tablets. The acidity of gastric juice will begin to increase. By the way, one of the reasons for its low acidity is a lack of salt for the production of hydrochloric acid. Chlorine is needed, and salt is sodium chloride. This is another possible reason. If you took any of these and you feel worse, a burning sensation appeared, this could mean that you either have gastritis (inflammation of the stomach wall) or an ulcer. In this case, you should not feed lettuce to a sensitive area or to an existing hole.  In the stomach, you first need to take a step back and take something else, for example, chlorophyll, which can be obtained from dark leafy greens, juice concentrate, grass powder, chlorophyll can heal this area, and this may take some time, maybe a month. Another good remedy is licorice root extract. If you are taking apple cider vinegar or betaine hydrochloride, but it is not there, the problem remains. You should increase the number of bacteria in the lower gastrointestinal tract. By the way, they produce lactic acid. So, if there are enough of these bacteria, this will help establish the acid balance. The stomach will function better. So, taking a good probiotic will help. I recommend liquid probiotics. There is a link to a detailed description under the video. Probiotics can significantly improve the situation because improving the functioning of one part of the digestive system reduces the load on another part. A very good remedy for gastritis, acid reflux, and any stomach problems is cabbage. Sauerkraut is great, but a salad with cabbage and carrots will also help soothe the digestive system. This is the advice and the last one for today.  You may have a condition called siber and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. With this syndrome, a person has too many bacteria and friendly bacteria in the small intestine, but they should be in the large intestine. There is a link to a detailed description under the video for this syndrome. If a person eats vegetables, especially in large quantities, he will begin to experience severe bloating. This will be a sure indicator because you are giving these bacteria food. Also, if the condition worsens from the probiotic, what should you do about it? Follow the advice I gave in that video. The link is in the description. Do not eat vegetables for a month. The fact is that bacteria feed on the fiber in vegetables. You need to not feed these bacteria so that they stop growing where they do not belong. Therefore, stop eating vegetables and add apple cider vinegar and betaine hydrochloride to increase acidity. This will help the stomach digest food better, because if undigested food gets into the intestines, it will be very bad. So, if you have siber, you need to approach the problem a little differently and, of course, you need to maintain a healthy diet. Then, reduce carbohydrates. Very often, this is one thing. will solve the problem and don't forget about intermittent fasting. On average, food stays in the digestive system for 35-40 hours, and how often do people eat? They can't even go three hours without eating or snacking, so our digestive system is constantly full of food. We also wonder where we get our stomach from. So, intermittent fasting is very useful, especially for this disease. Because we give the digestive system a rest for the first time in a long time, let it calm down and not work so hard, let it cleanse itself. For gastritis and ulcers, fasting can significantly improve the condition. Intermittent fasting is one of the best ways to improve the functioning of the digestive system as a whole. Don't forget about the opportunity to give the body a chance to rest and heal. That's all I have. I've given more detail about what to do with GERD. Thank you for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos. How you can do n't miss new videos is just click the bell.