Today I want to discuss a myth associated with metabolic syndrome, it is called syndrome X. This is a combination of several ailments: central, that is, abdominal obesity, hypertension, increased blood glucose, high triglycerides, sensitization resistance, of course, as well as high levels of insulin in the blood, this is called hyperglycemia, coupled with elevated uric acid levels, we automatically consider metabolic syndrome to be something very bad. This disease, however, doctors prescribe many drugs, do many tests, it is very difficult. No one knows the reasons for this, but I will present a completely new point of view on metabolic syndrome and its connection with a type of sugar called fructose. I believe that in fact, metabolic syndrome is a defense mechanism if you look at our history of hunter-gatherers during evolution. We see that people ate fruits and ate honey, although not so often, and fruits and honey contain a lot of fructose. I will say a few words about fructose, this is a unique type of sugar. There are receptors everywhere in our body that can metabolize glucose, but with fructose, everything is different.  The only organ capable of metabolizing fructose is the liver, and fructose has completely unique properties related to the topic of our conversation. 1, it is much more lipogenic. That is, it creates more fat than other types of sugar. In addition, fructose activates fat genes much more strongly than glucose and other sugars. Let's think about what survival benefit could come from consuming fructose occasionally in the past when people were trying to survive in that environment, it was difficult to get food, and when they were able to eat fruits or honey, it helped to survive, and this is actually consistent with what fructose does in the body. Firstly, it retains sodium. What benefit does this have for survival? Once upon a time, there wasn't much salt in the human diet. People ate animal meat and plants. In general, people ate everything they could. It seems that one of the interesting differences between the diet of those times and our diet is that people ate much less salt then, that is, sodium, because it was not available for three. It helps retain fluid in the body and prevents dehydration, and fructose helps retain sodium and salt in the body. Sodium chloride, which contains sodium, helped people retain fluid and avoid dehydration. In fact, fructose stimulates the VA hormone, which is an antidiuretic hormone. It prevents fluid loss and helps the body retain fluid. This is a survival mechanism. In addition, in ancient times, people consumed much more potassium than today; they got it simply from plant foods, whereas today the average person eats about one and a half cups of vegetables and therefore gets little potassium. Thus, today people get a lot of sodium and very little potassium. In the past, it was completely different. Fructose is also interesting because it causes sensitivity to sodium. How does this contribute to survival? If you increase sensitivity to sodium, the body absorbs and retains it better. Sodium retention is also useful because it helps increase blood pressure. And in the past, it was very important to prevent pressure due to a lack of sodium, because constant pressure was needed so that nutrients and oxygen could reach various organs and the brain. Further, abdominal obesity, how does it contribute to survival? Well, we store fuel for a rainy day. This is what fat is. It is a survival mechanism, and we have a lot of free space in it.  There is almost an unlimited amount of fructose in the abdominal cavity. Well, not quite an unlimited amount, but a huge amount of energy can be stored in the waist area, and this is a survival mechanism in times of famine, of course. Today, people consume a little more fructose than in ancient times. Yes, fruits are available to us around the clock throughout the year. Honey is also available, as are other products with fructose, such as high-fructose corn syrup. That is, we drink it. Even table sugar is half fructose. So, fructose is practically everywhere. And does it contribute to survival due to insulin resistance? Of course, firstly, insulin resistance protects against glucose toxicity. Due to the high resistance of insulin receptors, cells absorb less glucose. Because excess glucose is toxic. So, insulin resistance protects against glucose and insulin. insulin resistance is accompanied by something else that helps to survive, and this is gluconeogenesis, which is the creation of new sugar without the participation of carbohydrates. So, in people with diabetes, and they have insulin resistance, more glucose is produced. But this  Glucose is not from food, it is created by the liver from other sources, hence the phenomenon of dawn. In the morning, a person wakes up with high glucose in the blood, although perhaps he did not eat glucose. Well, this does not simply mean that he has insulin resistance, because of this, the liver produces more glucose. This also happens with diabetes. Part of the excess glucose in the diabetic's blood comes not from the sugar he eats, but from the liver, which produces a lot of sugar. What is the benefit of gluconeogenesis for survival? Firstly, it helps protect against hypoglycemia, because the brain partly needs glucose. And the body itself can produce it, and when there is little glucose, gluconeogenesis can help the brain in survival mode. But today it has gotten out of control because we have too much sugar and too much gluconeogenesis. The next thing I want to talk about is uric acid. You probably already know that consuming fructose causes a jump in uric acid. How is uric acid related to survival? Firstly, uric acid is a powerful antioxidant. So, it protects us from oxidation.  oxidation of what, what about fructose, fructose. This is a type of sugar, it oxidizes inside the vessels and causes a lot of damage. Unless there are some protective factors, and one of them is uric acid. But uric acid allows you to predict hypertension and heart disease well. Uric acid increases blood pressure. How does this help you survive? Well, as I already said, a lack of sodium leads to low blood pressure, and this combination of factors does not help you survive. So, uric acid is needed to help raise blood pressure. When there is little sodium in the body. So, in the past, uric acid was one of the factors that increased blood pressure, of course. Today, when there is a lot of fructose and salt, uric acid is a huge problem, very big, and uric acid directly increases sensitivity to salt. Today, we tell salt-sensitive people to eat less salt. But in fact, they need to eat less fructose and consume more of the mineral that I talked about, potassium, a very long time ago. Our body evolved in the presence of potassium. People ate much more of it than today. If you have a lot of potassium, you are not afraid of much more sodium, and high levels of potassium greatly reduce high blood pressure. So, when it comes to hypertension, we do not necessarily avoid fructose. What do we do? Avoid salt. If you understand these mechanisms, you can very easily control your blood pressure. Eat more potassium. Give up sugars, especially fructose. As for sodium, if you have enough potassium, there should be two to one potassium, twice as much as sodium, then you will be completely fine. In addition, uric acid is associated with an immune inflammatory response; it helps fight infections, and so on, in the past. This helped people survive. But today, from excess uric acid, we have inflammation throughout the body. Especially in the big toes, gout. Another very interesting survival mechanism is simply fat reserves and glucose reserves in the form of glycogen. Glycogen is stored glucose. Of interest is their connection with water. In difficult times, when people had little water, they were helped by the fact that when burning fat, water is released. In fact, when only 1.1 g of fat is burned, 1 gram of water is released. It's interesting. So this is a survival mechanism that protects against dehydration. The same thing with glycogen. If you imagine a chain of glucose molecules, they are linked to each other.  and with a large amount of water, and when one gram of glucose is burned, three and a half grams of water are released. So, we release a lot of water when burning glucose from glycogen. In the past, when people ate fructose, they received a lot of antioxidants with it. After all, they ate fruits, and fruits were not as sweet as today, and regular fruits contain antioxidants. Antioxidants protect against oxidative damage caused by fructose, they eliminate complications from high sugar levels. Therefore, a diabetic will have much fewer problems if he also receives antioxidants associated with this sugar, unlike pure sugars when he simply drinks high-fructose corn syrup. In connection with antioxidants, I want to say a few words about vitamin C. This is interesting. In chemical structure, vitamin C is very similar to glucose and fructose. Therefore, the more you consume glucose and fructose, the more vitamin C you need. Firstly, it helps protect the immune system. It also helps eliminate oxidative damage due to excess glucose. Vitamin C can even block fat burning.  So it can actually help you survive because it partly slows down the oxidation or burning of fat. I urge you to give up vitamin C to lose weight faster. This is not how it works. I am saying that vitamin C in fruits protects against the fructose they contain. So when you study metabolic syndrome and read that some believe it is caused by them, they say overeating, possibly obesity, stress, lack of exercise, age. But if you really understand all this, you are unlikely to say, “Let’s treat each condition with a separate drug,” which is completely illogical. So, if you have problems with sodium, if you have problems with your waist, if you have problems with hypertension or uric acid, then you need to avoid fructose, and all its types. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.