Today we'll talk about seven things to do after a stroke. After a stroke, you develop hypoxia in the brain. A blood clot appears, causing neurons to die and damage to brain tissue. The oxygen supply to these tissues decreases. Brain tissue is very sensitive to oxygen. Without oxygen, they cannot survive. The brain accounts for only two percent of tissue in the entire body, but it uses 20 percent of all oxygen. Oxygen is needed for the brain to continue functioning. What should you do after a stroke? To answer this, you need to ask another question: how to increase the flow of oxygen to the brain. The most important thing I will advise and which needs to be done as soon as possible is hyperbaric oxygenation. With this therapy, they collect pure oxygen, somewhere around 99 point five percent pure, and release it under pressure so that it spreads through the lungs, enters the bloodstream, and then into the brain. This can help you cope with the effects of a stroke. This needs to be done first. Next, ketones. Why are ketones good for the brain? They provide more oxygen. Glucose does not provide as much oxygen as a ketone, and ketones are an excellent source of alternative fuel. Especially for a damaged brain. Where are  You can get them, you can buy exogenous ketones as supplements, they are called ketone salts, they need to be taken throughout the day, then even if a person eats as before, which we do not recommend, and he has a high blood sugar level, he still has tone and because he took exogenous ketones, the brain uses them instead of glucose, m-city oil can also provide you with ketones, a low-carb diet can provide you with ketones, intermittent fasting can dramatically increase the amount of ketones, so all this is very important if you are before a stroke, the worst thing will be if you return to a standard diet and snacks, this will be the worst, it is also very important for children, this is an omega 3 fatty acid and the brain needs it, this part of its structure has been noted that it helps a damaged brain, so I would recommend a decent dose, vitamin T can also help the brain, and with oxygen, hard training will greatly help you and I definitely recommend long walks, minimum stress and plenty of oxygen, this is very important, you should also think about something called acute intermittent hypoxia, this is interesting because it is essentially an introduction to a state  Hypoxia is a very short-term, alternating increase and decrease in oxygen. Each time oxygen is briefly deprived of the body and then returned, this causes a hermetic effect. It stimulates certain genes that increase brain tissue growth. The key word in this term is intermittent, a non-constant state when you lack oxygen, and intermittent. There are certain types of people who train in hypoxic conditions, for example, in the mountains. They can improve blood circulation and increase endurance. There is interesting data on how intermittent hypoxia affects stroke survivors. I will leave a link. And finally, a full complex of vitamin C is usually sold as artificial vitamin C, and this is only part of the full complex. While a full complex of vitamin C with all its components can help strengthen blood vessels to prevent further stroke, especially when you are dealing with aneurysms and weakness of the vessels themselves. This concludes my story about what a person needs to do after a stroke. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and skip new videos.