Hi all.  Today we are answering questions again.  What I say is not meant to cure diseases.  Ask your doctor before following any of our advice.  As always, I prefer to get straight to the point.  The floor is yours, Steve. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. Hi all.  Today we will answer questions from social networks.  Marlos YouTube.  What do you think about eating apricot kernels, which contain vitamin B17? Trillill is one of the forbidden topics on YouTube, otherwise you will be banned.  So we can't talk about it. The same cannot be said about colloidal silver, although many doctors used it as an antibiotic in 1926 and earlier, when antibiotics did not yet exist. In general, some things cannot be talked about. I would investigate everything we are told. Science has decided on this or it cannot be discussed.  After all, it was discovered that health information was being censored.  Yes, this will shock some people, yes, it is hard to believe, but it is true.  That's why we are also present on the Rumble platform.  Visit Rumл for more uncensored information from Dr. Berg and others. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Written by Jn from YouTube.  I was diagnosed with severe reflux and severe gastritis. Help. Reflux is often acid reflux, but bile reflux is also possible.  Bile is like a detergent, so it is very irritating to exposed tissue. If it gets into the esophagus, it can corrode it.  That is, bile can pass from the gallbladder into the intestines, then into the stomach, and then into the valve of the upper part of the stomach.  I made a video about this .  You need to get your diet in order , and you need intermittent fasting. You eat too often. This is exactly the case, if you snack between meals or eat three times a day, it is unnatural, it is not normal.   The poor digestive system is so overloaded with food that it regurgitates it back.  She has no opportunity to rest.  She works without breaks. I've been guilty of this too.  I ate three times a day, plus snacks and a lot of last meals.  I literally went to watch TV and ate. I was constantly living, starting right after dinner, maybe not right away, but soon.  And until I went to bed I lived without ceasing.  I'm sure some people who watch this do that too.  And before you go to bed, these tubes are completely clogged.  You stuff food into yourself. You are filled to the brim with it.  It's surprising that bile reflux doesn't plague us more often.   Yeah, right .  Question from Cindy on Facebook.  What is the best natural remedy for very loud and persistent tinnitus?  I've had him for 18 years. I'll be making a new video about this soon, but I already have a few videos.  You can try the methods from them to get rid of it.  There is a procedure, it doesn’t work 100% of the time, but it works.  Try one thing, and if it doesn't help, try another.  Robert from YouTube writes.  I use Lana sterile eye drops for cataracts.  They seem to be helping.  How long do I need to use these drops? I cannot give advice on medications, especially steroids. Yes, it's a slippery slope, there are complications, you can read about them.  There is an excellent remedy for cataracts.  I like it very much.  It's hard to find, but you can find it online.  It's called NC, but it's not a regular NAC.  This is nccytyl carnasine, not nccytyl cysteine, but carnasine.  You need cartazin.  These are drops. This substance gets into the eye, penetrates the lens, deep into the eye, and this antioxidant protects against various factors that cause cataracts. I highly recommend finding it.  Sometimes it even gets rid of cataracts.  It's worth a try, it's not very expensive.  These are drops.  Interesting question, Jeff from YouTube.   Will taking two drops of oregano oil in a glass of water every day help kill parasites in the body? I don't know, but I think oregano oil will enhance the effect.  After all, oregano oil is an antimicrobial and antiparasitic agent. Adding black walnut hulls and wormwood extract is the icing on the cake. The parasite or worm, whatever it is, will definitely go away.  Here is an interesting question. Writes shalom from YouTube.  I do intermittent fasting for 18 hours.  The window between meals is 6 hours.  I produce a lot of bile.  This causes loose stools and abdominal pain.  I eat only meat and vegetables. I don't have a gallbladder.  How can I fix this situation?  After gallbladder removal, some people experience a bile deficiency, while others experience an excess. This can become a problem because the stool becomes loose as bile lubricates the colon.  In this case, you may need to take medication.  Unfortunately, if nothing else has helped, the medication can slow the flow of bile.  Otherwise, it could be a disaster for your intestines.  So I would think about it. And I would also like to see what you eat.  There are foods that increase bile production. Maybe you should try something else and find a natural remedy? Yes, there are complications after gallbladder removal. You have to try to find a remedy that will help you, but sometimes it is difficult to find. Dapsmbla writes: "I had gastric bypass surgery in 2007 and my nutritional needs have obviously changed. Please consider making a video about the best diet after such surgery, if you haven't already. By the way, in 4 years on your program I lost 57k. I'm afraid I'm not taking the best supplements given my surgery. The bell confirms success. What do you say, doc? Yes, I already have a video about it. You can watch it. Gastric bypass surgery reduces its surface area, and you may find that you need more of some nutrients, especially trace minerals. You may need more bile, because now you have less stimulus to release bile from the gallbladder. So take bile after meals. Trace minerals and B vitamins and even vitamin D are very important. Just watch before the video, because you just need to get more of all the vitamins and nutrients to overcome the effects of surgical reduction of the stomach or small intestine. Excellent. Here is a popular  Question. Kawarambla. What do you think about methylene blue? Methylene blue is a synthetic dye and one of the first drugs. It has been thoroughly studied, and it is one of the synthetic agents that has a good scientific basis and can really help, mainly with mitochondrial dysfunction. And many people suffer from this. Should everyone take it? If you have inflammation or chronic metabolic disease, you definitely should. I would take it in cycles. Take it for a couple of weeks, then take a few weeks off. It needs to be diluted, and it should be food-based. But still, find the root cause of your problems. After all, all these remedies that I, and others, talk about are good. But at the same time, you need to get your lifestyle, diet, and sleep in order. Otherwise, these supplements can turn into expensive junk. So, that's the end of our program. Do you want to say anything in closing, dog? I have some amazing videos coming out this week . Don't miss them. Thanks for watching, and see you next time.  See you there. Are you sure your gallbladder is fine? If you have gallstones, should it be removed? If your gallbladder has been removed , how should you eat properly to avoid complications? How can you manage constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea? I'll cover all of this in my gallbladder course . Sign up at the link below. See you there.