There is a great tea that you can drink regularly. In fact, just half a glass a day will have a wonderful effect, especially on Cortisol. As you know, cortisol is the main stress hormone, and many people are constantly exposed to high levels of cortisol. The effects of cortisol over a long period of time are similar to long-term exposure to insulin. The body develops resistance to cortisol, just like with insulin, a problem with feedback arises. In other words, the receptor is blocked, so signals about the need to turn off production do not arrive. The cells suffer from a lack of cortisol, and the adrenal glands begin to produce it more and more. Now there is a lot of cortisol in the body, but it does not work. Because of this, possible problems arise: inflammation, stress problems, weight problems, and so on. This can happen for two reasons. Firstly, because of stress, or maybe not because of stress, but because of a genetic problem with the enzyme that converts the inactive form of cortisol into the active form. There is an enzyme that does this. With a genetic problem with this enzyme, two situations can arise. The first is that the enzyme is too active. So, with the slightest stress, cortisol skyrockets and attracts  behind itself a lot of problems or it may be that this enzyme is not active due to a genetic problem then everything is the opposite you experience stress and cortisol does not help such is the cortisol resistance in both situations problems arise Yes I know that Recently, out of love for art, I read this book natural remedies and drug discovery it describes many stories about drug development it is interesting that from half to 70 percent of the developed drugs are obtained from plant compounds I was reading about stress and learned about one extremely powerful phytonutrient capable of blocking the very enzyme that converts the inactive form of cortisol into an active one books write that this can be a therapeutic goal replacing some drugs with products with virtually no side effects of course no one will do this After all, this cannot be patented and make money on this I will tell you about one phytonutrient that can help lower cortisol But first I will describe the possible consequences of elevated cortisol levels in the body no matter what the cause is stress or in the genes 1 you may have depression anxiety you may have more fat in the belly because the receptors for cortisol are also in the belly possibly due to Increased cortisol production increases weight. In medicine, cortisol is classified as a glucocorticoid because it is bound to glucose. So, under stress, the body does not run on fat, but on glucose, a source of quick energy. Further, cognitive problems associated with concentration, memory, and focus are associated with metabolic syndrome, including fat in the midsection, high blood sugar, which indicates diabetes or prediabetes, as well as hypertension, high lipids, LDL cholesterol, and the like. All of this occurs due to high cortisol and sugar. Further, polycystic ovary syndrome, a problem with androgens in women, which causes facial hair, abdominal fat, and a deepening voice. In fact, this occurs due to high cortisol, poor nutrition, excess carbohydrates, or too much stress. Another fairly common problem is bone loss after menopause, and this can be associated with either a genetic problem or high cortisol. Cortisol is destructive to bones, which increases the risk of fractures, and, of course, insulin resistance develops, not so much because of sugar as because of stress. So,  What kind of phytonutrient is this galactan in green tea? I could barely pronounce it. In general, start drinking green tea regularly. Little by little, but regularly every day. It's inexpensive, it's easy to prepare, and it can significantly help lower cortisol levels. This book mentions several other remedies that can also suppress an enzyme called 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1. Remember this later, if the opportunity arises, you can show off your intelligence. Here are the products that will help: licorice, curcumin, which, by the way, is useful for almost everything, and also M1 in Japanese nutria. In general, this was a story about a very useful natural way to lower cortisol levels. Without side effects, high cortisol stress can significantly worsen health. If you want to learn more about stress and ways to deal with it, come to this course. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package about you  A unique course on how to strengthen your immune system awaits you as a gift. I'll tell you how your immune system works and what weakens it. I'll also give you a list of the best ways to strengthen it. I'm waiting for you on the course.