You should definitely add broccoli sprouts to your diet at least a couple of times a week and here's why broccoli sprouts contain more sulforaphane and about it a little later than any other food on the planet and the most interesting thing about this plant substance is that it significantly slows down cancer and tumors of the prostate and breast even Johns Hopkins University once wanted to get a patent on the victory of broccoli they appealed to the Supreme Court but in the end they received the patent and did not think about it anymore sulforaphane is one of the most studied phytonutrients especially because of the anti-cancer properties in fact it is a defense mechanism of plants if microbes or a beetle congress of the plant it will die because it is poisonous to microbes some people are very sensitive to such plants and of course they should not eat them but for most people they are absolutely harmless they can harm only if you overeat them and I'm talking about kilograms of cruciferous plants or sprouts they can deplete iodine reserves but if you take  Kelp will replenish its reserves, but the main advantage of sulforaphane is that it can kill cancer stem cells. It helps neutralize cancer-causing carcinogens in the liver, which is called two-stage detoxification. It is also a very powerful antioxidant and helps eliminate damage from free radicals. Therefore, it significantly reduces the risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, as well as diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and even autism. Sulforaphane is found in all cruciferous vegetables or broccoli in cabbage, but its concentration is greatest in broccoli sprouts. It is also very harmful. If you eat them raw, you will get 10 times more sulforaphane than if you cooked them. If you steam them, the loss will be only 10 percent. Since breast cancer is a common type of cancer, and while prostate cancer is, you should add sulforaphane to your diet on a regular basis, broccoli sprouts can give you a very large dose. Thanks for watching. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.