I need more carbohydrates to have more energy. Seriously, have you heard of this? In fact, it's the other way around. Now I'll explain why. I'll explain it in two ways, using simple terms for those who are interested. When you eat carbohydrates, you lose potassium, and when you lose potassium, you get tired and weaker. You can potentially get paralysis if you lose a lot of potassium. Leg cramps, irregular heartbeat. A rapid heartbeat can also be a symptom. High blood pressure and tremors are also symptoms. In simple terms, I'll explain it more scientifically. There's such a thing as insulin-induced hypokalemia. Hypokalemia is when there's little energy. When insulin production is stimulated by a high amount of carbohydrates, this enzyme is blocked. This enzyme is like a pump, and there are millions of them in all your cells. This pump essentially keeps potassium inside the cells. It's outside the cells to form an electrical gradient that will act like a battery. This battery requires muscles to contract and relax so that signals can be sent to them to activate electrical signals going through the nervous system. It's interesting that 30 percent of all the energy in the body goes to the work of this.  If you slow down the pump, more potassium will remain outside the cell and the body will begin to lose it. This condition is called hypokalemia. You will have the same symptoms. This is only one reason why you get tired after carbohydrates. There are others. So, a surge in insulin leads to a deficiency. Of course, the reasons may be that you are not eating enough foods, but there are other reasons. This could be fluid loss, for example, diarrhea or vomiting. Also, if you are diabetic and often urinate, you can lose fluid because of this. Coli is also lost when taking steroids, physical shock, severe stress or injury. Gali is also lost during surgery, which is why potassium is often added to the IV. An interesting fact: alkalosis can be the cause of potassium deficiency. It is so fashionable now to sit on alkaline diets. Well, if you overdo it, the body will have alkalosis and, as a result, a potassium deficiency. Taking steroids and stress can also cause alkalosis, as can a diet with a lot of sugar. Some diuretics can also cause potassium deficiency. Also, if the body is on low heat, it will not have enough potassium. These were several reasons for potassium deficiency due to  which you might be tired of, but I wanted to emphasize the importance of potassium for energy. If you want to learn more about this, watch these videos.