Hi, let's talk about amazing mucus. I know the topic isn't particularly pleasant, but the importance of mucus is underestimated, but it plays a vital role in the body. Our body produces between one and one and a half liters of mucus every single day. Obviously, we swallow it, most of it is processed, and it covers the mucous membranes located on surfaces inside our body. The total area of ​​these membranes is enormous, 400 square meters. You might ask how this is possible. If you look at how the nasal sinuses are arranged, we'll see many folds. In the intestines, there are so-called villi. This is what they look like if you pull it all out. The area is large, the size of two tennis courts or one large basketball court. The mucous membranes are part of the immune system. All your friendly bacteria live in them, and they help protect the body. Our immune cells are also there, ready to repel invasions. The body constantly has to fight millions of external invaders. The job of the immune system is to prevent them from entering the body because they can cause a lot of harm inside. Friendly bacteria also live in the body. We have a mutually beneficial exchange, they supply us.  beneficial substances, but there are no pathogenic ones. They can only take away nutrients and a network of destruction does nothing good. They are essentially criminals. After all, mucous membranes and the mucus covering them are in the sinuses, in the mouth, in the throat, in the lungs and in the stomach. Your stomach acid is in the range from 1 to 3. This is a very strong acid. Why then does it not burn through the walls of the stomach? Thanks to the protective properties of the mucous membrane, it is only in the intestines, it is in the kidneys, in the genitourinary system. In general, there is a lot of mucus in the body. What is its role? It plays the role of a lubricant and an antimicrobial agent. It contains many different enzymes. Here you can compare it with flypaper. Microbes floating by get stuck in the mucus and certain enzymes dissolve and kill them. This is an excellent way to prevent pathogens from entering the body. That is, mucus is like a viscous quagmire in which the pathogen is imposed. There are also beneficial bacteria there that create a certain environment due to which it is difficult for pathogens to enter the body. And there are also antibodies. They can be compared to  With keys that fit certain locks, they attach themselves to known pathogens and bind them, giving them nothing to do. Therefore, pathogens simply dry out and die. A person has billions of such antibodies created to fight specific microorganisms. I already mentioned that mucus is like flypaper that catches and holds pathogens, more like a web, so the main purpose of mucus is to serve as a barrier to pathogens. You must understand that when your nose is stuffy, not all of it is mucus. There is an inflammatory process, swelling appears, there is a crisis, but the nose is stuffy mainly due to swelling and an inflammatory reaction. There are a couple of ways to thin the mucus. The first is a good antioxidant, n-acetyl cysteine. It is available in supplement form. It helps well if you have excess mucus and need to soften it. But of all the vitamins, the most important for the mucous membrane is vitamin A. If you have a vitamin deficiency, you will have a lot of problems with massive sinuses, allergies, a lot of irritation and inflammation of the mucous membranes. The next most important for  mucous membranes are rich in vitamin D due to its anti-inflammatory properties. There are many diseases of the mucous membranes associated with inflammation. I hope you will now appreciate this amazing thing, mucus.