Let's talk about why people get shorter with age, especially in women, this is more pronounced than in men. Why and how to prevent this is not necessary to wait until you become 57 or even 10 centimeters shorter, then it will be too late, you need to act now, a person can potentially lose from half a centimeter to a centimeter of height every 10 years after 40 and by 70 or 80 become 5-7 centimeters shorter. Why and how can this be prevented? Our intervertebral discs wear out and parts of the spine itself are also lost. There is an opinion that supposedly bones can be built up if you drink a lot of milk. What about cows and horses, they have huge legs, they are strong and support a very large body, but after 6 months they do not drink milk, they eat grass. I have not found a single reliable study that would show that milk strengthens bones. What about calcium with a ring is a problem, especially when women after menopause take it to protect bones, especially calcium carbonate, which increases the risk of a heart attack. I have a video on this topic, watch it, however, minerals are only a small part of the whole picture, we need other minerals. Vitamins, especially magnesium and a trace element called boron, are extremely important to prevent heartburn and osteoporosis. Calcium is also needed and can be obtained from leafy greens and organic dairy products from grass-fed cows. Secondly, fat-soluble vitamins D3 and CO2 are very important in the mobilization and transport of not only calcium but also magnesium. Vitamin D improves calcium absorption in the small intestine by 20 times, and CO2 transports calcium from the blood to the bones. Vitamin K2, unlike K1, activates forks that greatly strengthen bones. Where can I get CO2 from fatty foods? Many people are on a low-fat diet and do not get enough CO2. Vitamin D3 can be obtained from the sun, but with age, the skin absorbs it poorly. To get enough D3, you need to be in the sun for a certain amount of time, exposing enough skin. I recommend taking them as a supplement, especially if you are aging and want to get enough vitamins to avoid I3 and very important low estrogen levels. I am talking about women after menopause when I  There is not enough estrogen to strengthen bones, it is much more difficult, they are destroyed faster than they are strengthened, and there is a deficiency of estrogen, and this usually happens because the adrenal glands, which should protect the ovaries during menopause, do not produce enough estrogen, estrogen is produced by both the ovaries and the adrenal glands, during the transition to menopause with tired adrenal glands, an excess of cortisol occurs and a deficiency of estrogen, hence hot flashes and other problems, excess cortisol can create a catabolic effect and begin to destroy bones, this is one of the reasons why a person can become shorter and 5 little protein you eat little high-quality protein, you will be surprised how many people have a protein deficiency, I am talking about amino acids, at least half of the food rich in protein turns into waste, so when you eat protein, consider its quality, there is another factor, how many essential amino acids there should be in protein, eight essential amino acids, for example, in culoden there are not eight essential amino acids, without these amino acids the body will not be able to build new tissue, the same with branched amino acids, a lack of gastric juice also leads to I'll talk about absorption and intestinal problems. Many problems are associated with protein deficiency. In another video, let's say you don't exercise. Exercise helps prevent bone destruction because you provoke stress in the body, and the body compensates for this by strengthening the stylet. 7, growth hormone, and something called fr1. We'll talk about this on the next slide. This is very important. Growth hormone, as you age, you stop producing growth hormone. Growth hormone is produced by the pituitary gland. The hormone goes to the liver and activates another hormone, fr1, which is very similar in action to growth hormone. With age, both of these hormones become less and less. As you age and don't have these hormones, bones don't grow. What should you do to maximize growth hormone? Lower insulin and sugar levels. Very similar to those. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type. Thanks to such a thing as stress, I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course is waiting for you in the package. Strengthen your immune system, I'll tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best tools for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course. Next, you need to improve your sleep and reduce stress. This will also increase growth hormone. In fact, growth hormone is produced well during sleep during deep delta sleep. Therefore, if you don't sleep, there will be little growth hormone. This is when all the restoration and bone growth occurs. In principle, high-intensity interval training can increase growth hormone by 8 times, but this is if you are seriously involved in training. If you don't train with training, who is not 8 times less? And don't forget that everyone is different, and for some it may be less, for others more, but high-intensity interval training is a good way. The main thing is not to overdo it. Vitamin D is very important for increasing growth hormone. Get in the sun or take it as a supplement. The next point is probably the most powerful growth hormone stimulator: intermittent fasting. Intermittent fasting can increase growth hormone by fourteen to twenty-one times. Intermittent fasting helps rejuvenate, including bones. In general, don't wait until you become 5-7 centimeters shorter, do it.  Something right now for prevention. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.