I recently studied certain adaptogens, these are herbs that improve adaptation to stress. I have studied ashwagandha in depth, it is an amazing herb, but there is another herb that is equally interesting, especially because of its specific action, which I did not really understand until I dived into it all headlong. This herb is called radiola, that is, radiola is an adaptogen. Radiola has a very interesting effect, which I tried. It helps to significantly reduce perceived exertion. I wanted to understand if it deceives our minds so that we think that we are not tired and continue training. If we continue, will the condition of the body worsen? I did not understand this. I will show what I discovered and it is very interesting. So, since radiola is an adaptogen, it counteracts stress, counteracts cough, helps with cough, can help with fatigue. With depression, especially if depression is more like lethargy, and radiola greatly increases endurance during training. Let's look at this graph, it is taken from a study, I will leave a link below. The effect of radiola was compared with a placebo. Here we see simply a digital scale of perceived exertion. What kind of exertion did a person feel on training comparison immediately after taking radiola and placebo without training there is a slight improvement, but look what happened after training after radiola people had more energy less fatigue than after placebo and much more I became interested in why radiola works this way look at this there is a mechanism be or Run there is a recovery mechanism these names if you look at the autonomic nervous system and it works automatically it controls all the functions of the body including the heart glands and everything else the name reflects the functions of the sympathetic system it adapts the body to stress and after stress we need to recover the work of these two mechanisms is evaluated by a device which I will tell you more about soon just you know we can evaluate the mechanism be swans and the recovery mechanism the first is similar to the gas pedal and brake the problem is that sometimes when we have stress or problems with the body we don't know whether I press too hard on the gas is excess stress or I don't have enough recovery with this device You can evaluate these two mechanisms because even if you have poor recovery these are sleep cycles we go through these four sleep cycles from deep sleep to light sleep deep light light sleep is called the REM phase in  In this phase we see and then remember their wavelengths here almost like during wakefulness, but we sleep, this is REM sleep and the REM phases become longer closer to the second half of sleep. REM sleep is controlled more by the sympathetic system, and deep sleep is controlled by the parasympathetic system. Deep sleep is much more important for recharging the body because it restores it after physical damage due to training or anything else. The parasympathetic system is easy to assess by the speed of falling asleep. Do you fall asleep very quickly and immediately plunge into deep sleep or do you need time to fall asleep because the recovery mechanism plunges you into deep sleep? I'm talking about this. Because radiola has a very positive effect on sleep, it helps you fall asleep, especially into deep sleep. One study showed that with radiola, the body needs less sleep to recharge, and this is more interesting. I found three scientific articles about how taking radiola can improve heart rate variability. And it is used to evaluate the autonomic nervous system and now it is clear why. Taking radiola, you can train longer because it improves adaptation and recovery. that naturally endurance increases. So in fact, a person's intolerance to stress decreases, the body works more economically. I found another study that radiola increases glycogen reserves, a fuel reserve, especially for intense exercise, and even increases the level of ATP, an energy source in the body. I'll leave a link below. You know, there is some very interesting data that radiola is a powerful remedy for altitude sickness. What does this mean? It means that it can help. When someone who climbs a mountain feels bad at altitude, because at altitude there is less oxygen, and a person can feel bad if he cannot adapt to this. But it seems that this remedy is well known to climbers. It is very interesting how radiola has such an effect. It was found that it reduces oxygen consumption and accelerates oxygen transfer. It does not block oxygen. Oxygen consumption becomes more economical, and this helps create ATP, an energy source in the body, and also increases the body's ability to transfer oxygen to certain areas. Radiola reduces tissue and organ damage due to hypoxia. What is hypoxia? A lack of oxygen. A lack of oxygen arises, because of this, various symptoms of hypoxia occur. Altitude sickness, and so on. And  This is a huge stress for the body, and radiola counteracts damage due to hypoxia and thanks to it, oxygen works better in the human body and this is quite logical, because why can't we train longer because oxygen runs out and muscles cramp. So, radiola does not deceive the brain so that it perceives the load worse, it increases endurance, making the machine, the recovery tire, the energy machine, the oxygen machine, more economical. It's like pouring more gas into the tank, increasing the recovery reserve and this is quite logical, because damage due to hypoxia becomes less when we take radiola. Even students take it to improve cognitive functions and at the same time be calm. Adaptogens are very interesting, they help adapt to too much stress or little recovery, that is, they are suitable not only for one situation. Radiola is considered a folk medicine, it has been used for thousands of years in the Russian army, it was given to soldiers for fatigue. I studied two more articles about how radiola improves heart rate variability. And this is very important and also reduces pain with angina. What is angina? Heart spasm, due to which, due to lack of oxygen, then  There is a radiola, it seems, that improves the supply of oxygen to the muscles, and according to the latest article, the heart muscle improves after training. So, radiola partially reduces damage to the heart muscle during training due to concomitant hypoxia. In general, I wanted to tell you about this so that you have another tool for improving your training performance. If you want to download a document about 2 natural ways to reduce cortisol, the link is below. You know what superfoods are. These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short, succinct videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. You will also find notes, recipes, and additional materials. Follow the link below and join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.