Hello, in this video we'll talk about the dangers of sodium deficiency, otherwise known as hyponatremia. This is a situation where the sodium level in the blood serum drops sharply, causing a drop in blood pressure. Many different symptoms can even occur, including cerebral edema, swelling of the brain, headaches, nausea, muscle cramps, fainting, falling, loss of appetite, confusion, and even more serious things, including coma, congestive heart failure, and stroke. All of this is due to low sodium. What people try to do is avoid salt. You're constantly told this, but a certain amount of sodium is necessary. We need about 1.2 grams per day, which is about a quarter teaspoon. Of course, sodium comes with chlorine. Salt is part of the composition, so we need from 2.3 to 5.8 grams of salt every day. So, we need a little salt. But I agree that most people consume too much salt hidden in the composition of unhealthy foods. But there are those who limit salt, for example, by taking a theoretical diet. You can download sodium reserves for nausea, bulimia, and excessive sweating, prolonged physical activity.  Without sodium replenishment, harm can be caused by kidney damage, adrenal weakness, and adrenal dysfunction, too. That's why Addison's disease occurs. When a person's adrenal glands are so damaged that a lot of sodium is lost, many problems can occur. The most common cause is excessive drinking of water. Regarding drinking, there is one thing: you should drink when you are thirsty. There is no required amount. Someone once called me on Channel 8. A nutritionist called and started arguing with me. She said that her husband is a doctor, and that you are telling people not to drink so much water, but you need to drink exactly that amount of water. Do you understand that this condition is hyponatremia? The most common problem with electrolyte balance in the United States costs two and a half billion dollars annually to combat it. It can be life-threatening. So, we need enough sodium, and excessive drinking will flush out so much sodium that you will develop a serious deficiency. The point is that you should drink when you are thirsty. If you are thirsty, you need 8 liters of water a day, for God's sake, but forcing yourself to drink water through force can easily harm yourself. I wonder what this element sodium is, one sodium atom.  It attracts twenty-five water molecules, meaning where sodium goes, water follows, so if it's low by 3, and if you drink a lot of water, it washes out the sodium, causing heart problems, swelling, and all sorts of side effects, that's the question I wanted to cover for you. Thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe to the channel and see you in the next video.