Fish is good not only for the brain but also for the eyes. Why, thanks to DE? Okay, but not all fish contain a lot of this acid. I'll tell you which one exactly. Go eat it. Hey, one of the omega-3 fatty acids. It's the main structural component of the brain and retina. It creates synapses, which essentially connect nerve cells. A lack of maidenhair can lead to many problems, but the following deserve special attention: 2. A decrease in cognitive function, which can cause your memory, attention, and concentration to deteriorate. In addition, a lack of maidenhair can negatively affect mood and cause depression. We usually see the abbreviation DEI together with another abbreviation. Maidenhair is a structural component of the brain and retina, an extension of the brain, and eBay is involved in its functioning. So, which foods have the most children? 100 grams of game contain 3,400 milligrams of maidenhair per 100 grams. It ranks first. Atlantic mackerel is second with 1,400 milligrams. Next comes Anchovies 1292, lake salmon or salmon 1115 milligrams, then herring about 1100, 5, Chinook salmon 944, bluefin tuna 890, and veal and brains, your favorite 855 milligrams. Maiden per 100 grams. If you're vegan and don't eat this, you can eat microalgae. There are two cofactors that allow Maiden to act in the brain and eyes: zinc and iodine. So what do you think? Son, we get iodine from seafood. Maiden is also necessary for the construction of rhodopsin. Rhodopsin is a hypersensitive protein in the eye that is mainly used when there is insufficient lighting. For example, if you drive a car at night and have trouble seeing in the dark, you have difficulty adapting to it. You need Maiden, and maybe also vitamin A. By the way, you also need zinc for vitamin A to work. Whose idea is this? So zinc is also important. Thanks for watching. Be sure to remember a few fish from the list to add more Maiden to your diet. If you liked the video, please Subscribe to the channel to not miss new videos