Since when did cholesterol become a disease? High cholesterol is dangerous, right?  LDL is bad cholesterol, it clogs the blood vessels. Low cholesterol is always better.  Statins save lives. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. But here's a question that few people ask. Is low cholesterol safe?  Does this mean you are healthier?  Let's figure it out.  Our body produces 3,000 mg of cholesterol every day.  Why does the body produce so much cholesterol if it causes so much harm?  So, it is dangerous. If you don't have cholesterol in your food, your body creates even more.  At birth, our cholesterol levels are higher.  There is a lot of cholesterol in the brain.  Do you really think that over more than 200,000 years of evolution, our body has been producing poison, which at the same time serves as raw material for cell membranes, hormones, vitamin D and bile salts, participates in the repair of the body, forms the structure of the brain and strengthens the immune system. Cholesterol performs many functions in the body.  Cholesterol is not a poison - it is a building material.  It is essential for the formation of cell membranes.  Without these membranes, there would be no receptors and hormones would not work.  Without membranes, nothing could enter or exit a cell properly .  Without these membranes, the brain and nervous system would not be able to function. Without these membranes, repair of the body would be impossible.  When your doctor tests your cholesterol, he or she measures the level in your blood.  It doesn't look at the cholesterol in the cells where it does all its work. So, cholesterol is sort of packaged into little protein delivery trucks. And the two main types of cholesterol that everyone focuses on are HDL and LDL.  HDL is the truck that takes cholesterol out of your cells and carries it back to your liver where it is processed. APN is the truck that delivers cholesterol into cells. LDL is what is commonly referred to as bad cholesterol, but it is important to understand that there are two types of LDL.  There are small dense LDL particles and there are large floating ones, that is, larger LDL particles.  If you don't do an extended lipid profile, doctors don't look at all of this.  It is the small, dense LDL particles that can penetrate cells and cause inflammation.  and various problems.  But this usually happens when you have high glucose, insulin problems, inflammation, and you're not eating right.  If you're on a low-carb diet and you don't have insulin resistance, you'll have more large, floating LDLs, and they don't get into your blood vessels. Therefore, it is very important to take an extended lipid profile test to find out the ratio of small and large LDL.  After all, if you have high LDL levels, but they are of this type, that is, large LDL, then they are not dangerous.  This is not a pathology and there is nothing to worry about. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. In general, if you have high cholesterol, you need to think about what might be causing it.  Number one. You may be stressed.  After all, one of the types of raw materials or building materials, that is, precursors for the stress hormone cortisol, is cholesterol. You may just need more raw materials for these hormones to cope with stress.  Cholesterol is the raw material for testosterone. Therefore, if you start taking drugs that block cholesterol production, you will have serious problems with your muscles, because the production of testosterone will be blocked, and your muscles need it.  Moreover, statins also block coenzyme Q10.  I explained this in another video.  Link in the description.  I would like to offer you a free document.  My daily actions in the form of a checklist.  I do all this every day and feel 18, even though I'm 60. I give it away for free. There is a link below, go and download.  When cholesterol is low, less bile is produced, so you won't be able to fully digest fats. You won't have enough raw materials for vitamin D. After all, under the influence of sunlight, cholesterol in the skin is converted into vitamin D, and without enough cholesterol, there will be a vitamin D deficiency. And vitamin D is one of the most important vitamins. Low cholesterol causes no less problems, and maybe even more, than high cholesterol.  But almost no one talks about this.  Personally, I have never heard a doctor say: "Your cholesterol is too low, you should raise it."  In fact, high cholesterol is not a disease.  Our body produces cholesterol.  If you have high cholesterol, it's important to understand why it's high.  But this is already the end of the chain of events.  This is a consequence of what happened earlier.  You may not know this, but eating a lot of refined sugar and starch can increase your cholesterol levels because starch is converted into cholesterol.  This is one of the possible underlying causes of high cholesterol.  Triglycerides also increase if the diet contains a lot of sugar and starch. Much more cholesterol is needed in cases of severe inflammation.  If the body needs more repair, cholesterol levels rise.  It's just biochemistry.  And it is very important not to consider cholesterol as a disease. This is what the body produces.  This is a necessary raw material.  And it is important to see the whole picture.  Today, millions and millions of people take statins because they fear that high cholesterol will harm their hearts.  If high cholesterol killed people, older people with high cholesterol would die first.  But this does not happen.  Some of the oldest people have high cholesterol. There is no link between high cholesterol and higher mortality rates.  Low cholesterol in older adults is associated with higher all-cause mortality.  By the way, many people ask what supplements I recommend.  Of course, I am not at all biased about my products.  I produce high-quality supplements. Details at the link in the description.  So, low cholesterol does not mean safety, it does not mean longevity. Lower cholesterol levels are associated with weakened immunity, depression, memory problems, and hormonal problems.  Remember, our brain is mostly fat.  Deprive him of cholesterol and he will suffer.  In winter, cholesterol naturally rises. Maybe because we need to create more vitamin D, and it decreases in the summer. Why?  One theory is that sunlight converts cholesterol into vitamin D. If this is true, then if you don't get much sun and spend all your time indoors, your cholesterol will accumulate because it's not converted into vitamin D, and so on.  So for you it's like eternal winter.  So, we keep asking the wrong question: how to lower cholesterol even more?  And we never ask the right question: is it safe to live with low cholesterol? Cholesterol is not our enemy.  It is something that our body produces, and has done so for a very long time.  Cholesterol is not an enemy, it is not a disease.  In fact, it is protection from many problems. I invite you to a healthy keta program.  and intermittent fasting from Dr. Berg.  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy ket.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.