Well, I don't even know how to react to this. The number of subscribers on my YouTube channel just reached ten million. Thank you all so much for watching my videos for the wonderful comments. By the way, I read most of them, I don't answer all of them because there are a lot of them, but I read a huge number of them, I just want to say thank you. We finally did it. After so many years, it wasn't easy. I think I started in 2008 and it took two, three, or even four years before I got 400 subscribers. I remember at that time I was absolutely delighted. Wow, 400 people are watching my videos, they are subscribed, they are amazing. I was thinking about a room of people, because usually there were about 20 people at my seminars, but when I think about ten million, it inspires awe, it's stunning. I'll say a few words about what I'm doing now. I'm deeply studying the topic of DNA, it's incredibly fascinating. I'm going to talk about DNA and what it all means, about different problems with genes, and explain everything in very simple language. And I'm happy to share this with you here on the channel. These are the plans for this topic. A lot needs to be studied in order to explain it in simple language.  You need to understand this, and this requires a lot of time. I work on something else and I really like it. I decided to grow my own ingredients, or as many ingredients as I can on my farm. This way I can control the quality, I can control the soil microflora, the health of plants, and I will film it all on camera. It will be very exciting, because quality. And in fact, the health of herbs and other plants depends on the microbes in the soil. I will mainly focus on this. I will conduct a lot of research. We will have additional courses this time, and growing plants, but in this short video, I wanted to thank you from the bottom of my heart. I hope that I am helping you. I will continue. I am very grateful to you for your attention and the time you spend. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.