Let's talk about the most dangerous symptom of magnesium deficiency. As you may know, magnesium is involved in more than three hundred biochemical reactions. At least 57% of the population has a magnesium deficiency. Magnesium is involved in the production of energy, the transmission of nerve impulses, the ability of muscles to relax, it helps cope with blood sugar problems, and so on. Magnesium deficiency has no causes. It can be due to a lack of magnesium in food or due to poor food choices due to the consumption of carbohydrates or alcohol. It can also be due to bloating or chronic intestinal inflammation. Phytonutrients also block the absorption of magnesium. The second blocks the absorption of magnesium. Soft water blocks the absorption of magnesium. Studies have shown that soft water seriously increases the risk of a heart attack. And those who drink hard water, for example, spring water, have fewer heart problems. Next on the list are food additives, namely phosphates in various food additives. You could see them in the composition of ultrabasic. The first symptom of magnesium deficiency is the most dangerous symptom. The twelfth is a vessel.  for the sake of muscles eleventh - loss of appetite tenth - nystagmus - this is when the eyes involuntarily dart back and forth ninth - fatigue eighth - high blood pressure seventh - irregular heartbeat sixth - vitamin D deficiency interestingly, the body needs magnesium for vitamin D to work fifth potassium deficiency magnesium is needed for potassium to work in the body fourth migraine third problems with blood sugar second high cortisol levels this affects sleep first the most dangerous symptom of magnesium deficiency is pathological calcification Now I will explain what it is magnesium is a mineral that controls other minerals it does not allow calcium to accumulate in cells if too much calcium accumulates in the cell it self-destructs magnesium also prevents oxidative stress in mitochondria this may be associated with inflammation in the brain which by the way is also the result of calcium accumulation calcium can accumulate in heart tissue and cause a heart attack pathological calcification can also occur in other soft tissues  In tissues, it can be divided into vascular calcification and non-vascular calcification, and both involve the accumulation of calcium where it doesn't belong. Calcium should be in the bones, not in soft tissues. I already said that vitamin K2 helps protect against calcium accumulation in blood vessels, but don't forget about magnesium, it's also important. Pathological calcification is calcification that is not normal. It usually follows inflammation. The main factors that can help cope with it and prevent it are magnesium, vitamin K2, zinc, vitamin D, and boron. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements should be taken, how, and when? In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes, and lists. Everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course on link below L