I want to answer a question regarding probiotics and constipation. Probiotics are usually taken for diarrhea, but rarely for constipation. And taking the wrong probiotics can worsen constipation. What is constipation? Constipation is stagnation of waste in the intestines, mainly the colon, if you have a bowel movement less than three times a week. Personally, I think you need to go at least once a day, or even a couple of times a day, or you need to go to the toilet as many times as you go. Where does all the food go if you don’t get rid of it? In my practice, there have been incredible cases of patients coming to me who went to the toilet. I’m not kidding. Once every two or three weeks, I was amazed. Where does all this food go? It’s a big mystery. I have no idea. Constipation causes hard stools, pain when going to the toilet, and a feeling of incompleteness. Therefore, I recommend taking two specific strains of probiotics for constipation: lactobacilli and bifidobacteria. I do not recommend taking other strains because they can worsen constipation. And also lactobacilli and  Bifidobacteria are good to take for diarrhea. By the way, when taking an antibiotic, you need to take a probiotic for two days to prevent diarrhea because the killed bacteria need to be replaced with beneficial ones. A few more tips for constipation: drink enough fluids first, second, potassium and magnesium are very important for emptying the bowels. Potassium and magnesium stimulate peristalsis, which pushes the colon forward. Where can I get potassium and magnesium from leafy green salads? Some people watch my videos and start eating salads in large quantities, and they develop constipation. This is due to the lack of beneficial bacteria capable of digesting this fiber. In this case, you need to slowly and gradually increase the amount of greens. Potassium and magnesium usually come from leafy greens. If you experience bloating from greens, get potassium and magnesium from electrolyte powder. Diarrhea is a sign of excess magnesium and potassium. The third recommendation is purified bile salts. Bile salts help lubricate the colon, and one of the symptoms of liquid bile salts is diarrhea. Bile salts in the right amount help.  Lubricate the colon and facilitate bowel movements. Vitamin B1 also stimulates peristalsis. So, B1 deficiency can be the cause of constipation. If you've tried everything but the constipation doesn't go away, I recommend a herbal laxative. It's much better to have a bowel movement than to get authenticated if you're constipated. Thanks for watching, and see you soon. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.