I'm often asked and in this video I'll answer what's the best non-toxic product to wash vegetables with and here's my answer: hydrogen peroxide. I'll explain what's so unique about hydrogen peroxide and its chemical formula is H2O2 and it decomposes into water and oxygen. Our body actually produces it. Immune cells, phagocytes, produce hydrogen peroxide as a means of defense. This is one of the types of weapons they use against pathogens. So, the unique feature of hydrogen peroxide is that it can kill microbes and also significantly eliminates chemicals that kill microbes such as insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, and pesticides. CYT means killer. It turns out to be an insect killer, a fungus killer, a weed killer, a pest killer. Thus, hydrogen peroxide is able to destroy and remove chemicals and microbes from food. The problem with all these poisons is that they are fat-soluble, so they are locked in fat cells in organs, nerve tissue, and in the brain. Even if you eat Organic vegetables still use some pesticides and herbicides or fungicides when growing them. They are certainly not that toxic, but sometimes they are still used, so hydrogen peroxide is a very good solution. You can use other means, but I like hydrogen peroxide because it breaks down into water and oxygen. That's what you should know about hydrogen peroxide. It comes in food grade and regular grade. I don't recommend buying regular hydrogen peroxide, the kind that's sold in pharmacies. The problem with it is that they add stabilizers, up to four chemical compounds that help stabilize hydrogen peroxide, but they themselves are toxic and we don't need them in food. So look for food grade. But you also need to remember that hydrogen peroxide is very unstable and has a long shelf life. So if you buy hydrogen peroxide, it will be stored for about six months. Eventually, it will break down into water and oxygen. When you take food grade, sometimes it is sold in a concentration of 35 percent. You need a concentration of 3 percent because 35 is too high a concentration, so you will have to dilute it and then dilute it again before using it for  Washing with a three percent solution will be easier, then you need to dilute the three percent solution in a ratio of a quarter cup of food-grade hydrogen peroxide to about 4 liters of water and soak the vegetables in this solution for about twenty minutes, then they can be dried and put in the refrigerator. Hydrogen peroxide has many uses. You can rinse your mouth with it. It can be used as a remedy for tartar because it destroys biofilms, this is plaque on your teeth. Some use it as a deodorant. And of course, I'm talking about a diluted solution. Do not use a concentrated one, as you can get a burn. This is an excellent disinfectant, for example, for the surface of a counter or tabletop. It helps with ear infections, sore throats, as a rinse, it is used for acne, foot fungus. The list is very long. As I already said, hydrogen peroxide is a very useful substance because when used correctly, it is not at all toxic. Your body itself produces it as a remedy for germs and also for chemicals that kill germs. When someone in the house has problems with insects, for example, with ants, they They contact some local company and they send people who spray everything either inside or outside your home, and many people simply don't think about what these people are doing. They spray their deadly chemicals. They themselves, usually in sealed suits, spray everything inside or outside your home, and these are poisons that can be carcinogenic. Many people do this without even thinking about the consequences. Next time you decide to do this, first find out what they will spray with, then study it. You will really dig up all the information about the substance they spray with and decide whether you need all this in your house. This chemical will kill insects, but it can remain with you for many months before it completely disappears. Your animals will carry it into the house on their fur, and it will get on you. There are good, completely natural and non-toxic products for use against pests in the house or in the garden. Neem oil is a very good product. You can use diluted vinegar. Another option is a solution of castile soap, 1 teaspoon per liter of water gives excellent results. This solution helps dissolve the membranes of microbes. You can also use diatomaceous earth, a very good and non-toxic method.  To get rid of insects around the house, in short, I wanted to tell you about an affordable and inexpensive product for washing vegetables, and since we're talking about all sorts of poisons, you might be interested in a video about how the liver neutralizes or destroys poisons in your body, here it is.