Today I'll tell you which sugar alcohol is the most harmful. First, you need to know that sugar alcohols have nothing to do with alcohol. Remember, these are low-calorie sweeteners that are not fully absorbed. The glycemic index shows the effect of different products on increasing blood sugar levels. The higher the index, the stronger the surge in blood sugar. The lower it is, the less effect on blood sugar levels. Good sweeteners should ideally have a zero glycemic index and tagged with has zero effect. It does not increase blood sugar at all. It can cause severe bloating. Some people don't like it because it gives a feeling of coolness, but it is added to many places. Axel has an index of 13, which is quite low. I like it the most. It is not zero. There is a slight effect. If you use a little, everything will be fine. But when you buy xylitol, make sure it is organic. Enigma sorbitol 9 is quite low and for malt 9, Lockheed 6 mannitol 0. Some doctors use it for glaucoma. They inject it to equalize intracranial pressure. I do not recommend mannitol, although Yandex  and 0 but the most harmful boy his was a chemical index of 52 and regular sugar has 62 and 63, this is very high, the sugar level will increase greatly, so you should not use the cartoon, there are a lot of other so-called rulers that I did not tell, but these are the main ones, I think you already know that you should avoid artificial sweeteners such as aspartame, sold under the names and Qual and Nutra Sweet, or saccharin, aka Sweden Low, or sucralose in captivity, and I think you already know that they are harmful, they create problems with our microflora, microbes, beneficial bacteria in the intestines, cause fluid retention in the body, insulin resistance and many other problems, Steve, a very good sweetener, monk fruit extract, also inulin, is fiber, legs use it, but if you eat too much, it can cause bloating, the balance in finding the ideal sweetener is that it is similar to sugar and does not have an aftertaste, so that it does not affect blood sugar levels and does not create studio gases and trees, different people react differently to different sweeteners, try several and  Find out what suits you. Thank you very much for watching. Many people really need this information. Click the share button and spread the knowledge.