You've been lied to about food for a long time now. See, this is a pill, it weighs 450 mg. What if I told you that it's actually 0 mg? You're looking at it. No, these aren't the droids you're looking for. What will you say I'm crazy? Yes. So, this is a loophole that manufacturers use to hide ingredients in products. It's called the rounding rule. If an ingredient is less than 500 mg per serving, it does n't have to be listed on the label. Let me explain. Let's say a product has less than 500 mg of trans fat per serving. Manufacturers can round it down to zero and write on the packaging that their product is trans fat-free. It's the same trick with rounding. It amazes me how they get away with it because 500 mg is far from zero. If the packaging says the product is sugar-free, fat-free, or sodium-free, you're unlikely to read the ingredients. So, that's another reason to read the ingredients. As for sugar, it can have many names. Sugar has over 200 names. But what really pisses me off is this. So-called random additives are ingredients that perform other functions not related to texture, taste, or preservation. They can extract certain substances from food. They are called solvents. If an ingredient is less than 5% of the finished product, then it is not necessary to indicate it on the packaging. It could be dextrin, which is a carbohydrate and acts like sugar. Maltodextrin's glycemic index can reach 180, while the index of table sugar is 74. That is, it is considered a complex carbohydrate. It acts like sugar. Sometimes it is used as a filler. Hidden maltodextrin is added to many vitamins and you don't know about it. At the end of the video, I will show you how to recognize maltodextrin, but the most dangerous hidden ingredient is Xan. Mer X bars contain Xan residues. Kind bars also contain Xan residues. What's wrong with Dixam? Xan is a solvent. The products I showed contain soy protein isolates. This protein is often added to bars, vegan burgers, and plant-based products with its help. Soybeans are extracted from various substances. Soybeans are soaked in this petrochemical solvent called hexane, which is a gasoline refining product. Some people have been sued for this because they marketed their products as natural. They were sued for their Cleve bars and cereals, which they own. Xane shouldn't be present in natural products, especially in completely organic ones. The Sanitary Service has identified hexane as a neurotoxin. The FDA has also identified it as a hazardous air pollutant. Of course, the soy industry claims that hexane evaporates and carries other contaminants. We don't have a regulatory body that measures how much hexane we get from food. People think they're buying a pure product. But in reality, this isn't true. Manufacturers are avoiding the consequences by listing hexane as an auxiliary agent. Hexane can be an anti-caking agent and a binding agent. Also, many artificial sweeteners contain hidden real sugar and maltodextrin with dextrose, which is synthetic sugar. But there aren't many of them. They don't necessarily have to be listed, so it's a good idea to get a glucometer and check your blood sugar levels afterward.  How did you eat such a product? I would like to check this bar. It says here that it contains 20 g of protein and 1 g of sugar, but it also contains ISO Malta oligosaccharides. They are considered fiber, but they act like sugar. Also, beware of products labeled as no added sugar. You might think, Wow, sugar-free is good. But other ingredients in the composition, although they are not called sugar, may be no different from sugar. Also, beware of products labeled as sugar-free, such as sugar-free gum. The serving size is so small that they can use it to deceive you. If a sugar-free product has a lot of carbohydrates, this is also suspicious. Another trick used is to list maltodextrin as a carbohydrate and not sugar. Although it acts like sugar, you can ultimately write sugar-free. But if you measure it in the blood later, it will be through the roof. Also, beware of solid particles of corn syrup. Ask what these are. Solid particles of corn syrup are corn syrup in solid form. It is the same thing, only in solid form. This is Synthetic sugar from corn. In addition to chewing gum, where, due to its small size, they can hide many ingredients. There is also coffee creamer without sugar and milk. When I travel and stay in hotels, there are always coffee machines there. And they contain unrefrigerated cream from milk. Sometimes it says sugar-free, but I don’t add it to my coffee. Although I drink coffee with cream, I drink coffee without cream because I don’t trust them. I have a question for you. What do you think about the fact that this 450 mg capsule is not included in the overall composition? Let me show you a simple way to determine if a product contains hidden starches like maltodextrin, corn starch, or food starch. See, with this test you can find out if there are carbohydrates in additives or even in food. I will mainly talk about maltodextrin, especially in flavor additives. It works like this. You need iodine. If you mix iodine with starch, the mixture will be blue. Now let’s take regular water. water. As you can see, it doesn’t turn blue. A  in a golden color But if you drop iodine on store-bought bread, it already turns blue. This is the reaction. Now let's take pure maltodextrin and dilute it in water, mix it, add a couple of drops of iodine. And here it is, blue, even purple, this is pure maltodextrin. Now let's take another electrolyte powder from my competitors with a formula similar to mine. Copycats say sugar-free and maltodextrin. Let's dilute it in water and add a couple of iodine. Let's see if there is maltodextrin there. Wow, violet-blue, it looks like there is, this is my electrolyte powder. Let's see if there is maltodextrin or starch in it. I stirred in iodine. The color is not purple, maltodextrin. No, let's add even more iodine. Let's see if the color changes. The answer is no, the color remains golden. This is how you can find hidden maltodextrin and other starches in food supplements. I invite you to the program on healthy ketosis and intermittent fasting from Dr. Berg.  It doesn't matter if you're just starting out or your progress, this program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials will be available. There are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. There are solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. It's an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.