 surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf surf This is a food for a human. It is a food that is able to teach the immune system, and it has a way to teach the microflora of the body. And it can also change and adapt to the environment, depending on what is happening in the environment. It doesn't have any other food that is close to it. It can be used to immune cells, hormones, which can adapt to any time of the day, and also stem cells. It is also a stem cell cell. So, the most important food on Earth is the blood of a human. And this is why it is important to be a mother who is a child with a blood of a human. It is not a part of a human. Now, you are already not a mladen. But I am also going to call the next one for the most important food, and it is suitable for a young people. So this video will be useful. But first I have to give you a base, why blood of a milk so important and what it gives to the body of a human. When I deeply into this topic, I was just surprised by the way that is what is a blood of a milk. It is a super-mощy of the immune system. And this part, half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! Half?! So, if you have a problem with your mother, you have a lot of problems with your mother. Your immune system is much stronger. You have much more risk of autoimmune diseases, and also allergies, because your immune system is stronger. In the bloodstream, there are nutrients that are healed of the body. In the bloodstream, there are certain acids that are not able to be able to feed the baby. They are not able to feed the baby's milk, but his microflora. And this microflora is a good way to protect his body from the immune system. Modern food, especially the детские, even near the bloodstream, are not able to feed the baby's milk in the bloodstream. Another thing, so-called malozi, is a sort of a start-up for the newborn. It seriously protects the immune system. Even when adults take malozi, it can keep the barren of the body, to prevent the liver from the liver. The first thing you can do is to support the channel. And we continue. And now we're talking about the детские smesies. The first thing you can do is to support the baby's milk, which is the first product that the child gets the baby. It's my point of view, it's just a mucor. And now we're talking about the детские smesies. So, the infant smesies are the first ultra-operated product that the child gets the baby. It's my point of view, it's just a mucor. And even if you look at the definition of the food in the словаре, that they eat for the baby's milk, that they can help the baby's milk. And even if you look at the definition of the food in the словаре, that they eat for the support of the life, the growth and восстановation of the skin. The poor-operated smesies are not suitable for this definition. The poor-operated smesies are something like a product of the delivery. It contains a number of calories, calories, protein, vitamins, and, of course, the synthetic products. And in the case of the children's milk, the quality of these calories, these calories, these nutrients, these nutrients. We've recently reported news about that in the Ministry of Health, they are constantly studying the children's and they are checking their children's and they are checking their children's in the way. Some ingredients in the children's are like a gumb that they are as a child's child. And this is a disaster for the children's children, especially for their brain. The journal of the children's children was tested for 41 the most of them were found heavy metals, which the loss was big. So it's one of the reasons why the minister of health care was interested in the issue. The four-operated smesies are, in fact, a chemical product, not a real food. It's a sugar, a sugar, a sugar, a vitamin, a vitamin, a fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, fat, for several reasons. First, the milk is mostly based on the fact that it is not possible. And that's why we were talking about this milk, the milk is dead. There is everything. It's destroyed, the fermented, the immune factors, the skin of the skin. So, here's the second place for the products. Let me explain more. The milk is also made from the milk, and yogurt. However, yogurt and the milk also can be made from the milk, which then fermented bacteria. Let me explain what the milk is. When the milk is added to the milk, the milk is created from the milk, which was not before. Even the milk in the milk can be used to be more than the milk, which are easily used to be used. There are substances that keep the immune system from the reaction to the reaction. There are substances that in the products, there are vitamin C2, which are produced by microorganisms. Think about it. These microorganisms are small factories, which produce for you many different things. And in the meantime, you have a food supply, like lactose. And they give you a lot of benefits, like the same vitamin C2. It helps you to get the calcium from your muscles, from your muscles and your cells, and then send it to your calcium in your bones and your teeth. Now, you have a problem with lactose. They can't be able to get it. We don't have a ferment. However, when the milk is fermented, the microorganisms eat the lactose. So,! In the meantime, the lactose is less than the lactose. The minerals in the lactose is much easier. The minerals in the mineral are much easier than in the normal milk, in the meantime, in the meantime, and the calcium. In other words, the microorganisms bring these minerals into the form, in which the organism they can be easier to to use. You get a probiotic. There are bacteria that not only can be able to be able to to change the environment in our gut. So, some of the microorganisms are in the back of the lungs. They produce nutrients, vitamin B2, B12, folate, biotin. There are many products that help regulate the work of immune system. Fermenting increase the number of the cells, which do not to react too much. This is why almost every ancient civilization the products to be used for thousands of years. I eat every day I eat a a a a a a a a a fat fat fat fat! fat! fat I couldn't drink this fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat tort, and so on. Why not simply take and stop using sugar? The sugar stimulates the hormone of the sugar, but the effect is quickly going, and the brain requires a new dose. It's a closed circle, a pain, a pain, a new dose. We're going to get a new gift, we're going to give a new promise, and it's repeated. It's not a bad thing. It's a biochemistry, and to choose a system. Marathon without sugar is a plan, which helps you get out of the dependency. You get three tasks in a week, they take 15 minutes in a day. It's easy to do, without any theory. You add one change for the other, and you see the result. You're not alone. In the marathon, there are a chat, the discussion and the experts are answering every day. There are?! There are?! There are?! There are?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! There?! Thank you.