Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog.  So, true or false?  The best way to lose weight is to create a calorie deficit, taking in fewer calories than you expend.  Dear viewers, what do you think?  And we'll move on to questions on social networks.  ST from YouTube asks: "What are the main reasons to use my favorite nutritional yeast?" That's what's so interesting about nutritional yeast. Firstly, it is an excellent source of B vitamins. I recommend using unenriched yeast without synthetic vitamins.  Natural B vitamins, such as B1, are sometimes difficult to find, but they are natural in food grains .  I put nutritional yeast in my greens.  Yesterday I added them to a salad with arugula.  They contain all the B vitamins, trace elements and even some amino acids.  I think they help primarily with stress.  A fantastic question from one of our first friends, Seth Downton Strumble.  Thank you, Seis, for staying in touch with us.  If taking B12 by injection, what cofactors should be added for it to be effective?  That's a good question, because B12 requires some cofactors. And the main of these cofactors is magnesium, as well as zinc.  "Well, that's great," asks Sayan Denis Rambla.  What causes itching in the middle of my back?  I wake up every time because of this damn itching, and I can’t even reach the place that itches.  I would guess it's a little closer to the right side.  This means that the liver is a little sluggish, bile salts accumulate in it and they get into the skin.  In general, it is called pruritus.  And to get rid of this, you can take this tea before bed, two capsules in the morning, and it will all go away as if by magic.  Great, because it really is annoying.  Asked by Nectarambla with Nixt 12: How do you recommend treating terrible hemorrhoids that have been causing daily problems for years?  Oh, the best remedy is the root of Collinsonia, because it strengthens the venous system and the liver. So, it's a liver problem.  Strengthen it, do everything for the liver.  This should eventually help, and the coltsfoot root will provide temporary relief .  Great.  Well, our viewers answered the quiz question pretty quickly .  It sounded like this.  True or false?  The best way to lose weight is to create a calorie deficit, taking in fewer calories than you expend. 95% of respondents said it was a lie, while 5% said it was true.  What is the correct answer, dog?  This is exactly what is said in the textbooks.  It says it's true, it's simple math, but it leaves out another small unknown.  After all, everything is not so clear-cut here.  If this were really true , people would simply cut calories and lose weight.  Someone says: "Yes, that's exactly what happens. Over 30 years of practice, I've had 40,000 patients. And you know what? A lot of them cut calories. And at first it worked partly, but then it didn't work. Some didn't lose weight at all on five hundred kilocalories, some trained for 6 hours a day and did n't lose weight at all. And proponents of this point of view will argue with me about all this. But the body, the endocrine system, is very dynamic, and as soon as you start cutting calories, the body begins to adapt in order to maintain homeostasis . So it adapts to a reduction in calories by slightly increasing the efficiency of metabolism, and you think that it begins to slow down. And now the body needs fewer calories to live, and it produces the same amount of energy, because it has adjusted the rate of burning calories. So ask any woman over 50 when stubborn weight began to appear. Usually it appears after a series of diets with cutting  calories. So , I think you can end up harming your metabolism by cutting calories. I think there's a better way. And it has a very important difference. If you don't consider all calories the same, and you cut carbohydrate calories, cut them at the expense of carbohydrates, then insulin will go down and your body will start using its own fat. And now, let's say you've cut calories, but now you're not hungry. You don't feel like eating. Why? You've cut calories. The thing is, you have a lot more calories now, because you get some of your fuel from burning your own fat. Essentially, you're eating your body. Let's say you get 1,500 calories from food and another 500 calories from burning your own fat. That's 2,000 calories total. But the key here is, are you hungry? So, I think it's best to do it this way. If you've cut calories but haven't cut carbs,  You'll probably have cravings and hunger. And if you cut calories by cutting carbs, you'll burn more fat, but your metabolism won't slow down because you have enough fuel. So, for some people, I tell them to cut calories, but not in the traditional sense of cutting calories, and for others, that's not necessary. They can lose a lot of weight by eating moderate calories and simply cutting carbs. It all depends on how many diets you've been on in the past. But for some people, those with severely disrupted metabolisms, cutting carbs isn't enough . They need to cut calories a little, too.