 tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing tracing It is a chronic disease of the brain in 100 million people. And today I will show you what it is. If you understand what it is, please write in the comments. And I will tell you about the most important reason of the brain is a paracetamol. But in general, I will talk about this thing. And it's a huge problem, which many people don't know. So let's talk about the brain. It has more than 500 different functions. And it's not a pain in the brain. It's a pain in the brain. It's a pain in the brain and becomes a bad thing with a whole range of effects. One of the most powerful substances in the brain is a glutathione. It's your protection, your health. It's a system of thejuice of thejuice. So this system does it so that in the brain there was no jira. But everything that you eat, everything that you have to breathe or you put it on the skin, in the skin, in the skin, and then in the brain. Even the cream, which you have put on your hand, through a few minutes, it's gone. Where he goes? He goes. He goes. He goes. He goes. He goes. He goes. He goes. He goes. So, glutathione is one of the key elements for a neutralization of some of the bloodline. But it should be enough. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It's said that you need to awaken the bloodline. It said, why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why It was like that. It was like 20 years ago. It was finick. which is one of the most rich natural sources of fruit. With fruit they made the bones of the bones of the bones. And now people do the same thing with their bones. But the source of fruit is not a finite thing, with high-fructose syrup in the gas, in clopings, in a piece of muesli, yogurt, ketchup, bread. He is in thousands of products. And he quickly makes the bones of the bones of the bones. Let's talk about fruit. What is unique and unique? And what is unique and unique? From the glucose. Unlike glucose, which, by the way, can be used to be used in our cells, metabolism of fruit is only in the blood. And when fruit falls in the blood, it does two things at once. First, it activates the blood. In other words, fruit is a mechanism of production of the blood. It mirrors the blood. It mirrors the blood. It mirrors the blood. It's a process of jingling jira, so it's it's a way to remove the ability to get rid of it. So you can't get rid of it, and you can't get rid of it. So that's how the brain becomes jirna. Friends, now subscribe to the channel and click on the bell, to click all notifications. If you don't choose all notifications, the platform can't forget about new videos. This simple way you will help you to develop the channel. And we continue. And the research shows that it is also dangerous for your brain as alcohol. The difference is that when you give them a Coca-Cola or a gas bottle with a syrup in your body, you don't have any idea that it is also dangerous for your brain as alcohol. But the body is not seen as a way. I know some people say that they are fruits, and they are natural and they don't make the brain jirna. I'm talking about a different way, I'm talking about a fruit, I'm talking about a fruit, which is also a cletat, which is very slowly, I'm talking about a high-fructose, a high-fructose, which is a large amount of fat, which is a huge amount of fat. Of why you said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% said 20% It's why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why why There is something you need to know about this. Fructose is a slow, slow, slow, chronic disease, but highlou is a very fast one. Highlou or Tylenol is the first cause of the number one of the fever in the USA. Fructose is the main cause of chronic disease in the brain. It is a slow, highlou, fast one. You can stay in the reanimation for three days. Of course, in small doses he is not so bad. It is a slow, low, low, low, low. But it is a slow, low, low, low, low, low. It is a slow, low, low, low, low, low. When you take too much of this. First I want to explain how it is affecting your liver. It is a slow, low, low, low. In the end, you cannot neutralize the toxins. And the paracetamol is in the middle of 600 different medications. For example, a person is sick. He is still cold. He is still two tablets from голов. It is a plus 1000 mg. Of course, he used Nyquil, which used to be said. acetaminophen. Он повторяет это каждые 6 часов. К утру безопасная доза уже будет превышена. При этом человек не знает, что выпил в 2 раза больше, или вам прописали викодин или перкосет от боли в спине. Вы не подозреваете, что они уже содержат acetaminophen, и не зная этого, пьёте вместе с ним и парацетамол, потому что у вас сильная боль. Почти половина серьёзных передозировок acetaminophena происходит из-за сочетания лекарств. И вот что хуже всего. Обезболивающее действие acetaminophena имеет предел. Другими словами, увеличение дозы перестаёт снижать боль, а вот печень при этом разрушается. Ранние признаки повреждения печени — тошнота, слабость и рвота, которые можно спутать с гриппом. И вы можете начать пить ещё больше парацетамола, хотя у вас симптомы от его передозировки. 500 человек в год умирает от передозировки парацетамола, а 56 тысяч попадает на больничную койку. Но есть и хорошая новость. Печень — один из немногих органов, который обладает удивительной способностью регенерировать и исцеляться. Первое, что надо сделать — перестать употреблять высокофруктозный кукурузный сироп, а также вообще исключить сахар. Ведь столовый сахар — наполовину фруктоза. Детям давайте фруктозу только в виде цельных фруктов, а не в виде сока. Фруктовый сок — это жидкие конфеты, где полно фруктозы, даже если там нет кукурузного сиропа. Холин — отличное средство, и, между прочим, как вы думаете, где много холина, не считая печени, которую многие не любят, в яичных желтках? Холин оказывает большую помощь печени в том, чтобы выводить из нее жир. Он не дает ей стать жирной. Вы можете убрать жир из печени, если будете принимать холин. Еще одно средство — так называемый NAC. Его используют врачи скорой помощи, когда у человека передозировка парацетамола. Почему? Что он делает? Он повышает уровень глутатиона. Он возвращает телохранителя, которого вы лишились. На вашем месте, если бы мне пришлось принимать парацетамол, я бы принимал его вместе с NAC. Это защитит печень. NAC — это не глутатион, но он дает печени сырье для его производства. Другой источник глутатиона — крестоцветные овощи, брокколи, брюссельская капуста. Микроэлемент селен тоже помогает производить глутатион. Надпочечниковый, щитовидный, яичниковый или печеночный. Какой тип телосложения ваш? От этого зависит причина лишнего веса и вашего плохого самочувствия. Пройдите бесплатный тест, узнайте свой тип телосложения и получите рекомендации по нему. Продолжение следует... Продолжение следует... Продолжение следует... Продолжение следует...