The biggest lie about food, we've been told since childhood that saturated fats and cholesterol are very bad for the heart and that they will kill us. That is, when we eat lard, red meat, butter, they clog the blood vessels. But what is cholesterol? What is saturated fat? There's a lot of confusion. Are they the same thing or different things? I'll explain it very simply. First, let's look at cholesterol. What it is? It's a fat created by the liver and the liver creates this fat so that it can build cell walls or membranes to produce hormones and even vitamin D. Because without cholesterol, vitamin D is not produced. Now let's discuss saturated fat. To put it very simply, it's a fat that remains solid at room temperature, unlike fat that becomes liquid at room temperature. This is unsaturated fat. Take coconut oil, for example, and compare it with pork. Both of these fats are solid at room temperature and both contain saturated fat. What's interesting is that coconut oil has 87% saturated fat, while pork lard only has 47%, not even 50% of saturated fat of all saturated fats the greatest so-called bad effect on cholesterol is myristic acid it turned out a new acid can increase the level of bad cholesterol there is a lot of myristic acid in coconut oil and only 2% of saturated fat in red meat is myristic acid why is saturated fat harmful because it is in coconut oil there is an idea that eating cholesterol increases its level in the body but in fact it has very little effect on cholesterol, if any effect at all the body creates most of it itself people mistakenly think that it is the cholesterol eaten that creates the problem if cholesterol is the most harmful food then why 80% of cholesterol is created by the body it is trying to kill itself no it is trying to survive the body creates 80% of cholesterol If you eat a little more of it the body will create less of it We have a kind of thermostat We eat more cholesterol the body creates less of it We eat less of it the body creates more but sugar definitely increases cholesterol If you eat a lot of sugar and people eat too much of it your engine can't handle it and is forced to store converting it into fat and cholesterol. So you were lied to when they said that these products are harmful. You can eat steak, lard, and butter. There is no big difference between these fats and coconut oil. We discussed the biggest lie, and now let's discuss the biggest truth. Rin becomes bad only when combined with sugar, smoking, and trans fats. They are produced industrially using chemical solvents like Xane, which is found in gasoline. These oils cause severe inflammation. If you combine all this with cholesterol, corrosion begins, holes appear, like in a car and in the body. You have to heal them, and it heals them with cholesterol, calcium, and protein. In essence, the body puts a band-aid on the wound. The problem is that this clogs the blood vessel, and that. It's funny, people think that cholesterol is harmful because it is part of this band-aid, but they don't think that protein is harmful; they don't think that calcium is harmful. This is what needs to be told to people. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss a video.