Today I want to talk about the most dangerous food that you can only encounter. I don’t know if you’ve ever eaten it, but I think it’s the most dangerous food. I’ve studied many factors associated with it and we’ll discuss it. But before we begin, I’d like to know what you consider the most dangerous food for your health. Write about it in the comments under the video. I’m very interested. In the meantime, I’m talking about this food. Try to guess what it’s about and its first feature is that it combines starch and fat, which are subjected to strong heat. This is the first point. Every time you mix starch or other carbohydrates with fat or protein and then heat it up, you create one very interesting chemical compound, the advanced glycation end product, what is it? This is a sticky substance that really gets stuck in the body and clogs various cells and tissues in the eyes, in the brain, in the heart, in the kidneys, and brings these tissues to such a state that they no longer function properly. If you’re interested in blood sugar, you can get tested for glycated hemoglobin A1c, which is exactly what glycated protein is. This test shows how much sugar the blood has been exposed to over the past 3 months, because blood sugar combines with the blood protein hemoglobin, as a result of this reaction, hemoglobin is destroyed and no longer works properly, therefore, the test for glycated hemoglobin shows how much hemoglobin is essentially glued together with sugar, and the more of this hemoglobin you have, the more problems you have, including diabetes. The less of it, the healthier you are. The next ingredient is hydrogenated oils, this can be cottonseed oil or corn oil. Hydrogenated oils are trans fats. Trans fats are very harmful, they turn your cells into a kind of plastic, they make blood vessels more rigid, there is a report that they provoke cancer. In short, they cause a lot of harm, many food manufacturers have already abandoned trans fats. But not everything. The next substance that is in this food, if it is food at all, is called acrylamide. Acrylamide is formed during the deep- frying of certain root vegetables, and I just gave you a hint. At high temperatures, this neurotoxin, acrylamide, is formed, it is associated with disease.  Alzheimer's because it affects neurons, the next ingredient is sugar, and in the US, it is mostly made from GMO beets. This means that in addition to sugar, there is also glyphosate. We know what problems sugar creates. I will not stop there, and it is not even cane sugar. Most often, it is either beet sugar or dextrose, or they can simply add dextrose. This is synthetic sugar. They can also add another type of sugar that is not even classified as sugar, this is maltodextrin. What is surprising about this maltodextrin is that through manipulation, this carbohydrate was turned into a polysaccharide, that is, a substance containing many sugars. This allowed it to be classified as starch and not as sugar. Therefore, on the label, its quantity is indicated not in the sugar column, but in the carbohydrate column. This creates the impression that it has little sugar. But in fact, its glycemic index is extremely high. So, when you eat something with maltodextrin, this product greatly increases blood sugar and causes an increase in insulin.  There are many complications due to high insulin levels. Maltodextrin is made from rice, wheat, or corn. I also want to return to a chemical called glyphosate. It is used as a herbicide for homosexuality. I am happy to discuss Up Ready, but some of them spray especially large amounts of this glyphosate. I won't tell you what crop it is. Guess for yourself, but it is sprayed on oats, legumes, soybeans, and peanuts, as well as on wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, and corn. If you search for information about glyphosate, you will see that it is considered safe for people. However, it is not so safe for microorganisms. So, when it is sprayed on the soil, it kills microorganisms. They have another patent, according to which glyphosate is classified as an antibiotic because it kills microbes. The question is, do we have microorganisms inside our bodies? The answer is yes, they are there, and we depend on them. The answer is yes, we depend. Is it possible that glyphosate somehow changes our microflora? Of course, you will get many biased answers to this question.  but I think that yes, the next ingredient is vegetable oils such as corn, rapeseed, cottonseed, soybean, peanut, safflower or sunflower. Different combinations of these oils can be used, but in any case, they are strongly heated and usually If you buy this food in a restaurant, they fry in the same oil without changing it for weeks and months. The more times this oil is used for deep frying over and over again, the greater the oxidative effect. This means that it acquires strong pro-inflammatory properties, creating a lot of advanced glycation end products that clog everything. It gives you a lot of trans fats and also a lot of sugar, raising insulin. It also contains glyphosate, which is very harmful to the gastrointestinal tract. And finally, this food is usually eaten with ketchup. You've already guessed what we're talking about. These are French fries. But ketchup is healthy, it's made from vegetables. Yes, maybe. Of course, I'm wrong. But it seems to be classified as a vegetable. But in fact, ketchup is essentially a highly functional syrup. It goes to the liver and makes it fatty, and this leads to insulin resistance. Otherwise, it's a very healthy product. They add more sugar and this  Corn syrup, I don't know why I add regular syrup in addition to a high-functional one, whose job it is to make food tastier than it is, which, by the way, also increases insulin. Modified corn starch is used to improve taste sensations, to give food texture. That's why it's added. Ani is also used as a sweetener. Ketchup also contains soybean oil, which is not only estrogenic but also contains dixan. So, we have these French fries, which have advanced glycation end products and fats and tons of not just sugar, but sugars that can significantly increase blood sugar. It's full of glyphosate, the long-term effects of which no one knows anything about. French fries are deep-fried in the same oil, an unknown number of times. There's potato starch, which is like a sponge, absorbs omega-6 fatty acids that provoke inflammation. And of course, all this is sprinkled with salt, probably not sea salt, but regular salt, which usually contains aluminum. Finally, due to strong heating, acrylamide is formed. In general, there are a lot of unhealthy foods, but I think based on what I just said, French fries.  With ketchup, there's no doubt it's the absolute champion, and here's what's really funny: if you search for the most carcinogenic and harmful product, you know what comes up number one in a Google search: red meat. That's what they call the most unhealthy food. What could be further from the truth? There are plenty of other foods that are incredibly unhealthy. And of course, no one eats just French fries. They eat them with hamburgers, along with the BUN and everything else, and wash them down with liquid candy. Sorry, Coke, which also has corn syrup, but enough about the bad stuff. Let's talk about the healthy foods you should switch to. Watch this video.