I will tell you about the absolute cure for cataracts. Cataracts are the main cause of blindness. The main method of treating them is surgery. If there are ways to avoid them, then reverse them. We need to know about them first. I will explain what a cataract is. It is a clouding of the lens of the eye, it becomes opaque, and the cause of this is apparently too much oxidative stress. What does this mean? You could say that it is something like rusting. I grew up in Wisconsin, there is a lot of salt on the roads, it rains a lot, it snows, and cars rust, and oxidation is essentially rusting. There is a lot of oxidation, but not enough antioxidants that protect against oxidation. If this happens in the eyes, the likelihood of developing cataracts increases. What causes oxidation? Mainly sugar. Four main types of tissue suffer from high sugar levels: kidneys, nerves, blood vessels, and eyes. That is, when blood sugar levels are high, its level becomes high in the eyes, and about a third of this sugar turns into sorbitol, and sorbitol accumulates in the lens of the eye. Sorbitol is a sugar alcohol. If it gets into the lens, it is bad. After all, when it  accumulates, it causes inflammation. The so-called glycation, this means that protein binds to sugar, forming something like glue in the lens, and the lens becomes cloudy, and I just learned something very interesting about the lens. At a very early age, the lens of the eye has something like mitochondria, but with age, they usually disappear, and oxygen and nutrients enter the lens from the fluid of the eye, but in the front of the eye, there is a layer one cell thick that contains mitochondria, which means that they are very vulnerable to damage at high sugar levels, and when mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, are damaged, it can create strong oxidation, which causes free radicals, instability, inflammation in the lens. The lens can become opaque, so sorbitol gets not only into the lens but also into the retina. It also gets into the cells that produce myelin in the nerves, and sorbitol attracts a lot of fluid into the eye, increasing the pressure in it, as with  Glaucoma and people with cataracts often also have glaucoma and macular degeneration. They have many different problems. If you develop cataracts, you need to change your diet and immediately eliminate sugar. Now I'll tell you how to reverse this process if it has already begun. First, let's look at a couple of things. I'll explain the meaning of the word carnosine. I'll remove my head so you can see what carnosine is. Carnosine comes from the word carn. What does flesh mean? And this implies meat. The basket molecule works inside the mitochondria, and this is very interesting because El carnosine in the mitochondria maintains its pH. If something becomes more acidic for some reason, it helps maintain the desired pH because acid can damage something. Carnosine also acts as a very powerful antioxidant, and we need more antioxidants. Carnosine also has an anti-inflammatory effect on proteins with sugar and makes them unusable. So, carnosine prevents glycation and also prevents aging. Thus, this molecule is very effective in preventing cataracts and reversing them, but the problem is that this molecule cannot penetrate the eye, so it is necessary.  Add the so -called ethyl to the compound. The ethyl allows the basket to be injected into the eye in the form of drops. It delivers carnosine with its antioxidant anti-carnosine to the eye, which reduces acidity caused by high sugar levels. So this is very important. It is also important for repairing mitochondria. Sugar in the diet usually damages the body. There is an interesting study. The link is below. One article talks about 000 people who received results in the treatment of not only cataracts, but also glaucoma and macular degeneration. Another article talks about how cataracts were reversed. In 5 months, using one percent, you can find a similar product on Amazon. You will only find something for pets, for example, for dogs or horses. It turns out there are many products for the treatment of cataracts in dogs and horses. Why not in humans? I'm curious. So you need to buy this. Not on Amazon. You need to find a good product with good reviews. Make sure it is Citi. Carnosine should be used one or two times three times a day. I also recommend taking zinc because zinc also helps prevent the development of cataracts. Zinc is a powerful antioxidant, and it depends on zinc. It should be enough for the nak to be in the body. In general, I recommend zinc and nak. Of course, zinc is not dropped into the eyes, it is taken orally. The effect can occur quite quickly, depending on the severity, but it may take weeks or months for the cataract to completely disappear. It must be said that there is a limitation. And this remedy may not help you, but it is a fairly safe remedy and it is quite inexpensive. If you can do something fairly safe to remove cataracts without surgery, you should not neglect this. So, below are links to the studies I talked about. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.