Hi, in this video we'll talk about seven foods you should never eat. Number one is orange juice. I'm shocked. The thing is, orange juice is pasteurized, which means it's boiled, destroying all the vitamin C. There's little left, just a sugar solution. It will cause your blood sugar to spike, and then, to get to the bottom of it, there are few nutrients left. Heating kills enzymes and nutrients. Not all of them, but many people understand. It's like drinking a sugar solution. Number two is soy protein isolate. Be sure to read the ingredient list on the products. Many weight loss products and all kinds of protein shakes. I won't point fingers, but vegetarian cutlets are often made from soy protein isolate. This can't be called natural food for humans. It's not properly digested, it has a negative effect on the body, and even irritates the liver, so I would avoid it. High fructose corn syrup is now in many sodas, other drinks, and even salad dressings. Where do they put it? Number four is industrially produced meat with nitrates. When buying bacon,  sausages or meat, make sure there are no nitrates, you have no idea what kind of crap this is, some studies indicate a link between nitrates and cancer, so it's best to avoid them. Eat meat without hormones and additives from grass-fed animals. 5. Milk from industrially produced milk, it's better to buy organic milk or at least without hormones. There is a hormone called bovine somatotropin, which has a negative effect on the human body. I would avoid this. Number six: ready-made frozen dinners. I used to eat those all the time. My wife and store-bought closed pies are of very low quality because they are all jumbled up with protein, starch, and dessert. Combining protein with starch and sugar causes a powerful surge in insulin. The same thing with closed pies. There is dough, pieces of some kind of meat, and various starches, and I think there is also gravy. All of this is not very healthy. Number seven: fruits from third world countries. If the berries or fruits say they are from Mexico, Chile, or other countries, there is a chance that they used DDT there. In America, spraying DDT over gardens is prohibited. It was banned, I think, in the seventies.  In the second year, we can sell it to a third-world country, and as a result, we get it back and eat it. There's research showing that even children get a dose of DDT. That's where it comes from. I'll post a link under the video. Well, that's it. Leave your comments and thank you for watching. Thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe to the channel and see you in the next video.