Hello everyone We are answering the question again asked by Avrin Rich from Ramble I hope I pronounced the name correctly Do you need to soak Brazil nuts and cashews before eating them What do you need to soak them in water soak them for 24 hours or even 12 then dry in the oven on low heat or in a dehydrator So if you eat Brazil nuts it says there Yes good So you don't need to eat a lot of Brazil nuts one Brazil nut is the daily requirement Selenium we don't need too much Selenium So you can eat a small handful in nuts there are enzyme inhibitors and antinutrients but they also have good nutrients I wouldn't waste time soaking them it's a hassle I would eat them so I think you'll be fine I'm not crazy about cashews because they cause a lot of digestive problems and they usually even if they are sprouted And you can buy them roasted I found that almost everyone I know has cashews  causes bloating and they are like cashews are not the best better Nuts are pecans Macadamia or even pistachios are excellent asks Michelle from Utah What is the best way to reverse or stop gray hair I am also very interested in what silen can reduce the amount of hydrogen peroxide in the body and it is like bleach for someone and someone the so-called PA for someone Gray hair goes away if they have enough vitamin D if they have a lot of it this is one of those questions there are certain things that help someone And for someone not I have not found a universal solution for everyone so until I find it then yes And to see what happens perhaps the main thing here is to reduce the stress level to a minimum I am sure that today it is easy to do Steve and don't say well what a life Gabriela Rambla Can a woman restore hormonal balance and fertility if she had anorexia from 9 to 15 years old because of this the levels of estrogen and progesterone became low at 25 I have ALL low estrogen I think you can I think you can If there was  anorexia believe me you also have a lot of problems with your liver and gallbladder so take care of them but if you eat food that is very rich in nutrients you know as I said in one of my recent videos grass fed red meat is very, very rich in nutrients sauerkraut all this will help eliminate the nutrient deficiency caused by this and I think over time fertility will increase Perhaps if I were you I would also increase the level of vitamin E because it is directly related to fertility and other nutrients like folates because their deficiency threatens infertility you need not just one nutrient but the whole complex do this this problem I can tell you a lot on this topic but I don't think it will be interesting to many not everyone has this problem but I think I'll just make a video about it Steve and there we will discuss it great asks rud from Facebook What do you think about alkaline water in nature spring water is slightly alkaline [music] it must be said that mineral water is also alkaline due to the abundance bicarbonates bicarbonates calcium and magnesium But if the slaps did not come patients after they drank such water and its pH was very alkaline water They drank this alkaline water and their urine it should be slightly acidic became very alkaline That is, you change the pH of many areas of the body and we really do not know what this will lead to I am not a supporter of devices for slapping water I know that there are certain devices that saturate water with hydrogen and I really like it and the water becomes alkaline this is a completely different topic So I am not a supporter of alkaline water unless it comes from the ground great And now the quiz question Please doc True or false cancer deprives a person of vitamin D and blocks it that would be terrible let's go back to social networks Laura from Facebook asks does Coca-Cola Zro break fasting Good question Yes, because it contains artificial sweeteners and these artificial sweeteners indirectly change the microflora which indirectly affects insulin and I made a video about artificial  I probably haven't posted the sweetener yet, I'll post it very soon, but yes, I wouldn't drink it. And if you need something low-carb, there are a lot of carbonated drinks, I think they're called Zeya. They're podstevi, they're much better. Excellent. I suggest chatting with someone in person. This time, our friend Andreas from Barcelona called us. Ask one question. Andreas. Hello, thank you for the opportunity to ask. I have a question about intermittent fasting. I started intermittent fasting 4 months ago using a fasting planner, and most of the materials on fasting that I found on the Internet and in other sources mainly talk about how to start, the first steps, and so on. My question is this. For example, I usually don't eat for 18 hours or longer, and my eating window is 6 hours or even less according to this scheme. I eat 5 days a week, that is, 2 days a week I eat more than 6 hours on other days. The question is, is it possible to follow this scheme for a long time? Is it possible to eat like this for many years or even, you know? I just haven't found any information about it anywhere.  Is it possible to follow such a scheme for a long time? Such a dietary scheme, and you have not found it because it is very difficult to conduct long-term controlled studies to prove this. I think I would fast without any plan, but just see how your body reacts. Do this for a while. If it works, then continue, otherwise, start something. I think that as we age, we need less food. After all, we move less. So, eating three times a day and snacking at 60 or 70 years old does not seem reasonable to me. Many people who eat once or twice a day are doing great, while we imitate rare meals. Snacks are more harmful. In general, they should be eliminated. I think most people can easily fast intermittently for a long time, but long-term fasting is a little different. I am currently filming a video about how women need to fast intermittently and for a long time a little differently, taking into account their periods. But I think that intermittent long-term fasting brings great benefits to men, but you should not go to extremes, since you can create problems if you overdo it. But there is one exception. If I were to get sick now. I would probably start a two-week fast today, immediately for 14 days. I wouldn't eat anything, then I would eat maybe once a day for a while, then fast for a week, then 3 days. This is a powerful weapon. Use fasting as a tool to maintain the status quo. Act more gently, and to fix something, be stricter. Also, in one of the future videos, I will talk about intermittent dehydration. This is when you drink water not throughout the day, but at a certain time of the day. You drink the same amount of water, but you benefit from genes that help you survive dehydration. After all, fasting imitates hunger, and dehydration of the body imitates drought, and one accompanies the other, and this stress activates a lot of interesting survival mechanisms, just like training. Excellent. Thank you very much, please. Thank you for the great call and Andreas. I have been on intermittent fasting for 5 years now, and almost always when I break it, and for me it is 5% of the time, I feel lousy. But when I follow it, and this has been for 5 years, I have low blood sugar, a lot of energy, I feel better.  I'm not depressed when I'm disciplined about it. I'm all for intermittent fasting all the time. But otherwise, I'm very undisciplined. Steve, I want to add something. If something works, it's very important not to change it, that's for sure. But if something doesn't work, change it. I'm asking some people why you changed what you were doing. Well, they told me if everything is fine, don't change anything and go back to what worked in the past. It sounds stupidly simple, but it works. Yes, great, I'm convinced that this is true. So, Kelly from Facebook asks. You talked about how healthy it is to drink apple cider vinegar, but are there any downsides? If you drink it every day, no. If you drink it diluted through a straw, and if you don't have gastritis or ulcers, then there's no problem drinking it for a long time. I add it to my water. Apple cider vinegar, acetic acid, can even serve as a source of energy for our body. Apple cider vinegar is good for the intestinal microflora, it lowers blood sugar. Apple cider vinegar brings a lot of benefits. When I don't drink it, I feel a big difference. So, try it and see how you feel. Excellent. Today's question. Vik True or false, cancer deprives a person of vitamin D and blocks it, and 100% of our viewers answered that this is the absolute truth. They are right. Cancer thrives in an environment where there is little vitamin D. Why is it important to talk about this? Because a large percentage of people get cancer or someone from their environment gets cancer. People need to know that when they get cancer, tumors have many different mechanisms that allow them to block vitamin D. I will also release a video on this topic. Why do they do this? Why even with other diseases, with autoimmune diseases, tuberculosis, AIDS, there are mechanisms that block vitamin D. Why? Because the importance of vitamin D is reduced, the risk of cancer is downplayed. I will make a video and tell you literally about twenty different ways how vitamin D can reduce the risk. Some of this data is from the World Health Organization. So this is a fact, but the point is that vitamin D is extremely important for the immune system and for protection against many diseases. If you get cancer and go through all this treatment but forgot about vitamin D in large therapeutic doses, then everything can be very bad.  So it's very useful to know about all of this. Just if you have this big problem of cancer, then it's extremely important to know this information so that you can help yourself.