I want to talk about the very first sign of magnesium deficiency. Did you know that 68% of the US population does not get the required amount of magnesium from food? Not to mention the drugs and junk food that people consume and which deprive them of magnesium? Magnesium is a cofactor that is associated with 350 different enzymes. What is a cofactor? It is something that an enzyme needs to function. I am not only talking about digestive enzymes but also about enzymes of the entire biochemistry of the body, all processes in the body. The peculiarity of magnesium deficiency is that its symptoms are very similar to the symptoms of potassium deficiency, for this reason it is difficult to determine what you have. Magnesium deficiency or potassium deficiency, but the good news is that they are both found in vegetables and greens. If you eat them, you are fine. But before I name the most common symptom, I will tell you about others: cramps and twitching, although they can have other causes, for example, too alkaline pH; cardiac arrhythmia; the heart skips beats due to a lack of magnesium, mainly because magnesium works with calcium; magnesium helps remove excess calcium from  cells, it helps solve the problem of excessively narrowed blood vessels and lowers blood pressure. As for bones, people think that calcium protects against osteoporosis, but magnesium is just as important. Next, osteomalacia is caused by vitamin D deficiency, which is a softening of the bones in adults and children, it is called rickets. So, magnesium is vital for activating vitamin D. You cannot activate vitamin D without magnesium. insulin resistance, I talked about this in many videos, is usually associated with magnesium deficiency. When you get more magnesium, insulin sensitivity increases and it begins to work. And of course, insomnia with magnesium deficiency, you cannot sleep. A lack of magnesium can raise cortisol, and your mood also depends on magnesium. When there is not enough of it, you may feel some depression. So what is the first symptom of magnesium? Fatigue. Many people feel fatigue. Perhaps you even feel it right now. It could simply be due to a lack of magnesium. I will name foods that are high in magnesium, because it is best to get it from food. But first, I want to explain why people get tired when they lack magnesium. Remember, I talked about 350 enzymes associated with magnesium, so here it is. Many of them work in the mitochondria, namely, they are involved in the creation of ATP. ATP is the source of energy with which the body provides all its processes. Magnesium makes possible the work of one thing that I talked about in other videos: the sodium-potassium pump. These small pumps are in every cell and provide energy to the muscles and also the nervous system. This pump creates voltage, because the cell is like a battery. So, it turns out that magnesium gives energy to this pump so that it can work. That is why cramps occur. There is not enough energy for these sodium-potassium pumps to work in the muscles, they turn off and cramps occur. For the same reason, electricity may not pass correctly through the heart pacemaker and its failures lead to arrhythmia or uneven heartbeat. The heart skips beats. There is not enough energy in the form of magnesium for the sodium- potassium pumps to work in the nervous system. Magnesium is also necessary for the production or synthesis of proteins. It is needed to create DNA and RNA, the building blocks for everything in the body. Usually, people do not eat enough of the right foods to prevent magnesium deficiency. Where is the most magnesium found? Leafy greens in vegetables. The advantage of large portions of salad is that it also contains potassium. When you go to a restaurant or at home and you have a small side dish of greens somewhere, one glass is not enough, you need much, much more. For example, if you eat twice a day, eat five glasses twice, or you can eat six glasses of greens and vegetables at once in one sitting. Ideally, it is better to eat even more. Start with a smaller amount. And gradually increase, but the main idea is that people eat too little greens, even my friends. Colleagues and family members, I see how they eat. They don’t eat enough greens. I treat guests during a meal. They usually put a bowl of salad on the table and you take a little on your plate. No, that’s not it. You need a separate bowl of greens and next to the plate. Among my friends, I am the only one who does this. But the point is that I don’t have arrhythmia, I don’t have cramps, and I have a lot of energy because I have enough magnesium. If you can’t or don’t want to eat greens, take a supplement. I I recommend magnesium glycinate. This is a good option. There are three magnesium compounds that I do not recommend: magnesium oxide, magnesium hydroxide, and magnesium carbonate. These may be good laxatives, but I would not drink them for other purposes. They are less well absorbed. A deficiency also occurs due to an excess of refined foods, especially fructose, which is found in sugar and honey. It is highly functional. If you need a good biomarker for magnesium deficiency, get a blood test. NACE reactive protein is a biomarker of inflammation. Its increase usually means that you need more magnesium. Some medications, especially diuretics, can create a magnesium deficiency. Antibiotics and magnesium deficiency are also common. When your microbiome changes for the worse, it is likely for several reasons. Certain things begin to bind to magnesium and block it, and many people develop problems with the musculoskeletal system, such as fibromyalgia, painful trigeminal points, and many muscle problems. Magnesium is needed to relax muscles in the contraction- relaxation cycle. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to  Muscle pain, vision problems, and decreased immunity. How can this be safely fixed? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how, and when? Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes, and lists. Everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.