Let's talk about the best food protein that can only be, what is an egg and we will discuss why this is so today, even some pharmaceutical companies are looking for ways to extract certain proteins and hare and their use in medicines because they have many beneficial properties in eggs, over one and a half thousand unique proteins have been identified and these proteins have a variety of functions including strengthening the immune system, counteracting microbes, fighting inflammation, there are a lot of beneficial properties, so let's start what an egg is. Eggs have a yellow part, a yolk, a white part, all this we call an egg, although in fact the egg is the yolk, the white part of the egg is not an egg, it is food for the egg itself, that is, for the yolk, what is so special about an egg, it is very different from other sources of protein, most other proteins are found in muscle tissue, and the egg is an embryo, and the quality of nutrients is simply incredible, the quality of amino acids in an egg is higher than that of any other protein except breast milk, and the composition of nutrients is probably more diverse than other proteins and they have the highest bioavailability, they contain almost all the fat-soluble vitamins and almost all Water-soluble vitamins except vitamin C, so it's a quality source of protein, of course, unless it's store-bought eggs. And the eggs you should buy are pastured organic eggs. If you can keep your own chickens like I do and eat their eggs, that's best. Or buy eggs at the farmer's market. Because depending on your diet, the nutrient content of eggs varies greatly. If you eat chickens properly, you can get twenty times more vitamin E, five times more vitamin D, 10 times more vitamin A. I talked about vitamin C and bioactives on the forum, specifically A, and even 6 times more selenium. Unfortunately, in 1968, its reputation was ruined because of all the hype about cholesterol, and it took about 50 years to fix that reputation. Finally, in 2015, after all these years, the restriction on eggs related to dietary cholesterol was lifted, and now we can eat eggs again after so many years of being told that eggs are harmful. There are two main points of view on cholesterol. Cholesterol we get from food increases cholesterol levels in the blood, and that  clogs blood vessels, this is one theory, and according to the second theory, cholesterol accumulates as a result or as a consequence of inflammation or damage inside the vessels, since cholesterol is part of the patch that heals the vessel from the inside. Many high-quality studies support the second theory. Let's look at some details. As for protein, many of its types are not converted into proteins in body tissue. Most of the protein is lost as nitrogen or converted into glucose, but about 49 percent of an egg is converted into body tissue. This is practically the maximum possible efficiency among all types of protein except breast milk. As for nutrients, an egg contains absolutely all fat-soluble vitamins, vitamins A, D, K, vitamin K1, and vitamin K2. These are amazing vitamins that help extract calcium from soft tissues. These fat-soluble vitamins are necessary for brain health, for the health of the hormonal system, and for the eyes. Most fat-soluble vitamins are found in the yolks. The yolks also contain all the B vitamins, B1, B2, B3, B5, and B6. Biotin is also present, because even the egg white contains many B vitamins. The yolk is also very rich in minerals, it contains many trace elements and minerals. It contains magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iodine, zinc, and copper. In general, eggs have many minerals. They contain a lot of omega-3 fatty acids that reduce inflammation. Egg yolks are an excellent source of Alina Halen, an antidote to cholesterol. It helps break down cholesterol. Halen promotes brain function and all neurotransmitters. Of all foods, liver ranks first in choline content. Egg yolks are second. If I ask you where there is more protein, egg whites or yolks, you will probably say that the whites, but this is not true. The yolk is 15 percent protein, while egg whites are only 11 percent. This is interesting because there are people who think that egg whites have more protein, but we are wrong. What else is in the yolk? The yolk contains carotenoids. What are they? Carotenoids are a compound that provides additional health benefits, such as lutein and zeaxanthin. They are absolutely essential for the prevention of macular degeneration and for eye health, especially in diabetes. They have many properties that counteract microbes, especially in the intestines. Eggs are an excellent source of antioxidants.  Eggs contain anti-inflammatory proteins and as I already said, they have the property of counteracting cancer and tumors. It also has regulatory properties that help with irritable bowel syndrome, colitis and other intestinal inflammations. Think about this: milk contains colostrum, it strengthens the immunity of a growing calf, and if it is breast milk, then the child's immunity. So, eggs contain their own colostrum for a real chicken, so the egg contains colostrum that is useful for our immune system. There are even interesting proteins that help lower blood pressure. How many eggs a day should you eat? What does it depend on your build and desire to eat eggs? I think somewhere at least 4 eggs every day and sometimes 8, because sometimes I eat eggs both for my first meal and for the second simply because we have very high-quality eggs, because we keep chickens and our chickens lay a lot of eggs, probably 15 or 16 pieces every day. I keep thinking what to do with these eggs if you have doubts about its and  If you still have doubts about 4 eggs a day, watch this video and here's the link.