Today we'll talk about the first sign of kidney disease and this will actually surprise you. The kidneys are a filter that turns blood into urine. This is an amazing organ, because it's not just a passive filter. The kidneys have many functions, they recirculate all the fluid. For example, you drink 8 glasses of water a day. For Europeans, especially for Dennis from Germany, eight glasses of water is about 2 liters. If you drink 8 glasses or 2 liters of liquid a day, the same amount will come out in urine per day. But think about this: the amount of fluid passing through the kidneys per day is 180 liters, which is 760 glasses of liquid. So, a lot of recirculation occurs in the kidneys. This is a magical recirculator, because the kidneys recirculate protein, clients, hormones, and 99 percent of all the water we drink. So, this magical filter with different sensors regulates the amount of fluid in the body, helps convert vitamin D into its active form, regulates blood pressure and hydration in the body, removes toxins and drugs from the body. If you really appreciate what the nephron filter in the kidneys does for you, you will twice Think before you eat junk food or consume something that can harm your kidneys, because this is an amazing amazing organ. A person has on average from a million to one and a half million of these little filters called nephrons. When kidney disease begins, the number of nephrons begins to decrease and eventually a person may have half of the nephrons left. Nephrons become fewer with age, so the ability to perform magic decreases. Filtration is one main, most common cause of kidney disease, as well as end-stage renal failure, and it is associated with diabetes. This is the so-called diabetic nephropathy. Nephrosis means kidney pathosis means disease. So, it is the high level of glucose in the blood that is the most common cause of kidney destruction, and here is the mechanism of destruction of this filter. Excess sugar in the blood affects protein enzymes and other protein structures, and a reaction called glycation begins. A transformation occurs when sugar comes into contact with protein. Sugar destroys proteins so much that they become inaccessible in medicine. This is called advanced glycation end products. When there are a lot of them in the body, these filters no longer work. They are completely clogged with proteins stuck in them and cannot  The main indicator in the diagnosis of kidney disease is the amount of protein in the urine. After all, if protein recirculation decreases, the protein is excreted in the urine and is not absorbed by the body. Protein in the urine is a sign of kidney damage to this filter. Also, since protein is excreted in the urine, less of it remains in the blood. The main symptom of this is swelling, it can be everywhere. The body is simply filled with fluid. The face will be swollen, fluid will be in the arms, legs, and everywhere. This is what is interesting about kidney disease. After the onset of the disease, sometimes 10 years pass before a person notices the first symptom. And now I will tell you the first symptom that occurs with kidney disease. This is necturia. What is necturia? This is a condition when a person gets up to urinate at night, usually several times, and it is very difficult to hold urine throughout the night. This is one of the first signs that something is happening with the kidneys, and this is very logical because most diabetics also have this symptom. Because with diabetes, the problem usually becomes noticeable after 10 years, so kidney problems go hand in hand with diabetes, and with diabetes, four types of tissue suffer. The first is the kidneys.  What we're talking about now is the eyes, the next type of tissue is the nervous system and blood vessels. So, with kidney problems, there is protein in the urine and also a reduced filtration rate. The filtering mechanism no longer works, so a lot remains in the body, then a person loses a lot of nutrients, including amino acids, and severe swelling occurs. But because of this huge 10-year delay, it's difficult to see the connection between cause and effect. But I found that the most successful way to get rid of nexuria is simply to normalize blood sugar. Let's discuss this in medical circles. They will tell you that diabetes is essentially poor blood sugar control. The key word here is control, or as doctors also call it, management. They manage complications in diabetes, they manage the symptoms of diabetes. This is quite interesting. They manage complications and symptoms. But what about fixing it? They don't do that. Why not manage what the patient puts in their mouth? Why not control this? I'm talking about sugar. The average person in the US eats an incredible amount of sugar and other carbohydrates, especially when you consider all the hidden carbohydrates like bread, pasta, cereal, crackers - that's a huge amount of sugar and  It is quite obvious why there are diabetics in the world because of the excess of carbohydrates in the diet, but the American Diabetes Association still does not tell people how much to reduce carbohydrate intake. They know that there is a connection and carbohydrates need to be cut back, that's great, but they do not say how much. They have a lot of ways to manage blood sugar and complications. What complications include fluid retention, diuretics, high cholesterol, statins, and high blood pressure. There is also medication for managing blood sugar, and metformin, insulin, and other diabetes medications are available for managing blood sugar. But my question is this: When you manage blood sugar, remove it from the blood. Where does it go? It just evaporates, as if by magic, it just disappears. It simply moves from one place in the body to another. It moves from the blood, into the cells, into the liver, turning into fat around the organs. What about complications from the medications you use to manage diabetes complications? This is simply ridiculous. If you have kidney problems or want to avoid them, or you get up to urinate at night, there are several things you can do to fix this. The first and most obvious is to lower your sugar levels.  in the blood for this you need to switch to a ketogenic diet, the second intermittent fasting, because the less often you eat, the less frequent insulin surges, the less insulin resistance and the further you are from diabetes, this is closely related. I recommend the type of intermittent fasting that I now follow myself, namely one and a half meals a day. What does this mean? A large meal a little after noon. Or exactly at noon, a protein product with fat. Later, I like to do this at 3:00, you can probably do it at 6:00 pm. Let's call it a second meal or half-meal, and you don't need to eat a lot of protein and fat at this meal. We eat carbohydrates in the form of vegetables. So, personally, at 3 o'clock, at the latest at 3:30, I eat a large portion of greens, this is somewhere around 7-10 cups of greens, usually 10, you will probably have 7, this is a lot of greens. It is easy to eat and I don't eat anything else. So, I eat protein and fat at noon. And at three o'clock I eat a lot of greens, it is easier to eat greens. After all,  I can take my time I add greens different things definitely olive oil sometimes apple cider vinegar sometimes balsamic I add all sorts of seeds nuts But mostly it's greens I eat different greens I like arugula sometimes cabbage but I don't eat 7-10 cups of dense vegetables you can eat much less talking about 7-10 cups I mean lettuce it seems quite effective I like it because fasting turns out to be very long am I hungry when I eat these greens no because I ate Just a couple of hours before that so I fast for about 21 hours I want to say a couple of important things about greens in connection with what we are talking about now people always say Yes there are vitamins and minerals in greens but there is something else very important in terms of complications of kidney disease and complications of diabetes and these are phytonutrients phytonutrients have many wonderful properties but their important property is the ability to protect the kidneys they protect the kidneys from oxidation and complications of high blood sugar if you take two people with  diabetes and one of them is put on a diet poor in phytonutrients and the other on a diet rich in phytonutrients, then both will still have diabetes, but the one who receives phytonutrients will have much fewer complications, apparently phytonutrients. And they have antioxidant properties that help reduce oxidation and largely neutralize the harmful effects of excess glucose in the blood. That's why you need to eat a large portion of greens every day. Yes, greens contain magnesium, vitamin C, potassium, by the way, they are very important for protecting the kidneys. Of course, I do not recommend this. This is in the end stage of kidney disease, this should be discussed with a doctor, but I say from food. So, phytonutrients are definitely needed. Next, I want to tell you about one remedy that you can buy. This is a very powerful remedy. A lot of research has been devoted to it. This is benfathiomine. This is a fat-soluble vitamin B1 and it is extremely effective in reducing complications of diabetes. It reduces glycation, oxidative stress, and protects cells. Therefore, benfathiomine also helps well with peripheral myopathy, which is nerve damage in the soles of the feet, as well as with problems with eyes, the so-called diabetic retinopathy. But it also greatly reduces the complication of diabetic nephropathy, which is kidney damage. You need to take one tablet, usually 300 mg 4 times a day. You can add something else if you want. This is not necessary if you follow all my other advice, but alpha-lipoic acid is another powerful tool for reducing these complications. In addition, you can use turmeric. Turmeric contains the phytonutrient curcumin. This is an extremely powerful tool that reduces the symptoms and complications of diabetes. You need to reduce carbohydrates and eliminate the root cause of the problem. Therefore, theta with intermittent fasting is necessary, but at the same time, you can get a lot of benefit by reducing the harmful effects of high blood sugar. As an experiment, if you do not want to reduce carbohydrates, you may want to see for yourself how these products work. Use them. It is impossible for you to even not need medications or you will need them less. Just discuss this about nothing. But this can definitely help. I just wanted to open this topic and tell you what to do if you have this problem. If you often get up to urinate at night, then I recommend these  You might say it's impossible for me to have diabetes. I check my sugar. In fact, you need to get a Homa and R test. It measures insulin resistance, which develops long before diabetes. The point is that there is a connection between the carbohydrates you eat and necturia. When you get up to go to the bathroom at night, I've put together some very simple videos for you so you have the right plan for what you need to eat and how to fast properly. Watch them. Here they are.