Let's talk about Sjogren's syndrome and a very good protocol. I'll show you what I would do if I had Sjogren's syndrome. This syndrome is very common and it affects many areas. People confuse it with dry eyes or dry mouth. But this is an autoimmune disease. Dry mouth can lead to tooth decay, cracked lips, and difficulty swallowing. But Sjogren's syndrome affects many mucous membranes. And there are many of them throughout the body. So it can affect the sinuses, digestive tract, it can also affect the lungs, kidneys, and nervous system. This is a chronic disease that usually worsens over time. But I'll show you how to achieve remission in people with Sjogren's syndrome. Lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and other autoimmune diseases are also very common. The disease is accompanied by pain, fatigue, and there is also a high risk of lymphoma, a tumor in the lymphatic system. The likelihood of developing this syndrome is 9 times higher in women. Even genes are involved. This is the so-called polymorphism. This is essentially a defect in the genes. It can be activated by certain environmental factors.  environment, but such a gene does not necessarily lead to Sjogren's syndrome, it only makes a person prone to this syndrome in the presence of a certain stress factor in the environment, this stress factor is usually a virus. I'm talking about the Epstein-Barr virus and cytomegalovirus, both of these viruses are latent. This means that after infection, remission occurs and the problem goes away, but later the disease can come out of remission. For example, if you had chickenpox, later you get shingles, that is, it is not there, it depends on stress. I have seen how the Epstein-Barr virus comes out of remission, which is probably caused by something big, for example, the loss of a loved one. I saw this very often when I was practicing, and then it changes the immune system so much that an autoimmune disease occurs. We will discuss this further. The point is that many of these conditions are caused by different factors, and viruses are the main one. But usually there is some kind of stress behind this. That's why Sjogren's syndrome sometimes goes into remission, it just seems to disappear and people do not know why. This is probably due to the person's stress level; he simply eliminated the stress and his condition is much  The underlying mechanism has improved. There are many links below if you need more information. A very specific problem in the immune system has been identified. I won't go into detail. You just need to know that two types of cells are involved: the T-helper 17. This cell usually attacks pathogens, viruses, bacteria, and fungi. But for some reason, the balance is disrupted. This cell gets out of control and begins to attack the tissues of its own body. It was discovered that we have too many TH-17 cells; their ratio with other cells, the T-regulatory cells, is disrupted. These cells provide tolerance to their own and protect our tissues. But from the side of the immune system, they do not allow fire on their own. They help the body distinguish its cells from pathogens. The perfect storm seems to be caused by this: there are more TH-17 cells and fewer T-regulatory cells. Due to the imbalance of this part of the immune system, an autoimmune reaction occurs, followed by severe inflammation. Associated damage. This imbalance has been detected in clypsoriasis, lupus, and Shagreen's syndrome. The goal of the protocol that I will describe is to restore balance.  This part of the immune system. Looking at this data, I personally think that this is what a lot says about the fact that this problem may originate in the intestines. Because the mucous membrane of the colon contains both TH-17 cells and T regulatory cells, and the surface area of ​​the gastrointestinal tract is simply enormous if you stretch the gastrointestinal tract. And this is essentially the body's internal protective barrier. If you stretch it, it will take up an area the size of a tennis court, and this surface is constantly exposed to many viruses, bacteria, unhealthy foods, and things that cause inflammation. A lot is happening here. If you have any autoimmune disease or any inflammation, you need to adjust your diet and not eat anything that causes inflammation in the intestines. I won't say anything more about this. I won't discuss the diet here, but I'll go straight to the protocol. The protocol includes natural remedies tested in serious research. They do a couple of things. Firstly, they restore the balance of TH-17 cells and T regulatory cells. So, the first remedy is called annual wormwood. It contains one active substance, it is well researched, and it is very useful for immunity, especially for this problem. This is artemisinin in this remedy. There is another function, it suppresses viruses in particular. So it helps in both areas. As for the doses of this. What I will talk about, I would simply follow the instructions for use. The next remedy is rather food. Broccoli sprouts can be taken with sulforaphane in the form of a dietary supplement, but it is better to eat broccoli sprouts simply by adding them to salads. A little every day, sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts also helps balance T-cells and also reduce the level of citrins, that is, a series of inflammatory reactions that occur after an imbalance. It also reduces oxidative stress against viruses. The next remedy is not a dietary supplement, it is food, namely, sauerkraut. You are probably now thinking how sauerkraut will help with an autoimmune disorder. Here is another amazing thing: microbes in the intestines control cells, including T-regulatory cells. And thus, they do not allow viruses to create problems and do not allow them to invade the intestinal mucosa. So I recommend eating a little sauerkraut every day. As a probiotic, you will also get vitamin C and good fiber to feed the microflora. You can take probiotics, but sauerkraut is one of the best probiotics. Almost all people with Sjogren's syndrome have dysbiosis, they have problems inside the intestines. Perhaps this is one of the main prerequisites for the development of an autoimmune disease. If you focus on creating a variety of microflora in the intestines, this may immediately cause remission of the disease. There are two more powerful vitamins that can help restore the balance of T-cells: vitamin D and vitamin A, but I'm not talking about carotene, but retinol. Both of these vitamins have a powerful effect that normalizes the balance of tablets. I recommend taking 30 thousand IU of vitamin D every day. By the way, it will also reduce inflammation. But vitamin AI recommend getting from cod liver oil. Cod liver oil is good. Also, it contains not only the nutrients needed to counteract dry eyes and mouth, but cod liver also contains vitamin A and vitamin D. This is one of the best fats for this disease, because in  There are so many factors that help reduce the side effects of this problem. So, cod liver oil in particular also helps stimulate the glands that secrete tears. I also recommend another very important remedy, black currant seed oil. It contains gamma-linolenic fatty acid (GLC), which, in combination with cod liver oil, stimulates the tear ducts to produce more tears. I advise putting coconut oil in your mouth before bed to avoid dryness. You can even lubricate your nostrils with coconut oil on a cotton swab to avoid dryness, especially with cracks. And the last remedy is called Cordyceps. It can correct the functioning of the salivary glands. This will increase saliva production. It also helps correct the balance of the immune system. So, apply this data and then please write in the comments under this video about your results. The next most important video is my video about how vitamin D helps with autoimmune diseases in general. Look at it.