Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz, and then we'll chat with some people in person.  Please, dog.  True or false?  If you have kidney disease and protein is found in your urine, the remedy is to reduce protein in your diet.  Is this true or false?  We are waiting for your answers, friends.  Milisa, you can answer too, but first ask Dr. Berg one question. Thank you, Dr. Berg. I have been postmenopausal for about 8 years. I recently had a total hysterectomy. I've been on keto for many years.  I wanted to know what the difference was considering that I no longer have eggs in my uterus, even though I have been postmenopausal for about 8 years.   I just want to understand what to pay attention to.   Do you feel better or worse?  After the dysentery, I actually felt great throughout the whole thing.  I am quite healthy. There are strange things.  My face is very red.  I have a lot of pimples on my forehead and everything. I didn't have any hot flashes or anything like that.   I attention to while I'm recovering and all that . Clear.  And the reason the doctors did it was because you had a huge fibroid tumor. Clear?  So, I would suggest a couple of things. Doctors don't explain the cause of fibroids, but there is an excellent cure for it.  Even though you no longer have fibroids, the fact that you had them is a clue that you need to increase your vitamin D levels. After all, high doses of vitamin D3, 20-30,000 vitamin D3 with magnesium and other cofactors, would reduce fibroids.  This means that you may still be deficient.  This is the first thing.  And secondly, they will tell you that after menopause, the uterus and ovaries shut down completely, 100%, and do nothing.  Well, they do do some things a little bit .  So what happens now?  The adrenal glands do all the work .  Maybe that's why something is happening to the skin. So, if I were you, I would continue to strengthen your adrenal glands in every way possible.  Maybe take ashwagandha or something like that. If you want to improve your results, there are a couple of great products from Standard Process.  I have recommended them before. I'm not associated with that company anymore, but they have a couple of products that are useful if you have missing organs.  One product is Avatrofin and the other is Utrofin.  One of them supports these two organs.  It's like it strengthens the organs you don't have. Oh, yes.  So, I just see what I said.  Yes, I understand. Fine. Yeah, I just see women taking them.  And they seem to be doing better, as if they have regained the function of organs they don't have.  I don't know why, but it works.  Take one capsule before bed and see if it helps.  But I wouldn't accept them. I would take them separately along with vitamin D and see if the skin clears up.  Maybe you don't need them. Clear.  Thanks a lot. Please.  Great call, Melissa. We hope this helps you.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Now let's answer questions on social networks. Although, wait a minute, the viewers have already answered the quiz question.  Wow.  Yes, milis, you didn’t have time to read it, but the question sounded like this.  True or false?  If you have kidney disease and protein is found in your urine, the remedy is to reduce protein in your diet.  98% answered that this is a lie, and 2% consider it true. So, there are two, perhaps I should explain.  It was not necessarily late-stage kidney disease, such as stage 5.  In this case, the kidneys are damaged so much that you need to be very careful about what you eat and take. But here's what you need to know.  If you have stage one, two, or even three, your kidneys are damaged and you are losing protein. there is a very, very severe protein deficiency, but you are advised to avoid protein.  I don't know why.  After all, you already have a protein deficiency.  And when there is a protein deficiency in the blood, you begin to swell.  Swelling appears. And so people with kidney disease have swollen feet, and they are advised not to eat a lot of protein. I think, I think if you eat more protein, you might not be deficient.  A protein deficiency is very dangerous, and I'm not saying to do this at stage five, but it's worth asking the question: is it necessary to cut protein even more if there is already a deficiency? I don't think so.  So I would start eating more protein and see if that helps.  And you will understand it.  In your feet and shins, the swelling may decrease. This applies to diabetics, because their kidneys are severely damaged. They are so deficient in protein that their muscles begin to break down.  They have sarcopenia, which is a muscle problem. Oh well.  Food for thought, Steve. Great.  And now answers to questions on social networks.  There are always a lot of interesting nicknames on the Rambla.  And here is one of them.   A Swiss man writes: 1291. What do you think about the DHA problem for a 57-year-old man?  Does it help or is it useless?  I am on a low-carb diet, exercise regularly, and my weight is within normal limits. What can we do for the Swiss? It is very useful if you need it. You can take a paid test and find out if you have a deficiency. It is a precursor for some hormones. So you can either take a paid test or buy a very expensive bottle of DHA and take it little by little.  Women should not take a lot of it, as it may increase testosterone levels more than necessary.  Men will have no problems . DGA is needed by both sexes.  Many people have a deficiency of it and don’t know it.  You can buy it, it's very expensive, and try it.  If you don't see any changes, then you probably don't need it. You can take other precursors and all that. I made a video about them.  You can watch them and find out more.  I think we'll leave it at that to avoid confusing you further