What is the most common cause of hair loss? If you're thinking about androgenic alopecia, you're right. What is androgenic alopecia? It's baldness in men, a receding hairline, and a bald spot on the crown of the head. In women, it's a little different: hair thinning all over the head. This is, by the way, a very common problem. It occurs in 50-80 percent of men and 25-50 percent of women of different ages. Hair loss medications have a couple of mechanisms of action. One drug increases the saturation of the scalp with oxygen and nutrients and nitric oxide, which improves blood circulation. But most hair loss medications work by inhibiting a specific enzyme called 5-alpha reductase inhibitor (5-alpha reductase inhibitor). What does this enzyme do? It helps convert testosterone into a more potent form called DHT. When there's an excess of DHT in the body, the dermis around the hair follicles thickens, causing them to suffocate. Fibrosis develops, scarring the skin around the hair follicles, and calcification.  Hair follicles, and this is all because of DDT, and DHT is a type of androgen. The paradox with androgens is that they usually increase hair growth on the body, but not on the head. On the contrary, they cause hair loss on the crown of the head, and this is strange. I will tell you more about this enzyme, 5 alpha reductase. During castration, androgen levels decrease by 95 percent, and hair loss stops. Androgenetic alopecia stops. Another point that improves is almost always an increase in DDT in the scalp. With a deficiency of the enzyme 5 alpha reductase, hair loss is not observed. It is obvious that this enzyme is a key factor in hair loss. Hence the question: what stimulates this enzyme? Maybe insulin is the most important factor in insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, excess insulin, and other disorders associated with excess insulin, such as polycystic ovary syndrome, obesity, and metabolic syndrome. All of them are associated with androgenetic alopecia. Also, low progesterone levels can increase this enzyme in women who have low progesterone.  In menopause, and so based on all this, what should I do? Switch to a low-carb diet with intermittent fasting. You can take natural remedies to suppress this enzyme. Medicinal inhibitors of this enzyme have many side effects, while natural remedies have fewer. One of the most effective is serena, and it is an excellent inhibitor of this enzyme. Zinc suppresses this enzyme in children. Omega-3 fatty acids inhibit this enzyme, and a heating pad is another fatty acid that helps suppress this enzyme. Thank you for watching, and until next time, I invite you to my course on health diagnostics by hair. Dry, brittle hair or oily hair and dandruff, hair loss, baldness, premature graying are signals that indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.