I want to tell you how to get yourself out of any stressful situation extremely quickly. This can also be used if you can't sleep at night. Or if you're trying to sleep but you're too stressed, I'll show you a method that costs nothing. It's very simple and fast, and it brings a lot of benefits. This is the fastest method I know to calm down. It can even increase DHA levels. This is a precursor to all hormones. It has been almost proven that this method strengthens the immune system and increases oxytocin levels, which is also called the love hormone. This is a hormone that helps you get closer to people. It is a powerful hormone of pleasure. This method can lower blood pressure, heart rate, and enhance so-called alpha waves. Brain waves that increase alertness make you calm and completely relaxed, and it increases the level of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin. In fact, this brings the parasympathetic nervous system into a state of balance. The parasympathetic system is part of the autonomic nervous system. It is called the rest and digestion system. The body's transition to rest and digestion mode calms the sympathetic nervous system. This is taken from a recently published book that I'm reading.  Cardiac coherence 365 I will explain what cardiac coherence means. This is a fancy term that means synchronizing the heart with emotions, the heart with the brain. There is a lot of scientific data behind this, but in essence it is a simple breathing technique. It leads to a state of peace and tranquility that helps you sleep, rest, and brings many other benefits. So, 3 6 5, three means three times a day, six means breathing six times a minute, that is, we slow down our breathing a little, and five means 5 minutes. In fact, this is a certain breathing pattern. We take six breaths in and out per minute, and we breathe like this for 5 minutes, three times a day. This is such a simple method. According to research, this breathing pattern creates a kind of wave that has an amazing effect on the nervous system. You probably already know this. This is from my videos, but here it is presented very simply, and I like the scientific approach in the book. And of course, I will add something else that is quite logical. So, you need to control your breathing. Your breathing should be deep and even. You need to breathe with your stomach, that is, we push it out and remove it so that your breathing is very deep. Diaphragmatic, but I will add to this. breathe a little away from yourself through your nose then you will have a little more CO2 and the blood will give off more oxygen What's interesting We need CO2 so that oxygen penetrates deeper into the cells So it seems very simple but then the question arises does it really work this way but how many times for some reason have I woken up in the middle of the night and started thinking about something or I was stressed out and then I started breathing slowing down my breathing Inhale exhale this immediately pulled me out of stress and allowed me to fall asleep again also when you go to bed in the evening you can breathe like this breathe very evenly inhale-exhale six cycles per minute this can help you fall asleep there is a device that measures heart rate variability I hope I will have more data about it when you watch this and I will give a link in fact it measures heart rate variability and it is closely related to these two systems sympathetic and parasympathetic that is, it is a tool that allows you to assess your condition and then you can improve it over time and this breathing technique is one of the ways to improve heart rate variability which is closely related to the reserve  For your health and fitness, I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be a cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also provide a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.