Hi, I'm Dr. Berg.  Today we will talk about the most dangerous diseases that have almost no symptoms.  If you hit your finger with a hammer, it will hurt, and that will be an immediate symptom.  But many of the symptoms I will talk about do not appear immediately.  For example, there are no symptoms of high blood pressure for 10-20 years. Symptoms of type 2 diabetes appear only after 15-20 years. liver disease.  Sometimes 3/4 of the liver may be damaged before symptoms appear.  With kidney disease, things are even more dramatic.  The body can live and work with one kidney, which will filter the blood.  The organism cannot survive without all its organs.  This is incredible.  Often the kidneys can be damaged by 90%.  Before you experience symptoms of end-stage kidney disease.  What about atherosclerosis, plaques in the arteries?  You won't notice any symptoms until your artery is 70 percent clogged. Many people who go to the doctor for a checkup find clogged arteries, but they don't have any symptoms to indicate it.  What about colon cancer? I have known many people who were diagnosed with stage 4 rectal cancer and had no symptoms at all.  And it 's amazing that people go to the doctor to turn off the warning signs, that is, the symptoms, to get rid of the symptoms.  They do not look for the root cause of the symptoms.  They give you pills to treat the symptoms so you don't feel them.  And when late symptoms appear, people either ignore them or consider them a common age-related problem.  General fatigue, stiffness, hypertension.  Who is n't taking blood pressure pills these days? Nighttime trips to the bathroom, regular belly fat, regular sugar cravings, or constant hunger.  And now comes the most interesting part.  Original Dr. Berg dietary supplements are not available on OzOne or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. I'll also tell you about four habits that will help eliminate the root cause of all these problems.  Let's talk about what is the root cause of type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure. Compensation occurs in the body.  There is no oxygen somewhere in the body.  The body compensates for this by increasing pressure so that more nutrients and oxygen can reach that part of it.  This can best be seen using the example of type 2 diabetes.  Take a look at this.  What is your blood sugar level?  This is normal.  This is 4.4 mmol per liter.  This is one teaspoon of sugar for the entire volume of blood in the body.  Explain this to me.   The average person eats much more than one teaspoon, as they can maintain normal blood sugar levels due to compensation.  And insulin is responsible for this compensation.  insulin works like a vacuum cleaner and sucks up the sugar when you eat it, converting it into fat over the course of 15-20 years until it loses its ability to work.  Over time, sugar becomes toxic and begins to create holes in blood vessels. The body increases insulin levels to clear the sugar and protect you.  It's trying to help you by removing sugar and turning it into fat so it can be stored somehow.  Fat fills the stomach, organs, liver, and this continues for 15-20 years.  But you won't notice any symptoms.  Except maybe some fat on the belly.  Well, maybe also fatigue.  And then one day the pancreas gets tired.  The pancreatic cells will become so tired that they will no longer be able to produce insulin.  This is insulin resistance. This is compensation for excess sugar, which over time leads to prediabetes and type 2 diabetes. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Let's talk about the liver.  The liver is strong and durable.  She can withstand a lot. You can even cut off 3/4 of the liver, and it will grow back. And yet, in a relatively short period of time, it’s simply crazy.   I don't recommend waiting until you have symptoms of liver disease or any other disease.  Because if you wait until stage four or five of kidney disease, which requires dialysis, then most likely there will be no recovery, especially in the case of colon cancer.  There may be no symptoms until the cancer has metastasized throughout the body.  The best thing you can do is prevention.  I'll tell you about four habits that will help. Let's move on to vitamin D deficiency. It's not a disease, but it's a common underlying cause.  many other problems, including cancer, autoimmune diseases, and cardiovascular disease. Vitamin D deficiency is one of the most common causes of hypertension.  If you have enough vitamin D, you can increase your nitric oxide levels.  It is very useful for controlling blood pressure. Vitamin D also helps insulin work to reduce insulin resistance. With vitamin D deficiency, the time of symptom manifestation is reduced and the disease progresses more quickly.  Therefore, it is worth taking more vitamin D, not less.  This will help you with vitamin D resistance. Let's move on to four habits you should make part of your life to avoid these diseases, and even reverse some.   The first habit is exercise.  Go for a walk after you eat to burn off the sugar that has entered your body.  There are some things worth adding to your workouts that you may not have heard of yet.  I think this will be the next amazing thing. Ethical training.  What is hypoxia?  This is a lack of oxygen.  You can simulate training in the mountains, for example, rock climbing.  Athletes train this way to recover better and stay in shape.  These exercises will help you get rid of sleep apnea if you have had it. Hypoxic training can provide an extra boost of oxygen to your tissues, which can help reduce inflammation and bring oxygen to parts of your body you have n't felt in a while.  Second.  Low-carb diet with intermittent fasting.  This way you won't eat from morning until evening.  You will eat two or even one meal a day and still eat few carbohydrates.  This combination will help with insulin resistance, and all diseases associated with it will begin to disappear.  Third, extra sleep. Half an hour, an hour.  Everything works much better if you get enough sleep.  Hypoxic training will give you more oxygen, which will help you sleep better.   A low-carb diet with intermittent fasting can also help you get a good night's sleep. Fourth, walks outside, in the sun, in nature or in the forest.  This is a very important therapy, because if you compare it to being locked up at home, the difference will be colossal. Sunlight is half infrared radiation, which has a good effect on us. It helps produce melatonin and help you sleep at night.  I recommend developing these four habits.  This will relieve illnesses and symptoms.  If you're interested in improving your health through intermittent fasting and a low-carb diet, I recommend checking out this course. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of being healthy. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too.  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food.  So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.