What is the most useful product or products for the eyes? One of the most important parts of the eye is called the retina. The retina is the visual tissue that is located at the back of the eyeball and this is not some small area, but a significant part of the back wall of the eye, and a small piece of the retina is called the macula. You may have heard of macular degeneration that occurs with age. The macula is a small area of ​​​​the retinal tissue from the Latin macula-luta, where macula is a spot, aluta is yellow, it turns out to be a yellow spot. The fact is that this area contains carotenoids, a kind of pigment, it is photosensitive, that is, it reacts to light. The retina is like a film in a camera, there are a lot of receptors, it receives information and sends it to the brain through the optic nerve, and it has up to 1.7 million nerve fibers, they are located inside this nerve, an insane amount of information passes through them. The retina has different types of cells, these are rods, cones, and others. I will not talk about them, but they transmit information to an internal clock called the suprachiosmatic nucleus. This is our internal clock, their work is controlled by Light and darkness through the eyeball. So, rods and cones. Rods help us see in dim light. They are also responsible for peripheral vision. While cones are more for central vision, they function in light and allow us to see small details. The retina has 10 different layers where all sorts of processes occur. So, this is a highly complex tissue. So, the most important nutrient for the retina is the so-called DHA acid, one of the omega-3 fatty acids. EPA is also included there. But today we are talking about DHA. DHA is an omega-3 fatty acid. It is found in almost all cell membranes. It helps make membranes mobile. It has many functions, including anti-inflammatory action. 1-5% of membrane cells have to wear something. While the proportion of children with retina is 50-60 percent, it also helps regenerate certain pigments inside the eye that help convert information for transmission to the brain. Its main task is to help the retina respond to light. In addition, it protects well against molecular degeneration. It has anti-inflammatory properties and blocks abnormal angiogenesis. You don't need the formation of new blood vessels, excessive proliferation of blood vessels, which can harm your vision. DHL is also destroyed by blue light, ultraviolet radiation, and omega-6 fatty acids in seed oils, which are now everywhere, they compete with Mega 3, including DHA, and can block it. So, it is very important for the eyes. This is perhaps the most important nutrient, but there are a couple more things in the retina, especially in the macula, which, among other things, protect the eyes from ultraviolet radiation and blue light. These are carotenoids. There are three specific types: lutein, deaxanthin, another meso-axanthin, so the two most important for the eyes are DHL and carotenoids. The next question is, what foods contain these nutrients? The best source is fatty cold-water fish, for example, tuna, especially bluefin tuna. Bluefin tuna has 5 times more cells than other types of tuna. Other sources include salmon, herring, cod liver oil, oysters, sardines, and grass-fed beef. It is also present in the perpetual yolk. And pastured organic eggs contain much more of it.  also a precursor of DHL which is converted into it a small percentage, but still it is a precursor, it is a fatty acid, it is found in walnuts, seeds and flax seeds, these were the main products sources of DHA now carotenoids you can get them from dark leafy greens of salad and so on, but they are also contained in egg yolks as well as DHA, in addition, they are found in grass-fed beef I participated in one study where they compared grass-fed beef and grain-fed beef and it turned out that our cows have three times more phytonutrients than cows on other US farms, probably due to the variety of grasses that my cows can eat, they eat no one kind, there are many different weeds, I talk about this in another video, a certain meso-sexanthin is also found in shrimp in fish And of course in the eternal yolk So, of all the food products, the ones I listed protect the eyes best But of course, it is important to mention the contraindications On the other side of the issue, you need to avoid Omega-6 fatty acids, which are quite difficult because they're everywhere. Also, don't eat a lot of sugar. Sugar damages the eyes, causing oxidation and free radical damage, which only increases the need for carotenoids. If you don't know what to cook for Keto, the book "Keto Menu for Two Weeks" will help. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from readily available products. The basics of Keto and fasting. Follow the link below.