What will the very first sign of methylcobalamin deficiency look like, that is, B12 deficiency? B12 is quite important; it controls DNA, red blood cells, and the myelin sheath of nerve fibers. Something like this cable, if I remove the insulation from this cable, a short circuit may occur. And you will get an electric shock, that is, myelin surrounds and protects our nerve fibers, and when it is destroyed, tingling, numbness, burning, and so on occur. In addition, B12 plays an important role in maintaining the health of the spine and brain, and its deficiency can lead to irreversible damage, cause chronic pain due to nerve damage, depression, and even muscle atrophy. There are several other side effects: blurred vision, tinnitus, anemia, ulcers in the genital area, sore throat, and hair loss. The opposite problem of methylcobalamin deficiency is its toxicity. In other words, there may be symptoms of its deficiency and symptoms of its excess. A link to the study is below regarding B12 toxicity. Usually, it can occur when taking it.  The synthetic version is not methylcobalamin but cyanocobalamin. What is cyanide anyway? Is cyanide the same as cyanide? Yes, it is a compound with cobalt that forms a complex vitamin substance, but it must be converted into methylcobalamin, and for various reasons, it can accumulate in the body, causing acne, a feeling of palpitations, anxiety, redness on the face, red cheeks, headaches and insomnia, as well as another condition called agate. This is when a person is so anxious that he cannot sit still, he is very excited, sometimes even comes to thoughts of suicide, and all because of B12 toxicity. You may ask: Where does overdose come from? Read the composition of energy drinks, some vitamin complexes, dietary supplements, and fortified foods. They add a lot of B12, 80 or even 140 times higher than the recommended daily intake. B12 requires only a few micrograms, not some huge doses, and it should be the natural form of methylcobalamin, so I do not recommend taking cheap synthetic  Cyanocobalamin, but what is the first symptom you will feel when B12 deficiency is just beginning? Well, this symptom is ready, it is not there, there are no symptoms. I mean, it takes a long time to feel a B12 deficiency. The destructive process is going on, but you may not feel it. It goes deep in the nervous system. However, one of the first symptoms you will feel is severe fatigue. But what can cause a B12 deficiency? A diet without animal products does not contain B12 in plants. It is found in animal products and is produced by bacteria. If you are a vegan or plant-based diet and do not drink B12, you are at risk of deficiency. But a more likely cause of deficiency, especially in older people, is digestion. Food is poorly absorbed in the digestive system, or something is wrong with the stomach. There is not enough hydrochloric acid. B12 is eaten in animal products and we digest meat. You need to break down its proteins. If there is not enough hydrochloric acid, proteins are not broken down and you cannot extract vitamin B12 from them. It remains locked inside the protein. And you cannot extract it. So, hydrochloric acid is very  It is important for the extraction of vitamin B12, but many people do not have enough hydrochloric acid or it is too weak. There are symptoms that indicate that you need more acid: flatulence, indigestion, acid reflux, and HBV. If this surprises you, watch a video on this topic after you finish watching. This is the link below. Other stomach problems can also be a cause. Removing part of the stomach, for example, its bypass can create a B12 deficiency. Or if for some reason you have atrophy in the stomach or gastritis, or an infection with Helicobacter pylori or an ulcer due to stress or due to zinc deficiency, there can be various problems with the stomach, also with the small or large intestine. So if you have inflammation in the intestines, it does not matter. For what reason can a B12 deficiency occur? Taking aspirin can also cause a B12 deficiency. Alcohol can also cause it. Junk food can also cause it. Taking antibiotics, antacids, or proton pump inhibitors can lead to a B12 deficiency. Birth control pills can also create a deficiency. Pregnancy and  Breastfeeding increases the need for B12, so pregnant and lactating women need to eat as healthy a diet as possible. A lack of folates can cause almost the same symptoms as a B12 deficiency, because folates and B12 work together. Another interesting point: if you smoke, you inhale cynitis. If you drink cyanocobalamin, synthetic B12 contains cyanide. The cyanide part must be broken down and converted, but cyanide from cigarette smoke can recombine with this vitamin. This is how B12 deficiency occurs due to smoking. Another reason to quit is another possible cause of deficiency. It is very important to know about genetics. There is such a concept as polymorphism, but I will not talk about NM here. It is enough to know that it is associated with genes, and here is the name of the gene I am talking about now. There is such a gene. If you have a problem with this gene, you will have problems with the enzyme it produces, and it is associated with the conversion and use of B12 and folates, you will have problems with the synthetic version of both nutrients.  Folic acid is a common synthetic version of the vitamin. It is found in fortified foods and synthetic complexes. If you have this genetic problem, it is better to exclude folic acid and replace it with methylfolate. Also, take methylcobalamin rather than cyanocobalamin. Otherwise, you will have many problems, such as the accumulation of homocysteine, an increased risk of heart problems, stroke, depression, and anxiety. Another symptom is that toxins are not eliminated. Even slight toxicity in food will create serious problems. I have a whole course on nutrient deficiencies. If you want to learn how to recognize them, I invite you. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this, will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need. To ensure you fully understand this topic, sign up for the course using the link below.