The highest sugar level that has any records was registered in 2008 in a child with type 1 diabetes, his name is Michael Patrick Gonk. Remember, a normal blood sugar level is somewhere around four- four millimoles per liter. His blood sugar level was 140 7.6 millimoles per liter. An astronomical number. I have seen people whose sugar was 1622 and even 2733, but at such values, they usually fall into a coma. This amazed me. I wondered how high blood sugar can rise. insulin constantly lowers blood sugar levels. It constantly removes sugar from the blood. Michael had type 1 diabetes. He did not have insulin and did not take medication, so the sugar in his blood kept rising and rising. If you eat one gram of sugar, the blood sugar level rises by somewhere around 0.3 millimoles per liter. Now imagine how much sugar you need to eat for the sugar to rise above a hundred miles and moles per liter. But again, you need to take insulin into account. It will remove this sugar from the blood with insulin resistance.  In diabetes and diabetes, this will be a problem because with insulin resistance, insulin will be produced but will not work and blood sugar will only increase and today I want to talk about something interesting that is related to blood sugar. Blood sugar levels rise not only because of sugar but also because of stress. I will explain that when you are stressed, the body needs quick energy, the liver begins to produce glucose and diet has nothing to do with it. Even if you eat right, the liver will begin to convert protein ketones into glucose. This process is called gluconeogenesis. There is a good test that measures the average blood sugar level over two to three months. It is called 1c. It measures how much protein in the blood is glycated or damaged by sugar. When sugar rises in the blood, it destroys protein. This process is irreversible and forever. Now you need to wait two to three months until these red blood cells have done their job and are utilized. So, 1c is a good indicator of the average blood sugar level over the past 3 months and this is a good way to determine whether a person is following a diet or often slacking off. Let's say you are following  You're on a diet for a week, you check your sugar every day, and everything is fine, but on the weekends, you have a lesson. A1c measures the average value for three months and will show whether you've followed the diet or not. Let's say you're on a diet and your sugar isn't going anywhere. You're on ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting, but your A1c doesn't go down, but on the contrary, it increases. This could be due to stress, because as I said earlier, cortisol can make the liver produce sugar even if you're on ketogenic diet and don't eat sugar. The body doesn't get sugar from the diet, but produces it itself when it's stressed. Unfortunately, people under stress smoke, take various substances, eat poorly, drink, and generally worsen the situation with blood sugar. If this is about you, if you're on a diet but you have high stress and this affects your blood sugar, or if you wake up in the morning and your sugar is high, even though you haven't eaten. A simple remedy for this would be exercise. One good workout every day will help cope with excess sugar produced due to stress. I'm not talking about a short workout, but about a workout lasting at least 30-40 minutes. Exercise reduces  Cortisol training improves sleep and training directly lowers blood sugar because it burns excess sugar. I also want to say that if you physically work in the garden or even just do something around the house, it can be even better than a simple workout. This is how you cope with mental stress. Sometimes it’s even better than running on a treadmill. Whatever workouts you do, the main thing is to distract yourself from mental stress. I also want to mention two very important things. If you have a sodium deficiency, that is, you don’t eat enough salt, this can interfere with normalizing cortisol. Cortisol helps regulate sodium, so when a person is stressed, they may crave salty foods. If you are on a low-salt diet, this may be the reason why your cortisol is not decreasing, and this in turn can affect blood sugar levels. I’m talking about sodium because many people do not consider it useful for reducing One of the common symptoms of sodium deficiency is fatigue and weakness, also known as fatigue, also known as adrenal fatigue. This fatigue is the same as They both arise from a sodium deficiency when a person doesn't eat enough salt. You need to eat sea salt. And finally, in addition to all this, you also need to add potassium. A sufficient amount of potassium because potassium can affect not only cortisol, but also blood sugar levels and insulin resistance. So, salt, potassium, and exercise are excellent ways to keep stress and A1c at a minimum. If you need advice on how to get enough potassium, links to it will be in the description. More information about stress and how to counter it can be found in this course. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package you will find a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best products for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.