Today we'll talk about the main antioxidant, glutathione, and what an antioxidant is. To understand this, you need to understand what a free radical is. Consider an atom with paired electrons. If one of these electrons is missing, this is called an unpaired electron. The atom becomes unstable, this is a free radical. It is poorly balanced and can cause severe damage to cells, cell mechanisms, DNA, and so on. An antioxidant appears and gives its electron to this atom, restoring its balance and stability. The problem is that now this antioxidant loses an electron and itself becomes unstable. It needs an electron from another antioxidant. This is why antioxidants are organized in the form of networks, and this is why synthetic antioxidants cannot be taken. It is known that they cause cancer. Why? Because synthetic antioxidants do not form a network and are simply individual antioxidants in themselves, and as soon as they give up an electron, they themselves become a problem. They become free radicals and can cause damage. Glutathione has been very thoroughly studied. There are over 100,000 licensed articles in scientific journals devoted to one compound of glutathione. This antioxidant is found most in the liver, but all cells produce it. It reduces oxidative stress. If we begin  By balancing these free radicals, we will reduce the degree of oxidation and stress levels in the body. The body creates free radicals for various purposes, to kill microbes, break down substances in chemical reactions, the body even creates hydrogen peroxide. Swallow it and it helps neutralize some toxins created by the body. Glutathione also maintains the level of so- called exogenous antioxidants. Exogenous substances are substances that are outside the body, and so swallow it and it maintains the level of antioxidants coming from food such as vitamin C and vitamin E. Glutathione is an antioxidant created by the body that maintains the level of other antioxidants coming from food, and these antioxidants coming from food help maintain glutathione levels. Glutathione is not only an antioxidant, it also promotes detoxification of the body. There are three phases of detoxification: phase 1, phase 2, and phase 3. The body takes some poison and, through various reactions involving enzymes, breaks down this poison and turns it into a harmless substance and then gets rid of it, removing it either through the skin, or through the kidneys in the urine, or through  intestines, that is, through the liver, through bile, and then through the intestines, the body is constantly trying to get rid of harmful substances of this sulfur-based antioxidant in the body, most of it is produced by all cells, but the largest amount is contained in the liver, it is based on sulfur, so if you eat foods rich in sulfur, you supply your body with raw materials for the production of glutathione, and now guess which vegetables are richest in gray, that's right, cruciferous vegetables, so eating cruciferous vegetables will help you with glutathione, a sufficient amount of vitamin C obtained from any vegetables also helps produce glutathione, the microelement selenium also helps increase glutathione levels, milk thistle strengthens liver cells, this helps the body produce glutathione, and fasting increases the antioxidant network in the body, and this is amazing, it would seem that fasting should decrease the reserve of antioxidants, but on the contrary, it increases it, so with age, the ability to produce glutathione decreases, we drink too much alcohol, stress affects us, medications, toxins, over the years, this reduces the level of glutathione, often we do not care about antioxidant networks, they are very  They are very important for neutralizing toxins, they promote detoxification, this is what you should consume to avoid losing glutathione and other antioxidants that you need.