There is one very simple and very quick test that can be done to find out if you have a bowel disease or gastrointestinal problems. I will tell you about it at the end, you can rewind if you want. But I recommend listening to everything because I have valuable information about the intestines. It does not matter if you have celiac disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, diverticulitis, or SIB syndrome, a bacterial overgrowth syndrome. The peculiarity of bowel diseases is that they are usually associated with the microflora in the intestines. There are trillions of microbes, and their types and quantities can vary. You may have too few good bacteria and too many bad ones. You are usually told that you need to feed these bacteria and are advised to eat more fiber. They especially recommend grain products, including whole grains. After all, everyone knows that fiber is microbes and that we need healthy fiber. But here's what's confusing: whole grains don't have much fiber. 7 percent fiber is a little. There are a lot of other substances, for example, starch, but grains are not the richest in fiber foods; they also contain phytic acid. If you don't know, it interferes with the absorption of minerals, namely iron, zinc, calcium.  magnesium, it binds these minerals. So if someone tells you that grains are rich in nutrients, tell them about phytic acid, it blocks the absorption of nutrients from whole grains. And in processed grains, there are practically no nutrients left. That's why they are then enriched by adding a couple of synthetic vitamins and then write that these products are rich in nutrients and this is because of a couple of synthetic vitamins. In addition, the grain contains gluten protein, which literally destroys the gastrointestinal tract from the inside, creating a lot of problems, and even if you are not allergic to gluten, you may have a sensitivity to it, this is a really big problem. Honestly, I think that grain products are the most harmful food for the intestines. When we talk about fiber in general, the first thought people have is that you need enough fiber to avoid constipation. People are sure that constipation is just a lack of fiber. And that if you eat enough fiber, everything will be fine with your stool. There are many different types of fiber, the one found in grains or the one found in greens. There is enough fiber in greens. K  There is also no gluten and very little phytic acid, although plants such as spinach contain oxalates. Phytic acid is also present in salads. There are also many nutrients, such as potassium, magnesium, and folate. Greens are much better than grains as a source of fiber. So -called functional fiber is now becoming fashionable. It is included in Keto desserts, as are soluble fibers from corn and tapioca. And also Inulin and chicory root. So many people suffer from bloating and gas. After all this, it is simply incredible what is happening in the intestines when bloating and gas occur. Fermentation occurs. Microbes are trying to digest all this fiber. At the same time, they release a lot of methane and other gases. All sorts of things cause bloating and pain in the intestines. As for microbes, they can be divided into three main categories. There are microbes that harm you, they are called pathogens. There are beneficial microbes, for example, friendly ones. Bacteria are mutualists. We have a mutually beneficial relationship with them. They benefit you, and you help them by providing them with a place to live. You and they  There are also neutral microbes, called commensals, that live in your body without causing you any harm or benefit and without bothering you, but here's what you need to know about all this: a certain portion of the microbes in your intestines can turn from good guys to bad guys. For example, some number of neutral microbes can become pathogenic. You may be wondering where all these bad microbes came from, but in fact, these are microbes that used to be central and have now become pathogenic or harmful. This applies to E. coli, Helicobacter pylori, and Clostridium deficiencies and even Candida. When the environment in the intestines changes, these microbes seem to switch, change their position and begin to create problems. The reason for the change in the environment in the intestines, say, is stress, and such stress can be caused, for example, by antibiotics, even if you don't drink them. Do you realize that wheat and other grains that you eat were sprayed with glyphosate? This is a herbicide that is classified as an antibiotic. The company that created this substance also received a patent for its use in another capacity. So,  Glyphosate is an antibiotic, it kills microbes in the soil and also in the intestines, we add it to the list. Along with phytic acid and gluten, grains also contain antibiotics, and it seems very strange to me that experts advise getting most of the calories from grains. After all, they create a lot of problems for the intestines, it’s just unbelievable, and of course, there are other things that spoil the environment in the intestines: medications, unhealthy food and alcohol, artificial sweeteners can also harm the intestines. I think that most likely in the near future we will see that functional fiber such as corn and tapioca fiber actually changes the habitat of microbes and beneficial microbes become harmful. When we deal with intestinal problems, we need to understand that all these microbes are very important, they survive better than anyone else, they have adapted to the most difficult conditions, they can live on the ocean floor, they can live in the clouds, they can live in lava, it’s just amazing how they have adapted, they are the most numerous and diverse form of life, and we depend on them, without them we would not be able to live at all, they are a large part of the immune system, they synthesize vitamins, help with  digestion and also produce secondary, so to speak, compounds necessary for health. Now let's look at a method that allows you to determine whether you have any problems with the intestines. So here is step number one. Eliminate all fiber from your diet for three days. This is the first thing and see what happens. Step number two. Add fiber to your diet again for 3 days. Compare how you felt when you excluded fiber and when you added fiber. Then you will definitely understand if you have problems with the intestines. This could be inflammation in the intestines or dysbacteriosis of one kind or another. This is a very simple method. You don't need to take a bunch of tests or wait for the results of scientific research. You don't need to subject yourself to the procedure of inserting an endoscope into the intestines. Just exclude fiber and evaluate your well-being. If it improves, then there are problems, and this is exactly the kind of diet that will suit you best. If you feel better when you eat fiber, then everything is probably fine. You fed your coffins and now they are happy. Fiber is their food. Of course, I recommend fiber from vegetables, for example, greens. But here's the question: if you remove all the fiber, won't this deprive the microbes of their only food? They won't die from it.  The fact that they have nothing to eat is not true. As I already said, microbes can adapt to almost any conditions and feed on almost any food. Did you know that microbes can survive on the surface of metal, plastic, and even on feces? When a person has so-called siberia, beneficial bacteria live in his small intestine. What do they feed on? They eat fiber, but also other nutrients, including proteins. So, if your body doesn't digest fiber well, just don't eat it. Yes, in my books and videos, I recommend seven to ten glasses of vegetables a day, but this isn't suitable for some people. Personally, I feel better from this, but I know people who feel worse from this amount of fiber, even from salad. Not to mention grains, I was very surprised that when I started eating more meat and stopped eating grains, at that time I didn't eat salad at all, my intestines began to work very well. Then this baffled me, but then I brought my intestines in order and was already able to eat more vegetable fiber. However, the main reason why I eat a lot of vegetables is not even fiber. It is rather nutrients such as potassium, magnesium, vitamin  In conclusion, I 'd like to draw your attention to one point: eating fermented foods such as sauerkraut or kimchi is much better than fiber. For example, you excluded fiber from your diet for some time and now you want to add it back. I recommend adding fermented fiber, sauerkraut, kimchi, and so on. Since we're talking about the intestines, I recommend watching another video about how the state of the intestines is connected with insomnia and, in general, with the quality of sleep. Here's a video.