Hello everyone. Today we are answering your questions. But keep in mind that nothing I say replaces medical treatment. Ask a doctor before doing what we are going to talk about. As always, I want to start right away and give as many answers as possible in the allotted time. I completely agree. Let's start with Rambler. Lily R3 asks how much vitamin D3 or other dietary supplements you would recommend taking. She has scoliosis and spinal curvature. 22% sounds serious. Yes, I think that vitamin D deficiency at an early age can really create any problem with bones, be it flat feet, abnormal structure, jaws, crooked legs, as well as lordosis or scoliosis. I would advise taking 5,000 IU of vitamin D3 every day. Of course, it would also be good to spend more time in the sun, but in winter it is almost impossible to get vitamin D. If you live above the thirty-seventh parallel, that is, if you divide the United States in half, then in the upper half you will not get vitamin D from the sun, so you need to take it. Well, I hope they will take it. Zoe Anna asks how hair loss is related to hormones. Why?  My eyebrows have fallen out but the vellus hair on my face is still growing. Perhaps you have one of the varieties of the so-called polycystic ovary syndrome. In this case, your body produces too many androgens, male hormones. One of them, DHT, can burn hair on your head and not only, and then hair appears on your face. This is mainly caused by insulin resistance, which means that you eat too many carbohydrates. You need a low-carb diet and vitamin D can also help with this. Other remedies can help. But I recommend cutting back on carbohydrates significantly and see what happens. I think this will help you a lot. Excellent, asks Lila from YouTube. What dietary supplements are best given to all small children so that they are healthy and safe? Do they need dietary supplements? Doc, I'm sure their food is ideal and we can get all the nutrients from food because all the soil here is very fertile. And this is sarcasm. Yes, I would give children high-quality multivitamins and minerals. Of course, I am not at all biased about my products, but I broke my back to create natural multivitamins in  It's hard to find such vitamins in combination with minerals, chewy marmalade with sugar and all that stuff. Firstly, I think a couple more important nutrients are needed. Especially for a child, these are trace elements and of course vitamin D and magnesium. They are very important for a child to eat the healthiest possible food. I was once talking to a friend who wrestled in Wisconsin like me. He needed to lose a lot of weight and he ate about the same as me, that is, terribly. If I had known then what I know now, it would have been great. I would have eaten high- quality red meat back then, and a lot of it. I would have eaten vegetables and all that, because my metabolism was incredibly fast. I probably would have eaten some fruits, sweet potatoes and all that, but I did everything wrong. I ate ice cream, all kinds of sweets, starches and refined foods. All this should be excluded from the diet. Don't wait until you're 28 to change your diet, like me. Change it at least at 27. Excellent. Doc. I know Dr. Berg's absolute obsession with what he does. I know that he spends a lot of money on some ingredients.  Hundreds of times more time than some well-known companies spend on their surrogates. So I really trust his products because he can't do it any other way and I've seen what he does to ensure his customers get the best. So where am I? Where am I left off? So, Lou writes from Yuba, I have a Siberian Husky. How long do I need to follow the carnivore diet before I can eat vegetables and nuts again? There is one author, Dr. William Davis, he wrote a book, "Wheat Kilograms," and he has an excellent website with a blog where he tells how to make your own probiotic from cream; you get something like yogurt. I really like his information. I'm currently experimenting with this. I'll make a video and interview him. But here's what's interesting. I think what's happening is that in your youth, you took some kind of antibiotic, it destroyed some microbes, and you haven't had them since then. And those microbes protected you from other microbes, which have now become entrenched and can move from the large intestine to the small intestine, where they shouldn't be. As a result, this problem arose: small intestinal bacterial overgrowth or even overgrowth.  fungi microbes get into places where they don't belong And now you have bloating after eating especially after fiber and you oh my god fiber is ruining my intestines you start the Root diet and oh my god I feel so much better Great You just deprived these microbes of fuel But what if I'm not saying stop the carnivore diet I recommend it if there is inflammation But what if and we don't know this for sure this is just an opinion we don't know now Do microbes need fiber in the long term can they live on something else besides fiber we don't know but let's say they need fiber and after months of the carnivore diet you Little by little add fiber But you still need to return this microbe because the excessive growth of bad microbes is restrained by other microbes that live in the small and large intestines So William Davis found strains that can be returned to the body so that sometimes regular probiotics are not enough for this And you need to grow a huge number of bacteria somewhere 300 billion in half a glass then they will be able to populate this environment and change it and when we  We'll get these microbes back, we'll be able to digest certain fiber that we couldn't digest before, and this is a curious, extremely interesting idea. I think it's logical. We don't know for sure if this is true. I'm currently experimenting with this. I do n't have a SIB, but I'm doing experiments about these microbes. Wait for more data on this. I'm curious. Dona from Facebook, can you advise anything about low-carb vegetarian diets? Does this exist? Yes, I just interviewed an endocrinologist from India. I'll release this video in about a week. In general, this is an endocrinologist in India. Her main tool with which she helps people is diet. This is wonderful, and most of her patients are vegetarians. We discussed everything with her and proposed a good plan for those who want to follow this diet. The problem is that if you increase the amount of protein in your diet, the amount of carbohydrates will automatically increase. She suggested, in particular, taking whey protein powder to get protein. And with protein, it's easier to give up carbohydrates. Watch the video. All the information is in it. I asked her an interesting question that I really wanted to ask the endocrinologist, because this is  Someone who graduated from medical college, graduated from medical school, completed a residency, specializing in endocrinology, studying hormones, and even an ES in insulin. And the question was, if a patient receives insulin, the dose depends on carbohydrates. The more carbohydrates he ate, the more insulin he needed. So I asked, "Have you ever thought about reducing carbohydrates to reduce a person's insulin dose?" She said they don't teach that. She advised consulting. It's surprising that in medical school, even in chiropractic college, they don't teach how to apply this information so that one can use nutritional therapy and nutrition in general. This is a huge omission. Just because someone has an advanced degree does n't mean they will recommend nutritional therapy even with knowledge of biochemistry.