 cheapapabolic thingsapabolic thingsapabolic thingsapabolic thingsap is a very important thing outside. That is a very important thing outside. That is a very important thing outside. and with evolution and nesotvety, and with evolution and nesotvety, I mean, the difference of the environment in the past, which were our distant ancestors, and from all these nesotvety, it's on the first place, because it influences on a daily or a circle. This system is related to the mood, metabolism, hormones, and even if you can see good diets, training and a good sleep is the same way. The rhythm is a sort of a cycle, and they are the same cycle of light and dark. There are other cycles in our organs, and all these are synchronized by the mind of the brain. So, the rhythm of the rhythm is a certain rhythm, and the important factor for her is the contrast, light and light. We were living in a certain light. We were living in a very bright light, and also after the sun's coming, their light was a dark. And so, it was a system of the rhythm, which we live in a day. Unfortunately, in the current conditions we have no contrast. But before discussing this very interesting topic, we have to explain a new word. Maybe you know it, maybe it's called it it's called LUX. LUX. LUX показывает, насколько свет ярк. You can even use the phone on the phone the Luxmeter and you can imagine the light light that is on the surface, which is on the surface, or on you, if you bring the phone to you. When you are under the light, on the sun's light, then in the light, depending on the light, where you are, you may be at 10 000 to 100 000 LUX. In the day, it's 2000 to 100 000 LUX. When you are in the house, you may be at 100 000 to 500 LUX, sometimes even more, it depends on the lamp. If you are in the evening watching the phone or the TV, it's about 300 000 to 1000 LUX. If you are outside, outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside they're not a day outside. The absence of light signal means that it is not day. That's what the signal is. Then at the evening, the light has light. The light is on the channel and press the bell. If you don't choose all notifications, YouTube can't remember any new videos. This simple action will help you to further development of the channel. We will continue. In one of my house, there are all these light bulbs that are light, which are absolutely not natural. There are televisions, phones, phones, and many signals that are telling the brain to sleep and sleep. So, in the morning, we don't get the signal to wake up. But in the evening, we get the signal to wake up. So, this is what I call contrast. Everything is like a red, red. There are no differences between morning and evening. It is not a difference. But evening, we need to turn light on, because the night is dark. So, this is not just a big problem for the brain. It is a serious problem for the brain. Even if it is not in any way, it is even compared to the past. If it is not a clear outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside outside This is a serious loss of the system. This is a result of the melatonin. It's a hormone that tells us, it's time to go to sleep, I'm tired. And it helps you sleep. So melatonin is being used later, or later. You have problems with cortisol, so it's a light of light. And you can sleep in bed 7-8 hours, but your sleep will not be. We will do four cycles of sleep, from the surface to the surface. It's time to sleep. For most people, time of sleep, time of sleep, time of sleep, time of sleep, time of sleep. This is a result of metabolism, insulin, sugar, but especially the effects of a person that causes a depression, depression, depression. I have been patients who were eating well, and they were regularly regularly, but they were poorly. So they were not to lose weight. There are a lot of data on this issue. I will show you the links to the more light of light and the risk of the diabetes of the second type. When you are in the light of light, you are in the light of light, you are in the light of light, you are in the light of light. Even if you have a blood of light, you are in the light of light. things outside things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things things If you've ever met someone in reanimation, or you've been living in reanimation, you know that the light of light is burning. The meds are coming to see the patient every couple of hours. I know I've been living in reanimation. And literally all night they were burning, they were burning, and all the time it was burning. It's an awful situation for the rest of the day. There's a so-called reanimation psychosis, as a change of rhythm. Now, some of the doctors have started to see the dynamic light. I hope they will all be in the same way, because it's a big problem. When the dark is消, the stability of the brain is burning. If you want to see the absence of the night, look at the church where the light is burning, like in prison. This leads to serious trouble, leads to a affective distress. So, this means that the constant or chronic light is a psychological threat. The brain is burning, the brain is burning, just as if in the night, like in the sun. We evolved in a situation of a rough contrast, which today almost no. This is an evolution of a non-conference. I have a free document. My daily activities are in the form of checklists. I do everything every day. I feel like I'm 18, even if I'm 60. I'm 60. I'm free. So, there's a link. There's a link. There's a link. You can go and download it. So, to be able to do this, it's not a bad thing, it's not a discipline, it's not a bad thing, it's not a bad thing, it's not a bad thing, it's not a bad thing. It's not a bad thing. Правило number one. 1. Make sure your days are so bright, so that it's a good thing. 2. 3. 4. 5. 5. 6. 7. 7. 7. 7. 7. 7. 7. 8. 9. 9. 9. 10. 9. 10. 10. 10. 10. 10. 10. 11. 11. 12. 12. 12. 14. 14. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. It works even in the day of the day, because the light will be in the morning, and the light will be in the morning. It will not be the same, but a light will be in the morning. Number two. Make sure that night is very dark. No, no light will be in the morning. No light will be in the morning. You might have to put a couple of light with light light and light light. Make sure that light light is in the morning, especially for three hours before the day. Now, if you have a glass, I will give you a little light light. Rule number three. You must have both ends of this contrast. You want to want to be in the morning, you need to be in the morning light light. But in the cold time of the year, you are staying at home. So in that case, you will have a light light light light. I have a light light light, and I have a light light light light. I have a light light light light. That is a clear light light. That is a clear light light. That is a clear light light. That is a clear light light. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. That is clear. and other things too. And in order to make sure you have the light on the other side. Make sure you have a light on the room, and you don't have to be able to light on the light. If you have a power of light on the other, you can close them with those lights. This is, I think, the most easy way to influence in the most part, not only on the quality of your sleep, but also on the quality of your sleep, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, how deep you feel, because the absence of contrasts creates a different effect. Now, about the освещение. I have a interview with one doctor on this topic. It's literally amazing, how much the light will bring солнечный свет. If you haven't watched this video, you can see it right here. Here's the link. – S – – – – – – – – –