Hello everyone in this short video I will show the fastest way to remove fat from the back and these are the most important things Guess what you need to do fasting fasting is undoubtedly this is the most powerful tool that allows you to get rid of very persistent stubborn fat especially on the back there are three types of fat there is fat in the liver there is fat in the visceral area on the stomach there is the so- called subcutaneous fat this is superficial fat it is located right under the skin this is the same lifeline that possibly encircles you from all sides so first the fat from the liver goes away then visceral fat and lastly subcutaneous That's why some people get upset They work so hard but still can't get rid of the fat on the back but I will show you how to do it realize that fasting actually speeds up metabolism fasting corrects insulin levels insulin resistance if you have a stubborn metabolism fasting will correct it over time if you just follow the teto diet but don't fast you may never get rid of the fat on your back and even in the lower abdomen It depends on how often you eat If snacking between meals without even breaking theta. Perhaps a problem, especially with a slow metabolism, someone can get rid of this excess fat, but most people will not. So if you compare this with intermittent fasting, intermittent fasting is more important. But if you do both, the result will be even better. I assume that you are onta. Taking this into account, 80 percent of people fasting for 18 hours will be able to get rid of back fat over time. Let's say a person does not eat breakfast, the first time he eats at noon, the second time at six in the evening, the fasting interval will be 18 hours. This should work for most people, but if you are among the 20 percent for whom it does not work, you need to fast from 8 to 11 pm. If you fast for 23 hours, then you have one hour for food, this is one meal a day, but consider fasting from 8 to 11 pm. Let's say you skipped breakfast and lunch and ate at three in the afternoon. And your next meal in the evening is a four-hour window, and 20 hours of fasting will give a very powerful effect. And yet, someone needs to go to the next level. You can eat once a day. There is Six, you can at 5, you can for everyone, you can at 8 o'clock in the evening, it does n't really matter, the important thing is that you fast for 23 hours first, the fat from the liver will go away, then visceral fat, and then subcutaneous fat. Realize that subcutaneous fat will not go away if you don't get rid of the fat in the liver. So there may not be any external changes for some time, but the process is ongoing, it just takes time. Be patient, it's not for nothing that the word patient originally meant patient. What should you use? When you don't eat, well, you can drink tea, you can drink coffee. I advise adding a drop of cream, not too much. I also advise, since you will lose a lot of fluid and electrolytes, replenish electrolytes and B vitamins from nutritional yeast, and I advise drinking apple cider vinegar. It will speed things up. With lemon juice, you can use a whole lemon and drink a liter or two of liquid, especially at the beginning. After all, you will lose a lot of fluid, and don't forget about sea salt, it will be very useful. And lastly, a couple more things will help speed things up. Start cutting back on carbohydrates so that there are less than 10 grams. In my basic course package, there is a video called Keto.  In the maximal exercises there I explain what is meant and why and you can add training. Perhaps you think that training is the most important thing. But this is the most unimportant thing. Some people literally registered at the gym. But their lifeline remains in place because they drink sports drinks that are full of sugar or eat protein bars before, during and after training, they just stuff themselves with carbohydrates. Training provides 15 percent of the result if you do not eat any carbohydrates, because carbohydrates will negate the benefits of training. But if you combine and add training to this, ideally you need fairly heavy training, perhaps a couple of times a week for the whole body when many muscle groups are loaded. Complex loads are very, very important, but do not overdo it, otherwise the process will slow down. I know people who trained, I'm not kidding, 6 hours a day every day. And they are overtrained for weeks. And the last thing I would do if you do all this. But you still don't lose weight. Perhaps you need to cut fat to 70 grams. You just need to force the body to burn its own fat and use it and not fat from the diet. A low-fat diet is not necessary, but 70 grams of fat is ideal. Try it.  All this and Write about it in the comments Thanks for watching So in this video I will show the fastest way to get rid of oh yeah what is this I invite you to my healthy chum course it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again on the course I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results join us too