Hello and today we will start with our quiz This is a question True or false Please doc True or false If a product has less than 500 mg of trans fats, sugar and or starch, the label may indicate that their content is zero, it sounds unfair, but What is, is, let's see what the viewers think about it And now we will answer the wonderful questions on social networks asks I don't like fish Do I need to take dietary supplements with iodine You can get iodine from seafood such as crabs, amara, oysters, and so on I don't know Do you like them If you don't like them, you can eat kelp Yes, in addition to other microelements, it is very, very important to get iodine, but not only iodine, selenium, zinc is also important In general But there are a lot of them in seafood If you don't eat them, you definitely need dietary supplements Excellent Danton is one of our oldest viewers and we are very happy with his questions asks HK with Tuba What do you think about the treatment of type 2 diabetes with stem cells I have undergone various treatment options with stem cells In general This is something else  a cheaper way to try to improve the matter I did not see a difference after the peptide injection I also went through another therapy where they get stem cells from another source and inject them into the joints I had no results but then I went through a very expensive therapy where they take the patient's own fat pass it through a siphon and extract stem cells this is a whole procedure it is a very complex process but I recommend it If there is a remedy for this I heard about the results of this therapy again and again in the end I decided I will try and see what happens it is not possible to say that I had some big problem with something but I but even if we talk about my reaction to Yavi Ivy I now have almost no problems with my lower back and I load a tire uphill from a mountain and my back copes with it So I think it helped a lot But it gave results only after six months yes I recommend some types of stem cell therapy for solving even more severe problems than yours it is amazing But expensive but I would not spend money on cheaper options Personally, I did not get results from them Excellent we immediately  We also got the results in the form of answers to the question True or false If a product has less than 500 mg of waste in sugar or starch, the label may indicate that their content is zero, it seems like a dirty trick. 95% said true, 5% said false. So, yes, and it looks like I forgot to indicate that we are talking about one serving. If something of this is less than half a gram, this amount is rounded to zero and that's it. This complies with the rounding rules. How can I show you an example here, here it is approximately 500 mg. Steve, you see this. Yes, I see it perfectly well, but in fact it is zero. Does this seem logical to you? Of course not. Very cleverly, we rounded it to zero since this is very little per serving. One serving is actually nothing. Manufacturers use this loophole to add certain things. Fortunately, they are required to indicate them in the list of ingredients, so you need to read the ingredients. If you see partially hydrogenated or monosodium glutamate, monosodium glutamate is a curious thing, because you can hide the so- called free glutamate in something that is not listed as monosodium glutamate, they hide it under strange names. Flavored yeast extract, hydrolyzed vegetable protein. I'll make a video about this. I think we'll add it to our app and it will show how much hidden monosodium glutamate is in a product. The average person receives from 500 to more than two thousand milligrams of free glutamate every day. This causes powerful stimulation of the brain. Because of these flavor additives, people constantly eat, especially if they go to restaurants and not only fast food restaurants. Other restaurants also have a lot of monosodium glutamate in food. If you go to a restaurant, ask if you add monosodium glutamate to the sauce and tell me without sauce. But then, of course, the food will not be as tasty. Unfortunately, it's a dilemma.