Hi all.  Today we'll start right with our famous quiz.  Please, dog.  So, what foods have the most powerful effects on the immune system? We're waiting for your answers, and in the meantime, we'll answer questions on social media.  Nalo YouTube.  What is your opinion about using glassware, pans, pots, serving dishes, etc. in the kitchen?  What is my what?  What is your opinion on using glassware?  And I think that opinion is better than aluminum.  And much better than some iron pans.  After all, they will contain excess iron.  I think it's much better than plastic.  Personally, I really love glass.  Wonderful.  Well, Nala, we've answered your question, and now I suggest we chat with someone in person. Today we have a young man named Chris on the line.  Chris, you're on the air.  Can you ask Dr. Berg one quick question ?  Please .  Fine.  I live in northeast Oklahoma where there are a lot of ticks.  I had a rash on my hands for several months and I didn't know what was causing it.  I have been to the dermatologist and other doctors many times. They had different versions, but in the end it turned out to be alpha-galactose. And I follow dietary restrictions.  I don't eat anything that comes from mammals: butter, meat, and so on.  I also completely eliminated sugar.  And the color of the rash improved.   The itching has also decreased a little, but it still occurs at different times of the day and night.  The dermatologist and another doctor I spoke to say there's nothing that can be done about it, but I don't quite believe them.  I started And how much is this for you? How long ago did this start? I think it started in October-November, and only then did I realize what was going on. So, I think it was about 3 months ago, probably two full months, that I started fasting.  I had never fasted before, so it was quite a challenge.  I immediately went on a two-day fast.  How difficult it is when you're not used to it.  Now I start on Sunday and fast for 24 hours to see if I can get things back to normal. Well, you're in luck because today we're going to discuss the immune system after your question, but I would add one more thing, and that is high doses of vitamin D3.  I would start taking 500mg of vitamin D3, with cofactors of course, with magnesium to get the levels up to somewhere around 100g/ ml.  Then your immune system will start to help you. Microorganisms found in ticks reduce the sensitivity of our receptors to vitamin D, weakening the immune system.  This could go on forever. We will also have a conversation about something else that will help you.  And the last point.  No, two points.  When you take a shower, make the water hotter.  I used to do that.  And direct the stream directly onto the rash, where it itches, to reduce sensitivity.  It really helps for the rest of the day from itching and so on.  And one more thing.  I remembered something else.  You can dive into cold water.  I did it.  This shocks the immune system so much that it resets itself.  It helps. And also extend the fast to three days.  And here's why exactly three days.  It's hard to do right away.  We need to work on this, but it will take three days.  Something magical is happening .  The immune system is literally rebooted and stem cells for the immune system are created .  So I know that this will also bring a lot of benefit. In general, I recommend doing all of this.  Thank you.  We wish you good luck in this difficult task.  Damn ticks.  Now I will read out the audience's answers to the quiz question, which was as follows .  Here he is.  What foods have the most powerful effect on the immune system?  And the audience has an opinion on this matter.  58% answered: "Fatty fish." 22% said beef liver, 10% thought it was maringa or garlic, and 10% said grass-fed meat.  I think these are all the answers.  The floor is yours, dog.  What do you say?  Well, there was no answer we needed, but there is something that is literally a thousand times more powerful.   There is something about this that not only strengthens your immune system, but literally recreates it in you.  Perhaps I will give an answer.  This is the first breast milk, that is, colostrum. So, what is colostrum?  This is an absolutely magical liquid that is released in the first few days when a woman’s milk first appears .  This also applies to animals.  We have a lot of sheep and goats on our farm .  If a sheep or goat does not receive colostrum, it usually does not survive. This is interesting because if you were not breastfed, doctors would not emphasize the importance of colostrum.  With colostrum, we literally get the mother's immune system .  All the experience accumulated by her immune system, all the antibodies, the mother’s immune system is as if downloaded into us.  That's why breastfeeding is so important. However, let's say you were not breastfed. You can buy colostrum as a supplement.  This is colostrum from animals, cows, and shepherds.  So I would advise, especially Chris, who got sick after a tick bite, I would highly recommend taking colostrum.  And buy lyophilized colostrum because it is raw and alive.  It contains probiotics, immune factors, and stem cells.  It contains a lot of amazing magical things.  It is taken by many older people to combat sarcopenia.  This is muscle loss due to old age.  It is taken for advanced eye problems, such as macular degeneration.  In arthritis, it should be taken for leaky gut syndrome. And also, with long-term COVID, with any problems with sinuses and allergies, colostrum is very important.  I would take the lyophilized one.  In general, yes, the most important food we should all consume early in life is the first breast milk.  Colostrum.  This is something amazing.  And here's what's even more surprising. When a mother breastfeeds, there is interaction between her and her baby.  And saliva sends this as if it were two-way communication.  Saliva enters the chest and transmits information about pathogens, electrolytes, and nutrients. And in response to this, the breast produces various things to strengthen the immune system, provide more nutrients, this and that.  It's absolutely amazing that all this is happening at all.  That is, it is both a diagnosis and individually selected treatment.  So be sure to breastfeed your children.  Chris, this information is for you regarding the alpha-galactose problem.  Take freeze-dried colostrum.