Hi all.  Today we'll talk about the most dangerous fat in the world, and then I'll tell you about the healthiest fats in the world.  Let's go through the whole list, but before that I need to give you some basic information. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. I will explain everything very simply so that you can understand everything without knowledge of chemistry or physics.  What you need to know is that oxygen loves to take electrons. As for fats, there are several types.  Fats can be saturated. Saturated fats are unique in that they are very stable.  They do not react particularly with oxygen because they do not contain double bonds.  I won't go into details further .  If a substance contains double bonds, it is less stable.  Oxygen reacts with substances that have double bonds, and oxidation occurs. Let's move on to unsaturated fats now.  All you need to know about unsaturated fats is that they have different numbers of double bonds. There are monounsaturated fats.  Mono means one, there is only one double bond. There are polyunsaturated fats.  They have a lot of double bonds.  Polyunsaturated fats are more unstable because they have double bonds and will react more with oxygen than monounsaturated fats.  So if we quickly compare monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, we're basically dealing with two oils.  These are avocado oil and olive oil.  And they are 75% monounsaturated.  There is only one double bond.  They are quite stable.  Not as stable as saturated fats, but they are much more stable than unsaturated fats, which have many double bonds.  These are corn oil, sunflower oil, safflower oil, soybean oil, rapeseed oil and cottonseed oil.  Now about hydrogenated oils. In the laboratory, it is possible to convert unsaturated fat into saturated fat.  This means that hydrogenated fats like margarine are made synthetically. Let's compare these fats to the wall of a building. Saturated fats are the strong bricks that hold up the entire house. Monounsaturated fats are like a wall with one fragile brick.  In principle, it is stable, but some parts of it are a little fragile.  And there is a polyunsaturated wall.  There are a lot of fragile bricks in it .  This wall is essentially vulnerable to oxygen.   The hydrogenated wall consists of trans bricks.  These are these strange curved bricks that fall apart easily, and a wall made from them is the worst wall.  Partially hydrogenated fats are now being gradually phased out.  Hydrogenated fats are still used primarily in junk food products.  In turn, saturated fats are butter, lard, pork fat and beef fat.  These fats are very stable.  At room temperature they are solid. Monounsaturated fats are mainly found in butter, avocado, and olive oil.  But for now, all you need to know is that cold-pressed avocado oil and cold-pressed olive oil are very healthy, but when they are refined, problems arise.  Polyunsaturated fats are very unstable oils.  They have a lot of weak points.  Problems with these fats arise when they are heated.  Most of the oils sold in stores have already been heat treated, they have already been heated.  You bring this oil home and reheat it, making it even more dangerous. Sunlight also destroys it. It converts it into a byproduct called aldet.  It destroys DNA, but it mainly ends up in the membranes surrounding cells.  If you take an insulin receptor, which is located on the outside of the membrane, and put an aldehyde into it, the receptor will begin to break down. This is one of the primary causes of insulin resistance, prediabetes and diabetes, which are very common now, because 25% of our calories come from these oils, and not cold-pressed ones, but industrial oils that have been treated with bleaching chemicals.  And after that they are deodorized.  so that they can be stored longer without refrigeration. These oils contain a huge amount of aldehydes, which can enter the body en masse, but remain there for a long time and cause inflammation.  They will begin to destroy DNA, membranes, receptors, proteins located around the cells, and will cause inflammation, chronic inflammation.  They will make the cells inelastic and fragile.  In fast food restaurants, food can be fried many times in the same batch of oil.  There is no law that limits the number of times.  So it all depends on drostanolone.  When people eat food that has been dipped in this oil, by the way, it causes inflammation in the cells.  They eat it without thinking much because they don't know what's going on with it.  This oil accumulates in the body. Another type of unsaturated fat in this category is fish oil and cod liver oil.  They have unique differences.  First, both contain the omega-3 fatty acids DHA and EPA.  And their proportion in cod liver oil is similar to their proportion in the brain, retina, mitochondria and immunity. Cod liver oil has better levels than fish oil.  Cod liver oil is rich in antioxidants.  Cod liver oil has more benefits than fish oil.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Before I name the most dangerous fat in the world, I'd like to talk about what has changed in our diet. saturated fats.  At one time, relatively recently, they were considered very dangerous.  They are said to clog arteries and should be avoided.  Now there is evidence that it is safe to eat, but saturated fats have been demonized for years, decades, while unsaturated fats have been promoted as healthy. But in fact they were one of the root causes. Heart disease.  These unsaturated fats were once touted as a solution to health problems.  But they always caused problems.  What about cholesterol?  Any food with cholesterol, like eggs, was previously considered unhealthy.  But then suddenly they discovered that eggs raise good cholesterol and lower LDL, the bad cholesterol.  What an interesting twist.   What about healthy grains? Cereal packages still advertise heart-healthy grains.  But we know that most of these grains are refined and that they are converted into sugar.  There is gluten in it, it destroys the intestines.  What about red meat?  It was also demonized and said to cause cancer because they didn't differentiate between normal meat and processed meat and just said they both caused cancer.  But in fact, many people have gotten rid of diseases on the root diet.  This diet helped them with autoimmune diseases and intestinal inflammation.  Red meat is one of the healthiest foods on the planet, but at one time it was considered unhealthy.  What about salt?  Most people know that a lot of salt is bad for blood pressure.  But did you know that 90% of blood pressure problems are caused by an unknown cause and salt?  not related.  Interestingly, I think it's due to a potassium deficiency or a vitamin D deficiency, because if you increase potassium intake in salt-sensitive people, their blood pressure normalizes, but if you decrease salt intake, cortisol levels increase.  In my opinion, salt has never been a source of problems even with blood pressure.  Now let's move on to the most dangerous fat in the world.  The most dangerous fats for the body are partially hydrogenated fats.  These are unsaturated fats, very unstable, that have been artificially converted into saturated fats.  They are harmful. Trans fats are also dangerous.  Very strange fats that harm the body on different levels. The question arises: what about hydrogenated fats?  These are unsaturated fats that undergo high temperature processing. hydrogen and metal.  So stay away from these fats.  They are some of the worst in the world.  But the next fats on the list are polyunsaturated fatty acids, which are used to fry food in fast food restaurants.  It is undoubtedly the worst fat on planet Earth because it causes a lot of aldehydes to accumulate in the body .  They enter the body, settle in the membranes, and it takes 600 days to remove them.  Four. Soybean oil.  Most of my friends have never even heard of cold-pressed soybean oil.  Usually it is already sold peeled and heat-treated, and people take it and heat it up again.  This is a genetically modified product and may contain glyphosate residues.  Corn oil is also genetically modified. Sixth.  Sunflower and safflower oils. I know these oils have been touted as heart healthy, but I'm talking about the purified version.  Cottonseed oil is a by-product of the cotton industry. It is as harmful as the previous ones.  This is GMO.  So there is glyphosate here, just like in rapeseed oil.  It is also genetically modified.  Grape seed oil is very high in polyunsaturated fats.  Usually it is cleared.  The same applies to iris oil.  like refined peanut butter.  Next, purified avocado oil.  When people buy refined avocado oil, they think it is much healthier than other oils.  But when oil is heated, aldehydes are formed because the chlorophyll, vitamin E, and various phytonutrients in the oil are destroyed. Interestingly, the production of avocado oil is not regulated in any way. Other oils can be mixed into it and it will be almost undetectable.  Even on jars of mayonnaise with avocado oil, you need to read the ingredients.   They won't write cold pressed there, that is, it's purified oil.  Next comes the refined olive oil.  This should also be avoided because, again, it is heated and destroys all the wonderful phytonutrients in it.  All previous fats and oils were definitely bad.  Now let's move on to fats that are healthy, but not all are created equal.  For example, lard.  There is regular lard, and there is pastured lard, which is much better.  It all depends on the quality of the lard you buy.  But store-bought lard is the lard of pigs that were fed grain.  This means that this lard will contain omega-6 acids from the grain, and it will also contain oils from the seeds.  Beef fat.  Same situation.  Store bought grain fed beef tallow.  But grass-fed beef fat is much healthier. There is refined coconut oil and cold-pressed coconut oil.  It's much better than purified. Butter.  There is store-bought and grass-fed.  In general, quality varies.  Cold pressed avocado oil .  It is very healthy and contains 75% monounsaturated fats.  It's unlikely you'll get any aldehydes from it.  It contains lutein, which is good for the eyes, brain and prostate.  It contains a lot of vitamin E. It is good for dressing salads, the main thing is not to heat it.  And finally, extra virgin olive oil, which contains many phytonutrients that are beneficial for the heart, body tissue and brain. Avocado oil and olive oil contain powerful phytonutrients that help reduce inflammation.   They are not here.  You might be wondering, "What should I fry my food on then?" Understand that hot, because it is a high temperature, is not in itself a healthy way to cook.   Are you trying diet again, but nothing helps?  Try a proven technique.  The Teto Menu book is a ready-made meal plan for weight loss and health. Healthy eating, a clear plan, and step-by-step recipes will help you lose weight without stress and stay full.  Start now and feel the results.  Download the book using the link below.