The most harmful food for the heart is even worse than sugar, but sugar is also harmful to the heart, no question. Some of you probably think it's omega-6 acids, soybean oil, corn oil, these oils, and you're absolutely right. The harm from them is comparable to sugar, if not more. But there is something else that is even worse than omega-6 fatty acids, and these are trans fats. You say you thought they were banned. Isn't there trans fats in foods? There are no more, but our Ministry of Health, since 2015, simply stopped classifying them as considered generally safe because they cause some minor complications. It takes years and years to recognize the fact that trans fats are extremely harmful to blood vessels. They dramatically increase the risk of heart attacks, strokes, type II cancer resistance. They increase LDL and decrease HDL. They create inflammation. They cause autoimmune diseases, infertility, and even degeneration of tendons and bones. But otherwise, they are usually safe. When it comes to trans fats, they mean partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. Let me explain briefly how they are made. Unsaturated fats are almost always taken, for example, soybean or corn oil, they are heated to high temperatures and kept there, they go through this phase and become thick. This is a partially hydrogenated version with a modified structure. This is a new artificial substance. Partially hydrogenated oils contain trans fats. If you leave them for longer, they are completely hydrogenated and it seems that at this stage there are no longer any trans fats in them, this does not mean that they have become healthier, they still create problems. Can something become harmful during processing? But if you continue processing, it becomes healthy. I saw partially hydrogenated or hydrogenated in the composition, do not take liquid oils, they become solid. They are found in the composition of pie dough, popcorn, cookies, crackers, croutons. The industry is simply adapting everywhere and undoubtedly reducing the amount of trans fats. Which is good, but this has its drawbacks. I will get to them later, but you should know that an increase in the amount of trans fats in the diet by every two percent dramatically increases the risk of a heart attack or even death from a heart attack by 20-35 percent, that is.  they are very harmful to the heart because they seem to become part of your cells already. Not being liquid, the vessels harden and lose elasticity, because you are introducing a very foreign substance into the body. They once said that these hydrogenated fats would replace supposedly harmful saturated fats, as if they were healthier than saturated fats, but the only purpose of their use is to extend shelf life. Now you can no longer store this unsaturated oil in the refrigerator; it has completely changed and does not spoil for much longer. What is interesting about this statement from the Ministry of Health is that it does not apply to animal feed, including pet food, as well as feed for chickens and other poultry and feed for other animals. That is, you can get trans fats indirectly by consuming the meat of animals that were fed trans fats and without even knowing it, it is not even labeled as hydrogenated oil, and the trouble is that you do not always know for sure. Then go. When you see the inscription encapsulated citric acid, you can see it on almost all sausages in the meat aisle. In some sausages, this combination of citric acid and hydrogenated  vegetable oil which contains trans fats I will say that I like to eat these sausages I found a good brand that does not contain trans fats encapsulated citric acid is the Temple of Styx and No I am not associated with this company they do not pay me for anything I just recommend a good product if I find it the link will be below another point If you go to any fast food restaurant or even a regular restaurant most likely there will be trans fats and they accumulate in the body I want to discuss something else this loophole that food industry uses it is called in the definition of the concept of zero trans fats it is allowed to contain half a gram that is 500 mg of trans fats per serving so that it can be written that the product has zero trans fats and the inscription on the product zero trans fats does not mean that there are 0 of them that's how illogical Let's figure it out a little potato chips finger-licking good serving size is essentially two tablespoons of these chips the manufacturer claims that they have zero trans fats and if you are like me then you definitely can't eat just two tablespoons that is You'll probably eat the whole bag of chips in one serving. I'd definitely eat the whole bag of trans fats. Despite the fact that the package says zero trans fats, the Weston Foundation, together with the University of Illinois, tested some store-bought products on the price list. Measuring how much trans fat they actually have in Raples potato chips, they found 3.7 mg of trans fats per gram of total fat per serving, but that's only per 1 g. If you multiply that by the number of grams in the package, it'll be a lot. Crackers say zero trans fats on the package, the serving size is 16 g. But during the analysis, Weston Price found 51.9 mg in Hostess donuts, which you've probably tried, which have zero trans fats, the serving size is 57 g. They found 29 milligrams per serving. I don't know. Can you eat just one small donut? I ca n't. I have to eat a lot more. Is there a risk of bold fat? It's interesting, because confectionery fat is known to be risky.  With their spendthrifts, they had to reconsider the chemistry and seriously recalculate the composition and reduce the serving size, as well as reconsider the chemistry to reduce the amount of trans fats, but what do they replace them with saturated fats? That is, the industry solves the problem by reducing the serving size to better meet the definition of zero trans fats and fit within half a gram. But they also have to replace trans fats with something else, and they replace them with saturated fats. Some of them come from palm oil, but they are also replaced with artificial saturated fats. And these are fully hydrogenated vegetable oils, not partially hydrogenated. Therefore, they do not contain trans fats. But hydrogenated oils are very hard and the body does not cope well with them. In one serving, there was not 0 trans fats, there were 11.9 mg per serving. There is also Favorite margarine. They do not claim that they have zero, they have one and a half grams, but you know that upon analysis, the true amount of trans fats turned out to be 116.8 mg. You need to understand that although the amount of trans fats in these products is decreasing and they are even being replaced.  saturated fats are mostly artificial, they are still made because of mega-6 fatty acids, which are usually GMOs. These are soybean, canola, corn, cottonseed oils. They all heat up, which causes mass without problems and inflammation in the body. So you should always read the ingredients, know exactly what you are eating, and when you go to a restaurant, order only what is definitely not trans fats, even in croutons, you can’t be sure. These things can accumulate in the body, affect the heart, affect the liver. I also don’t trust the nutrition in different institutions. There are no standards for trans fats for this food. This is nutrition in the school system, in hospitals, in nursing homes, in kindergartens. Just imagine. You end up in the hospital instead. Where do you want to restore your health? You are exposed to various microbes. From sick people. In addition, there is also food from countries with fats and omega-6 acids that cause inflammation. Although they may not be in trans fats. Now you know more about these products and will avoid them and replace them with healthy fats. I mean healthy saturated fats. By the way, saturated fats are healthy if  They come from grass-fed animals. Grain-fed meat can cause inflammation, but the fats that naturally accompany protein are natural and cannot be replaced with artificial saturated fats. And especially promoted as part of a healthy diet, and since we are talking about how to protect the heart, watch a very interesting video about what is good for your heart. It will appear here. Watch it.