There is a disease that is completely ignored. However, it is very common, but its presence is rarely tested. And you need to know about it. In fact, this will answer many questions about health. I will list all the problems caused by this disease before I name it. Maybe you yourself can guess number one. Because of this problem, you often get up at night to go to the toilet. This is the first. Second, it causes fatigue. Third, it causes cravings for carbohydrates during the day and deprives you of the ability to go for a long time without food. It is because of it that you have belly fat, a slow metabolism, and you hit a set point, that is, you cannot lose weight below a certain level. It is the cause of fatty liver and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. It is the root cause of brain fog, poor concentration, poor mood, anxiety, depression, and severe irritability. It is the cause of dementia and forgetfulness. This problem increases the risk of cancer, increases the risk of heart attack, stroke, and blood clots. It is the cause of nerve problems such as autonomic nervous system dysfunction and peripheral neuropathy in the soles of the feet.  legs or palms, this problem greatly weakens the immune system, increasing the risk of infectious diseases, it is the cause of low HDL, high LDL, in particular dangerous LDL with small dense particles, it is the cause of high levels of triglycerides and cholesterol, as well as high blood pressure. And all together, this is a sign of metabolic syndrome, it is the cause of polycystic ovary syndrome, when women develop facial hair and the voice becomes deeper, it is definitely the cause of type 2 diabetes, as well as gallstones, all these symptoms that I mentioned are caused directly by this one disease. And the name of this disease is hyperincelemia, hyper means too much of something, insulin, insulinemia in the blood is an excess of insulin in the blood, and this is what is very, very strange. Doctors never look at this, they do not take tests to detect this, they check blood sugar, blood glucose levels. What is curious about high insulin levels is that insulin levels can be high for years, but sugar levels will not be high. Perhaps you know that insulin increases due to excess carbohydrates and sugar and frequent meals. The question is, how is it that some people eat so much?  sugar and their blood glucose levels remain normal the average person eats 13 teaspoons of added sugar every day this is added sugar on top of the other carbohydrates they eat if we factor in other carbohydrates and they make up 60-65 percent of all calories in the diet we get 230 grams of sugar per day that is 68.7 teaspoons of sugar that is what all those carbohydrates turn into I am talking about wine bread pasta cereal crackers juices all those carbohydrates turn into 68.7 teaspoons of sugar per day how the hell can someone have normal blood sugar if they eat that much sugar the answer is insulin insulin does the job invisible insulin removes sugar as fast as it comes in to keep blood sugar normal and so the doctors check your sugar levels oh you are fine you are healthy but they didn't check the insulin and the body works like crazy pumping all this insulin into the blood and it removes sugar turning it into cholesterol fat and causing all these other symptoms this goes on for 15-20 years before  When your blood sugar levels start to rise due to what's called insulin resistance, understand that in large quantities, insulin is just as toxic as sugar. So, the more insulin your body produces, the more the body protects itself from excess insulin by developing insulin resistance. The problem here is that in some places in the body there is very little insulin, and in other places there is a lot of it, but it's a double-edged sword: you get all the possible harm from insulin, but you don't get any benefit from it. After all, one of the purposes of insulin is to help absorb nutrients, that is, the body is deprived of nutrients; it doesn't really absorb amino acids, potassium, and vitamin D due to insulin resistance, and then the cells begin to lack fuel; mitochondria and brain cells become forgetful, and a variety of cellular problems arise. At first, your blood sugar levels are normal, but then they go haywire. So, insulin resistance is a defense mechanism; it helps you survive, but at the same time, the body has to secrete more insulin to compensate for insulin resistance. It's like catching fire.  a barn, and someone would pour gasoline on it, and at the same time, someone else pours water on the barn, but there is an unlimited amount of gasoline, and someone continues to pour it, and someone has to lay down water to extinguish the flames. Eventually, when a lot of gasoline has been poured, the entire barn will burn to the ground, and this is exactly what usually happens to people. All this insulin is pumped into the blood. At first, he manages to cope with blood sugar, but eventually he cannot cope with it, and the person becomes diabetic. Doctors rarely change his diet to eliminate the cause of high insulin. This is an excess of carbohydrates or frequent eating, and so the person takes medication to artificially lower blood sugar levels, takes metformin to reduce insulin resistance and continues to eat carbohydrates. More and more medication is required, the person gets worse and worse. Eventually, gangrene of the feet begins, they are amputated, he goes blind. There is a very simple test. I highly recommend it when you go to the doctor. Let them determine your level, length on an empty stomach, of course, in me. Why wait for this test? You can start fixing everything right away, you just need to start  Keto diet with intermittent fasting and your insulin will begin to decrease and you will be able to get rid of a large number of problems. Hundreds of thousands of people around the world follow the keto diet with intermittent fasting and get rid of many problems. We have over 6 thousand success stories on the site. You can go to my site and start reading them. But this is only a small part of people. There are many, many more. I only recently started collecting success stories. I should have done this from the very beginning. There is an excellent book by Joseph Kraft. He is a doctor. I highly recommend it. Take a look at it. There is a link to this book below. This book confirms everything I am talking about, but for you now, the best thing is to start a keto diet with intermittent fasting. This video very simply explains how to do it. Watch it.