I decided to make this video to give and explain the most important tips of the intermittent fasting package in one video. This video will not be terribly long, but I want to tell you the most important things to help you achieve more success and get the results you are striving for. So, let's start at the beginning. You wake up in the morning. What do you do? Most people drink a cup of coffee. So, the first goal is to skip breakfast. The best way to do this is to add m-city oil to your coffee. Start with one tablespoon so that you don't get diarrhea from a large amount of oil. M-city is a type of fat usually obtained from coconut oil, which allows you not to feel hungry for the next few hours. So, add the neti oil to your coffee and stir. If you reach two tablespoons, you definitely won't be hungry. Neti oil gives you energy. Usually, after coffee, I drink water with lemon, although you can drink it. I take a whole lemon and grind it in a blender with water. I don't squeeze the juice out of the lemon anymore. This drink is very, very sour, but you can add a few drops of stevia, or, as I do, you can add one scoop of my electrolyte powder.  So you will get potassium, magnesium and you will have more energy and so lemon water with or without electrolytes gives energy, it has a lot of vitamin C and it also contains citrates that help prevent the formation of kidney stones, now you are not hungry in the morning and your first meal will be at noon, I advise you to dilute a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water and drink it, it will help digestion and normalize blood sugar, you do not have to drink it before meals, you can drink it when you are fasting, apple cider vinegar is very useful to take when you do all this, it gives energy, normalizes sugar, accelerates the reduction of insulin resistance, as for food, I advise you to always eat vegetables or greens first and only then protein foods, why because, as I discovered, if you do what I usually advise here, these 7-10 glasses of vegetables a day, for many this does not work at first, that is, you need to eat a large portion of greens, 5 glasses of greens is not so much, you can eat 5 glasses of greens at lunch and for dinner 3 or 2 glasses of greens, it is not difficult if  you eat other vegetables such as broccoli, cabbage, brussels sprouts, denser vegetables, you don't need them, 7-10 cups is enough, maybe 4-5, so I advise you to first eat vegetables and greens, it will be much better, I add greens and it turns out really delicious, I sprinkle the greens with nutritional yeast flakes, so I get B vitamins throughout the day, this definitely reduces stress and it tastes a bit like parmesan, so nutritional yeast is great for greens, buy unenriched, because they add synthetic vitamins to enriched yeast, more information at the link below, I recommend two main groups of nutrients as an absolute minimum, these are electrolytes and B vitamins when you are on those, then to prevent this, fatigue, chum rash and other symptoms, because in the beginning, a lot of water leaves the body and you lose a lot of electrolytes, while some experience severe fatigue, dehydration, so you need to replenish electrolytes, in addition, when we burn more fat, we need B vitamins, and many are on the verge at the beginning deficiency they may experience fatigue if they do not get B vitamins one of the best sources is nutritional yeast and so you sat down vegetables ate protein how much protein you need actually it depends on your metabolism age gender I usually recommend 80 170 200 230 grams of real protein if you are young and exercise add a little more but excess protein especially at dinner can prevent you from falling asleep at night at the end of the meal I usually eat a little more fat why thanks to this I can go longer without eating and feel more full and so I can eat a handful of pecans I can eat a whole avocado I can eat macadamia nuts I can add more olive oil to greens I can just eat a little more butter this fat helps not to eat longer after a meal someone may feel that the stomach is full but not satiated there are a couple of reasons for this the first reason is insulin resistance and it takes time to reduce it with insulin resistance nutrients are not fully absorbed so the person feels a little underfed this is common  It encourages you to eat more. A person may also feel unsatisfied. If there are few nutrients in the food, when you eat grass-fed beef, there are many more nutrients than corn-fed beef. You won't know until you try it. Although the taste of this beef may not be as refined or it tastes somehow different, it has many more nutrients, more omega-3 fatty acids, and there are even phytonutrients in this beef. After all, the cow ate a lot of grass, so the meat has much more beta-carotene, retinol, vitamin A and vitamin E, and more micronutrients. Just imagine a cow that ate a lot of corn, which is very unnatural. There is much more marbled fatty protein in the muscles of such a cow. More fat in such cows often develop insulin resistance. This leads to a nutrient deficiency in the cow. When you eat meat, you get fewer nutrients. Ideally, for satiety, you need food rich in nutrients, such as beef. Grass-fed seafood has a lot of nutrients, especially micronutrients; shellfish and crustaceans; liver, if you can eat it; organic pastured eggs have a lot of nutrients; and wild fish, for example, salmon, unlike skinless chicken breast; protein powder or fast food; running is a good idea; even baseball caps are supposedly for compatibility because it's low quality, but I won't burden you too much; in fact, there are two stages: the first stage is simply cutting down on carbs, even if it's dirty ketogenic; I'll skip it; just add carbs; the second stage is improving the quality of what you eat; this requires a little more knowledge and time; do what you can; something is better than nothing; if you need to cut down on carbs, regardless of quality, do it; and so, this was the first meal; then fast until dinner; a couple of tips on fasting; you can drink different herbal teas; green tea is very good; turmeric tea is very good; it helps you fast longer and stimulates out of a due, which brings enormous benefits in terms of rejuvenation and brain health; and so, the second meal can be drunk again water with apple cider vinegar to improve digestion, then eat something fatty, perhaps a large handful of sunflower seeds, from them you will get a little more fat and b1, perhaps you ate at six in the evening, let's say you go to bed at ten o'clock, I do not recommend it if you are old and get up at night due to bladder problems, I advise you not to drink anything, say after seven in the evening, that is, three hours before going to bed, that is, drink a lot of water during the day, perhaps after dinner and in the evening, but do not drink a lot of liquid at eight and ninth and ten o'clock because sleep is very important and the less water before bed, the better, and here's what is very important in the period after dinner and before going to bed, very often, and yes, it may be hard to believe, people want to snack, and this is absolutely deadly for maintaining ketosis, some snack non-stop after dinner and before going to bed, and so the most important advice in your house simply should not have food that you can snack on, remove these potentially tempting snack foods from the house if you  It is absolutely necessary to eat something, just eat celery, it is crunchy and it is something you can chew. Imagine this is a real problem for many people. If you do as I said, eat nutrient-rich foods and add fat at the end of your meal. It will be easier for you to resist snacking. Well, sleep is very important. If you don’t get enough sleep in the morning, it will excite you to engage in food due to increased cortisol, and this is unnecessary stress. It will be more difficult to achieve the desired results, your metabolism will worsen. A couple of tips about sleep. If you can exercise during the day, this is great because exercise will help you burn energy, normalize blood sugar, and improve sleep. It is also important to exercise outdoors or be outdoors during the day because a lot of melatonin is produced under the sun’s rays, and melatonin improves sleep. If possible, ideally, you should be in the sun for at least one hour, it is not necessary to be in direct sunlight, just outside even if you have a headache and clothes because the infrared light from the sun penetrates through clothes and a hat, and thanks to it, you  Melatonin levels will increase, not to mention the production of vitamin D. Vitamin D improves sleep. So in the winter, if you don't get enough sun and want to significantly improve your sleep, take about ten thousand of vitamin D3 right before bed. This will improve your sleep cycles. If thoughts are swarming in your head before bed, take vitamin B1 before bed. It's very effective. Also, don't consume too much protein, especially for men, to sleep better. Because if you have a huge amount of non- essential protein, it will worsen your sleep. You get a lot of melatonin in the sun. Don't take melatonin as a supplement. This creates another problem. You get melatonin from infrared radiation from the sun. Take vitamins B1 and D3. And I forgot to say something about training. To have energy for training, you need electrolytes, especially sodium and potassium. So, on Sundays, be sure to add more sea salt to your food. Otherwise, you will have a sodium deficiency, and because of this, your muscles will be weak. You feel like you don't have energy for training. This is usually caused by a lack of sodium and is easy to fix.  Adding sea salt to your diet, potassium is another electrolyte for maintaining energy. Potassium and magnesium are found in greens and in electrolyte powder. I want people to feel the difference simply by adding sea salt and potassium to their diet and see how effective their workouts have become, how much their endurance, strength, and desire to train have increased. Deficiency is doomed, everything is terrible, no desire to train, no energy all day, lethargy. There are a couple more very important things, so if you get distracted, come back. We don't want you to find yourself on a plateau. It's the little things that matter. For example, one way to get out of ketosis is to use dietary artificial sweeteners. They can ruin everything. This is very important. The second point is hidden sugar, and it's even in those compatible bars, desserts, snow. Oh yeah, and even though you eat less than 50 grams of carbohydrates, maltodextrin. Dextrin, believe it or not, is not classified as sugar. I have a video about this. Don't believe it. Always read the ingredients. It's even better to exclude all kinds of tetta snacks altogether. In addition, in the so-called  In ketone electrolyte powders, maltodextrin is hidden in natural flavors. Yes, this is another thing I learned about probably about a year ago. Maltodextrin is used as an aerosol for drying certain flavors. I had a hard time finding a company that doesn't add maltodextrin to ingredients other than cocciated forms of minerals, not to natural flavors. Maltodextrin is worse than sugar, worse than glucose, it has a very high glycemic index. A couple more things: honey is sugar, avoid seeing it, and don't buy honey in ingredients. There are many other forms of sugar. Date sugar is in coconut, in fact, there's a lot of sugar. Understand that even a little sugar or other carbohydrates can throw you out of ketosis for a significant period of time, up to two days. You wonder why there are no results and go every other day. Hidden sweeteners are the reason why the goal is to encourage you to do it long enough for you to feel what you should feel in terms of energy, improved brain function, they are only for weight loss, so you feel very good, because this feeling of health, well-being, the feeling that you are full of energy is very, very important, especially with age, this is very valuable.  A couple more tips. The best sign that the process is underway is your appetite, it disappears, and not weight loss at all. After all, you need to become healthy and then lose weight. They lose weight for the sake of health. One of the best signs of improving health is switching to fat burning. This is a very, very healthy state that will bring many additional benefits. Loss of appetite means that you are switching to fat burning. Focus on this. This is the most important sign, especially in the beginning. Don't weigh yourself too often so as not to focus on everything and focus on your energy level. The disappearance of appetite, cravings for food, and the fact that clothes are getting big. And the last little piece of advice. If you are too heavy, something is better than nothing. Just switch to a low-carb diet or just start fasting as a first step. Because even if you start with a dirty ketogenic diet and eat Atkins bars that are full of all sorts of crap, but they at least have less than 50 grams of carbohydrates, it will be better than nothing. If you need more detailed analysis and step-by-step instructions on how to be on a healthy ketogenic diet, sign up for my basic course. I invite you to my healthy course.  Keto is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.