Let's discuss the most important antidote to allergies. Do you suffer from allergies or food sensitivities? I'll tell you how to get rid of it. But what is the difference between a true allergy and a food sensitivity? In fact, there are several differences. A true allergy is associated with some protein, while with a food sensitivity, the reaction often occurs with a delay. You eat something and don't notice any changes until two to six hours have passed, and sometimes not even earlier than three days. Because of this, it can be very difficult to connect the cause and effect of the reaction. You may have a headache, your mood may change, even to the point of depression. This can manifest as fatigue, like Crohn's disease or some other inflammation in the intestines. This can manifest on your skin in the form of eczema or in your joints in the form of arthritis. If you want to find out what you are sensitive to, you can take the so-called immunoglobulin test, this is one of the varieties of antibody tests. With food sensitivities, you feel more general discomfort and the symptoms are not too strong, and a food allergy, on the other hand, often manifests itself as severe inflammation.  and sometimes in the form of a life-threatening situation such as anaphylactic shock, the question arises whether there is a non-medicinal and safe remedy or antidote for allergies or food sensitivities. There is definitely one of the proven effective types of therapy - an elimination diet - you find out what exactly you react to and then exclude it from your diet for a while. Sometimes this alone eliminates the problem, but there is an even more powerful remedy that I will tell you about. You need to understand that the cause of the allergy is in the intestines. Something happens with the permeability of the intestinal wall and leaky gut syndrome occurs. Tight junctions of the wall tissue open slightly, which leads to the fact that proteins or other small particles penetrate this barrier, and the immune system reacts to them, creating antibodies to particles of this type or to such food. All this becomes quite confusing. Let's say you have an allergy to peanuts, and the proteins in peanuts are very similar to almond proteins. You may have a true allergy to almonds, but it also manifests itself in peanuts. But now we will not go into all these complexities, but we will talk about how to improve your immune system so that there will be no allergies.  The antidote to any allergy is called autophagy. This is a condition in which the body gets rid of damaged proteins that are not needed by flies. This is a survival mechanism of the body that has existed since ancient times and which protects you from all sorts of troubles. If this autophagy mechanism built into the body stops working normally or has a defect, all these unnecessary proteins remain in the body, creating a lot of problems. A direct link has been found between the weakening of the autophagy process and Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, pulmonary fibrosis, as well as a large number of other problems. So, this is a normal and very important process inherent in our body. This is a method by which the body deals with various damaged elements, including damaged DNA and damaged mitochondria, which creates a lot of problems and even increases the risk of cancer. In addition, this is a process with an anti-aging effect. When the body ages, autophagy helps it get rid of old damaged proteins that need to be removed. This not only helps you look beautiful but also improves the functioning of the body. It can even reduce the degree of infection. It can cleanse the body of viruses that were in its cells.  For a long time, for example, the Epstein-Barr virus, the human papillomavirus, and other pathogens that have no place in your body. As you can see, autophagy is a very useful thing about allergies. There is a lot of interesting data below, there will be links where you will learn how to enhance the effect of autophagy to weaken the occurrence of allergies. The study I am citing shows that you can reduce allergy sensitivity, histamine levels, and immunoglobulin levels, which are essentially antibodies associated with sensitivity. Autophagy can repair the immune system, it is capable of rebuilding and rebuilding it, it can improve the immune defense mechanisms, and it can reduce inflammation of the lung tissue. What is the main question now? How can we enhance the process of autophagy in the body? There are several things that can be done, but the most effective remedy is fasting. Fasting is the most effective way to stimulate out of a ti. My recommendation: If you have allergies, immediately begin intermittent fasting regularly. This alone can eliminate your allergies. Especially if you increase the window between meals to 18-20 hours or even switch to one meal a day. There is something else that can help you reach a new level, and this is periodic Long-term fasting, for example, once a month or once every 2 weeks, you fast for two days or once a month for three days, this will have a serious impact on any problem associated with your immune system. This alone will help get rid of allergies. Over time, you will see that allergies become less and less. Another advantage of fasting is that it reduces inflammation. Even if you have allergies, the inflammation will become much less. Not to mention that seventy- eighty percent of the immune system is in the intestines, and fasting works wonders with the intestines. You don't eat, and the intestines have a chance to heal themselves, as well as increase the diversity and strength of the microflora. I do n't know if you know this, but your microflora. The friendly bacteria in your intestines seriously help to tune up the immune system and manage it. So, any actions to improve the microflora will help reduce allergies. In fact, children born by cesarean section have a much higher risk of developing allergies than children born naturally because in the first case, the child is deprived of contact with the mother's friendly bacteria. Regular exercise is another thing that significantly improves out of a due  Green tea helps stimulate out of a due, turmeric and other similar herbs can also stimulate and enhance out of a due. There are other things that can reduce allergies. I recommend them as a supplement to fasting. Probiotics. Taking probiotics on a regular basis since 80 percent of your immunity is microflora. Taking probiotics can significantly reduce allergies. I recommend taking probiotics right before bed. Third, this is vitamin D3. A unique feature of vitamin D is that it helps suppress immune responses without suppressing the immune system. This is why vitamin D is used when a new storm occurs, when an uncontrolled inflammatory reaction or hypersensitivity begins. Vitamin D is very important. I would take at least 10,000 international units daily, or even more than 20,000 or 30,000, depending on how severe the allergy is. There is very interesting information (link below) that allergies develop when a person has a zinc deficiency. Therefore, taking zinc is a very reasonable step. Now the question arises of how exactly to fast correctly. I have a large course dedicated to how  Since this topic is on the topic, I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.