Which plant contains the most antioxidants? Do you know that of all food categories, plants contain the most antioxidants? Antioxidants are also beneficial for health. Along with vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients in food, this also applies to phytonutrients. They not only eliminate damage from free radicals, but they also have many other amazing health benefits. Here we have two lists. Plants from this list are usually consumed raw. And from this one, usually ground. I will talk about plants from both lists because oregano has the most antioxidants, but if we talk about ground plants, cloves have the most antioxidants. So, it depends on various factors, but we will discuss oregano and then cloves. Oregano is an amazing plant because this herb has very, very powerful antimicrobial properties. It can be taken for a variety of hidden infections. It is taken if you have chronic fatigue syndrome, viruses, Stein bark fungus, any yeast infection, or bacterial overgrowth syndrome in the small intestine. Oregano has amazing antimicrobial and many other properties.  Sage is very helpful when a person sweats for no apparent reason. Then it's good to take sage because it activates the parasympathetic nervous system and inhibits the sympathetic mechanism. The mechanism is called swans, and this is its unique effect. Peppermint is very easy to grow, it's essentially a weed, but it's good for the digestive system. Peppermint is taken to deflate the stomach and to increase the secretion of bile from the liver. It can certainly be added to tea, especially after Ida. Thyme is an herb with antimicrobial properties. Thyme and cloves are often taken together because of their antimicrobial properties. In fact, thyme, cloves, and oregano are taken for any bacterial and viral infections. That's what thyme is, and a few more words about cloves. It's good to apply cloves to a tooth that hurts, and even to an abscess in the mouth, apply it to that area. After all, it contains an anesthetic. It has a very powerful antimicrobial effect, and in particular, it has a very powerful antiparasitic effect. That is, it helps well against parasites. Furthermore, it's good to take pimento.  If there is pain or inflammation, it tastes like three ingredients were mixed: nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves. They were mixed next: cinnamon. Cinnamon is useful for many problems, but especially for blood sugar problems. If there is a problem with blood sugar, cinnamon can help. Melissa is great for calming the nervous system, helping you sleep, reducing stress, can be applied as an oil to the scalp to stimulate hair growth, a very effective remedy and also a powerful antibacterial. So, I just wanted to tell you a little about the amazing powerful properties of phytonutrients, and this is in addition to the vitamins, minerals, and microelements found in food. Do you know what superfoods are? These are foods that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these products and their benefits. Short lessons and videos about more than forty superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily. health