The question is, what is the most deadly bacterium in the world? Is it mycobacterium tuberculosis or Koch's bacillus, which causes a disease called tuberculosis? Tuberculosis is a very curious disease. I didn't know before that it kills 1 million 800 thousand people worldwide every year. This is unthinkable, but what's even more unthinkable is that I discovered that a quarter of the entire population is infected with tuberculosis, but it's inactive, that is, dormant. Tuberculosis has two forms: an active infection, an infection in remission, it's called latent. The infection is present but doesn't cause any symptoms and isn't even contagious. It's impossible to infect someone with dormant latent tuberculosis. That's what you need to know. There's not a very high percentage of tuberculosis. It's active in nine out of ten cases, it's latent, and only in 50 percent of cases does it become active. The problem is that half of the people with an active form of infection die without treatment. The mortality rate is very high, but of course, I'm interested in what's happening with the other half. Why do they survive? What's so special about these people that helps them survive? I couldn't find much information about this. When dealing with infections, your own immunity remains intact.  It is not given any importance in the frame, instead we focus on antibiotics and other therapy which a little later people with active tuberculosis usually suffer from a chronic cough and sometimes have blood in their sputum, they have a fever, back pain, weight loss, they get hot at night and these mild symptoms last for months, another unique point is that apparently it shows up in tests only after 8-10 weeks, that is, you can become infected and not know about it for a long time, the big difficulty in treating tuberculosis is that you are given different antibiotics for many months in a row, this is fraught with the fact that antibiotic resistance can develop, percent of people after such treatment become resistant to antibiotics, they no longer work on them at all, and what to do then, and in six percent of patients, tuberculosis is resistant to any treatment at all, I want to share an interesting fact about antibiotics, you should know something first, antibiotics do not work at all on viral infections, they do not work on fungal yeast or candida infections and it has been proven that in 60 percent of cases Antibiotics were not needed at all because many of the infections were viral, fungal, or yeast, and antibiotic resistance creates many problems because it leads to the development of a super pathogen. This also happens in agriculture when bacteria in the soil are killed, which leads to the development of superbugs, and as a result, we have to deal with pathogens that are very difficult to kill. An important note: Every time you take antibiotics, always take probiotics at the same time, and after taking them, you also don’t need to wait until you finish the entire course of antibiotics. When taking probiotics, they will not interfere with the effectiveness of the antibiotic, they will not prolong the duration of the infection, because you are not taking a pathogen, you are taking probiotics, that is, beneficial bacteria. People with antibiotic resistance are very vulnerable to secondary infections, mainly yeast infections or candidiasis, which begin to grow when there are bacteria. They keep the yeast under control, and if the bacteria are destroyed, the fungus begins to grow, which in turn gives rise to a series of problems. Another significant problem with antibiotics is the side effects on the brain: a decrease in cognitive function, memory impairment, confusion, and Sorrento, psychosis, severe depression, anxiety, irritability, that is, both mood and cognitive functions change, which is connected to the birku l-azam. Something else very interesting is that I already talked about active and latent forms. Usually, the active form of tuberculosis manifests itself within 1-3 years, but this can also happen later, but the likelihood of manifestation becomes lower over time. What increases the risk of its manifestation in the future? What is your greater risk if you live in the northern hemisphere? The risk is also higher in the winter months. What do these two factors have in common? If your guess is a lack of vitamin D, then you are right because vitamin D deficiency increases the risk of active forms of tuberculosis by five times. There is a very strong link between vitamin D deficiency and tuberculosis simply because vitamin D is the most important vitamin for immunity. It affects almost all components of the immune system and helps regulate it. If you have little vitamin D, then you are very vulnerable not only to tuberculosis but also to many other infections. I also found interesting information about vitamin D receptors. There is a genetic problem with vitamin D. It's called polymorphism, and the receptors for vitamin D simply don't perceive it; they're resistant. If you have this genetic defect, you're more vulnerable to tuberculosis. More and more people are now getting DNA tests. By the way, you can learn a lot from them about various weaknesses that you can then strengthen with the help of this genetics. Also, people with post-traumatic stress disorder are more likely to get tuberculosis. Why is this because it activates cortisol? Stress activates cortisol, which not only lowers vitamin D, but also generally paralyzes the immune system. That's why so many people develop autoimmune diseases and all sorts of unusual, strange illnesses immediately after serious stressful events, especially severe losses. There are other factors that increase the risk of this infection. Age and aging, of course, with age, vitamin D decreases in the body and the immune system weakens. Chemotherapy destroys the immune system, which can also provoke the activation of tuberculosis. Also, steroids, what are steroids? Cortisol? Steroids in general are anti-inflammatory, but they switch the immune system into sleep mode. And we again came to the conclusion that vitamin D is more important for the immune system than any other vitamin. That's another reason.  You shouldn't be in the sun for so long that you get sunburned, but a little less. The sun is very useful as a source of not only vitamin D but also infrared rays, and even ultraviolet light is also useful for some things. It can deactivate some air pollution factors, as well as microbes. As a minimum dose, I recommend about 10,000 IU of vitamin D3. In addition, if you already have tuberculosis or are feeling exhausted, I would increase this dose to 30,000-40,000 IU. If you haven't seen my video about the connection between the sun and immunity, watch it here.