There is one drug that is the world's number one seller. I will not recommend against taking it or, on the contrary, taking it. I am certainly not trying to change your doctor's prescription. But if I had this particular disease and the doctor prescribed me this drug, I would want to know more about it. That's what we will do. According to forecasts, revenue from the sale of this drug will exceed $7 billion by the end of 2024. This cancer drug is unique. It leads to a paradigm shift in oncology. Its action is aimed at something very specific. For some types of cancer, not all. This is called precision medicine. That is, it is not some kind of broad-spectrum antibiotic or chemotherapy. The drug's action is aimed at only one thing. This drug inhibits your own immune system. Cancer always seeks to interfere with the functioning of the immune system. This particular drug is called Keytruda. It blocks the mechanism of this interference, which allows your immune system to detect and mark cancer cells and then kill them. In this strategy, I like the fact that you force your own immune system to do its job. It's like training an elite special forces unit to carry out a specific mission.  attack and destroy a specific enemy, this drug is used for autoimmune diseases, infections, and cancer. The strategy works better when you have the type of cancer it is aimed at. As for chemotherapy, it kills both cancer and the immune system, destroying everything in a row, and this drug is an immunomodulator. Such drugs either enhance, weaken, or block the functions of the immune system. There are quite a lot of side effects. You can see how long the list is here, there are a lot of them, so the drugs are not harmless. Another problem with this drug is that it is not effective for every type of cancer. Cancer is very diverse. For example, there are types of cancer that do not have biochemical pathways that can be interfered with. In addition, cancer cells adapt well, and those that survive the attack become much more resistant, stronger, and can get out of control. Also, with antibiotics, surviving strong microbes turn into a supermix. It does not affect the fuel for cancer and does not block the source materials from which cancer cells are built, and also does not affect the microenvironment. Where do cancer cells live? In my opinion, using several strategies at the same time if you have cancer. It would be very  reasonable and the question arises. Is there any natural immunomodulator and the answer to this question? Yes, there are many natural remedies that strengthen or weaken the immune system. Many pharmaceutical companies find different ideas and patent them by researching substances of plant origin. If I'm not mistaken, more than half of all drugs are derivatives of natural substances. So, there is astragalus. A very powerful plant. There is also the Reishi mushroom and other mushrooms that help with cancer. And of course, vitamin D is needed for cancer, because the vitamin works as an immunomodulator. Personally, I take vitamin D3 daily, it is especially useful for autoimmune problems and inflammation. I would also adjust my diet. I would avoid what serves as fuel for cancer cells and also take up fasting because this is the most powerful means of starving cancer. And if you cannot fast for a long time, there is a diet that imitates fasting, which is somewhat easier. You can go on it for 5 days a month or once every 3 weeks. Another component is not related to medicine. I personally know people with tremendous willpower. They are not afraid of cancer. There is a reason why people whose doctor tells them how much life they have left.  People often live for exactly the amount of time the doctor tells them to. This penetrates their minds, they agree, and that's what happens. In my opinion, it's extremely important not to agree with cancer and just tell yourself I will survive no matter what. There are special nutritional protocols to starve cancer. I recently made an important video that talks about all these protocols and the exact steps. Here's a link to the video. Watch it.