How to strengthen and protect the immune system is what we will discuss today firstly. What is the immune system essentially a defense army armed forces fighting bad guys pathogens pathogens are microorganisms that cause diseases the word immune comes from the Latin word immunis what does exempt from government service mean curious if you analyze the meaning you get protected or free from attacks harm and disease that is the immune system protects you from diseases it is like immigration control if something from the outside enters the body it must pass through the respiratory tract or through the digestive tract and it must receive a seal and approval from immigration control this is what the immune system does it constantly monitors whether something is foreign or possibly harmful or is it a part of the body and if it marks something as foreign that can threaten the body it automatically activates the defense force we will talk about this further there are three main barriers of immunity firstly the skin there are many friendly bacteria on the skin that help defend against invasions from the outside more  There is a layer of fat that protects, and on the skin there are certain acids that also protect, then there are mucous membranes in the gastrointestinal tract, in the respiratory tract and in the sinuses, which also catch and absorb foreign particles or microorganisms, inflammation is another protective barrier that the body puts up, the main cells of the immune system are white blood cells, unlike red blood cells. In addition to white blood cells, they have a function. There are beneficial microorganisms that also help. All beneficial microorganisms. Hello, they are called microbiome or microflora, they help in many ways, from the absorption of nutrients and the processing of bile to immune defense, among other things, they have a strategy they do so that the pathogen has no space to live, in other words, the pathogen does not have enough food to survive. Let's talk about the defense forces of our immune system, and white blood cells produce acid to dissolve and kill bacteria and pathogens, they secrete poison to kill these microorganisms, they release free radicals, they produce hydrogen peroxide. You've probably seen this before when  You take hydrogen peroxide and apply it to an open cut, it dissolves, it foams and kills germs through oxidation, white blood cells produce enzymes that break down and dissolve bacteria, as I already said, organisms compete for food and space, and white blood cells produce mucus and cause inflammation, pathogens get caught in the mucus network and can no longer do anything, it's like quicksand, the immune system also has a memory of everything that happens, everything goes into a database for remembering, when after a long time some bacteria enter the body again, the immune system will mark them because it can remember them and destroy them. That is, over time, it learns by being exposed to these pathogens, this is how immunity is formed, so it is not very useful to keep children in such sterile conditions that they are not exposed to any diseases, because this is a natural formation of immunity. We also have things called phagocytes, this is part of the immune system. Phagocytes have the ability to absorb, they devour microbes, they have an appetite not only for microbes, bacteria, yeast, fungi, but they also eat dead cells and garbage they are like sewer cleaners of everything that the body does not need in one liter of blood 6 billion of these guys phagocytes what is interesting is that they are stimulated by acid and I think that is why that is why it is purely my guess that when people drink a lot of synthetic vitamin C ascorbic acid it gives a good result even if this vitamin C is synthetic simply because it is an acid I would recommend consuming apple cider vinegar apple cider vinegar is known to increase the acidity of the body and speed up phagocytosis Like any other acid If you have a choice I would advise food vitamin C and not synthetic but to speed up phagocytosis it is better and Cloud vinegar is another mechanism that I want to mention Although I did not write it here is associated with certain white blood cells if certain white blood cells are infected with a pathogen We have a built-in mechanism in case something penetrates a cell it undergoes a process called apoptosis in which it destroys itself for the benefit of the whole organism Because if you allow viruses to penetrate DNA cells and start  The cell will begin to reproduce, reproducing this virus over and over again. On the other hand, the bad guys, the pathogens, also have their own defenses. They have the ability to block vitamin D. They do this through vitamin D receptors. Somehow, they know that vitamin D is absolutely essential for controlling immunity, and by blocking it, they reduce the resistance of our cells to penetration and capture. I invite you to my vitamin D course. Vitamin D is a health vitamin. Vitamin D is present in 90 percent of the world's population. It causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how, thanks to vitamin D, to get rid of these diseases and symptoms, to strengthen health and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the Keto Summit 2019. All this is available online in Russian. The link is below. I am waiting for you on the course. These insidious pathogens, so that the immune system does not recognize them, are able to imitate body tissues. In this, they are very insidious. They can also hide in such small houses made of calcium. Therefore, antibiotics are ineffective against so-called biofilms. This is a topic for a separate conversation. I will give a link to a video below with a detailed analysis, but  Microorganisms have become very smart, another mechanism is applicable. Especially to organisms like mycoplasma, which have cell walls. They move either into one joint, into the oval fluid, or into another joint. The immune system tries to attack them, but unsuccessfully, they continue to move. So it is impossible to catch them. Another mechanism is that microbes are capable of forming various structures, confusing your immune system. Well, now let's talk about what to do about it. There are two groups of phenomena, those that weaken the immune system and those that strengthen it. Of the things that weaken the immune system, food that is poor in nutrients, a diet that provokes deficiencies. If you take the Spanish flu pandemic that happened in 1918 and look at what happened right before this pandemic. A virus that spread and killed from 50 to 100 million people. What happened right before this was the First World War. During this war, there was a colossal change in the transportation of food. They gave food like canned stew, someone was given dog food. There simply wasn't enough fresh vegetables on a diet. The immune system weakens, especially when in a stressful situation such as a war. This is how conditions develop. which a person becomes easy prey for a virus invading the body if you lack vitamins, micro and macroelements, amino acids and fatty acids. Especially them, you are more susceptible to various diseases, because the defense mechanism depends on receiving these nutrients. Let's take viruses for example. The virus is not alive; it can't do anything to you until it penetrates the cell wall. It penetrates the DNA and turns the cell into a copying machine, taking away the vital forces from this cell. Think about what I said. It needs to penetrate the cell wall. This is the cell wall, which is two layers of fat. This is the bilipid layer of fat. And this is another reason why essential fatty acids are vital for protecting cells. You cannot sit on a low-fat diet. When you are exhausted or sick, fat and, by the way, cholesterol are very important for the health of the immune system. Cholesterol is a vital building block for some hormones, such as cortisol. Cortisol is very important for the immune system, and if cortisol does not have the building blocks of cholesterol, it will not be able to form properly. Then we have stress. It can probably be equated to a nutrient deficiency in fact.  In fact, in my entire practice, I don't remember a single case of any illness that was not preceded by some kind of stressful event. So, stress is the most important factor. I have a link below to information on how to get rid of stress. Lack of sleep also makes you easy prey. It is also related to Glucose. I just released a video on this topic. Some viruses behave more actively on glucose fuel than on any other. You already know about healthy Keto and intermittent fasting. Those who are watching us recently and don't know anything about them. Look below, I will give a link to a specific diet that is necessary for strong immunity. We will discuss. What nutrients are the most essential for bulletproof immunity? Vitamin C is at the top of the list, and I am not a synthetic vitamin C. I am talking about vitamin C from food or food concentrate. In nature, vitamin C always comes in a complex of many parts, not just ascorbic acid. The foods richest in vitamin C are sauerkraut, bell peppers, berries, green leafy vegetables. Vitamin C is able to stimulate the production of white blood cells. It is also stored in large quantities in  adrenal glands, it helps produce adrenal hormones, the next equally important point is vitamin D, I talked about this on the previous slide, vitamin D is an immunomodulator. This is actually not even a vitamin, it’s a hormone, a factor that controls the immune system, its function is much broader than just bone formation, receptors for vitamin D are in all white blood cells and in DNA. When I say that it modulates immunity, I mean it has control over the immune system, many people have a vitamin D deficiency, they don’t even know about it, vitamin D supports cells, they are produced by the thymus gland, which works like a training camp for white blood cells, vitamin D also protects against pathogens, it provides these two components that are capable of powerfully destroying microbes, vitamin D does a lot of things that are useless for the immune system. Next on the list is a very important thing, vitamin A, vitamin A ensures the structural integrity of the mucous cells in the sinuses and respiratory centers, the best sources of vitamin A are cod liver oil, egg yolk, butter is also rich in it, because it is a fat-soluble vitamin, by the way, vitamin D is very difficult to get from food, so its best source is the sun or Zinc is the most important microelement for immunity, it increases the number of T-cells and does many other useful things for immunity. Many people have a zinc deficiency. Zinc protects very well against viruses. Garlic is undoubtedly first in the ability to destroy viruses, bacteria, yeast, fungi, mold, it is very, very strong. Then there is colloidal silver. It is essentially a particle of silver in water. It has been used for a very long time. It blocks oxygen from a certain microorganism. It is a powerful thing. Some people use it for rinsing their nose and it works very well. It is also very effective against viruses. Olive leaf. Olive leaf has been studied in depth. I have a link below with detailed information. It is useful against viruses and for protecting the immune system. There are many other things that protect the immune system, but in my opinion, these are the most effective. Today I will tell you about some excellent antiviral agents. What is a virus? It is a particle of genetic material enclosed in a shell. It is strange that the virus is not alive. But it can feed on the energy of your cells. It can invade a cell, penetrate DNA, and go into remission for years. Then it is called a latent virus. It can manifest itself with  age when you are stressed or sick. So if you are healthy, young and don't stress, then everything will be fine. That was sarcasm. Now let's look at antiviral agents. Many phytonutrients have antiviral properties. For example, the phytonutrients in garlic, but vitamin D tops the list. It is one of the best natural helpers of the immune system. It's not even exactly a vitamin; it acts on the body like cortisol, but without side effects. It is excellent for autoimmune diseases and fights inflammation. It is also a good antiviral. Zinc is a powerful remedy against viruses. It is excellent for problems with the sinuses and the flu. About garlic, I already said, I don't know why. It's either its properties or the smell that drives people away, but it acts further. Monolaurin is a substance in coconut oil, another powerful antiviral. Next, we have Selenium. There is a lot of it in Brazil nuts. Olive leaf extract is a very good remedy, especially for the flu. Oregano is not only an antiviral, but also an antibacterial and antifungal agent. It kills everything in the body that should n't be there. Colloidal silver is also a good antiviral. Curcumin is a phytonutrient. Licorice root, vitamin E, green tea extract, and one of my favorite remedies, fulvic acid. I did n't record a video. It also helps against viruses. In my opinion, the best antivirals are vitamin D, zinc, and fulvic acid. Are there viruses that cause cancer? Are there viruses that provoke autoimmune diseases? If there was a latent virus in the body and over time it came out of remission, stress will cause it. These two symptoms are mainly muscle pain and fatigue. As a result, when you take one of these, you get a surge of energy and the inflammation goes away. Because coronavirus is activated to some extent, it puts a lot of strain on the immune system. This leads to muscle pain and fatigue. Well, that's all there is to it. This is the whole list. In this video, we'll talk about what you can do at the first signs of a cold. Let's say you start to get sick. Is it possible to somehow prevent the disease or speed up the recovery time, whether it's a viral or bacterial infection? You can take some measures to minimize the infection and speed it up.  recovery and even prevent diseases zinc is very, very important zinc and vitamin C, but I advise you to take vitamin C not in tablets but in products containing it, it is better to even eat lemons themselves and not lemon juice because store-bought juice is pasteurized vitamin C is sensitive to oxygen and heat, so we need the lemons themselves. It is better to eat a couple of lemons, they will give you a good dose of vitamin C that you need so much. So zinc vitamin C these two things are very important apple cider vinegar Why Because when you acidify the body with apple cider vinegar you speed up cells called phagocytes help cleanse the body of microbes in other words, acidification of the body the action of white blood cells the immune system garlic is the most powerful weapon against viruses that I know of its actions are also antibacterial and antifungal start consuming garlic, for example, cut it in soup Eat the most important thing to do exactly when you have the first symptom, there is also intermittent fasting, it is perhaps the most important if you start to get sick, what you need is intermittent fasting Why the body enters recovery mode begins to build up resistance to stress when different interesting things happen at the cellular level helping the immune system intermittent fasting is very important at the first signs of a cold do not eat immediately or as they say nourish the body stop eating this will help very well and fifthly an extremely important point the disease is associated with a stressful event do everything possible to reduce stress this will help and of course no sugar alcohol and dairy products because all this can feed bacteria and significantly prolong the course of the disease But there is one very important point that I want to dwell on are you vulnerable to viruses and germs usually someone gets an infection and someone No why is this due to internal resistance or susceptibility to these viruses and germs if you have a strong immune system If you are in good shape If you have a reserve of health and you are not exhausted most likely you will not get sick so if you feel a loss of strength and think that you can get infected with something say you are going to fly somewhere on an airplane and you think that everyone on it will be doing business and sneezing then it would be a good idea to drink zinc eat a lemon and even a little vinegar and garlic and even before boarding  plane and of course you should start intermittent fasting all this will help strengthen the resistance and I forgot one more last point sleep If you get enough sleep This will help increase resistance to infection and fatigue, on the contrary, and this is very important So guys, here is a list of things that will help you in the prevention of severe colds or infections I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress on the course I will show you how to remove stress from the body to return a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal type of physique stress is closely related to immunity Therefore, in the package about you a gift awaits a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it and give a list of means for strengthening it I am waiting for you on the course in this video I will tell you how to fix an old weak and damaged immune system with age, the immune system begins to work worse and worse natural killer cells become fewer, which means the destruction of viruses is not as good as at 20 years old, the fight against tumor cells is no longer as effective, there are fewer back cells, which means the number of antibodies is reduced, that is, the immune system loses memory it does not remembers past pathogens That is, it is not ready, the immune system is weakened, the number of pills decreases And this is a key component of the immune system responsible for the destruction of microbes, preventing autoimmune diseases, reducing inflammation from infections, the number of phagocytes is not as before and there are fewer cells that eat microbes and clean up debris So age greatly affects the immune system And some people like me who took antibiotics for a long time in childhood, in adolescence and later with age, the immune system weakens In addition, chemotherapy simply kills the immune system just like steroids I took them When I was in my early 20s, every fall I suffered greatly from poison ivy poisoning, I didn’t even have to touch it, it was enough to stand a meter away from it, this was enough for my eyes and face to feel it So I took steroids every year I took them for 8-9 years in a row, this weakened my immune system If you take prednisone or have taken steroids before, the immune system is greatly suppressed And there are also health problems that also weaken the immune system In addition, his life is in constant  Under stress, the most important thing for strengthening the immune system is breastfeeding. But for people at my age, this is no longer an option, so the next most effective supplement is called colostrum. It comes in powder form. Colostrum is a special product, it is the very first milk that is secreted. So, it simply contains a bunch of antibodies and various substances that build immunity. There is a very good company, Sofen Laps. This is not an advertisement. I do not receive any commissions. They produce very high-quality colostrum in powder form. It is organic, from grass-fed cows. I recommend this version of colostrum LD. This version of the product uses a special technology when colostrum is enclosed in a fatty membrane, as a result, it withstands the acidic environment in the stomach. As a result, this product is 15 times more effective than other similar ones. Colostrum contains many antibodies that provide great help to the immune system. It contains lactofilin, which controls iron. It contains growth factors. That is why many athletes use colostrum because they have found that with it, their results improve, muscle mass and strength indicators increase. One of the most important effects of colostrum is intestinal permeability is the prevention of leaky gut. Even with this syndrome, colostrum can strengthen the connections between cells, making them strong so that pathogens do not penetrate through them. With leaky gut syndrome, many problems arise, allergies, autoimmune diseases. Colostrum is an excellent remedy for strengthening the inner lining of the intestine. There is something else that needs to be said about colostrum. If you have a weakened immune system and you take too much, an immune reaction may begin, so I recommend taking a little bit for a test, say a quarter teaspoon, just a little bit, take it before bed with a little water. If you take a whole spoon, you may feel dizzy. Your head may start to leak and an immune reaction may begin. So, start small and gradually increase the dose if a reaction begins. Wait until it stops and resume taking it. Once the reaction begins, it means you need colostrum, but start with small doses. For high sensitivity, you need no more than 1/8 teaspoon. Then the second point is acid in the stomach, you need to raise the acidity, you need to provide thick intestines with lactic acid, this will reduce the number of pathogens because one of the ways to kill pathogens is this acid in the human stomach should be hydrochloric acid. And in the large intestine, lactic acid, take betaine hydrochloride, it will support the acidity of the stomach, another useful chloride is sea salt, don't forget about it, you can also take fulvic acid, it is very beneficial for the body. And also kombucha tea is a very useful thing. And even probiotics for lactobacilli, they will help the body produce the necessary lactic acid. If you remove all the intestinal flora, all the bacteria living there, this will greatly weaken the immune system, so this is not a joke at all. Third, fermented foods also help the immune system. So, start eating, for example, sauerkraut and kimchi. Prebiotics are fiber from vegetables, this is important because the intestinal flora needs food. And also probiotics, which I already mentioned. I believe that everyone over 60 should take probiotics. The fourth point is fasting greatly stimulates the immune system. I have a video about this, the link is below. Fasting strengthens  The immune system, there is even information that it can literally revive a severely weakened system if you fast regularly. I'm talking about intermittent fasting and periodic long-term fasting. The fifth point is sleep. Sleep increases melatonin levels. Melatonin is a very powerful hormone that helps the immune system. So try to maximize its levels through sleep, but do not take it as a supplement, otherwise, over time, the body will stop responding to it. The sixth point is obvious: reduce carbohydrate intake because sugar weakens the immune system. Most people who died from covid-19 had diabetes or metabolic disorders, problems associated with carbohydrates and high insulin. Therefore, you need to follow not just a diet, but a healthy ketogenic diet so that the nutrients are of high quality. The seventh point is very important: minimize stress levels. I tell you for sure that when you are stressed, your immune system literally falls asleep; it is paralyzed and cannot work. I invite you to my course on adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body and get rid of physique. Adrenal stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the package you will find a gift - a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course. If you have grandchildren or are thinking of having a child, be sure to feed the child with breast milk. Breastfeeding plays a key role in creating a healthy immune system. And don't blow away the child's dust particles. Contact with microbes is very important. In children living in a sterile environment without contact with microbes, the immune system does not really develop. This is also very important. And if you have an infection, do not suppress the immune system. Very often, parents give children medications like aspirin at the first signs of illness. While it is necessary to let the child cope with the infection and allow the immune system to recover, when we begin to bring down the temperature with medications, this weakens the immune system and prolongs the infection. Here's how to repair an old, weak and damaged immune system. Let 's talk about why salt is good for the immune system. There is one interesting substance called sodium hypochlorite, this is the chemical name for bleach. I don't know if you know, but two  Neutrophils and macrophages are types of immune cells that produce chlorine to kill germs. They are both phagocytes. This means that they eat bacteria, viruses, fungi, mold, and Candida. This is what happens: they suck in the germ, envelop it, and flood it with chemicals, including chlorine. Do you know what the body produces it from? It's chlorine, which includes sodium chloride, that is, from table salt. If there isn't enough salt in the body, this mechanism, which is part of the immune cells' arsenal, becomes very unreliable. Your defense weakens. Hypochlorite, or chlorine, is a broad-spectrum bactericidal agent. It essentially poisons germs, killing bacteria in milliseconds, and it's much more powerful than another chemical used by these cells, namely, hydrogen peroxide. By the way, if immune cells encounter a harmful form of Candida, they will flood the body with hypochlorite to kill Candida. According to some reports, they can use 70-80 percent of their chlorine reserves to produce more.  hypochlorite and here's what's interesting when I was practicing, I noticed that from patients who had candidiasis or excessive growth of candida emitted a very pungent odor similar to the smell of bleach, most likely the immune system was trying to destroy candida and by the way, if you have candida, the most important thing is, of course, not to take bleach. And there is salt so that the body can produce more bleach. It is also very important to reduce carbohydrates to a minimum, to zero, because candida lives off sugar and glucose. Now let's see what leads to a salt deficiency, of course. The first is a lack of salt in the diet. You need from one to one and a half level teaspoons, that's how much salt per day if you do not exercise. If you sweat a lot, then you need more salt. After all, electrolytes are excreted with sweat, especially sodium and chlorine. A natitogenic diet requires more sodium. To avoid ketosis, with sodium deficiency, many flu symptoms can occur. But in fact, this is not the flu, there is no infection, but sodium deficiency occurs. It leads to weakness and muscle pain, headache, lethargy, dizziness.  There may not be a runny nose, but everything else is fine. And when you switch from burning sugar to burning fat and producing ketones, you lose a lot of water weight. And with this water comes sodium. As for immunity, it needs the second component of salt, it needs chlorine. I believe that chlorine is rarely emphasized. They talk about sodium all the time, but chlorine cannot be ignored. It is also needed for the production of hydrochloric acid, which kills pathogens that enter the stomach. And of course, the immune system needs chlorine for the functioning of phagocytes. You may experience a salt deficiency with diarrhea, vomiting, taking diuretics, consuming large amounts of potassium without salt. Even if you eat 10 glasses of greens, you may really want salt. It is certainly necessary to maintain a balance of salt and potassium. If the adrenal glands are depleted, you need a little more salt. If you drink too much water, you dilute the electrolytes in the body, in particular sodium chloride, that is, salt. There is a condition called hyponatremia, which is a low level of sodium in the blood. This happens because you guzzle water by the liter. You need to drink enough. But if  If you overdo it, you'll end up with a sodium and even chlorine deficiency. If you're into endurance sports, like marathons, triathlons, and so on, you definitely need a lot more salt. An American football player can sweat out six teaspoons of salt in a single summer workout. So, the amount of salt depends on your activity level and sweating. In general, I wanted to talk about how important salt is for immunity and for preventing ketosis. I always recommend using sea salt, and pink Himalayan salt is best. Thank you for watching.