Did you know that snake oil is the most overlooked superfood in the world?  Yes, that is true.  I'll tell you what the benefits of real snake oil are.  But first, I want to clarify what has been called snake oil for the last hundred years and what the expression snake oil salesman means .  This is usually the name given to charlatans and fraudulent doctors.  But let's go a little deeper into history.  In the 10th century there were many people who sold all sorts of unnatural products.  They were said to help with arthritis, pain, digestive problems, and so on.  And they earned themselves a bad reputation.  Some, not all, had completely different ingredients.  For example, there was Clark Stanley.  He sold snake oil for arthritis.  But when they checked it, it turned out that there was no snake oil in it.  Clarke was in trouble.  He was fined $20.  Now it's about 600. He got a slap on the wrist.  This is a typical example of a snake oil salesman, but the name has stuck to all natural remedy sellers.  It was at this time that competition began between the growing pharmaceutical industry and natural remedies, herbs, and so on. There has been a shift towards pharmaceuticals.  Real snake oil was brought from China for the Chinese who did the hard work. They needed a good remedy for arthritis and pain.  That's how it was used.  But some sellers were offering fake snake oil.  The proper oil was made from Chinese water snakes, not American rattlesnakes, which lacked the necessary omega-3 levels. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  In 1906, the Pure Food and Drug Act was passed .  Its purpose was to stop the misbranding and adulteration of food products sold throughout the states.  And this is also an interesting story.  The head of this activity was a man of principle, but he was very quickly removed from his position. He fought against counterfeit products, for example, he was against refined flour.  Now let 's move forward to our time.  We have a lot of counterfeit products.  Cheap product options.  Expensive sugar cane is being replaced with corn syrup and beet sugar.  Seed oils are used as a substitute for healthier saturated fats, as well as olive oil.  In the beginning, the Food and Drug Administration was completely incorruptible.  Now you know what the expression "snake oil salesman" means .  Is this a person or a group? Healthcare Fraudsters.  The ingredients in their products are dangerous.  These are fakes.  They are falsely called medicinal.  They make false statements.  This is pseudoscience, and the sellers use proxies.  Back in the days when snake oil was widely sold , there was usually some kind of dummy in the crowd who would back up the seller's claim.  He could come out and say that he had already tried this and it helped him.  I wonder if all this continues to some extent even now?  I found that it is very much ongoing.  Is it possible to buy a scientist who will support your drug?  Answer: yes.  Large pharmaceutical companies are involved in criminal fraudulent schemes.  They spent about $100 billion to settle the claims.  These organizations continue the work of those very snake oil salesmen.  Well, now there are large companies instead of them.  Example: a claim for $150 million plus another $600 million in fines. Many drugs were considered safe and effective, and suddenly they turned out to be extremely dangerous.  For example, Rofik Oksip was considered safe, but it turned out that 60,000 people died.  Had to remove it from the market.  How was this allowed to happen? Obviously, deception and corruption.  And the research data is mostly classified. Take psychiatric diagnoses, for example; they have thousands of different names for normal behavior.  They are literally voting for new diseases. No objective tests, just voting.  They invent diseases.  There are currently about 17,000 diseases.  100 years ago there were 200 of them. In other words, many new diseases were invented .  It's just a cash cow. Take, for example, the drugs CZS for depression and anxiety.  This is billions of dollars.  It has recently been discovered that this whole chemical imbalance theory is unproven.  She is not faithful.  But all Cz preparations are based on the false claim that they help eliminate imbalances. This is not true.  Literally snake oil on maximum settings.  Their effect is only slightly better than that of a placebo.  But they cause enormous harm to the patients who take them.  The benefits of these drugs are greatly exaggerated, and their side effects are downplayed.  And Bikpharma bears no liability even in court, as happened with vaccines.  Another situation is that insulin can be purchased abroad for a fraction of its price in the US.  So there are a lot of financial manipulations in the pharmaceutical industry.  In my opinion, Big Pharma is snake oil version 2. Now we have legitimate snake oil sellers approved by the FDA. They patent some drug, and the FDA protects that patent.  That's how they work.  Incredible.  No one else has that privilege when another company like the FDA protects drugmakers.  It's hard to believe that their patent rights are being violated. Many expert groups in the health sector are in a situation of conflict of interest.  I think this is not science and it is illegal.  We are dealing with this category where money decides everything.  What about mental health screening in schools?  A funnel for finding new psychiatric patients.   They still do this today.  I hope we can stop this.  Please explain to me in the comments.  How is today's snake oil different from what it was in the past? Very similar, only on a much larger scale. And somehow everything was turned upside down .  Now natural remedies, even those that are completely legal and proven, are considered snake oil.  It's simply absurd.   Did you remember to press the bell? And now about real seed oil and its real benefits.  Snake oil is interesting because it is literally a champion in omega-3 content, especially EPA. Omega-3 fatty acids are composed primarily of two components.  DHA is a kind of structural fat for the brain.  It restores brain cells and cognitive functions.  There is another omega-3 component called EPA.  It has a completely different function.  Snake oil contains a huge amount of PA.  more than in fish oil, butter, salmon and many other products.  So how is this EPA useful for us?  When we take an anti- inflammatory drug, it blocks some enzyme.  But the EPA doesn't do that.  PA weakens factors that increase inflammation and strengthens factors that decrease it.  It changes the entire ecosystem, and you don't get the side effects that come with taking medication.  PA is a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent for inflammation in arthritis, bursitis, tandinitis or autoimmune diseases.  AP has also been found to be very helpful in treating depression, so it is considered a natural antidepressant.   It also reduces the risk of cardiovascular problems, including heart attack, by 25%, and also reduces the risk of fibrosis, the formation of scar tissue.  If the inflamed area is not treated, it may become scar tissue.  This is how the body tries to heal from inflammation, and EPA reduces the risk of fibrosis in the liver, in the heart, anywhere, even in the brain.  EPA has also been shown to improve insulin sensitivity and blood sugar function better, which is great for diabetics.   A reduction in the risk of autoimmune diseases was observed , and improvements were seen in people who suffer from them.  Why?  Because the main problem of autoimmune diseases is inflammation.  Therefore, reducing inflammation is the first thing to do. PA may even shrink tumors.  improving the functioning of the immune system.  Simply amazing.  Pharmaceutical companies tried to patent PA, but failed. Then they made their drug to treat arthritis and lower triglycerides.  And finally, snake oil can be used externally, applied to joints.  This way you can reduce inflammation without even taking it internally.  Amazing. This is what real snake oil is.