Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog.  Does infrared light from the sun penetrate the body by 2.5 cm or does it penetrate the body completely?   An interesting question.  We are waiting for your answers, friends.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. And now questions from social networks. Mary Moores Rambla asks: "Why is ascorbic acid added to foods? Is there any benefit from ascorbic acid? Ascorbic acid is part of the vitamin C complex. It's not all vitamin C, as we're sometimes told. Oh, ascorbic acid is vitamin C." But in nature, vitamin C does not exist in this form .  This is a complex of substances, not just ascorbic acid. It's an antioxidant, we need it. This is not the only antioxidant. Antioxidants help our body cope with free radicals, damage, inflammation, and so on. And antioxidants work together. Let's say vitamin C gives up electrons to stabilize something in one place, and some other antioxidant gives up its electrons to restore vitamin C. Ascorbic acid provides benefits in a variety of ways.  There are many studies about this.  It is used even in high doses. In general, I am staying away from this topic for now, because I see conflicting information.  So I do n't really know, I honestly don't know if this is the best remedy or the worst remedy.  But I know this. A friend of mine was undergoing treatment for cancer and he was taking huge doses of ascorbic acid. More than 100,250,000 units is an extremely large number.  When he came back, he had small varicose veins all over, hemorrhoids and all that, and bleeding gums. So, I think what's happening is this. If you take too much of one thing without a complete complex, and it is not something natural, then it can create a deficiency of something else.  Perhaps this is because vitamin C contains bioflavonoids, which strengthen blood vessels and capillaries. Perhaps this creates some kind of deficiency, which leads to varicose veins. These are just theories, Steve.  I can't say for sure .  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Clear.  But our viewers answered the quiz question accurately.  Infrared light from the sun A. Penetrates the body by 2.5 cm or b. penetrates the body completely.  60% answered that the correct answer is option B, that is, it penetrates the body through and through.  And 40% said it penetrates only a couple of centimeters.  Who is right? I just interviewed Dr. Roger Schuelt. He is a true expert in light therapy and the benefits of the sun.  This is going to be an amazing video. I was amazed a long time ago.  I've already interviewed him.  We were then discussing how infrared light, which is more than 50% of sunlight, penetrates the body, it seems, only 8 cm or something like that.  Oh, and now he showed me research that it actually penetrates the body.  And me, which is incredible. You go out into the sun and some of that light hits you.   It's amazing how deep it goes.  But that's not all. Let's say you want more infrared light from the sun to hit your retina at a certain angle to improve your eye health.  Experiments have shown that even if you completely cover your head and direct infrared light at the lower part of your body, it will improve the health of the retina, because it seems there is a whole communication network between the mitochondria.  Overall, I was simply amazed. when you watch this interview. I think I was even more amazed than he was.  I've never heard anything like it, but he's deeply immersed in the subject.  This interview is full of information about light therapy and the sun.   A lesson for us all.  We sit at home with air conditioners on 22° and iPhones.   It's no wonder we're a little out of our minds.  It's time for us all to go outside.  Yes, I think we will return to this topic.  Steve, huh?  Fine. Claudio asks.  No, let's chat live with Sage from Mission, California.  She chose not to turn on the video link.  So, Sage, ask Dr. Berg one question. Thanks, Steve.  Good morning, Dr. Berg. I have a question about the keto diet.  What should I do if I have high LDL and an overactive thyroid? There is no Hashimot's disease, there is osteoporosis.  I want to know which keto program to choose.  I take your tutka, magnesium glycinate, vitamins C and D. I do intermittent fasting.  I'm confused because the keto diet is high in fat, low in carbs, and cruciferous vegetables.  But with hypothyroidism, they say you need to eat more carbohydrates and avoid cruciferous vegetables.  If you have high LDL, it is recommended to switch to a low-fat diet.  Eat more red meat, carbohydrates, and cruciferous vegetables.  Avoid cheese and fats.  For osteoporosis, they say to eat more calcium, drink milk and eat cheese. Doctor Berg, please tell me what I should do?  I would be very grateful. Wow, you have an hour to discuss this? Certainly.  Here's the thing.  I understand that you are very confused.  Let me give you a couple of simple explanations. First, the essence of the keto diet is low carbohydrate consumption. You can't get into ketosis by simply eating more fat.  This is another point I wanted to emphasize . I don't think you need to eat a lot of fat, but I wouldn't be afraid to eat fat even if you have high LDL. LDL is dangerous if you start eating more carbohydrates.  Then you have small, dense LDL particles. I think you might find it very helpful to watch a video of some doctors talking about the two different types of LDL.  There are doctors who are supporters of Ket.  They will help you really understand your LDL. This is very confusing.  I don't want to go into that now.  But it is known that you don’t need to be afraid of LDL if you are on a low-carb diet.  This is the first thing.  The second is osteoporosis. If you are postmenopausal and losing bone mass, there are hormonal reasons for this .  And I have a video about it.  I think it takes a long time to restore bone mass .  This requires a healthy low-carb diet.   A high-carbohydrate diet will not make your bones strong.  And what you eat must contain all the raw materials necessary for the creation of bone tissue.  Let's say, vitamin K2, what is it in?  In fatty foods.  So there is no need to be afraid of, say, European cheeses. They contain a lot of vitamin K2. And there is a great vitamin K2 supplement that I would probably recommend.  But vitamin K2, and you need the MK form, is usually sold in micrograms, and it is difficult to find it in milligrams.  A study in Japanese women with osteoporosis showed that increasing the dose of vitamin K2 to milligrams, and taking vitamin D3 with vitamin K2 , yielded favorable results in the treatment of osteoporosis. Amazing results, but you need milligrams, not micrograms.  But I think only a couple of companies have high doses of K2: Life Extension and one other.  And such doses are very important for bones to become dense.  And you also need to get micronutrients, because bones need boron, they need manganese, and bones definitely need a lot of magnesium. All this is very important. Bones also contain a lot of collagen, so you should get collagen from your diet and possibly take it as a supplement.  And quality protein, red meat.  I think many of these problems can be solved with good nutrition and the right nutrients for bones.  But keep carbohydrates to a minimum. We are pleased to present the Healthy Keto 2020 online summit. 12 presentations, 8 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in health, ketogenic diets, and intermittent fasting.  Watch online at your convenience, exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of keto, fasting, and how your body works to the next level.  The 2020 Ketsamit in Russian awaits you.  Sign up now.