Today we will discuss what to do with ADHD, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. It is not hereditary. There is no evidence that it is due to genes. Surprisingly, it is not a Ritalin deficiency. Personally, I believe that this is not even a mental illness, but exclusively a nutritional deficiency. Symptoms include poor attention, inability to concentrate, hyperactivity, restlessness, difficulty with visual learning, difficulty reading and remembering. Now I will tell you about one excellent study that deserves your trust. This is not an observational study where people are given questionnaires. This study lasted 12 weeks under double-blind testing conditions and a control group with a placebo. It was found that the manifestation of ADHD was significantly weakened in subjects who received high doses. Pills were actually used in combination and drink ideas for eyes, at least 750 grams of this mixture every day for all 12 weeks. They are easy to find online in health food stores. I will not name specific brands. Then you will figure it out yourself. But if you have this syndrome, you need to take a combination of these substances. If you find a mixture where you can drink more than the maiden one, it may work even better. This is what you drink and what is maidenhair? Both substances belong to omega-3 fatty acids. There are omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids. Together, they are called essential fatty acids. That is, the body cannot produce them itself and must obtain them from food. But here's the problem: omega-3 and omega-6 have different meanings. They are equally important. Omega-6 fatty acids are much less important than omega-3, but in the average person, their ratio is 16 to one. There is too much bias towards omega-6. I'll tell you that more than 100 million tons of omega-6 fatty acids are mined and used in food per year, and only four million tons of omega-3 fatty acids. We are lacking omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of psychogenic disorders, improve cognitive abilities, and increase intelligence. We have more than 170 genes responsible for brain development alone. Omega-3 can increase dopamine levels and  Serotonin can protect neurons, so if the brain has enough omega-3 to function, all these symptoms will not occur. By the way, if you or your child suffers from restlessness or even hyperactivity, I would add vitamin B1 in the form of nutritional yeast or just natural B1, its deficiency often causes restlessness and hyperactivity. If you or your child has ADHD, start taking these substances at least 700 50 milligrams every day. Also, start reducing the amount of omega-6 fatty acids. If you don't know how to do this, there is a link below that I recorded a video about this. Start excluding those foods from your diet and when to exclude them. Return to this video and write about the results. I'll be happy to read them.