Today we'll talk about the sciatic nerve. You'll fire the sciatic nerve. There are two different causes. The pain goes along the back of the neck. It can reach the lower back. The first reason is structural, the lack of curvature of the spine in the lumbar region. I have a couple of videos on how to restore this curvature. I'll give you links to them, especially if you sit at the computer for a long time. But sciatic nerve pain can also be caused by another reason. It's internal. I'll tell you something about it. Something happens to the nerves themselves. This is due to an imbalance between omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids fight inflammation. Omega-6 can provoke it. We need both fatty acids, but in the right proportions. The average American consumes a lot of omega-6 and very little omega-3. This imbalance leads to inflammation and neuralgia. This affects the lipids in the myelin sheaths of nerve cells, and especially the sciatic nerve. The personal nerve is always unique in that it is one of the largest.  nerves, it's about the thickness of a finger, it's a huge nerve, if an imbalance occurs, if you don't have enough amide 6, too much amide 6 will greatly affect the sciatic nerve, I'll say a few words about omega-6, this is linoleic acid, there is such a problem, oxidized metabolites of linoleic acid, the point is that fats or their breakdown products are oxidized, which leads to the appearance of many foci of inflammation in the body, in the arteries, in the brain, in the nervous system, these compounds, make up the lion's share of oxidized fatty acids in the blood. In 1909, people consumed only 2 grams of vegetable oils, although in fact this is oil from seeds, and now, more precisely in 2010, consumption was 80 grams of vegetable oils daily, this is 720 calories. If you consume 2000 calories per day, then a third of the calories come from these fats. The problem is that this substance is embedded in cell membranes, creating a bunch of problems throughout the body. Its half-life is from a year to two, that is, not so fast, and that's what you need.  What to do for sciatic nerve neuralgia and any neuralgia in general: consume less vegetable oils, read labels, exclude soybean, canola, corn, cottonseed oil, even safflower oil, also avoid cooking with coconut or butter. You can use olive oil, it's an omega 9, a very healthy product. Eat more omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil. Cod liver oil. Eat more seafood. Sardines are a very good product. And the last piece of advice I recommend is gamma linolenic acid, an omega 6 fatty acid, but it has more anti-inflammatory properties. It can increase blood flow to the nerve itself and improve nerve conduction. There is an interesting study on the effect of this acid on nerve conduction, which has proven an increase in the conductivity of this nerve. This acid is found in evening primrose oil and borage oil. Over time, it will work. But for now, watch my videos about the sciatic nerve. Links under the video. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salmon, it's for those who want to lose weight.  To prevent the weight from returning, I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.