I found a study about push-ups. People who can do more push- ups have less heart disease. A cohort study involving over a thousand people was conducted and showed a significant negative association between the number of push-ups and the risk of cardiovascular disease over a period of over ten years. Participants who could do 40 or more push-ups were compared with people who could do ten push-ups or less. Personally, I do n't think that the ability to do more push-ups reduces the risk of heart attacks, but I believe that people who can do this are in better shape and generally healthier. By the way, I'm curious how many push-ups you can do. Write in the comments. I want to see it and I'm very interested in how much such studies cost and who pays for them. What's really worth studying is the causes of heart disease, which kills so many people. We need to study the causes of cardiovascular disease, and it all starts with inflammation of the inner lining of the arteries. Inflammation contributes to the formation of plaques, hardening of the arteries, which impedes blood flow. Blood clots appear, which can cause a heart attack. The clot can break off and go to the brain and cause a stroke. The question is, do push-ups reduce  I personally don't think so. Inflammation is increased by chronic consumption of refined sugars. By the way, when consuming sugar with vitamins, vitamins protect against inflammation. Not that I'm advising this, but in any case, refined sugars are present in the diet of most people. Diabetics with excess glucose located inside the arteries need to be studied. Refined oils are one of the main reasons they contain a lot of omega 6, which causes severe inflammation, like refined flour, smoking, stress, and a very important point is vitamin E deficiency. If the body has enough vitamin E, it protects against many problems inside the arteries because it is one of the most powerful antioxidants in cardiovascular disease. It protects against oxidation inside the arteries. I'm willing to bet that if you compare a group of people who can do many pull-ups with a group that does fewer pull-ups, the first will have less heart disease. People who bike a lot or go on long hikes have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease. And it's not so much about specific exercises as about a healthier lifestyle. If you haven't seen my recent video about fighting  Cardiovascular diseases. Link in the description. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel to stay up to date with new videos.