Today I will tell you about one of the most effective means for cleansing the skin and not just for getting rid of acne but for giving the skin beauty, attractiveness and youth, but before I begin I want to make an important announcement I have one very big request for you I am conducting a survey to find out what information interests you most and what videos you would like to watch I will be very, very grateful to you if you take this survey the link to it will be below then I will not have to guess what topics you are really interested in well let's get started if you look in the mirror right now such skin you will see oily or dry it is flaking there are red dots on it you have age spots wrinkles window what does your skin look like in general my skin in my teenage years was just terrible all in acne there is nothing worse for self-esteem than acne on the face because of this you are embarrassed of people hide from them and your self-esteem is at an all time low so if you have acne or you know someone with such a problem send him a link to this video by applying what I will tell a person get rid of this problem but this video does not  only about the window, but in general, attractive and young-looking skin, this method that I'm going to tell you about will cost you a pretty penny, although I was joking, in fact, this is the cheapest remedy on the planet, it's generally free, I won't have to pay you anything, I'll tell you more, you'll also save by using this, you can save from 300 to 500 dollars a month just by doing what I'm going to tell you about, and as a result, you'll get not only beautiful skin, but also many other benefits, your metabolism will improve, you can prolong your life, strengthen your immune system, reduce the need for medications, and so on. If you thought that this is fasting, you're absolutely right, fasting is incredibly beneficial, you get a lot of benefits, and not only for the skin, fasting helps with infections, both viral and bacterial, and also strengthens the immune system, fasting also brings many benefits for vision and for the eyes, any eye problems, such as cataracts and glaucoma, as well as diabetic retinopathy, fasting can help, fasting also helps with cognitive problems, improves mood, memory, and concentration, you can even literally grow new brain cells with this simple and Fasting is a cheap remedy; it also reduces the risk of cancer, and even if cancer already exists, there is a good chance of recovery. I have a video about this, about the anti-aging effect, and also about hormonal health. During fasting, you greatly lower insulin, which in turn helps regulate androgen levels. This effectively helps with acne due to polycystic ovary syndrome or even due to high androgen levels. One of the reasons for this is that what I will show is based on amazing studies done during Ramadan, significant improvements were found. The following points are linked to the study below: dermatitis, skin itching, inflammatory processes, psoriasis, and razor burns. So, all this is quite surprising, but the question is how, without letting the body eat at all, can you improve the condition of your skin? It sounds melodious. The fact is that you can't starve the body; you simply place it in the conditions for which it is designed, that is, go without food for some time. People only relatively recently began to eat so often, after all, even now, everywhere, we have 6-7 meals a day, we are constantly chewing something.  and this is the worst thing you can do for your skin and your health because every meal raises insulin and high insulin is the cause of many problems including skin problems the opposite of frequent meals is fasting so you are simply creating conditions for the body for which it is designed, and various genes are turned on that help you survive in fact you survive better if you do not eat so often the number of stem cells increases significantly these are cells that have not yet differentiated these are a kind of basic cells and they can turn into what is needed at the moment in fact we replace damaged cells with new ones this is called anti-aging effect number two autophagy what is it this is a condition in which the body processes old damaged cells of the body essentially takes cells that were damaged for one reason or another and simply replaces them as a result you get new beautiful skin cells that is so there is also a hormone that is produced in the liver is fr1 it acts as a growth hormone increasing the production of ifr-1 you increase collagen synthesis with age you lose collagen at least type 1 collagen which is needed by tissues in addition you lose elastin which is why the skin becomes  Fragile, flabby skin atrophy occurs, so fasting also helps to tighten the skin. Fasting also increases vascular endothelial growth factor, which essentially increases blood flow to the skin. In addition, it reduces scars on the skin from various damaging effects. This improves overall wound healing and also starts autophagy, which helps get rid of scars, especially from traces after acne and similar things. In general, fasting reduces inflammation and this is one of the most beneficial actions in relation to the skin. There are many people who live with skin spots or rashes. All this is caused by inflammation. If you reduce it, the skin suddenly begins to look beautiful. And as I already said, the worst thing for the skin is frequent meals, sugar, carbohydrates and omega-6 and a lot of seed oils and it causes skin inflammation. Stress. I don’t know if you noticed or not, but the skin’s condition is not good during stress. The reason is the increase in cortisol, which also causes an increase in insulin. The effect is almost the same as from sugar. Cortisol, which increases due to stress, also destroys proteins, and the skin is partially composed of proteins. Fasting can help with allergies, which can cause skin reactions to both food and environmental substances. Liver and intestinal intoxication can greatly affect the skin, but fasting can also help in this case. The gallbladder's function is to store and accumulate bile, which helps break down fats. Since your skin is partially made up of fats, you need a gallbladder to extract key nutrients from food, omega-3 fatty acids, as well as fat-soluble vitamins A and D. Therefore, without a gallbladder, without bile, the skin will look bad. A low-fat diet also has a destructive effect on the skin and hair, which means we need to consume enough fats to have beautiful skin. Autoimmune problems. You may have skin problems such as psoriasis, eczema, and the like. Imagine the best remedy for autoimmune diseases: fasting because it helps the immune system and reduces inflammation. Finally, with age, collagen is lost, as I already said, as well as elastin, but autophagy and an increase in the number of stem cells significantly change the situation for the better. I explained how to fast correctly.  It's very simple, this is the simplest explanation. It's easier to skip breakfast and drink a cup of coffee. If you add some oil to it, this will make your life easier. The oil will provide you with so-called ketones, which reduce hunger but give you energy to last until lunch. So, in the first step, you eat what you did before, just eat twice a day without snacks, you don't even need to switch to another food. Don't complicate things: lunch at noon, dinner 6 times a day, no snacks in between, it doesn't matter how much you eat, just twice a day. And what will this give you? You will have 18 hours of fasting, plus you don't eat between lunch and dinner, that's another four hours, a total of 22 hours of fasting. And how will this affect your skin? It's just wonderful. And you haven't even changed your diet. It's just fasting, and this is the first step. Now, to further improve the effect, we reduce carbohydrate intake, switch to a keto diet, and at the same time gradually switch to a healthy version of the keto diet. You can add a few more things: the sun, spend more time outside, it's vitamin D, and also infrared radiation from the sun, this can greatly help the skin. The gut also greatly affects the condition of the skin, so take probiotics or eat fermented foods like sauerkraut, kimchi, and kefir. This is very important for the skin. One last trick is cod liver oil. Cod liver oil not only contains a lot of omega-3 fatty acids, but also a lot of vitamins A and D, which are not found in regular fish oil. Omega 3 is a kind of fish oil at its maximum. Please don't forget to ask for a link to it in GIZ. I would be very grateful for your answer, and then I will know what to do in future episodes. I invite you to my mini-course: Skin health diagnostics. You have acne, papillomas, dry skin, pet hotel, and other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems inside the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.