 Designghurgh. Is it true that vitamin C is a vitamin? People think that it's just one of vitamins, and it can be obtained from a soda. Right? The original BAD Dr. Berger has no on Ozon and Wildberries. There are products that sell. The original product in the USG can only buy on drbergstore.com. But what if I tell you that vitamin C is not a vitamin? Other vitamin C is a vitamin in general. They are in general for a profilacy of something. A vitamin C is a vitamin C, which is a vital part of the life of a stress. It's a different thing. I decided to tell you about it, because it's very interesting. And it's also very important. It's a very important part of the life of a stress. It's also a very important part of the life of a stress. Vitamin C is a vitamin C. It's a vitamin C. It's something like a sugar. The body uses it in your stress situations. If you have a infection, if you have a respiration, when you have a disease, when you're going to get an incredibly healthy substance, and when you're going to get an incredibly healthy substance, like, at training. When you're going to get an incredibly healthy substance, you need more vitamin C. If you're going to get an incredibly healthy substance, vitamin C isn't going to be working. It's going to be working. It's going to be able to get an incredibly healthy substance. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. It's going to be incredibly healthy. And I have a theory about why it happened. I will tell you later. So for us, the food is the only source of vitamin C. So I did an analysis on vitamin C, and it showed a very high deficit. It was a shock to me, because I eat a lot of vitamin C, including a lot of corn and corn. But the analysis showed a high deficit. How can I do it? One thing that I trained as a crazy person, is that the protein created a lot of stress for the body, and he was able to destroy all vitamin C, which is the source of vitamin C, creating a deficit. So what a reason for vitamin C is the source of vitamin C is not only food, but also physical stress. And what else many people don't understand. 90% of vitamin C in the form of a добавant is synthetic. He is called a vitamin C. He is produced from a sugar, in the most part, over the world. I will not name a country, where it often покупают. China. But he is super expensive. One tonne of vitamin C is a little less than 3000 dollars. Now what is the cost of vitamin C in one bag? Well, it's only about 30 cents. So when you buy a bag of vitamin C for 5 or 10 dollars, it's just a synthetic. And on this they do a lot of money, even if you are a low price. You are getting a synthetic, a commercial version of vitamin C. In nature, vitamin C is a complex, and it consists of many parts. It's not only antioxidant, but a carbonic acid. And if you are going to get a vitamin C, you will be able to get a vitamin C, that it is not just a carbonic acid. It should be a complex, which is a natural product, not just one of the synthetic products. And if you are interested in the channel, you will be able to click on the bell. And if you are interested in the channel, you will be able to click on the bell. If you are interested in the bell, YouTube may not forget about new videos. This simple действия will help you to the next generation. And we continue. Another thing is, vitamin C is its own chemical structure. It is very similar to the structure of the glucose. In fact, vitamin C is a natural source of the cell, which is the same as the cell. So, if you eat the cell, or you have a high weight, this sugar, glucose, will compete with vitamin C, and will win in this competition. So, you will not be able to use vitamin C. This is why for people who eat a lot of ingredients, there are almost always a deficit of vitamin C. Now, I want to explain why this deficit is a stress. The difference is that vitamin C is a vitamin C that supports the mitochondria, the energy of the cells, that helps to deal with stress, helps to use other antioxidants and to use the cells, so you can get more blood. There is a strange connection between vitamin C and acid. I will return soon. But when vitamin C is not, the energy of the cells are not too effective. Because of this, there is a pain in the brain, the pain in the brain, problems with the восстановation and the blood of the cell. So, what about the connection between vitamin C and acid? Most people never heard of this function of vitamin C. vitamin C helps to react properly to the cell. In our cells there is a very similar The signal that is that it is, when you have no blood of the cell. And when you have a cell that is not enough, there is a cell that asks you to have more vitamin C. When you have a cell that is not enough, the cells start to get out of the cell. Because they are not enough, they are not enough, they are not enough, they are also talking about and about the cell. Because in the places of the cell, where there is a cell, there is a cell that is also a deficit of the cell. And when you have a cell that is not enough, when you have a cell that is not enough, in this cell that is a stress. People who have a cell that is not enough, they are not enough, they are not enough. And a couple of words about the cell. People think that the cell is when they are when they are when they are and they are not enough, they are not enough, they are not enough, they are often suffering, they are often suffering, they are often suffering, so the problem with the cell and the cell are not the only one of the cell. But I will say that, sometimes when a person is really red and they are not enough, and they are not enough, it is a serious deficit of vitamin C. If you see that, tell the person that he needs more vitamin C. Now, where do we have vitamin C? The cell is not enough, there are many other products, where vitamin C is much more, than in the apple. Like, like, the bulgar and they are not enough, they are not enough, they are not enough, so when you think that you are vitamin C is a vitamin C, think about it, think about it again. When they say that there is a lot of vitamin C, look at the pouch, there is usually written, that vitamin C was added, but what they are added? vitamin C or the acorbiase of the cell, which they are made for the real vitamin C. Now, let's go to the quashen capuching. In fermented and in the in the quashen capuching, and in the kimchi, there is also vitamin C. We have We have vitamin C. We have vitamin C, but they are not enough, but they are to protect it, and in these products much vitamin C, and it is concentrated. So, this is an excellent source of vitamin C. Look at modern life. There is a lot of sugar, a lot of stress, a lot of inflammation, a lot of vitamin C in food. All this leads to a lot of vitamin C. So, these are some recommendations from me. First, you get it from the food. For example, you eat a half of the quashen capuching a day. So, you will get a lot of vitamin C. The! The перец is also an excellent source of but it is important to to avoid the that block the vitamin C. So, you have a lot of stress and sugar. Very important is a lot of sugar. And more stress, more training. And more more vitamin C, to be to compensate. I have a free document. My daily activities in the checklist. I do this every day. I feel a lot of 18, even even 60. And want to have a link. There is a link. There is And there is! car. car. car. car. car. car. The sugar is a hormone of the hormone of the heart, but the effect is quickly and the brain requires a new dose. It's a closed circle, a pain, a pain, a pain, a pain. We're going to get a heart, we're going to get a heart, give us a new promise and everything is repeated. This is not a bad thing. This is a biochemistry, and to choose a system, it's a system. The marathon without sugar is a plan that helps you get out of dependency. You get three tasks in a week, they take 15 minutes in a day. It's easy to do, without any theory. You add one change for the other and see the result. You're not one. The marathon is a live chat, the discussion and the experts are the same. The support is one of the most strong sides of the marathon. The 8 weeks participants are getting rid of the disease, they get incredibly healthy, They get incredibly healthy. They get incredibly healthy. They get incredibly healthy. They get incredibly healthy. They get incredibly healthy. They get incredibly healthy. by the link below. Start to change yourself from inside.