I want to tell you about something That I guarantee you've never heard of before It has to do with the liver First, I'll tell you about two signs of fatty liver Then I'll explain something and then I'll tell you about the third So the first symptom or sign of fatty liver is that there are no symptoms no signs There are practically no hints that you have a fatty liver This is the first symptom Although it's not exactly a symptom But you need to know this Many people have fatty livers In fact, 30% of overweight children have fatty livers and 40 percent of all people have fatty livers and the vast majority are unaware of it There are no symptoms The second most common symptom or sign of fatty liver is a drunk waist If you look down at your stomach, does it stick out well You might have fatty liver So the next part is going to be very, very interesting If you got distracted Come back here and listen carefully to what I say Because the good news is that the liver is our only organ that can be completely repaired and regenerated with restoration of size No other organ The pancreas The kidneys The lungs cannot be completely repaired but the liver can be but there is  The point of no return And now I will explain what it is So, fat cells over time, if you eat too much or eat the wrong food, begin to increase and they reach a maximum size. Fat cells cannot increase indefinitely. At some point, they reach a limit and then fat cells stop performing their function. In other words, they stop being supplied with blood. They begin to inflame. Fibrosis and scar tissue appears around the fat cells and they can no longer absorb fat. And where does the fat end up? If a person does not change his lifestyle, what happens is that he ends up outside the fat cells. He accumulates outside the fat cells. This is ectopic fat. This fat accumulates in the muscles, not in fat cells, but around the cells of the pancreas, around the cells of the heart, around the kidneys. There is a huge area where the body can dump this fat. Around the organs in the abdominal cavity, 4-6 liters of ectopic fat can easily fit in the abdominal cavity and this is just the beginning because the abdominal cavity begins to expand more and more and can accommodate even more ectopic fat. So, most of the fat in the liver is exactly this kind of fat.  ectopic, it's not even in fat cells, ectopic fat is not good, healthy fat, this fat leads to insulin resistance, and now I'll tell you something I didn't quite know, and what I didn't quite understand until recently. This is new information. I said that there is ectopic fat in the liver, but I didn't name the sources of this fat. There are sources of almost 60 percent in the liver. 59 percent of the fat in the liver is fat that actually got into the liver. From the outside, it's fat from other areas of the body that ended up in the liver. 60 percent is crazy, how is this possible? Well, as I already said, this fat gets damaged. It can no longer stay where it is. So, this fat begins to break down and enter the bloodstream and eventually ends up in the liver. So, most of the fat in the liver got there from other areas of the body. What's interesting is that 59 percent, 26 percent of the fat in the liver is the fat that the liver itself creates from glucose. There is a process called gluconeogenesis, this is the process of creating new sugar, it is in no way related to sugar consumption. The liver itself creates sugar from non-carbohydrate sources, so insulin should block it and stop the process of creating fat normally.  insulin seems to tell the liver not to create more fat, but due to dysfunctional fat, insulin resistance causes a deficiency of insulin in the cells. Because of this, gluconal 1C in the liver proceeds uncontrollably. The liver creates a lot of sugar. This accompanies diabetes, prediabetes, and resistance. Diabetics wake up in the morning with the phenomenon of dawn, a sudden increase in sugar, but sometimes. Where does all this sugar come from? It is created in the liver due to dysfunctional fat and insulin resistance. After all, there is not enough insulin in the cells to stop this process. Of course, there is a huge amount of insulin in the blood, but there is not enough insulin in the cells. There is a severe imbalance. The third source of fat in the liver is fat coming from food. But this is because along with this fat, a person also eats sugar. How can this be explained even more simply? Well, if the food you eat has a lot of fructose, glucose, or empty carbohydrates that turn into glucose, fat cells become overloaded, and as a result, they can no longer absorb fat. Fat envelops the organs, fills the liver, and the abdominal cavity occurs. insulin resistance, but according to tests, blood sugar remains for some time because the body compensates. But the insulin level is simply off the charts, but the test does not check insulin, but blood sugar remains normal for some time, 10-15 years, and then the cells of the pancreas are depleted and can no longer secrete enough insulin, and now there is much less insulin, there is nothing to lower blood sugar with, and it becomes higher and higher. Hello, diabetes, and we have always been told that there is a link between fatty liver and diabetes, metabolic syndrome, hypertension, but I think now you really see the source of this, the real cause and effect, people eat a hell of a lot of carbohydrates, creating insulin resistance, fat cells are damaged, and this cycle of self-destruction, one thing worsens another, and everything gets out of control, but at the heart of this problem is that a person eats too many carbohydrates. How do we know that it all starts with this? Well, everything is simple. If you put a person on a low-carb diet, it begins to correct itself. All this fat begins to leave the liver very quickly. In two weeks, half of the fat can leave it. If you are on an interval diet fasting So it is very, very important to cut carbohydrates As you remember, the liver is the only organ that can fully recover, it gets a lot of it, it renews itself, but it has a limit. If there is too much scar tissue in it, this will limit the degree of its recovery, but there is also sugar in the diet and it creates a lot of problems. And there are also non-working fat cells in the body, fat from which goes to the liver and the function of the liver itself is impaired, it creates insulin to establish this process. Although there is more than enough insulin in the blood, all this can be corrected if you start cutting carbohydrates. You also need to know that the third symptom or sign of fatty liver is insulin resistance. There are quite a few signs of insulin resistance, but a very important sign is the inability to go without food for a long time. If you can easily not eat for a long time, then you probably do not have a big problem with insulin resistance, and you will see that when you cut carbohydrates and start fasting, it will become easier for you to do this. This is one of the best signs of reduced insulin resistance. You can understand that you no longer have insulin resistance by your ability to fast for a long time, as well as by the absence of high glucose levels when waking up in the morning So the ability to go a long time without food fatigue I already talked about this frequent urination at night If you need to go to the toilet at night, you probably have insulin resistance if you eliminate it you will not need to go to the toilet often at night also fatigue after lunch is a common symptom if you eliminate insulin resistance there will be more energy after lunch and the fogginess of consciousness will decrease vision problems are also a sign of insulin resistance you think that you are just getting old and you need glasses but probably this is a blood sugar problem So you need to do three simple things follow a healthy version of ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting this is the main thing number two start exercising regularly and systematically this will greatly reduce insulin resistance And third take apple cider vinegar one or two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar with water several times a day apple cider vinegar greatly improves digestion and greatly reduces blood sugar Now that you know about the connection between fat in the liver and insulin resistance 200 you may be interested in How to help yourself in this situation so that your liver says thank you I invite you to my  If you have a protruding beer belly, fatty liver disease, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.