Let's talk about the importance of vitamin C and hidden or super clinical vitamin C deficiency. You may have heard the term scurvy. This is a very severe vitamin C deficiency, also called vitamin C deficiency. With hidden vitamin C deficiency, the body has vitamin C, but it's not enough. Why do we need vitamin C? It's mainly an antioxidant; it protects against damage caused by free radicals. It's very important for the formation and restoration of collagen. Collagen is needed for connective tissues, ligaments, tendons, fascia, cartilage, and everything related to joints. Vitamin D is necessary for the creation of norepinephrine. With low norepinephrine levels, a person is constantly tired and sleepy. Vitamin D is necessary for the functioning of carnitine. This substance is responsible for delivering fats to the mitochondria, the furnace where fats are burned, that is, the acidification of fats. So, with a lack of vitamin C, the body poorly oxidizes fats for energy. In addition, white blood cells, part of the immune system, are saturated with vitamin C. If they have little vitamin C, the immune system will not function with a severe deficiency, such as with vitamin deficiency. Wounds appear that don't heal, gingivitis develops, inflammation of the gums, Perry's follicular hemorrhages, what is it? These are red dots on the skin around the follicles. This happens on the buttocks and other places on the body. This is a vitamin C deficiency. Fatigue. Red-purple spots similar to spider veins. Sometimes they appear below the knee. They are often found in diabetics. There are many other symptoms. How to get vitamin C. Here are foods rich in vitamin C: papaya, which I do not recommend. Kiwi, which I also do not recommend. Bell peppers, which I recommend. Leafy greens and many types of greens are rich in vitamin C. Berries. Cruciferous vegetables. In addition, people often take it before cooking. This is acceptable if the supplement is not synthetic but natural. A good source of vitamin C is Barbados cherry. It is very different from the cherries we are used to, but it contains a lot of vitamin C. I invite you to my course, Healthy Chum Salmon. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed the course and achieved very stable results. Join us. You need to not only get vitamin C from food, but also remember that smoking interferes with the absorption of this vitamin. Pregnant women need much more vitamin C. With age, the level of vitamin C in the body decreases for recovery processes. More is needed because it is an antioxidant. Excessive physical exercise can suppress vitamin C. And here's what's interesting: when we eat sugar, it competes with vitamin C. The body cannot absorb vitamin C if you eat sugar. If you are diabetic, your high sugar level will prevent the body from absorbing vitamin C. That's not all you need to know about vitamin C. Watch these videos and see you there.