Hello everyone Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz and then we'll have a live chat with someone Your floor doc True or false there is no real difference between white and brown vinegar and by brown vinegar I mean apple cider vinegar Dear viewers, you can answer now I'll turn on the sound for the sweet young Lady Miriam Miriam Ask a short question to Dr. Berg Hello Dr. Berg Thank you very much for this opportunity The question is this Is it safe to drink olive oil and lemon every morning if you have gallstones problems with the gallbladder is it safe Yes it is safe in fact it will probably help you of course if we look at what a gallstone is we will see that in essence it is an imbalance between cholesterol and bile salts so we need more bile salts How to increase the amount of bile salts for this you need to eat more fat thanks to the fat there will be more bile salts and they will help dissolve the stones I do not recommend doing what I once did I had a crazy idea to drink a third of a liter of olive oil at once to flush my gallbladder  370 ml of olive oil in one gulp and I poured a handful of beetroot tablets into my mouth and washed them down with olive oil the beetroot tablets got stuck in my throat I almost died in general I will not do that again in a word I think that if you regularly consume olive oil in small quantities it will be excellent Add lemon water to it you may also find it useful to take bile salts to dissolve gallstones and of course you need a low-carb diet all this will help maintain the health of this area ok thank you very much Please can I ask another question or you can ask another question If it is simple ok Is it safe for me to have your vitamins for children can I give them to my daughter every morning and also add vitamin D is it safe yes Of course these are not synthetic vitamins They are obtained from food products they can be taken every day in fact this is what we recommend Yes no problem plus vitamin D Thank you very much Please Thank you for the great question Miriam Now let's move on to questions on social networks my computer fell asleep again wake up Oh these technologies Nicole from Facebook I had strep throat four times in 2 months Pharyngitis. What natural remedy works best for this? I'm afraid that I will develop resistance to antibiotics and I don't want to remove my tonsils. I myself have had this every year for many, many years. Sometimes you need to let the body go through this and gain immunity. We gain part of the immunity when we have an infectious disease and do not try to suppress it. If the throat hurts and because of viruses, antibiotics will not work. If you still take an antibiotic, be sure to take a probiotic with it, because the antibiotic weakens the immune system and the disease can return. But there is a great way to at least reduce the sore throat to a large extent. Watch my videos about the throat. You may think this is crazy. But this is acupressure on the back of the neck. A partner does this, or you do it yourself with a small massager. I have done this a million times in my practice. It works great. Read the comments on the video from those who use it for a sore throat. You will see that I did not invent this. It works. It can reduce tension in the neck. We are not treating the infection, but only reducing it so that you recover much faster. Watch this. The quiz question is very encouraging.  It sounded like there is no real difference between white and brown vinegar and almost everyone said it was a lie 98% said it was a lie and 2% said it was true So first of all, yes, white vinegar is usually made from corn fermented corn Yes, and apple cider vinegar is made from apples and I recommend unpasteurized vinegar Because when it is pasteurized and purified Yes, the acetic acid remains, but all the probiotics go away, all the polyphenols, phytonutrients and other nutrients that I think are very beneficial for intestinal health go away In general, this is not the case with sterilized vinegar White vinegar is usually used for cleaning And for preparations and I think apple cider vinegar is much healthier and it’s great that it does n’t have so many microbes to populate the intestines But what’s extremely interesting is that when we consume fulvic acid, mino acid, apple cider vinegar or kombucha, we do not add microbes to the intestines but only change its environment so that it works much better There are dormant microbes that can wake up and start working better if you change the environment in the intestines, this is like  with dormant viruses that wait for us to get sick and come out. So I think it is very useful to drink diluted apple cider vinegar periodically through a straw. Of course, I like Fair vinegar because it is not diluted, and Breck vinegar is diluted. In the end, you pay more for vinegar that is diluted with water. Our director Terry said that Dr. Burke relieved him of a sore throat with the help of Abris when he worked as a director at the ABC affiliate. Well, this comment can be trusted. Thank you. Tari asks su9 Rambla. What causes plantar fasciitis and how to get rid of it. There are a couple of theories. I think the reason is severe inflammation due to excess seed oils in the diet. However, there is an excellent technique with which you can reduce tension by stretching the forefoot. That is, you put your toes straight on your knee, thereby stretching the fascia on the opposite side, and it envelops not only the joint, but the entire leg. That is, you stretch the fascia and this really helps with plantar fasciitis, but I still advise you to watch my video about this. You clearly have too much inflammation and it can be reduced.  and with the help of diet a