Let's discuss chronic fatigue syndrome. If you look for information about it, you will find out that its cause is unknown. It's called apathy, which means the cause is unknown. Physical exercise only makes it worse. In all the cases I know, people slept poorly because it didn't improve their condition. They were constantly exhausted and there are no tests to diagnose this condition. I suffered from this myself when I was in my twenties and I didn't know what to do about it. Outwardly, I didn't look sick, but getting up every morning I felt very tired and despite drinking huge amounts of coffee, I couldn't really wake up. I was in a constant fog trying to find something that would help me. I was driving down the street with my wife and said, "Darling, there's a pharmacy over there. Let's go in. Maybe I'll buy some more vitamins." I was trying to get my energy back. My entire pantry was filled with all kinds of supplements. I'm not kidding. I was taking 150 pills a day and nothing helped. But before we discuss what I did to cope with this, click the red subscribe button and the icon.  bell to get notifications about all my new videos. In addition, you will receive notifications about upcoming Q&A broadcasts that I conduct several times a week. And so what are the main symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome? That's right, chronic fatigue, but there are others that will help us understand what is causing this problem. So, memory loss, sore throat. We'll come back to this. Enlarged glands in the armpits and neck. This is also an alarm bell. Joint pain, headaches. Sleep helps me. You sleep, but it doesn't add energy to you, and I'm extremely exhausted. Nastya, and so enlarged glands and a sore throat give us the cause. One of the main causes of chronic fatigue syndrome is a latent viral infection. You need to know about viruses that the virus itself is not alive. It's a piece of genetic material wrapped in a bag that is activated by your own cells. This is what happens when your immune system defeats viruses and deactivates them. They can remain dormant for many years, and they can also come out of remission and become active. This is called a latent virus. The most  A common virus that causes chronic fatigue syndrome is the Epstein-Barr virus. If you've had mononucleosis, yes, you have the Epstein-Barr virus. 90 percent of the world's population has the Epstein-Barr virus. It's very common. I myself had a severe form of it, so severe that I could barely swallow. It was very painful. It happened at school. So, you have this infection. Eventually, it goes into remission. You feel fine for many years. Then, you accumulate stress and maybe you have a nutritional deficiency, and then the virus comes out of remission. You may not even feel a full-blown infection. There are only a few symptoms, one of which is chronic fatigue or soreness. What brings this virus out of remission? Mainly, stress. This could be the loss of a loved one, stress at work, anything else, and the virus comes out of remission. If you combine stress and nutritional deficiencies, the virus can reactivate and cause extreme fatigue. Also, the Epstein-Barr virus is one of the causes of Hashimotos disease, which is an autoimmune hepatitis. If you have Hashimotos disease, be sure to watch the video at the link below.  Also take strong, it is very important in case of a latent infection, you need high doses of vitamin D. In the study, a link to which will be in the description, high doses of vitamin D are considered 20,000 IU. In my opinion, this is not so much, I would recommend 40,000 m.e. If this is all about you, vitamin D is one of the most powerful nutrients that return the virus back into remission. The second is zinc. You need 30 milligrams of zinc per day. Fu Leva acids are also a good remedy. They can be bought in health products. If you are new to my channel, you should definitely learn about healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting. They will help eliminate the deficiency and also help return the Epstein-Barr virus into remission. And let's not forget about stress. You need to do everything possible to get rid of stress, because until stress is neutralized, it is very difficult to return the virus into remission. The second reason that causes chronic fatigue syndrome is what I had. I had it at the same time, and it is a terrible thing. insulin resistance, what is it? insulin is a hormone that has many functions. One of these functions is like a key to open a cell to let in fuel and nutrients inside the cell. If a lot of insulin is secreted in the body over a long period of time, it can be toxic and the body will resist it and this condition will develop. insulin resistance affects 65 to 70 percent of the population.  and even more suffers from it often without even knowing about it, one of the most noticeable gifts of insulin resistance is belly fat. If you look down and see your belly, you most likely have it. If you can't last more than three or four hours without snacking, you have it. If you have a craving for sweets, you have it. If after eating you don't feel full until you eat something sweet, you have it. If you often get up at night to urinate, you most likely have it. insulin also lowers blood sugar, so insulin is associated with sugar and the consumption of excess carbohydrates. If you consumed a lot of carbohydrates, like most of the nation, then this is the reason. The connection between insulin resistance and fatigue is that your cells are starved of fuel, especially the brain and even muscles, they will be tired. You will lack mental energy and will have problems with concentration. There is a good experiment that you can do on yourself: just eat a protein lunch, only proteins, maybe a little vegetables, no sugar, no other carbohydrates, and see how you feel. If fatigue comes with what?  Most likely, you have insulin resistance, which is very, very easy to fix if you start practicing healthy theta and intermittent fasting. I have about 500 videos about this, but you don't have to watch them all now. Watch only the ones listed below in the description. These are the two main causes of chronic fatigue syndrome. If you understand all this and apply what I've shown, this is the easiest way to get rid of this condition. Thanks for watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, click the red button below and the bell icon to receive notifications about all my new videos. I have several cool, interesting videos coming out in the coming weeks. You will also learn about real Q&A broadcasts that I will be hosting. Don't miss them either. Stay tuned, it will be interesting.