Today we will talk about how vulnerable we are to coronavirus and to any virus in general. Of course, right now the news is causing people to panic about this virus. The headlines are full of speculation and are driving people into fear and anxiety. I want to warn you right away that what is said in this video is not a cure for this virus. It is based only on my opinion and I will provide links to some studies. I am not trying to sell you vitamins or any other remedy. Now let's look at this interesting topic. Imagine that someone sneezes, about 20,000 microscopic particles containing viruses are sprayed into the air. This is exactly how the virus spreads. The virus has no wings or legs. It needs to be able to expel it from the air. It requires direct contact and when it hits the surface of the body, it must somehow penetrate inside. Certain viruses target certain tissues. The virus can be imagined as a tennis ball with small spikes and these spikes are attracted to certain tissues. Depending on the type of virus, the coronavirus strives to get into the lungs and so it gets into the lungs and does its job. The Latin word  A virus means poison, and viruses are everywhere. This biological form is more widespread than any other creature on the planet. Just one liter of seawater contains more than 100 billion viruses. The only question is how vulnerable we are to this virus. The goal of a virus is to introduce its DNA or RNA into the host cell, and that is, yours, to copy so that it can continue to exist. DNA and RNA are simply genetic material. Viruses are not capable of doing anything without the host, without you, they are neither alive nor dead. They are potentially good at acting as if they are alive and causing serious damage. But if you look at a cell, here is a cell and a virus, and the scale is, of course, not respected. Viruses are very, very small in size. Some viruses are 44 times smaller than bacteria. The virus goes through 5 stages. First, it attaches to the cell wall. You must understand that the immune system hunts these bastards and tries to kill them. If we are vulnerable to a virus, then it is much easier for the virus to attach and penetrate this cell wall. It is interesting that some viruses have a protective shell that they take from our cell membrane and close themselves with it. In essence, they steal and and They hide under it so as not to be noticed so that the immune system does not find them and so they attach themselves, penetrate inside and head to the center of the hydra cell. There is nothing in them that could read their program. Let's say you have a compact disc, a small round disk, and you want to listen to music. You cannot listen to music without a CD player. You need a device to read the disk. So, the virus does not have such a device and it uses your disk. All it has is DNA. And of course, it will not play music. It will make copies of itself, like a copy machine. So, it penetrates the cell, infects the nucleus, and captures your copper. It is a kind of photocopier, and immediately begins to multiply very quickly, and this prevents your body from using this copier. That is, the body can no longer copy its own cells. This is bad. So, the self-copying stage, then the assembly stage. The virus captures cells, changes its structure, and then exits the cell and hides from the immune system. That's what they do. Then they exit the cell. When this happens, the cell usually dies. Some viruses are in a dormant state, it is called latent. They just sit in place and do nothing, waiting and waiting.  and they wait for you to get old, when you become weak, and begin to experience nutrient deficiencies when you are stressed, and then they come out, which is why so many people are affected by virus outbreaks during stress, because these viruses were dormant in them. Some viruses have an interesting property: they activate glycolysis, which is the release of sugar. This is interesting. I will return to this a little later, but now I will mention one point. I read in one study ( the link will be in the description) that a decrease in glucose metabolism weakened the flu virus in laboratory tests. This is very interesting. And so, vulnerability. There are several factors that make us vulnerable or unprotected against any viruses. Age and, no matter how you look at it, aging cannot be stopped in any way, so let's cross out this point and not talk about it. But nothing can be done about it. Nutrients. Nutritional deficiencies. There is a direct relationship between nutrient deficiencies and the health of the immune system and vulnerability to viruses. But this aspect is not given much attention and not much research, but they exist. I will provide links in the description. We will return to this later. Heredity. Well, there's not much you can do with genes, but a lot can be done with epigenetics, which includes your environment, stress, and what you eat. But you're given certain genes, so we won't talk about that. So, fourth, the health of the immune system. If your immune system is weak, you're more vulnerable and more likely to catch a virus, and it will cause more damage. The microflora of your digestive tract, as well as the environment around your body, significantly affects your immunity. If you take antibiotics or create unsterile conditions, you greatly increase the likelihood of getting an infection. Antibiotics, steroids, medications, chemotherapy, all of this suppresses the immune system and weakens you so you can't fight infections. Also, if you have any chronic disease, it makes you vulnerable to viruses. Sixth, stress, I've already talked a little about this. Stress significantly increases the risk of infection, including viral infections. I'll give the data in the description. The kidney glands are the main thing in stress regulation. If you look at mice that have had their adrenal glands removed, they have a lot of problems with the immune system, an increased risk of infections and viruses. There 's also a condition called Odessa disease.  In which the adrenal glands fail and do not function, and you have to take hormones. As it turned out, with this disease, there are no natural killer cells. What's interesting is that natural killer cells are necessary for protection against viruses. The risk of contracting an infection also increases significantly, so the adrenal glands play an important role. But I would like to focus on nutrients because they can be influenced and this can be influenced, and with this, that is, you can strengthen the immune system and alleviate chronic diseases and stress. With a deficiency of certain nutrients, two things happen. First, the immune system is weakened. The deficiency weakens the immune system. Also, with a deficiency of nutrients, viruses become stronger. There is an interesting study (the link will be in the description) that shows that viruses are more dangerous for mice that were deficient in selenium and vitamin E. Which is quite interesting, because it is logical to think that if you deprive the virus of nutrients, it will weaken, but no, this is not so. A certain gene is activated that makes the virus stronger, just like during fasting, the body becomes stronger, at least temporarily. After all, it is impossible to fast for too long, and certain viruses can become more dangerous. This means  capable of infecting the host, that is, by taking away food from viruses, we make them stronger and ourselves weaker. Where is the justice? Let's move on to the next section. I wanted to touch a little on the topic of age. If you look at the mortality rate from coronavirus, in this age group of 80 years and older, we see 14.8 percent of fatalities. If you look at the age group of 70 years and older, it's eight percent of 60, the mortality rate is significantly lower, 3.6 percent. If you're over 50, it's only one point three percent of 40, four tenths, that's less than half a percent. The probability of dying from infection, but look here, 3020, or if you're a teenager, the probability is two tenths of a percent, which is extremely small. It's very important to know this because if you read the news, they're falling, it's as if everyone is going to die, which is not true. Let's look at a couple more points. This virus, compared to others, has 121,000 cases of infection. If you look at the mortality rate, it's 3.9 percent in 113 countries. If you compare it to the naked kingdom or MERS, look at Ebola, which has a 40 percent mortality rate.  The SARS virus has 9.6 percent, the MERS virus has 34.4 percent, meaning that the coronavirus actually has the lowest mortality rate, at least among these four. This is interesting information because sometimes the news distorts the facts and it seems as if everyone will die, but this is not true at all. It depends greatly on the strength of the immune system and your ability to resist the virus. Let's talk about key nutrients associated with viruses in general. 1. Vitamin C is perhaps the most important of all vitamins for fighting viruses. It is a well-known antiviral nutrient. It shortens the duration of colds, reduces the risk of certain lung infections, and can reduce overall vulnerability to infections and also increase their white blood cell count. In China, a study is currently being conducted on vitamin C in the very city from which the coronavirus initially spread. They are administering 24,000 milligrams of vitamin C intravenously to people for 7 days. We'll see what the results are. It's very interesting. Viruses in general, when infected, deplete our vitamin C reserves. This strategy makes sense because if you reduce the amount of vitamin C, the white blood cells will also decrease. Vitamin C has the property  Increase the activity of natural killer cells. Vitamin C is also necessary for the production of interferon, and interferon stops viruses by killing infected cells, cells affected by the virus, as well as their close neighbors. To get rid of viruses, one of the best ways to get vitamin C is through food, and without a doubt, the product with the most vitamin C is sauerkraut. The average person needs 70 to 90 milligrams of vitamin C per day. Some types of sauerkraut contain up to 700 milligrams per cup. A very good source. It is also found in bell peppers, leafy greens, and many other foods. Second, vitamin E is very important for increasing resistance to viruses. Another very important micronutrient is zinc, which is a component of more than 200 enzymes and is vital for immunity. Of course, vitamin D. Viruses have an interesting strategy of suppressing vitamin D receptors because they apparently somehow know that vitamin D is one of the key modulators of immunity and helps control it. This is probably one of the reasons why more people get fungal infections in the winter than  In the summer, because the sun provides vitamin D. As for selenium and zinc, they can be obtained from fish and seafood. Vitamin E is found in vegetables, nuts, and seeds. It was a long video. Thank you for watching. If you haven't yet watched my video on how to strengthen your immune system, I'll post it here. Watch it.