Hello, let's talk about how to diagnose the liver by the foot and as a display mayor, of course, we do not diagnose whether your liver is sick or not, you need to see a doctor, but this video will help you find out if there is a potential problem with the liver. Well, let's start, I'll tell you about the indicators with which you can understand what to pay attention to. First, these are small red and brown dots. They can be of different sizes. Sometimes they seem to shine and are usually in the lower part of the leg. This indicates poor blood circulation. There may be problems with the liver, or maybe diabetes. These dots can indicate many problems, but they are usually found in people with liver problems. The appearance of the foot allows you to learn a lot about your overall health since the heart pumps blood through the entire body to the legs and back through the blood vessels. Usually, if there are problems with the liver or heart, this means that the vessels are not in order and this can often be seen in this area since blood circulation is impaired. Many of these problems occur at a distance from the heart and even, for example, with diabetes, neurological problems appear in the arms and legs. Because of this, it is the toes that are affected since they are farthest from the heart and so you can see red and brown  A rash on the lower legs, as well as so -called spider veins, or sometimes called spider veins, usually don't appear with cirrhosis. You accumulate too much blood in the veins, and excess estrogen can affect blood vessels, so you can see varicose veins and these spider veins on the lower legs. Next come cracked heels. Usually, this is a vitamin B3 deficiency or a deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids. The fact is that one of the functions of the liver is to produce bile so that you can absorb these fatty acids. Not only omega-3 fatty acids, but also vitamin A is also associated with the skin and vitamin E, which is also associated with the skin. All of these are fat-soluble vitamins. However, vitamin B3 also affects the condition of the skin. Other B vitamins can also affect the condition of the skin. They are also a kind of factor, that is, they help enzymes work, especially with proteins. So, a deficiency of B3 can cause problems. This condition is called saw-tooth rash, and people with sung gray skin suffer from B3 deficiency. We go further, itching in the foot area, especially in the sole, is an outflow of fluid to the liver, possibly stagnation in  liver, perhaps bile returns to the liver, this leads to the accumulation of histamine of liver stagnation and itching in the foot area, pain or inflammation may also appear in the sole, this is often associated with what is called plantar fasciitis, but this is not it. This problem with the liver also happens burning in the legs, this is another symptom of liver problems. The next point is an unpleasant odor, the feet stink, why is it because the liver is not able to properly remove toxins and they come out through the skin. Usually, with a diseased liver, a person has a very poor diet and his whole body is simply filled with all sorts of crap, especially the colon, kidneys, and all this stuff comes out through the skin. You can’t just go and get an unhealthy liver and at the same time have healthy kidneys or gastrointestinal tract if there is a problem in one, the other is also usually in a very deplorable state. Edema is when you press your finger on the lower part of the foot and there is an indentation that does not go away, this is swelling of the fluid. Typically, a symptom of an unhealthy liver. Then comes nail fungus. People with a problematic liver have a lot of fungus in the body because they usually have an imbalance of microflora in the intestines and  This is due to the excessive growth of fungus and yeast on the surface of the body, hence dandruff, psoriasis, nail fungus on the feet, as well as the base of the nail, and this can be on both the hands and feet. The base of the nail usually turns white, you can see a characteristic white half-miss here in whites, it is due to poor circulation at the base of the nail. The next question is what actually causes liver problems. Many things are one of the reasons, side effects of medications, and also a lot of sugar in food, especially high-fructose corn syrup, cooked food. If you eat a lot of canned food and not, and as a child, anything raw, this will eventually overload the liver and kidneys. Also, if you eat few vegetables and at the same time a lot of fast food, not enough enzymes enter the body and no antioxidants from vegetables, and this can also cause problems. Too much alcohol, of course, and also too much protein in huge quantities, it leads to large volumes of nitrogenous toxins. Over time, this will overload the liver and kidneys, creating a great burden. If you have liver or kidney damage, you should eat less protein and more vegetables, and what If you're new to my channel, follow the link in the description and I'll talk about combining a healthy ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. This is exactly what I recommend. If you've been on my channel for a while and have watched many videos, you already know that you're already achieving great success on this diet. So, leave your comment under the video so that newbies can see that it works. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.