You know, it's very strange to me that women in menopause have to suffer from hot flashes, night sweats, vaginal dryness, decreased libido, anxiety, depression, all of this is strange. They say that these symptoms are normal, it's part of life. You just need to come to terms with it and accept it, because sex hormones naturally decrease with age, at least by half, because the ovaries no longer function. Is this true? The question is, is this true? The answer is no, it's absolutely incorrect. Information about going through menopause is incorrect. You have two reserve organs, the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands produce all the same hormones as the ovaries, all the sex hormones: estrogen, progesterone, testosterone. They also don't produce many other hormones: cortisol, aldosterone, DHEA, and so on. It is assumed that during menopause, ovarian function decreases, and the adrenal glands back them up and begin to produce these hormones, and there are no symptoms that are abnormal for menopause. So, what's the problem? Look at this diagram. This is a diagram of the metabolic processes in the adrenal glands, different layers of the adrenal glands, and various products produced.  They are hormones, minerals, corticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, estrogens. All of these hormones come from the same substance, from the same raw material. Look, here it is, cholesterol. Yes, the very thing that everyone so persistently advises to avoid. After all, it supposedly causes heart disease due to a decrease in cholesterol in the diet. Dietary recommendations or medications. Your adrenal glands suffer because cholesterol is not only a necessary raw material for all sex hormones and all hormones of the outer cortex of the adrenal glands, but cholesterol is also an absolutely irreplaceable material for the production of vitamin D. You know how it is important for the production of bile salts. It is necessary for the absorption of fats so that you get enough vitamins A and D and also for supplying the brain. You knew that the brain is a quarter cholesterol. Some brain cells are not neurons, but supportive glial cells produce cholesterol. Three-quarters of all cholesterol in your body is produced by your own cells. Not only brain cells, but also other cells. Only a quarter of cholesterol comes from the body. It is necessary to write. You can say: I eat a lot of fat. I eat olive oil, soybean oil, canola oil. I eat butter. I consume coconut oil, is it true? Do you know that cholesterol is not found in plants, not in vegetable oils, not in seed oils? It is only found in animal products. I want to emphasize that 80 percent of the cholesterol that feeds the adrenal glands is in the form of LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol, which is recommended to be avoided. Reducing cholesterol intake or taking cholesterol-lowering medications causes a whole host of problems with a huge amount of collateral damage, including the main symptoms of menopause: depression, anxiety, and memory impairment. If you think about it, even one side effect of statin drugs blocks their production of cholesterol. One symptom is called transient global amnesia. You lose your memory for a while. Statins increase the risk of developing cancer among people with high cholesterol. Cancer is less common. Apparently, there is a link between cholesterol and immunity. Perhaps this is due to vitamin D and other factors. We know the general symptoms of taking statins: muscle pain, muscle problems due to what statins do with coenzyme Q10. This compound is blocked by statins, it is necessary for Mitochondria could use fat as fuel, that is, it is directly involved in energy production, especially in muscles. And if you don’t give your muscles access to energy, a lot of different problems will arise. This is one of the biggest side effects of statins, and when they are stopped taking them, the result of lowering cholesterol is if you look at all the symptoms that women experience during a pause. They are all associated with a lack of sex hormones. Many women do not understand how vital it is to simply maintain the right level of cholesterol to feed the hormones so that they are produced. What can you make it from? If you just slightly change your diet, you will find that these menopause symptoms will disappear sharply and dramatically only due to an increase in cholesterol in the diet, and now you know why. Because all these hormones are built from cholesterol. So, start consuming more cholesterol. The number one product that will help with this is high-quality grass-fed butter. Yes, add it to coffee. Add it to food. Don’t be afraid to eat real butter. I repeat, cholesterol cannot be obtained from plants. All these oils that can be consumed, say, olive oil and other oils, can be eaten, but they will not help you replenish the lack of adrenal hormones. By the way, what  The more stress the body experiences, especially during menopause, the more cholesterol it needs, especially more LDL, and it is very important that this LDL does not become the bad type of LDL because there are two different types. This is important: as fat consumption increases, you must at the same time reduce carbohydrates. Because you cannot combine a diet rich in sugar and carbohydrates with a high-fat diet. If you eat low carbohydrates, for example, you can find this diet, you can consume more fat. So, first, butter, you can add a little fatty cheese, for example, grass-fed is better. You can also use cream. I buy fresh cream weekly at a local farm. Egg yolks are another important source of cholesterol. Seafood. Organ meats are very good for the adrenal glands. And don't eat lean protein. Don't eat anything low-fat at all because the lower the fat protein, including powdered protein, the more insulin it activates. Fat helps to soften the insulin index of protein. After all, if insulin is not elevated, you are protected during the process, it will be useful to add vitamin D as well as purified bile salts so that digest this fat I'm not saying that you should mindlessly throw in fat. It's just that if you are on a low-fat diet with a low amount of animal fats, you need to increase their consumption. And if you have difficulty digesting them, you probably don't have enough bile salts. Take them to solve this problem and you might be pleasantly surprised that the symptoms of menopause magically disappear. I invite you to my course for ovaries and body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, food lists, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.