Hello everyone Today we will start with a quiz question and then talk to Arim from Los Angeles I ask you doc ​​Which of the nutrients has the greatest effect on our energy levels well And as I promised, Ariel is in touch Ariel, you can ask Dr. Berg a question Hello Dr. Berg and thank you VM I have quite severe bloating siberia 20 times each I have basically ruled out all causes except siberia I am on a carnivore diet and taking almost all antimicrobial agents such as oregano, cloves, thyme and I take eight tablets of betaine hydrochloride and drink apple cider vinegar and Although the condition has improved, the bloating has not gone away it has improved by 30-40 percent but has not gone away I am thinking whether to continue for another couple of weeks or months or if I need to change something the bloating occurs after eating and After some time it decreases yes Clear after fiber or probiotics the bloating is stronger yes yes you eat nuts No now a strict carnivore diet eggs and meat Clear clear sl  You eat twice a day, about an hour and at 5 o'clock there is fatigue during training. No. I used to be on chum. And since I switched to carnivore, it's even better. I regularly train for a couple of hours. I think that you need to continue because it takes time. It seems that you really have a sibor. Understand that this is a slow process. Sometimes, during the month, someone thinks that it will pass immediately. We need to change a lot. I'm glad that you eat twice a day. You can try sometimes eating even once a day just to cleanse the digestive tract so that the bacteria stay where they should be. I think you're on the right track. You just need more time. And after a couple of months, if you start adding fiber to your diet, I would eat either boiled fiber or maybe a little sauerkraut. Try a little and see how it goes. I had a similar situation and I didn't know. What was the matter? I thought it was normal. Yes. It looks like your microbes are fermenting and eating fiber in the wrong places. And how did you solve your problem? I didn't know how to solve it. It lasted for about 10 to 20 years and in the end  In the end, I did about the same as you, in the end, I excluded all nuts and it seemed to work, I think I had a milder form. In addition, the quality of the protein you eat is important, you can try If you have a choice between chicken and grass-fed red meat, eat meat. Eat meat from animals that eat grass, not grain, that is, not pork or chicken, they have a lot of omega-6, and they cause inflammation. You are unlikely to find pork that has little omega-6 or even chicken. But even eggs can be a problem for you because they have a lot of omega-6, so perhaps you are better off eating organ meats, any different organ meats, lamb, goat, and beef. Okay, my friend, we are out of time, but I hope this helps you. Thank you very much for the great question, so here we will return to social networks. Although, no, we have a quiz question, our viewers, as usual, answered it quickly, and the question was which nutrient most affects our energy levels. 60% of respondents said it was vitamin B12 20% think it's vitamin B1 10% said it's potassium or magnesium and the last 10% said it's vitamin D So we're talking about energy we're talking about a factory called the mitochondria in the mitochondria there's a conveyor belt and different mechanisms pumps engines rotary engines that create the so-called ATP and the last element on the conveyor belt that creates AF is an enzyme and it rotates at the speed of a jet engine turbine 400 revolutions per second and with each revolution it creates three ATP molecules this enzyme needs one nutrient and this is the most important nutrient that helps us create and supply fuel to all the other pumps and mechanisms and that's magnesium That's why one of the typical symptoms of magnesium deficiency is fatigue but another possible symptom is cramps and that's why we have a pump to pump calcium into and out of cells in muscles and so on But if there's not enough energy to pump calcium it accumulates and causes cramps but magnesium also regulates calcium levels in cells So The importance of magnesium is greatly underestimated. I recommend taking magnesium glycinate before bed. It will also improve sleep. Magnesium is very important for energy; it removes excess calcium. In addition, magnesium is needed for vitamin D to work. If you take large doses of vitamin D for a long time without magnesium, you will develop a magnesium deficiency because vitamin D needs magnesium for it to work. I myself didn’t know until recently how much depends on magnesium; it’s extremely important.