There are some pretty strange and unique symptoms of vitamin B3 and niacin deficiency that you should know about. You may have four of these symptoms: dermatitis, very strong skin reactions, diarrhea, dementia, and the fourth symptom is death. Otherwise, everything is fine. Let's discuss subclinical symptoms, and they may shock you. With subclinical symptoms, the deficiency is not severe, but it is still there. Number one, a loss of taste is possible. Number two, there may be a metallic taste in the mouth or a rancid taste in the mouth. Yes, this could be due to niacin deficiency. Fortunately, taking niacin can eliminate this within a week. It depends on the degree of deficiency. The next symptom is loss of smell. We are used to thinking that this is caused by zinc deficiency, but it could also be due to neocidol. The next symptom is: When you look in the mirror, your face moves a little. This is quite amazing. It doesn't necessarily move, but it can change. Its shape. When you read a book, you notice that the words and the page are moving a little. When you walk, it seems that the ground beneath your feet is a little unstable or a little, it is also possible.  Fatigue or a feeling that you can't relax are all symptoms of a subclinical niacin deficiency, a serious one. Niacin deficiency is called pelagra, and you know that this deficiency cannot be eliminated. Taking only the recommended daily intake of 20 mg, you need to take large doses. You can take niacin or niacinamide, a form that does not cause flushing, but you probably need to take 6 grams per day, which is a lot. But that's exactly how much is needed to eliminate such a deficiency. One of the important functions of niacin is associated with mitochondria. It is converted into nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, which helps extract energy from food. B3 is an immediate precursor to niacin. A sufficient amount of niacin allows us to produce more energy from food. It promotes the work of the senescent cortex. They are associated with longevity and DNA repair. But most diseases originate in the mitochondria. In all degenerative diseases, there is a huge deficiency of niacin, especially in diseases associated with aging, because with age, niacin becomes less and less. Tryptophan can actually be converted into niacin. Tryptophan is also converted into serotonin, and  Then Nin which improves sleep, B3 is also extremely important for the skin because its deficiency causes the skin to become extremely flaky and damaged, so B3 is extremely useful for the skin to fight rheumatoid arthritis if you take the form of vitamin B3 called niacinamide, this form helps more with inflammation such as rheumatoid arthritis or any arthritis. Niacin is very useful in normalizing lipids, LDL cholesterol, and HDL, niacin was very widely used until statins appeared. And of course, from recent studies, we learned that niacin is no longer of any use. If they told me that niacin brings no benefit. I would ask, What will happen with a niacin deficiency? And if we... Inquire about which foods are rich in vitamin B3, we learn that there is a lot of vitamin B3 in animal meat, as well as in liver and other offal. Red meat is undoubtedly where B3 is found in other foods, but they do not have as much of it as animal products. It is also found in nutritional yeast. I recommend taking nutritional yeast without synthetic vitamins that are usually added to them also contain B3, spirulina has a ton of research on the effects of niacin on cholesterol, the heart and many diseases, I was surprised by how much research there is on this topic, it helps even with schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder, and affective disorders, what causes niacin deficiency? Technologically processed foods can cause a B3 deficiency, processed corn, wheat and other grains, cereals and all that, the more protein and carbohydrates we eat, the more B3 we need, because B3 directly helps us extract energy from food. But if we eat the right foods, we get the BT that they already contain, unlike refined foods, and also greatly increases the need for B3. I think many people are concerned about skin redness when taking niacin, you can take a form that does not cause redness. But if you have a problem with cholesterol and you want to lower it, then you need a form that causes redness, but you can start with a very small dose and gradually increase it when the body adapts to skin redness. Redness does not bother me.  It's not dangerous, but sometimes people think it's an allergy. This isn't true. Niacin is also taken for fatty liver disease. There are factors that increase the need for niacin. I've already mentioned them, or maybe you don't have enough niacin in your diet. Health problems begin when you lack important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements should you take? How and when? In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes, and lists. Everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.