Let's talk about how to get relief from a sinus infection, that is, sinusitis, especially if it is chronic. Chronic sinusitis is usually caused by a fungus. It can also be caused by a biofilm. Biofilm is small calcium houses that protect bacteria and other types of microbes from destruction by antibiotics. There are natural remedies that block the formation of biofilms and kill fungus. No side effects. I recommend using nasal lavage products. You can make it yourself, but it is probably much cheaper to buy a ready-made product. I want to say a few words about kimchi juice. I already have a video about it. I will leave a link below. The fact is that there is a very specific microbe in this that is very effective in eliminating mucus and infection from the sinuses. You can take a little of this juice, dilute it, and use a cotton swab to lubricate your nose with this juice every day. This will restore the population of this microbe and the desired balance of friendly bacteria. This will help in the fight against pathogens and unfriendly antibiotic bacteria, but will not kill the fungi in the intestines. That is why the main side effect of antibiotics is excessive  the growth of a fungus called candida, the same thing happens with sinusitis, you kill bacteria and this fungus grows. These are the two main ingredients that I recommend as a nasal rinse. You can buy them online, there are many different types, I think they are also available in pharmacies. The main thing is that the nasal rinse contains these two ingredients in a saline solution. So, number one, xylitol, is one of my favorite sugars. It is a sugar alcohol with a very low glycemic index. I usually add it to my only cup of coffee. I have a small cup a day. Xylitol tastes very similar to sugar but does not cause a spike in blood sugar levels, but it has other properties. It can reduce biofilm, which is why chewing gum with it is useful. After all, they reduce biofilm in the mouth, which prevents the formation of plaque, tartar, and the like. But xylitol also inhibits the growth of fungus. So, xylitol is a very good ingredient for nasal irrigation, and the second ingredient, grapefruit seed extract, is a very powerful antifungal and antibacterial agent. It is equal in effectiveness to 30 antibiotics.  and 18 fungicide And its side effects are somewhat less This is sarcasm I don't think they even exist The combination of these two components in a nasal wash is an excellent remedy if you have a chronic sinus infection mucus or nasal congestion all year round So baby shampoo was carried out the following is what was done 1% baby shampoo was added to a saline solution, that is, you need to add a small drop to salt water This can also be added to a nasal wash, this can also prevent the formation of biofilms In general, there are different options You can simply buy an empty container for rinsing the nose, take a saline solution and add a drop of baby shampoo to it If you want and start rinsing your sinuses I just wanted to tell you about an effective remedy for sinus problems Thanks for watching If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos