I want to talk about a very interesting condition, burning mouth syndrome. Not much is known about it. It's very subjective. A person has this sensation, but there's not much objective data. There's no analysis that would show that this problem exists. It's very difficult to diagnose. It's an idiopathic condition, meaning the cause is unknown. And when I see something whose cause we don't know, I have a desire to research it and find out a little about it. There are some hints, but a possible cause for this condition, but if there's a subclinical deficiency of some nutrient, it's very difficult to diagnose. But here's what's known: a significant portion of people have burning mouth syndrome. This woman is postmenopausal. What's unique about postmenopause is low estrogen levels and very low progesterone levels. These two factors are present. We know that women are at risk for vitamin B12 deficiency. It's also known that with B12 deficiency, there's a burning tongue, and in postmenopause, there's a risk of B6 deficiency. I found a study that there's a link between vitamin B6 deficiency and burning mouth syndrome. I'll leave it at that.  link below everything I have studied indicates that most often with burning mouth syndrome, the following deficiencies are detected: B12 deficiency, folate deficiency, B6 deficiency, and by the way, B6 is also necessary to increase progesterone levels. So if you have very little progesterone and you use up all the B6, you may develop a B6 deficiency. It has also been established that zinc deficiency can also be associated with this condition, and what is interesting here is that during menopause, the adrenal glands take over some of the functions of the ovaries, so usually more cortisol is produced, and high cortisol levels definitely create a zinc deficiency. In addition, another risk factor for burning mouth syndrome is diabetes, and with diabetes, due to all this glucose in the blood, zinc deficiency can easily occur. And the last thing that is associated with this is low estrogen, which we see in postmenopause, another factor can be revealed: high homocysteine ​​levels, and it can be reduced by taking certain B vitamins such as B12, B6, and even taking the trace element zinc. So, if you have burning mouth syndrome, it is best to take B12 and folic acid.  B6, zinc, and of course, do everything you can to strengthen the adrenal glands and solve blood sugar problems. If you are new to the channel, below is a link to a course that explains in detail the necessary nutrition plan. I invite you to my healthy ketogenic course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.