You know, I think people understand that they need to exercise more, it can protect them from health problems, but we will go much further and discuss how important exercise is for our health. And for this, we will consider what happens if you don’t exercise. Inactivity is also called sedentary syndrome or sitting on the couch. I want to analyze the topic of physical activity from the point of view of movement, how much movement is present in a person’s life or absent, and how this is related to health and disease. I found an interesting study that said that inactivity is the main cause of more than 35 chronic diseases, in particular, the loss of muscle mass with age. This is, of course, metabolic syndrome, including increased blood sugar, cholesterol, and hypertension, and of course, obesity, which is obvious, but also insulin resistance, diabetes, fatty liver, cancer. Exercise greatly strengthens the immune system, reduces the risk of upper respiratory tract infection, heart disease, arrhythmia, and coronary artery dysfunction. And also stroke, dementia, affective disorders. And also bone diseases such as osteoporosis. Which increases the risk of fractures, arthritis, and problems with immunodeficiency.  also digestive disorders and even reptilian dysfunction I think that after watching this video when you again think about postponing training, this video will motivate you to get up and start moving start training Let's get started how training affects mitochondria they enhance mitochondrial biogenesis What is it This is when more mitochondria are formed larger mitochondria are formed mitochondria become more efficient stronger You may know that mitochondria are necessary for energy production In addition, mitochondria are directly related to many diseases including even Cancer and training increases the flow of oxygen through the mitochondria increases energy production and reduces oxidative stress Yes, training creates oxidative stress free radicals and all that, but at the same time, the strength of the mitochondria increases and mitochondria begin to produce more antioxidants they are called endogenous That is, when we train, the body begins to give up an army of antioxidants to cope with higher levels of oxidative stress and stress in general, yes, training is stress, but an increase in strength due to a greater number  mitochondria to withstand increasing stress, including other types of stress besides oxidative stress. This includes stress from pollution, nervous stress, and physical stress. The fact that the number and strength of mitochondria increases significantly just through exercise is one of the main reasons to exercise. Exercise directly strengthens innate and acquired immunity, increases the number of antibodies and the strength of white blood cells, allowing you to overcome immune problems, and if an infection occurs, you will have much more strength to cope with it. This includes the strength of the immune system in the fight against cancer and the prevention of cancer. I just briefly reviewed the work on this topic and counted at least 13 main types of cancer, the risk of which can be reduced simply through exercise. Even chemotherapy goes much better in people who exercise regularly. Now let's discuss neurodynesis, what it is, the formation of new neurons in the brain and in other parts of the nervous system due to increased blood flow due to epigenetics when the body is exposed to stress so that it adapts. Specifically, you can start the process of forming new nerves in the hippocampus. This directly improves memory and reduces the symptoms of dementia, and indirectly can improve mood.  By relieving a person of depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress syndrome, how much and how fast you move is directly related to your mood. Look at people with depression. Do they move a lot? No, they are sedentary. Being very high on the mood scale, people move constantly and move quickly. There is also a factor influencing the oxygen level in all organs of the body. There is a huge problem with oxygen deficiency, this is called hypoxia or ischemia. And when more oxygen and more blood enter the organs, you begin to communicate better with your body, and this can undoubtedly reduce the risk of all types of chronic diseases. After all, when we exercise, we train not only muscles but also organs and the lymphatic system. Exercise also helps normalize blood sugar levels. They have a powerful effect on insulin, increasing sensitivity to it. They reduce insulin resistance, which also creates many problems. Exercise also increases elasticity, which later makes us look younger. The elasticity of the inner surface of blood vessels allows the vessels to expand and adapt to pressure, which helps delay the compaction of blood vessels, and of course, the elasticity of joints, tendons, ligaments, and the muscles themselves increases. Let's take atrophy, for example, the loss of muscle mass. In fact, there is only one factor that stimulates muscle growth. Just one: training, physical activity. All other factors, such as nutrition, amino acids are also needed as a basis, but by themselves, they do not trigger muscle growth. Training is muscle tension. The only factor that helps build muscle. Now let's look directly into the cells of our body. We have DNA. How does training affect DNA? Well, during evolution, our bodies had a lot of movement and physical activity. Our ancestors ran away from animals, chased animals to catch them. When we train, we survive better. Repair of our DNA begins. They begin to turn on survival mechanisms and turn off mechanisms that hinder survival. Those who train and get in good shape have a much higher ability to repair at the DNA and cellular level. Training is physical stress, which indirectly reduces nervous stress to a huge extent. Of course, most people train to lose weight. The contribution of training is weight loss. 15 percent is certainly better than nothing. 15 percent is not bad. It helps to lose weight, but diet is, of course, much more important. But if you train to lose weight, excellent training really helps to work out the muscles to improve their tone and helps. They also help remove a lot of fat from the liver and reduce fatty liver. Exercise helps reduce the damage to health from some bad habits. Let's take a smoker for example, or someone who eats fast food, or takes a lot of drugs, or eats a lot of sugar. If he exercises or does a lot of physical work, what is sometimes even better than exercise. Thus, it strengthens its mitochondria. And when mitochondria are larger, when they are larger and stronger, they metabolize excess sugar and cope with excess stress, since the antioxidant network becomes larger, it reduces the damage from some bad habits. I hope now you see that exercise is not some trifle, it is a necessity. And how does exercise affect the endocrine system? For example, on the pituitary gland, they increase the production of growth hormone. This is an anti-aging hormone, this is the main fat-burning hormone, it is produced mainly at night, and intense exercise is probably the most powerful stimulator of the hormone. Exercise increases testosterone levels and lowers insulin levels. So, exercise is very, very important for the endocrine system. Exercise can also reduce cortisol levels.  Aerobic exercise such as hiking, walking, and so on. Intense exercise stimulates the production of cortisol. Especially if they are long-term, but then its level decreases during recovery, and this is the main point. You must definitely recover during training to get all this benefit, otherwise you will be overtrained and you will not get all this benefit. Perhaps I have already talked about this, but training in general increases the ability to cope with stress in life, and this alone is probably its most important benefit, given the harm of stress and its connection with chronic diseases. So, I want you to write in the comments about how much you are now. Do n't be afraid. How much you move, say, on a scale from 0 to 10, where 10 is regular systematic training, and 0 is a completely sedentary lifestyle. Indicate in the comments the number that reflects how much movement is in your life. Perhaps this will motivate you to introduce this new element of epigenetics into your life, which can greatly increase its duration and improve its quality. I invite you to my anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight.  In this course, I'll show you how to remove stress from your body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely linked to immunity. Therefore, in the package, you'll find a unique course on how to strengthen your immune system. I'll tell you how your immune system works and what weakens it. I'll also provide a list of the best STV products for strengthening it. I'm looking forward to seeing you at the course.