Let's talk about why it's beneficial to take a nap during the day. As we age, we lose the ability to sleep. An average elderly person sleeps two hours less than when they were young. It's incredible. Ideally, you need to sleep from seven and a half to eight hours. Can you compensate for this by taking a nap during the day? The answer is yes, you can. There are many factors that affect the quality of our sleep. Age is one of them, and the amount of stress on the legs is another. I want to talk about a rather interesting factor. Many people are exposed to it without even realizing it. We're talking about how many hours a person spends at the computer. The fact is that when a person sits at a computer, they are exposed to RMP electromagnetic fields. Now, I'm standing next to this smart board, and as you can see, there are magnetic fields. I think you can hear the device straining. So, when you are near a computer and other devices, for example, a UPS, a printer, and even the wires around all of this, there are both electric fields and electromagnetic fields. There is also Wi-Fi. There are wireless mice and wireless keyboards. Sometimes the computer is right under the table. I'll make a video demonstration just on this topic because I want to show how many M.P. is present near your computer, I mean that this energy affects your energy and can deprive you of strength, leading to severe fatigue, it can affect the electrical system of the heart, it can affect the brain, especially if you use a cell phone, holding it directly to your head, I will record a video specifically about this, I talked about this so that you are aware that one of the reasons for your fatigue can be sitting at the computer, for those who want to immediately get more information about this, I recommend this device, under the video I will give a link, it is very easy to use and you can easily find out what emits the most harmful energy and you can drink and put something to receive less electromagnetic fields while sitting at the computer, especially if you, like me, watch it for 14 hours a day, now about the benefits of a daytime nap, firstly, during the day you will have much more energy, you will be more attentive, focused and quick-witted, you will be less grumpy, your mood will be much better, you will also notice that anxiety has decreased, if you have anxiety, be sure to take one of the nutritional yeast, it is an excellent thing, it will very quickly reduce anxiety levels  Your memory will improve, your creativity will increase, your appetite will decrease because lack of sleep affects blood sugar levels, your endurance will increase, and your results will improve if you sleep enough or take a couple of naps during the day. One study even showed that there will be fewer accidents, that people become more productive and get more done. Finally, I have a question for you. Please write in the comments how many hours on average you sleep at night. Some of you like it when I do it this way, because apparently it calms some people down especially for them. I do it for about half an hour so they can take a nap. Tell me when to stop.