Today we'll talk about three strange symptoms of fatty liver. First, I'll tell you what exactly the liver does. It has many functions. Here are the main ones: it produces bile, what is bile? It's like a detergent that breaks down fats to a state in which the necessary fat-soluble vitamins and essential omega-3 fatty acids can be extracted from them. Bile breaks down fats not completely, only to a certain extent, and then the pancreas releases lipase, an enzyme that helps break down fats. Even more, what remains from food, as a result, the body can use this form more easily. Therefore, if the liver is sick and does not produce enough bile, not only is it not digested, but fat-soluble vitamins will no longer be available, which leads to a whole series of problems. Second, the liver helps create many different types of proteins, lipoproteins, which carry HDL and LDL cholesterol, and also proteins in the blood. The liver also produces quite a lot of cholesterol, 1000 milligrams every day. The liver can also produce glucose, a process called glucagon, one for the production of new glucose, and the liver uses fats and proteins for this. It produces glycogen and helps store it. What is glycogen? This is a form of glucose storage. The liver converts ammonia into urea, a less toxic substance. Ammonia is a byproduct of protein metabolism. The liver reduces the toxicity of chemicals, poisons, and drugs. Enzymes in the liver perform phase I and II detoxification. As a result, toxic and fat-soluble substances are converted into safe, water-soluble particles so that the body can get rid of them. The liver also takes damage from excess hormones. If estrogen levels are too high, it will regulate it. There is too much cortisol. The liver will help lower its levels to cope with excess. The liver does many things. It is a very important organ. So what are the three strange symptoms of fatty liver? If the liver becomes fatty, it becomes harder to work. One of the strange symptoms is heart pain. Unexpectedly, heart pain is associated with the liver. But with cirrhosis and when the liver is filled with fat, it enlarges to some extent. There is not enough space and it begins to press on the heart. Especially if a person lies on the left side because the liver is on the right and the heart on the left. So when we lie like this, the liver presses on the heart. In general,  If your heart hurts, it's better to sleep on your right side. If your heart hurts but your liver is fine, check your liver. 2nd symptom: gynecomastia. A woman has breasts like these in men. Why does this happen? Because the liver can't get rid of excess estrogen. As a result, a man has too much estrogen. Another symptom of excess estrogen is spider veins. 3rd symptom: starting with lepota, this indicates a vitamin A deficiency, but where does it come from? Insufficient bile production leads to it. The liver produces bile in the gallbladder, it is stored. If there is little bile, the body does not absorb the vitamin, and its deficiency leads not only to night blindness. Vitamin A is important for vision in general. If your vision is deteriorating, this is due to the fact that the liver is not doing well. Here are other symptoms of fatty liver: high cholesterol, decreased bile production. By the way, with a lack of bile, the body does not break down cholesterol, namely, a sufficient amount of bile is needed to regulate cholesterol levels. Fat on the stomach. By the way, I sent five such patients for an ultrasound. Five out of five had fatty liver. So, if you have a stomach, you should check your liver. I recommend a test called fibroscopy. With fibroscope, the doctor will check not only for fatty liver but also for scar tissue or fibrosis. This is an ultrasound examination, there are several levels of scanning, an excellent examination, and ultrasound is not radiation, so it is safe. Let's move on. Diabetes. If the liver can no longer cope with blood sugar levels, one of the consequences can be diabetes. Fatigue. A common symptom of fatty liver is pain in the right shoulder and not only in the shoulder itself, but also in the right side of the neck, jaw, in the right trapezius muscle, in the right rhomboid muscle, this is near the shoulder blade and near the spine. Itching. I mean itching on the soles of the feet and on the palms. There may also be redness on the palms. Confusion. Irritability. Why is it due to blood sugar problems? Bad breath is another symptom. I will say a few more words about fatty liver. Firstly, gastric bypass increases the risk of fatty liver, especially if there is not enough bile. I think this is the reason. The operation somehow changes the digestive system. A very low protein diet can also be a cause. It would seem that it should be the opposite, but if there is too little protein, the body stores  Fatty liver: Interestingly, some medications, steroids, tamoxifen, there are a bunch of drugs that can cause fatty liver. It could also be caused by viruses, but the most common cause of fatty liver is high insulin levels due to too many carbohydrates in the diet. For those new to the channel, there's a link below where I talk about what you need to eat to reduce carbohydrates in your diet and eliminate fat from your liver. There's a vitamin that's very, very important for fatty liver: choline. Choline can help rid the liver of cancer. Below is a link to a video in which I talk about challah. Thanks for watching.