I decided to record a relatively short video about how you can help in case of inflammation in the intestines if a person has irritable bowel syndrome, diverticulitis, Crohn's disease and facial or from e here is the most important thing to do first, obviously, exclude gluten and generally all grains because this protein gluten can seriously damage the inner lining of the intestines and I would also avoid dairy because probably if there is inflammation in the intestines there is also some kind of allergy to goat milk allergies are very common so dairy products can cause inflammation you need to exclude everything to which you are allergic thirdly limit the amount of greens with inflammation in the intestines the composition of the microflora changes there will be no balance of beneficial intestinal bacteria which means if you eat greens and get fiber these bacteria will not be able to cope with it which will lead to severe bloating so you need to reduce the amount of vegetables consumed until the irritation in the intestines stops usually with a healthy intestine you can eat a lot of vegetables in many cases I even recommend switching to a meat diet if you can digest protein otherwise to break down protein you need  Increased stomach acidity in many people, especially with autoimmune diseases, is caused by the intestines. It makes sense to stay on a meat diet for at least a couple of months so that the body can heal, and then gradually add vegetables to the diet. It is very, very important to stay away from vegetable oils. In fact, they are not even vegetable oils. They are obtained from grains or seeds. Avoid them like the plague because they contain a lot of honey. 6. Inflammatory oils include soybean oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, canola oil, safflower oil, and low-quality olive oil. All of these can cause problems and are very harmful to inflamed intestines. And it goes without saying, do not drink alcohol or smoke. You see, smoking deprives the body of some nutrients, especially vitamin C. If there are no antioxidants in the body, inflammation increases. 5. Chlorophyll is the blood of plants. If you do not get chlorophyll from greens, then you need to get it in the form of a concentrate in wheatgrass powder. Wheatgrass contains chlorophyll, but it also contains fiber, which can irritate the intestines. However, if you take a juice concentrate, a type of grass powder, there is fiber in it.  Chlorophyll and light grass but without fiber is a good option. Chlorophyll is able to heal the inner lining of the colon. Dilute this powder in water and drink on an empty stomach two or three times during the day. The grass juice I prefer is in powder form. This is one of the best remedies for healing the inner skin of many organs. 6. A very interesting product. The brand is worth looking for yourself. This drug contains extracts of grass and the stomachs of grass-fed cows. If you have an inflamed intestine, it is likely that you have a problem with antibodies. Your antibodies are affecting your own tissues, and this product can help you a lot. You swallow a capsule, and when it gets into the stomach, the antibodies will be distracted by the drug as if by bait and will leave your intestines alone. You will feel much better. I would advise starting with one capsule before bed. Seventh, purified bile salts are very important. The liver produces primary bile salts, and secondary bile salts are produced by bacteria in the intestines. So, if there is inflammation in the intestines, it will be more difficult for the body to reuse bile salts, which will result in their Bile salts are necessary for thickening and strengthening the intestinal wall and preventing leaky gut syndrome. Bile salts can help regulate the balance of bacteria in the intestines. These salts are very helpful for people with intestinal inflammation, as well as for those who suffer from constipation. They support the flow of fluid through the liver, gallbladder, and intestines. 8. Fasting is simply vital for low weight and with intestinal inflammation. I understand that you don't want to lose weight and fasting is a problem. In this case, you should take tapes orally during fasting and fast periodically, but at least intermittent fasting. For example, two meals a day is ideal. One meal a day and periodic long fasting. Fasting is one of the best ways to force stem cells in the colon to heal the inner lining of the intestine. Fasting will help a lot with this. What is very harmful for an inflamed intestine is frequent meals and snacks throughout the day. Lastly, good probiotics that are not afraid of gastric juice when they enter the body will restore the bacterial population in the intestines. That's all. If you haven't seen my videos about digestion, here they are. Watch them.