Today we will talk about the product that will best help with chronic sinusitis. What could be worse than having a stuffy nose all year round and it has nothing to do with allergies? Your nose is stuffy all winter and you can't breathe. This has a bad effect on your sleep. Doctors prescribe one medication, 5-10, maybe steroids, or even try to physically force you into sinuses, which is actually not a harmless procedure. Understand that the sinuses are lined with a very delicate mucous membrane. It is home to a lot of friendly bacteria that protect against uninvited guests, but when this delicate balance is disturbed, active fungal growth can begin. So this method will be especially effective for fungal infections of the sinuses. In 2012, a study was conducted (the link will be below). 20 patients participated in it and scientists discovered a change in microflora, especially in relation to a bacterium called lactobacillus asoca. Surprisingly, this beneficial bacterium can also be found in kimchi, a Korean dish made from pickled vegetables. Usually, these are pickled vegetables.  Cabbage, radish, onion, garlic, ground chili and ginger. There are many variations and recipes for kimchi. However, the combination of cabbage, radish, onion, garlic, ground chili and ginger in pickled form contains phytonutrients that are great at fighting pathogens. They fight microbes and viruses, fungi, and candidiasis. You can just start eating kimchi. Here is a short list of dietary supplements that contain this friendly bacterium, or you can take this bacterium separately as a supplement. Here is a good brand. Rubbish to say, "Nose" is a probiotic powder, and by the way, this is not an advertisement. I am not being paid for this, but I have had patients who were helped by this drug. If you decide to try kimchi, I highly recommend it. Here is another tip: take some of the liquid from the kimchi marinade, pour it into a bowl, and dilute it with water one to one. Take a cotton swab, soak it in the resulting solution, and thoroughly lubricate the inside of your nostrils. This will help deliver the bacterium directly to the nasopharyngeal mucosa. Some people tolerate this procedure calmly, even despite the pepper.  Chili causes a strong warming sensation for some people, but if you decide to try it, dilute it and then see how it feels. Repeat several times a day for a couple of weeks and also eat kimchi yourself. It will help restore intestinal microflora so that it can fight the fungus. The fact is that the fungus in the nose is just the tip of the iceberg. The root of the problem is in the intestines and that is what needs to be addressed, so try it and write comments. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.