Hi all.  Let's start with the quiz question.   The floor is yours, dog.  So why shouldn't you take high doses of zinc for long periods of time? We are waiting for your answers, friends.  And now questions from social networks.  Yes, without Facebook. Is there a way to cure Saburia? Seborrhea?  Seboria.  Thank you, dog.  Is this dermatitis?  Yes, vitamin D helps with that, but you really need to remove the oils from the seeds. Omega-6 fats.  And they are found in many products: in privets, in fried foods.  And you need to get more omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil.  And in combination with vitamin D it will help. But usually this problem is caused by a deficiency of omega-3 fats because you eat too many omega-6 fats. Great.  Linda Strumble asks, what works best for chronic hives? Again, the cause may be allergies.  And, as I already said, you need to strengthen your immune system with zinc.  vitamin D, colostrum, propolis. All of them regulate immunity and also need to be increased.   Well , that's for one of the future quiz questions.   I don’t know how this happens, it’s probably a coincidence, but I always get asked a question on the topic of my own question, so I’ll keep quiet for now.  What do they allow themselves to do?  I swear to God , I'm kidding.  Asks Chanel Forlin Tremblay.  My ketones are off the charts after 4 years of healthy ketones.  Congratulations.  Could their level also be too low?   I also smell like ammonia after I eat fruit.  Is there a connection here? Can she eat fruit?  Apparently you shouldn't eat fruit.  At some point, insulin resistance goes away.  Does this mean I can eat carbohydrates again? Some people eat more fruits and stuff, but they exercise a lot. They somehow increased metabolic flexibility and burned all those calories.  Well, that's great.  The child's body is not spoiled by junk food.  He has a super fast metabolism, he's very active, and carbohydrates don't harm him, but they do harm most people.  But if there is an ammonia smell after eating fruit, ammonia is a byproduct of Candida or yeast. Maybe that's the issue, I don't know for sure, but one of the ways Candida survives is by releasing ammonia.  to increase the pH, make the environment more alkaline, because ammonia is a strong alkali. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. If someone has an overgrowth of yeast, candida, they will smell like something out of nowhere .  Helicobacter pylori, which lives in the stomach, also produces ammonia to survive.  After all, it doesn’t survive well in an acidic stomach.  And in order to survive, it releases ammonia, thereby raising the pH, making it more alkaline. Ammonia can also be formed during the process of protein digestion. But again, this is all just speculation.  I would have to spend an hour studying the medical history to find the cause.  Okay, good luck with that - asks Sheren from Facebook.  What causes restless legs syndrome at night?  It is usually caused by a B1 deficiency due to excess carbohydrates in the diet. Because of this, an excess of lactate, lactic acid, is formed.  As a result, the oxygen level decreases, which causes dry feet.  It happened to me like that .  I ate half a kilo of ice cream at night and developed restless legs syndrome.  But for B1 to work, it needs a cofactor, a helper, and that is magnesium. Take B1 magnesium for restless legs syndrome and do not eat carbohydrates or sugar. Fine.  A friend from YouTube asks.   Is it possible to lose weight and build muscle at the same time ?  After all, weight is not just fat.   Right ?  Can.  Can.  A low-carb diet and heavy weight training are required.  And at the same time, you need to recover. I think this is what's interesting. I think everything we do to improve our health should be done in intervals. After all, if you train with heavy weights too often, your muscles are destroyed by stress and do not recover. The secret is recovery. Recover and repeat the workout, and your muscles will grow.  And strength training is the most powerful stimulus for their growth, much more powerful than protein consumption. Next, let's take fasting.  You, Steve, are fasting, and you do it regularly. If you fast for too long, you can die, because you still need to eat. If you harden yourself for too long, you can freeze to death.  The same with the sauna.  That is, the main thing is to do all this in intervals.  Short load, then recovery.  In fact, all of these therapies, even training, increase tolerance to a particular stress load, resilience, the ability to adapt in order to become stronger and cope with it regularly. Even the phytonutrients we eat are essentially insecticides.  They create a hermetic effect, that is, adaptation. The body becomes stronger and tolerates them better.  After all, mild stress is repeated, the body reacts and adapts.  And I'll make a video about hypoxic training. The mask reduces oxygen flow, simulating mountain training.  It would seem that this is very harmful, wouldn't it? But at the same time, survival genes receive signals that more blood cells, larger ones, more capillaries are needed to receive more oxygen and cope with it better. So it's really great to understand that.  After all, how can you improve your health?  To do this you need to create stress.  Without recovery from all this, stress will cause more damage and inflammation. Okay, I'll finish here, otherwise I got distracted. It was interesting to learn about the importance of restoration.  Let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  And it sounded like this: Why shouldn’t you take high doses of zinc over a long period of time?  68% said, "It will deprive us of copper," 22% said, "You can get poisoned." And 10% said, "There will be nausea, cramps, or vomiting." What do you think, doc? So, the recommended daily intake of zinc is, I think, from 8 to 11 mg. But the trouble is, this is for healthy people, just to avoid deficiency. There are so many factors: stress, inflammation, insulin resistance, sugar, which increase the need for zinc. And zinc is needed for the functioning of at least two hundred genes. It is extremely important. So, people take more of it, 150-200 mg, and they assure that it rids them of viral infections and inflammation. But the interesting thing is that if you take large doses of zinc for a long time, for months, not only will copper deficiency occur if you do not take copper, but also certain parts of the immune system will be suppressed. That's what's interesting about zinc. Zinc works great for acute inflammation due to viral infections.  It's good for infections, but it can suppress other parts of the immune system if taken long-term. I recommend taking a regular preventative dose of zinc, 30 to 40 mg, maybe a little more, per day. This won't cause toxicity or suppress the immune system at all. But if you need to take zinc, say, because of a chronic viral infection, take a high dose of 150-200 mg for 3 days or a little longer, along with copper and other trace minerals, and you'll be fine. This is just a simple way to prevent problems, so to speak. Use it when needed.