I will answer the question of what will happen in the body If you give up sugars completely for two weeks. Let's see, first, you will lose your appetite for sugar. Why? Because every time you eat sugar, a hormone is produced that lowers blood sugar levels. Which leads to low blood sugar, a kind of hypoglycemia, and this in turn will cause you to crave sugar. That is, by stopping eating sugar, you get rid of the craving for sugar. Second, your hunger will decrease until you give up sugars. You won't know, but believe me, it is because of them that you constantly experience hunger. By giving up sugars, you stop experiencing such hunger. Why? Because blood sugar levels are normalized and now the cells can receive real nutrition. Because when you live off sugars, and since they are toxic to the body, the body begins to deepen, this is insulin resistance. That is, the body blocks insulin, because it controls sugar levels, and the body tries to limit the sugar level inside the cells. The body does not consider sugar useful, rather the opposite. When you give up sugars, the body begins to return to normal and, together with the necessary  The volume of fuel can receive much more nutrients because insulin resistance also prevents the body from receiving nutrition, micro and macroelements, vitamins. And this is one of the functions of insulin. Third, less fatigue, especially after eating. If you regularly consume sugar, you will usually be tired after eating, and this is due to your blood sugar level. You will find that fatigue after eating has decreased. This means that now your blood sugar level is not so high, and sugar causes brain fatigue, but now sugar is normal and the brain is able to stay awake. 4. You will lose excess fat. In the first week, you will lose a lot of water and a little fat, and then it will mainly be fat. You will be surprised. How much fluid you retain. Some people lose about 6 kilograms in the form of liquid per week. You carry this water in yourself. And this cannot be good for the heart. Of course, you will find that your clothes have become large, especially in the waist. The size of the belly in Italy is the best indication that you are consuming too much sugar. The poverty of consuming sugar and your belly will decrease. Eat sugar and your belly will grow. Further, 5. Improvement in mood if you were grumpy and  You will become much calmer and it will be pleasant to be around you. This will greatly improve mental abilities, concentration will improve, you will be more attentive, you will have less attention deficit and more focus on your affairs. 6, the skin will look much better, rashes will decrease, the skin will glow, this is very indicative. After all, when you consume sugar, insulin increases and after it, androgens increase, and I'm talking about the female body, androgens increase. What leads to rashes in the male body? Increased insulin will lower testosterone and other problems associated with low testosterone will arise. 7, rigidity will decrease, inflammation will decrease, there will be less pain. That is, all we do is switch sugars to fat as fuel, this takes three days, you reduce the carbohydrates contained in sugars. An exacerbation of symptoms may occur for three days, but anyone can endure three days, and if you take vitamins of the group in nutritional yeast and potassium, it is quite possible there will be no symptoms and everything will go easily, you build new enzymes on the cellular  level so that your body can run on fat as fuel. There are real machines in the body that literally switch to a new type of fuel. This is what will happen during these two weeks. You will have decreased inflammation inside the arteries. This is what happens when you give up sugars. A decrease in inflammation. This will help prevent the formation of blockages and plaques and will reduce the risk of stroke or heart attack. Brain cells will also begin to form. Why, in the absence of sugars, the body begins to run on a different fuel - ketones, and ketones help the formation of nerve cells. Then the liver. You will begin to remove the fat that has accumulated in the liver and you will be able to use it as fuel. Also, start the process of cleansing the liver so that it stops being fatty. By the way, if you have a big belly, there is a chance that you have a fatty liver. Therefore, by doing all this, you will reduce the amount of fat in the liver and finally, the kidneys will work better. If you look at diabetics, it is the kidneys that are under attack. If you reduce the consumption of sugars and carbohydrates, kidney function will generally improve significantly. Well, that's all. As they say, to appreciate the pudding, you have to eat it, but let's not talk about the pudding, let's say this: it's Cherry.  on the cake Although it's not worth talking about that either Thanks for watching