Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll discuss how much fat you need to eat on the Ketogenic Diet at a time. There are many theories on this topic, but I have an advantage because I have a lot of patients in my clinic on whom I can test what works and what doesn't. I'll show you what works. First, I'll answer two specific questions. The first is it true that the Ketogenic Diet, that is, the predominance of fats in the diet, is dangerous for the heart. The answer is no, it's not true. In fact, it's not fat but sugar that clogs arteries. The ketogenic diet is not dangerous if you do everything correctly. The second question is, is it true that the more fat a person eats, the more fat will be burned? No, this is a myth. It may turn out that it's the fat they eat that will be burned. The whole point of some useful diets is to eat very few carbohydrates, moderate protein, and more fat. Sugar should be excluded completely. Vegetables should be eaten without restrictions. We need more vegetables and greens. The fact is that ketones have an acidic environment, which can change the pH value, and this can lead to gout, a type of arthritis, or kidney stones. To prevent this, you need to eat  lots of greens and also lemons lemon and prevent kidney stones another important point is not to eat sugar with fats because from this insulin will jump even more sugar in this diet is not needed at all in addition everything should be done gradually if too quickly increase the proportion of fats it will overload the gallbladder pain in the right shoulder will begin you will start to bloat and everything like that therefore I recommend switching to this diet taking a formula for the gallbladder it will give enzymes and bile to cope with fats when switching further you need to take into account that it takes time for the body to adapt to burning fat all cells must change the structure of their enzymes their mechanisms to switch to new fuel because glucose is now low and fat and we increase and it is necessary 2 3 4 5 sometimes six weeks to complete the transition you need to do everything calmly and slowly so that the body gets used to it and you feel good let's now see how much fat is needed here is a list of suitable foods that contain fat and yes by the way under the video there is a link and you can download this table now I will show you what it looks like here is such a table here I have a shortened version of fatty Cream tablespoon 5 grams of fat if very generally, then the average person needs to eat from 20 to 40 grams of fat per meal on the titogenic diet 40 for fairly large people and those who have been on this diet for a long time 20 if you are small in build and you are just starting out, let's take the average values ​​30 grams we will proceed from the average values heavy cream can be made whipped I have a video about this you can make a lot of things from it 5 grams 6 tablespoons per meal you can eat them right after a meal to get fat and fat will allow you not to feel hungry longer and insulin from them does not jump just what you need and it is probably worth eating twice a day if you are concerned about calories I by the way added them to this table eat twice a day especially if you do not exercise when you adapt the body will begin to use stored fat as fuel and you will be able to do without food longer without worrying about this egg 5 grams of fat keep in mind that the egg  It may weigh more than five grams, but we are talking about the fat in one egg. 5 grams of fat at a time, you need 3-4 eggs. I eat 4 eggs in the morning, some eat 23. This is not scary because these products can be combined. Next, we have beef, 85 grams, 16 grams of fat, we need 85. 170 grams of beef. Now I'll show you an example. I have a piece of frozen ground beef here, 15 percent fat. I don't take ten percent beef. I like 20 percent, but it's hard to find. I prefer more fat, but what I have in my hands is organic grass-fed beef. By the way, I also eat pastured organic eggs. These are the eggs you need to eat. Next, coconut oil. One tablespoon contains 14 grams of fat, which is half the recommended amount, so we take two tablespoons of oil. You can season it with greens to make little treats. There are a lot of recipes, but that's how much fat you need to consume in one meal. Brie cheese, 85 grams.  28 grams of fat, that's how much you eat now, I'll show you, there's a lot of fat in silver, I drew lines right on this bush to show what 85 grams of cheese looks like, here's a small slice, four pieces of 85 grams each, here in 340 grams of cheese from one piece you'll get enough fat, but there's also protein, so you'll kill two birds with one stone, I eat a lot of cheese, another option, here's this cheese, this German cheese, a little less than half of this 85 grams, this is for clarity, it's a little more, no, it's not like a deck of cards, but a little more than a palm, in general, there will be 85 grams in half a piece, almond paste in a tablespoon is 10 grams, that is, you can eat three tablespoons of almond paste, you can eat them right after a meal, this will be the fat, olive oil in one tablespoon is 14 grams, so you need 2, it's easy to dress a salad with it, once and it's ready, of course, some will remain at the bottom, so you may have to add another spoon, but that's about it  30 grams of fat in 10 pecans 20 grams of fat if you eat 15 pecans or macadamia nuts after a meal you will get enough fat ice cream yes you thought wait a minute I can eat ice cream some types of ice cream do not have sugar now I will show you the ice cream that I have I put chocolate brownie in it this recipe is discussed in some videos about ice cream you can make this ice cream yourself or buy it in the store it does not have sugar in one glass 20 grams of fat and by the way I am currently developing this ice cream myself I will have my own line of ice cream I am currently experimenting I am not finished yet I am currently in the research phase a couple of days ago I asked all my employees to eat this much ice cream I gave him a container I just wanted to know what would happen half of the group got bloating this is temporary but the product is not yet perfect we will improve it I will return to the research to understand how to remove this effect the least I need is for you to eat it wasp taught and you call me and ask me to get rid of gases I do n’t want this ice cream at all  It's made from high-quality fats and sugar-free, but we need to figure out the fiber. We're working on it. We'll figure it out later. Some people are asking when. I do n't know yet. I'll launch the line when everything is perfect. This table gives a general idea. Download it from the link. It will help you understand how much fat you actually need to apply. Please share your findings in the comments. I hope this helps you. See you next time.