There is one hidden cause of heart attacks that few people know about. It is described in the book by Dr. Thomas Levy. The link to it will be below. It is an amazing book. And I have personal experience of what I will tell you about. Let's move straight to the irrefutable evidence. I will read you something from this book. 78% of 10 patients with myocardial infarction have a heart attack, as well as blockage of the coronary arteries. DNA of pathogens typical for infections that are treated in the root canals of teeth was found. It is very unusual. I briefly talked about this in one of my videos, but the main question is that these pathogenic biofilms of microorganisms have forgotten in the heart. How do they get there and how is this related to teeth? These microbes were also found in the blood clots of some people who died from a stroke. A short story. One day I went to the dentist. It was a long time ago. He was conducting a routine examination, but they also did a very visual cone beam computed tomography (3D) scan. It allows you to scan the roots of the teeth and look deep inside to detect caries and Inflammation under the teeth. I once worked as an X-ray operator and I was interested in looking at the image. While examining it, I noticed a distinct small dark circle around the root of one of the teeth. The doctor also saw it and said that I had an infection in this tooth, but I had no symptoms. In fact, this infection, in other words, a tooth abscess, devoured my bone tissue. According to the book, this is a long-term chronic infection that can cause not only heart problems but also arthritis and other troubles, and this is a common occurrence. The medical term for this is chronic apical periodontitis. It often has no symptoms. When you chew these bacteria deeper into the lymphatic system and further into the body, Dr. Levy gives very interesting data. Somewhere around 15-25 million people a year undergo root canal treatment. According to his theory, these canals are the source of the problems. Because when such a canal is treated, part of the pulp is removed from it, they try to sterilize and seal it. The problem is that they remove a lot of dentinal tubules. You have them somewhere.  2-3 km of these small tubes and when they are scraped, it becomes easier for pathogens to create problems because during this procedure it is almost impossible to remove all pathogens as a result, people often develop dental abscesses, chronic inflammation of the roots of the teeth and Di Osin, and also heart attacks. This is very interesting. Often these things are not noticed on regular x-rays. Sometimes the problem can be seen in a blood test. POC reactive protein is a biomarker of inflammation. Such an infection can be in a tooth, in the gums, somewhere deeper in the jaw, and even in the tonsils. It is the chronic action of these pathogens that creates problems, especially if you do not have a strong enough immune system. Because these pathogens create a lot of so-called oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is a situation where free radicals cause a lot of harm, but we do not have enough antioxidants in reserve to resist this. If you think about it, the mouth is a very dirty place. More than 500 different strains of bacteria, viruses, and fungi live and multiply there, plus there are also waste products of these microbes. And these are toxins that can  cause immune reactions and inflammation in different parts of the body. Apparently, one of the body's reactions to this situation is the formation of blood clots. Over time, all this becomes chronic and fatigue appears. Chronic inflammation, jaw problems and tooth sensitivity. In my case, I immediately noticed that after the removal of this tooth, my inflammation in the upper back and neck seemed to evaporate. It was wonderful. But if I had seen this dark area on an x-ray, I would never have known the reason. In fact, we have a leak of bacteria, of which there are too many, and this creates a kind of gap in the immune system. Let's say a person has such an infection. He feels a little tired but does not know. Where does all this come from? You feel that your immunity is not in order and suspect that you have severe oxidative stress. Here's what you can do in this case: take 1-2 grams of liposomal vitamin C. We use it as an antioxidant to reduce oxidative stress. The unique property of this type of vitamin C is its ability to penetrate into cells. I recommend drinking about 500 mg several times a day.  It's a water-soluble vitamin, so it will always be in the body. Another feature of this type of vitamin C is that taking large doses does not cause diarrhea, unlike other types. At a minimum, it will change the ratio of antioxidants to free radicals, and this can help you. If it helps, you will feel better and the symptoms will improve. Then you can figure out the cause of the problem. It could be a diet issue or lack of sleep. You could be overtraining, or it could be due to a dental infection. I only gave you a brief overview of this topic. I highly recommend reading this book. It has a ton of information. It's an amazing work. The link will be below. If you haven't watched my other video about atherosclerosis and the mechanism of biofilms, I recommend watching it here.