A lot of people have digestive problems and they change their diet, they do everything, they take dietary supplements, but it does n't always work. This is probably because something else is going on. What else I'll tell you about today is the hidden cause of digestive problems. And you need to know about it. When I name it, you'll see that it's logical. Perhaps you've already guessed that this is the cause. Stress. I'll tell you about specific types of stress that affect digestion the most, but the connection between digestive problems and stress is simply enormous. I'll tell you what exactly happens during stress. When you think about it, it will shock you. Let's look at how the autonomic nervous system is connected to two other systems, actually, to three. The sympathetic system. The Bailey-Bag mechanism. The sympathetic nervous system. It's also called the rest and digestion systems. Basically, digestion occurs in a parasympathetic mode at low stress levels, but there is another part of the autonomic nervous system. This system works automatically and is called the enteric nervous system. This is another system. It is directly integrated into the digestive system and is connected to the vagus nerve, which goes to the brain. That's why everything  What happens in the intestines affects the head, but the opposite is also true. Everything that happens in the head, for example, under stress, can affect the digestive system. That's what we're talking about today. And if we look at the digestive system, we'll see that it's based on cells. These cells form a separate layer in the small and large intestines and are called enterocytes. In the colon, these cells are usually called colonocytes. In fact, this is a small cell that absorbs minerals, trace elements, vitamins, amino acids, and long amino acids, called peptides, as well as lipids, that is, P12 fats, and even bile. That is, these cells constantly absorb these nutrients. They come from food when it is broken down by acid and enzymes in the stomach, as well as many enzymes in the small intestine and enzymes from the pancreas. Well, bile helps partially break down fat so that the enzymes break it down even more, and then these cells must absorb these internals. And that's what's interesting about these cells, or rather, the layer of these cells. The surface area of ​​this layer is enormous. Our body is very smart; it has increased the surface area of ​​this layer.  Due to the presence of such folds in it, if you stretch the spring, they will become much longer. The same is true of the intestines. There are villi in it, these are processes that stick out, increasing the surface area, and on each of these villi, for each of these pimples, there are these tiny cells. And on them there are hairs. This is something like a smaller version of the villi themselves, and these hairs stick out of these cells. If you stretch all this, you get a huge surface area through which nutrients are absorbed. In addition to these colonocytes or entrocytes, there are other cells. I don’t want to go into this, but there are cells that secrete mucus for the mucous layer. This is a protective layer between pathogens, microbes, and the intestinal surface. Now, let’s talk about the consequences of stress in the digestive tract. Number one, bacteria begin to form so-called bifilms. These are colonies of microbes that unite and begin to form mucus or even small protective structures made of calcium to hide from the immune system. Because many of them are pathogenic and create a lot of problems, so when  Stress increases, more biofilms are formed, this is the survival mechanism of microbes number two, erosion of the mucous layer occurs, if it continues to erode more and more, an ulcer eventually appears. Perhaps you know about the connection between Helicobacter pylori and ulcers. This is due to a microbial infection. Normally, Helicobacter pylori lives in the human stomach and does not create any problems, but when we expose it to stress, it comes out of hibernation and gives us heat, causing immune reactions and it is unknown why exactly the layer is destroyed, but it is destroyed and then an ulcer appears and it is treated with antibiotics, which creates a lot of other problems. I recommend a much safer remedy, sulforaphane. It is found in broccoli sprouts, cabbage, and radishes. Another remedy is zinc carnassine. Zinc carnassine helps restore the mucous layer in the stomach, upper intestine, and even in the colon. In addition, it has a powerful blocking effect on Helicobacter pylori and is an excellent anti-inflammatory agent. Apparently, stress blocks zinc in our body. Zinc carnassine is the best remedy for These microbes have a whole strategy for ulcers, gastritis, and erosion of the mucous membrane. They are very smart and insidious. Helicobacter pylori secretes an enzyme that increases urea levels, which then turns into ammonia. Ammonia has an extremely high pH, ​​which is a very alkaline environment. This is how this bacterium reduces stomach acidity to survive. If you understand this and maintain high stomach acidity, you can keep Helicobacter pylori in check. In an alkaline environment, it can cause a lot of harm. Just remember this. So, under stress, more biofilms are formed, the mucous layer erodes, and the time it takes for food to pass through the digestive tract increases. This is called constipation. Think about what you feel under stress. You feel like there is a knot in your stomach. You may feel nauseous because everything has stopped. You need to be very relaxed to digest food and for it to pass well through the intestines. During stress, bacteria begin to eat these enterocyte cells, they can destroy them to the point of leaky intestines. When holes appear in it, its permeability increases. This is bad.  Because now food particles, proteins, and so on, can pass through the intestinal walls without observing normal migration control. And this causes an immune reaction. Because now the body perceives even good substances as bad. The body can mistakenly decide that it is pathogenic and begin to produce antibodies to something good in its tissues. This is useful food, and an allergy to all this appears. So, allergies and autoimmune diseases actually arise from a leaky gut. The ratio of good and bad microbes changes. There are more bad pathogenic microbes than good ones, and their diversity decreases, and their total number decreases. So, the relationship between microbes changes when the environment subjects them to stress. Of course, this leads to inflammation. In general, all this can happen. I recently made a video about how stress leads to damage to the heart muscle. Because adrenaline causes hypoxia, that is, a lack of oxygen. And now we are talking about the direct impact of stress on the digestive system. Let's look at the types of stress that cause these problems. Probably the main ones are emotional stress. It can be caused by the loss of a loved one, loss of a job, loss of money, loss of anything, or constant emotional stress in which someone is stuck and cannot get out of it. The worst type.  stress can be related to the environment, the world, relationships. With anything, it has a profound effect on digestion, and anything that reduces this stress will greatly reduce intestinal problems. I made a lot of videos on how to relieve stress: breathing through the nose, breathing control, especially during sleep, long walks, there are many ways to exercise, and much more. Another strong stress for these microbes and for the mucous membrane of the large and small intestines are antibiotics, as well as those factors that act like antibiotics, for example, chlorine in tap water, artificial sweeteners, GMO products, glyphosate, glyphosate is a herbicide that is classified as an antibiotic. And there are also many products that are sterilized, pasteurized, these are dairy products, pasteurized juices, pasteurized canned food, products in boxes with preservatives, processed. The more the food was heated, the deader it is, there are no enzymes in it, and what is more important, there are no microbes, beneficial microorganisms in it. This is to increase shelf life, but this is a double-edged sword, because it leads to sterilization of our microflora. Whenever you take antibiotics, you must always  It's time to take probiotics, but I'll also talk about other interesting stresses that directly affect the digestive system. One of these stresses is intravenous nutrition when someone is in the ICU in the hospital, as well as in other cases, intravenous nutrition often has to be used. This creates a lot of problems for the digestive system. The liver suffers, this is fatty liver and other diseases, the risk of infections, blood clots, and various acute deficiencies increases. I say this because if you need it or know someone who is fed intravenously, then it makes sense to look for higher- quality intravenous nutrition because people are given olive oil for calories. Yes, if you administer soybean oil, and it contains a lot of omega-6, there will be a lot of liver problems and obesity. This has been proven in a lot of studies. If it causes so many problems when administered intravenously, then why do we eat it? It creates other problems. This is an unsafe product. Also, with intravenous nutrition, they administer glucose, synthetic vitamins, minerals, probably in the wrong form. All this is not useful. I used the term ICU, which means intensive care unit. This creates a lot of digestive problems. After all, when someone is in this department, nutrients are often administered intravenously. And I already said what problems this leads to. In this case, a person is often given proton pump inhibitors, these are antacids, and this increases stress in the digestive system itself, and at the same time, antibiotics are given there, that is, they create a stronger weight for these microbes. At the worst time, when a person is in a critical situation, sometimes a person is forced to administer epinephrine. But you should know how it affects the intestinal flora. It creates hypoxia, increases stress. After all, what is epinephrine? It's a stress hormone, and it is administered to a person. Sometimes this has to be done, but something must be done to counteract its harmful effect. And if, say, opiates are used, they turn off the gastrointestinal system, and now all these pathogens are stuck there, constipation occurs as a side effect. I know that when anesthetics are used, many people's knowledge is turned off. When they come to, they cannot urinate, they cannot empty their bowels. There are a lot of problems in intensive care. So I think it is necessary to pay more attention to the critical period of a hospital stay. Amazing.  How do people survive there? And by the way, if you take antacids or anything else that affects the gastric tract, whether it be PP or other types of drugs, and the pH of the stomach rises above 3.8. Normally, the pH of the stomach is from one to 3. Then, when the pH exceeds 3.8, bacteria begin to grow excessively, and where they don’t belong in the small intestine. And when you eat fiber, you know that there will be microbes where they don’t belong. They ferment food in the small intestine and cause severe bloating. So, I’m talking about this. To show that solving one problem creates another problem. What can be done about this? Number one, do everything possible to reduce stress. Below are links that will help you cope with stress, and you also need to eliminate the source of stress. Number two, elglutamine is excellent for healing inflamed intestines and leaky gut. Elglutamine is an excellent remedy. Number three, probiotics and fermented foods such as kefir. If there are no problems with dairy products, for example, allergies or lactose intolerance, sauerkraut is an excellent product. But if you eat  If you're eating sauerkraut, kimchi, or other fermented vegetables, say, various pickles, and your bloating is getting worse, you need to try the Root Diet for a while. It's one way to eliminate severe inflammation in the intestines. Sibur is a bacterial overgrowth syndrome that causes severe bloating. If you eat fiber, it's eaten by microbes. They're in the wrong place. If you haven't watched another very good video about digestion, you should watch it. It talks about many remedies not only for stress but also for other problems. Watch this video.