Today we'll talk about sugar. It's unlikely that people know how much sugar they eat themselves and how much they give to their families. Look at these, these are peanut butter marshmallows. Remember them from childhood. 280 grams of sugar. That's how much one glass could n't hold. Next, we have apple juice. It has 264 grams of sugar. How many kids go to school parties or think apple juice is better than soda, even though it has more sugar. These two glasses are next. Coca-Cola has 136 grams of sugar. Arizona has 120 grams. You can buy a bottle like this for just a dollar, and most of these products contain high-fructose corn syrup. This syrup is much cheaper than sugar, so it's in use. It costs about 20 cents per pound. The average person consumes almost 30 kilograms of high-fructose corn syrup per year. Frosted, no, these are fruit loops. I wonder how much fruit is in froot loops. I don't think there's any, but there is fiber and whole grains, and there's also ninety  six grams of sugar you should also note that some refined grain products like flour products may not have a lot of sugar, but they do contain a lot of grain, but it is not listed in the ingredients as sugar, so when you evaluate food when buying in the store, always look at the amount of sugar in the ingredients. The ingredients should list sugar in grams. This is the most important thing. The sugar should be as close to zero as possible. You also need to understand that they usually write the amount of sugar per serving or per 100 grams, not for the entire pack. You need to multiply the amount of sugar by the number of servings in almost to find the real amount of sugar. Therefore, when the ingredients say 12 grams of sugar, this is not for the entire pack. It is a serving here. There are ninety-six grams. Next, we have grain inside the grain with blueberries. It says here that it is made from real berries, but understand that there is a lot of sugar here, ninety-six grams, and very little berry puree with flavors. And perhaps that's all for now. The orange drink has 91 grams of sugar. You can also buy it for a dollar in the store for a dollar and it contains a lot of high-fructose corn starch.  syrup, then comes chocolate soda, 80 grams of sugar. Now look, Similac is baby formula. What's interesting is that I tried to find the amount of sugar in the ingredients and couldn't find it. I don't know why, but the ingredients list the amount of carbohydrates, but not the amount of sugar. But I think carbohydrates can be counted as sugar. 1. The first ingredient on the list is corn syrup, and then soy protein isolate. The first ingredient is always listed as what the product contains the most. It's baby formula. Next comes Gate Raid, 58 grams of sugar, dextrose. They use dextrose and sucrose. These sugars usually deplete electrolyte reserves. Sugar depletes potassium reserves, calcium reserves, and B vitamin reserves. When potassium levels are low in the body, the relative sodium level increases, so sodium retention occurs, and that's why when you eat a little sugar, you gain weight. It's all about fluid retention. Then there's fortified water, 31 grams. A regular quarter-liter can of Coca-Cola contains 38 grams of sugar, and here it's 31, not much less, but again, it's synthetic. Fortified water, vitamins.  Here are synthetic ones. Look at the hidden sugar in yogurt with some flavor. Twenty-six grams is only 10-12 grams less than in Kale. This is no sugar. Then comes the active ingredient, 25 grams of sugar, and finally, in short, there are 23 grams of sugar and a lot of synthetic vitamins. If you eat sugarcane itself, you will never get cavities. Because it has a lot of nutrients, sugarcane contains both vitamins and microelements. When white sugar is obtained from it, the other part, molasses, is separated from it. White sugar, brown sugar, and raw sugar differ from each other in how much molasses they contain. The stream is very dark, it still has a lot of sugar, but at least it has nutrients and it will not lead to something bad like cavities. Baked goods with molasses will give you more satiety because they contain nutrients. It is difficult to overeat it. It is much easier to overeat refined sugar because it does not contain the ents that trigger the feeling of hunger, and when you eat rich foods  You want more and more sugar because it does n't have any nutrients inside. It depletes various substances. I also want to talk about another aspect related to sugar, about insulin. insulin regulates sugar by quickly removing sugar from the blood. For example, if you eat so much sugar in one sitting, you will get a powerful backlash from some organs, for example, from the pancreas, which sharply increases insulin levels. To lower sugar levels, it stores sugar in the form of fat, triglycerides, and cholesterol. That's what it does. When blood sugar rises, the amount of insulin increases. To cope with it, the body becomes fatigued and over time, it will lose control. But giving them control is the first step. You have low blood sugar. This is prediabetes. Hypoglycemia means low glycemia, which means blood sugar. This is low blood sugar. These are its symptoms: cravings for sweets. This is prediabetes. Yes, you always crave sweets. Then there is irritability, anxiety, depression, attention deficit hyperactivity, and all of these are signs of diabetes. Hypoglycemia happens. Over time, you cause more and more damage to the body and now insulin.  It stops working and there is a lot of sugar left in the blood. Hyperglycemia is also called diabetes. This is a lack of insulin that would lower sugar. Symptoms of high sugar include fatigue, brain fog, everything that happens after the holidays. If you have lethargy, brain fog, and fatigue, then it's diabetes. Therefore, diabetics take certain medications, metformin, or even insulin, to lower sugar levels. The problem is that diabetics experience side effects due to lack of sugar regulation. For example, you can go blind because the optic nerve is affected. This affects blood circulation in the fingertips and feet. You will experience tingling in the feet. Peripheral neuropathy. Then, blood circulation will disappear and gangrene of the fingers can develop. This has many bad consequences, not only weight gain, but also even a small amount of sugar. Because sugar and insulin are the dominant hormone, I'm sorry. You can do a lot of good with your diet, but add just a little sugar, especially if you're aging, and you'll negate all the benefits. A little sugar can block many good things. You can exercise, eat right, sleep, but a drop of sugar can prevent you from burning fat for a long time depending on your metabolism if you are 18 then you can still eat sweets without consequences like me and when I was growing up I ate a lot of sweets I lived on sweets and that's why I lost my health exhausted my whole body I lasted until 28 I had a patient yesterday by the way she lasted until 48 she ate sweets all her life and then it came back to haunt her she found out that she had diabetes and other problems and this and motivates I'm not saying that you can't do all this I just want you to be aware of what will happen to you and be ready to experience these negative consequences and eat drank all this with awareness they so you don't know what you're doing and then grab your head and say God what have I done I want you to be aware of what you're doing when you eat this and understand how much harm it brings there are a couple of things that can be done to get rid of cravings for sweets first you can consume more potassium I just wrote a brochure you can download from my site it's called kale shake diet it has 12  pages it's free there is no advertising you can download it from my site or come to my office and get one for free everything is very very simple you and your loved ones should make a kale shake in the morning this will sharply increase the level of potassium in the body and if it is an element that will help you reduce cravings for sweets why because it does not allow blood sugar to fall too low it is very important to consume a lot of potassium so that I want sweets so much when you have a craving for sweets you do not burn fat understand if you are trying to lose weight and you are craving sweets then you burn not fat but your own sugar and then you eat more sweets and it's a vicious circle so you know in real fat burning there is no craving for sweets personally I really like the sugar substitute xylitol do not give it to dogs for them it is very harmful to them it tastes almost like sugar it can be used in baking and in general in cooking and I highly recommend it find some recipes for children and use xylitol I also want to talk about what funny things happen when people tell me  Dr. Berg, I eat healthy and organic food, but it turns out that this food was made with the addition of agave nectar, coconut syrup, and brown rice syrup. It's still sugar, and the result is the same. Just because the food is organic does n't mean it's healthy to consume. Another fact: 33 percent of children become diabetics. This is crazy. When I was growing up, there was nothing like this. A bunch of sweet drinks suddenly appeared on the shelves. Sugar is the main villain. In conclusion, I want to talk about this: I want to show you a couple of interesting advertisements. Perhaps you saw them when you were younger. One advertisement is called the importance of sugar. Serve it during your family's diet. Research has shown that your need for natural sweeteners is as great as your body's need for energy. It only has 18 calories. Here's another one: Why do so many weight watchers eat sugar? What motivates weight watchers to drink sugary drinks? Sometimes they eat light desserts. It seems like they are deviating from their diet, but in fact, it's easier for them to follow it. This is because sugar prevents overeating; it satisfies hunger much faster than other foods.  Sugar in your diet makes you happier and your portions smaller. Try it and it's ridiculous because they don't understand that the effect of insulin is very dominant, very powerful, and all this calorie counting is just nonsense. Here's another one for a better start in life. Start drinking cola early. Is there such a thing as too early? In no case would I like to see laboratory studies. Over the past few years, they have proven that children who start drinking soda when their bodies are still developing have a much better chance of gaining recognition and a place in society during this awkward adolescence. Do yourself a favor. Do your child a favor right now. Set a strict schedule for him. Can you imagine, exactly strict, when to drink soda and other sweet drinks for guaranteed happiness in life? Guaranteed? Another thing is absolutely gorgeous. Give your child 7-up. It goes so well with milk. See, that's the problem. It looks like marketing works. So, what I want you to do is share this video with your family and friends. Go through your cupboards and refrigerator and start removing sugar from your body. It has a huge effect not only on your body but also on your vitality and energy. I hope.  This video opened your eyes, share it and see you soon.