重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重 There are no, on Ozon and Wildberries. There are counterfactors. The original product in S&G can only buy on drbergstore.com. Look at the consequences of what people have had. From 600 to 1000 M.E. vitamin D. The doctors tell you that he is useful for the skin, for the immune system and for the health of the whole. But a year ago, when they were tested, the vitamin D was published as a mistake, which found a few years ago, And I'm going to go into this mistake. I'm going to go into this mistake. I'll read it below. But there are not only results of the results of not отдельных people, but also of the results of the results, assuming that all of them are in the same way. It's all right that to take an exam in 30 classes and make a decision that exam made all of them, but half of the students didn't even lose. This so-called wrongdoing caused a huge problem. The results of the vitamin D is in many people, and they even don't realize that their problems with their health are linked to their low levels. So what happened in 2014? Two researchers of the day were analyzed, on which the Institute of Medicine published RSN. And as I already said, they found out that correct dose was not 600 ME in a day, but 8,895 ME. And this is the number of studies. And this is the number of studies. And this is the number of studies. Yes, for today they are completely ignored. I want to tell you a very nice, but it's still a very important information about the Institute of Medicine. I've read a book of Gavina Beter and I want to tell you a few important facts about the Institute of Medicine. This organization is considered an authority in the field of science. People think that it is, by the idea, it is to protect us. But this group of people are going to be able to protect the government, if they need to prove the safety of the medicine. But this is the fact that he is a part of the book of Gavina. The work of the Institute of Medicine is not to stop the truth, but to protect the system. Now I will tell you something that is not pleasant. If you don't want to listen to it, you can read it. Do the beginning of the investigation of the vaccine with autism, the committee said that we will not get to the conclusion, that the vaccine is causing autism. So, the answer is not to be addressed. One of the best examples of the Institute of Medicine is a agent Orange. In 1969, the government knew that he was a dead man, but it was a secret of the data, and then the Institute of Medicine was taken. And for the years, the Institute of Medicine said that it was necessary to do more research. How many of you have heard this? It is different. The soldiers died, the families died, the truth was broken. The truth was broken. The years later, the admiral, the who told him to be a agent Orange, and whose son died, the evidence that the government and the government was taken away from the evidence. And the Institute of Medicine played this role. Let's take a look at the case for the children of this. Let's take a look at the case for 44 years. The Johnson & Johnson was a provenance of the children of this. The Johnson & Johnson was a provenance of the children of this. But how long the system has been in this? 44 years. This is the idea of the Institute of Medicine. To be able to get a look at the problem, to forget the problem. The children of the children of this is a period of time. Now, we take a look at the implant of the blood. We've got millions of dollars in the blood. And the Institute of Medicine said that they are completely safe. And all the issues of the left suddenly disappeared. The power of the history of the medical medicine is the power of the people. And the people of the medicine are not the same. And in terms of vitamin D, the Institute of Medicine is the same. And if you are watching my videos, you can't choose all of the information. And if you are watching my videos, you know that vitamin D is not only for the коesies. It is important to be able to help you. This simple action is very helpful to the channel. And we continue. And if you are watching my videos, you know that vitamin D is not only for the коesies. It is necessary for the regulation of the immune system, for the muscles, for the muscles, for the muscles, for the mood, for the mood. And the pressure of the vitamin D is for the cognitive function, for the memory, for the concentration, for the concentration of attention. It is a very important role in the metabolic control, the level of the sugar in the blood and the ability to heal. Even your risk of the risk of the vitamin D is for the risk of the vitamin D. And to this day, the doctors follow these recommendations, based on the the way of the mistake of the reaction, that it is a year ago, and they are in the number of 600 M. for millions of people. And here is what really surprised me in this story. If it was a mistake, it would be a mistake, it would be a mistake, right? But these people not only did not make mistakes, they started to be more stronger and to be more likely to be able to do it. No, we will do it as well. The problem is that they are not able to do this. However, it is not possible, that these calculations are not true. Now, the Institute of Medicine called the National Medicine Academy. This organization should be the golden standard of the independent medical recommendations. And that's not a government agency. They are not a government agency. They are not a government agency. They are a government agency. And yes, they are paying money for the government, and also for the government, including the government. So we have a government agency. The重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重 and farm-gigants, it's not science, but a consensus. In another video, I will show the protocol of the organization from the media, which was in the press. There were mostly discussed how to control the investigation in a certain area. The RSN vitamin D is not just a statistic. I think it was done by the way. It's a problem. And it hasn't been done because the system created this system doesn't want. How long do we have to be on the sun, to get 600 ME? We have to be on the sun for about 3 minutes. Do you think this is enough? There is still resistance to vitamin D. I have a lot of videos. The truth is that we need much more vitamin D every day. Our body is designed to get much more suns. When sun comes to the skin, it turns into the vitamin D. But then, when it goes back like a重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重 Because a person needs almost 9000 E-vitamina D in a day just to support the level of vitamin D. And if you look at all the data, there is no, unfortunately, a agreement about the required level of vitamin D in a day. There are many different opinions. I think that we need at least 50-80 nmg vitamin D in a ml, just to be able to be enough of his potential in the cells. And so if someone is worried about the toxicity, they are completely ignoring the sloth in the room. The deficit of vitamin D is the most important population. And we see results of this deficit. It is the same as the toxicity of vitamin D3 is very rarely. If you take 10000 E-vitamina D3 months, maybe, then there will be a toxic effect. And this effect is only in the absence of the calcium in the blood. But there are many ways to reduce this risk. You can take magnesium, vitamin K2. You can drink a little more water, like 2,5 liters. It will cause a lot of water to reduce the blood. So you can prevent the blood. You can prevent the blood. You can check the blood. You can check the blood. You can check the blood. And we get ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh ahh completely ignore the so-called error in the calculations, which is what I recommend. More than you are on the sun. In the winter and in the days when you are not on the sun, take vitamin D3 with K2, because vitamin K2 doesn't allow calcium to be in the blood. Also, it is important for magnesium, because thanks to him vitamin D3 works much better. Vitamin D3 doesn't work without magnesium. A moment I want to give you a chance to download something very important. It's a page with my daily schedule. It's a checklist. And if you are on the schedule, I'm in my 60s, I'm in 18. I'll give you a link below, in the description. You can download it, read it, read it, put it on the холодильник and use it. Problems with health start when you have no vitamins and minerals. Diffinities can be revealed differently. Top重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重重 Thank you.