I'm often asked about the colony's calorie intake. First, let's talk about how much fat is contained in the body. Let's say a woman weighs 60, three and a half kilograms. She's in good shape, and fat makes up 23 percent of her body weight. Her body weight is about 14 and a half kilograms. That means she has more than 100,000 calories in reserve. She's in good shape, which is quite a large calorie reserve. If she's obese, her body fat is 39 percent, and maybe even more. At 63,500 kilograms, that's more than 27 kilograms of fat. You've flown. It contains a little less than 200,000 calories in the form of fat. A man weighs 77 kilograms, 16 percent fat. He's in good shape, and he has just over 12 kilograms of fat. The fat in his body contains almost 100,000 calories. In good shape, there's a lot of fat. I apologize for the potential calories all the time. Let's say he's obese, and his body fat is 27 percent, which means he has almost 21 kilograms of fat, which means his body's energy reserves are now more than 160,000 calories. Basal metabolic rate is the number of calories burned at rest to maintain life. We burn calories during exercise and during rest, for example, let's say your rate is 2,000 calories per day and you just need to reduce your calorie intake by just 500 calories per day. Half a kilo of fat is about three and a half thousand calories divided by 500, which means you'll lose almost half a kilo in a week by simply cutting calories. This sounds logical and reasonable, but in reality, it does n't work. Why? Because there are different variables. Basal metabolic rate depends on age. Hypothyroidism significantly reduces it. If you have insulin resistance, that is, prediabetes or diabetes, your insulin levels will be high and you won't lose weight. Exercise can affect your metabolism by 15 percent. Stress can prevent you from losing weight. Whether you'll manage to lose weight depends on the amount of sleep and, of course, your metabolic rate. This includes all the factors related to how many times you've been on a diet. The more often you diet, the slower your metabolism, because you eat less, and your body has to compensate for it. Finally, there's the variable of how calories affect the hormones of calories consumed.  Proponents of constant calorie counting always ignore this. There are also non-physical problems, such as autoimmune disease, inflammation, and so on. They can block the ability to lose weight. There is also such a variable, especially when you are naked. And if you check yourself and it turns out that you are burning fat, and you are burning it because you are in deep ketosis, you are happy but you are not losing weight at all. This happens because the titanium and/or fat calories you burn are the fat you eat, they are your own fat reserves, so you don’t have to rack your brains and calculate calories. The best thing for you is to recommend something and see what works for you: how many calories you need and how many times you need to eat. You do this every time you eat at the end of a meal, you are either still hungry or you are full, but at the same time you have not overeaten, or you have filled your stomach to capacity and you are uncomfortable. The second option is the best. You are full in a fuss but do not experience discomfort. So, count calories and just strive for this. But start here. Start with ketosis. You will reduce the amount.  carbohydrates you will begin to enter ketosis switch to burning fat many people have fun with excess weight already due to this alone, simply reducing carbohydrates usually men women have more estrogen but the point is to start here if you need to add the following steps second eliminate snacks you can eat three times a day the main thing without snacks does not help and eat twice a day without breakfast twice a day and start reducing the break between meals for many this is an ideal option good but if there are no results when we go further one meal a day is excellent for many of those over 40 in the forest over 50 many on this regime achieve great success and reach the goal but do not start with this regime if this does not help move on one meal every other day because those people who contain very large energy reserves remember the slide a woman weighed 63 and a half kilograms she has such a percentage of fat in her fat reserves almost 200 thousand calories if a person is twice as heavy and weighs one hundred twenty-seven kilograms calculate this because almost 400 thousand calories are contained in  If you want to walk faster and start burning fat, you'll have to eat once every other day and you'll get the results. So, here are some simple criteria to understand how many calories you need. The sanctity of eating is whether you're losing weight on any of these regimens. You can always add exercise, nutrients, improve sleep, and reduce stress. This is the complete formula. I'm currently working on creating a ketogenic calculator. It will include many of these variables. It wo n't be perfect, of course, but you'll get the idea. I want to add some of this to make it easier for you to understand. Thank you for watching and don't miss the release of this calculator. And if you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.