There is a hidden cause of arthritis, especially if it is in the knuckles of the fingers, the knuckles of the 1st and 2nd fingers on both hands and in the knee joint, although arthritis can be in other joints and this is a hidden cause of excess iron. I explain that there is a condition called hemochromatosis. It can be either hereditary or arise from diet or from a blood transfusion or from other reasons that I will now tell you about. The first thing you need to know is that excess iron in the body is very toxic. Our body does not have a mechanism for removing excess iron. The first symptom of excess iron is arthritis in the hands and knees, especially in the knuckles. Where there is excess iron, there are also other symptoms, such as fatigue, abdominal pain, bloating, cirrhosis of the liver, insulin resistance, diabetes, reptilian dysfunction, hypogonadism and general increased infection because some pathogens live off iron. The more you feed them, the more of them there are. Excess iron is especially toxic to the liver, pancreas and heart. Iron can be deposited in the liver and  cause all sorts of problems the more the liver is damaged the less it works the more problems you will have with iron since the liver is a key organ in hemochromatosis so if you take telenol which destroys the liver or you are on a high carbohydrate diet which leads to fatty liver then iron can accumulate in the body from a dietary point of view let's say you eat a couple of tablespoons of streams every day in the passat there is a lot of iron that is one reason for its excess but probably an even bigger source of iron is the multivitamins that you take every day many take multivitamins every day and they contain a lot of iron and not the right type they contain the so- called elemental iron which is very easily absorbed iron that is found in vegetables is not absorbed so easily if you have problems with iron and you eat only red meat then this can cause a problem but usually people who eat red meat with sugar or starch like meat with potatoes or meat with pasta will have even more problems because this combination of proteins and sugar causes glycation due to which blood vessels become clogged and this usually happens when  High blood glucose levels cause liver problems that cause iron retention. It's a vicious cycle. If you have excess iron, it's important to understand what to do with your diet. 3. You don't need to add more iron to your diet. You don't need to take iron supplements. You don't need to eat molasses. You do n't need to do anything that weakens and destroys your liver. Furthermore, fiber can lower iron levels in the body. So, if you still want to eat red meat, the best solution is to eat it with vegetables. There's also a compound in fiber called phytic acid. Phytic acid can lower iron levels in the body. Yes, I made a video about the dangers of phytic acid, about how it blocks the absorption of minerals. It blocks the absorption of zinc, magnesium, but also iron. If you have excess iron, supplements containing phytic acid can be beneficial. I don't recommend taking it in the form of inositol, hexaphosphate, or IP6. Green tea, coriander, quercetin, and blood donation can also lower iron levels. All of this can be very helpful. There are some minerals that accumulate in the body and destroy it.  Especially with age, there are minerals that can be easily excreted from the body if you consume them in large quantities, such as potassium or magnesium. But iron and calcium are not so easy to excrete from the body, so these two minerals should not be regularly consumed in large quantities. In general, if you have arthritis and you want to find out if it is an excess of iron, here's what you can do: stop eating, add iron, take care of your liver, take a remedy for excess iron, such as phytic acid in green tea or quercetin, or become a blood donor and see if the arthritis goes away. To find out how you can improve liver function, you should take this course. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.