Let's discuss the most often overlooked cause of hypertension, and this hidden cause of hypertension is the lack of one essential micronutrient, which I think has remained out of our sight for a very long time. I want you to know about it. After all, we know that hypertension can be caused by vitamin D deficiency, and we know that potassium deficiency can also cause hypertension, and we know that in 90% of cases, hypertension is called essential, that is, its cause is unknown, but I think that it is associated with a nutrient. Now I will tell you about the deficiency of a third nutrient that is associated with hypertension. Look, a person has high blood pressure, the problem here is that this creates a risk of stroke. If we look at a map of the United States, we will see that in the southern States, the risk of hypertension is highest, and in these States, the risk of stroke is also highest, and here is such a correlation: zinc deficiency in the soils of the southern States is much more pronounced. Yes, thus, zinc deficiency can lead to hypertension. I will explain why, but first, let's discuss sodium, because doctors are extremely fixated  You need to eliminate sodium from your diet, but this approach is very disappointing because many have reduced their sodium intake, but their hypertension hasn't gone away, and they need to take medications. In addition, if you have a phosphate deficiency, your homocysteine ​​may increase, which can also lead to hypertension and stroke. Homocysteine ​​in the blood can create a risk of cardiovascular problems, but zinc deficiency is much more common. So, look at zinc deficiency. As you may know, your sense of smell deteriorates, but you may not know that it also distorts your taste buds. How do you think this affects people? It forces them to add salt to their food, add more spices to junk food, which forces them to eat more Doritos and other salty chips. They want more taste sensations from food because it seems bland to them. I'm not even talking about monosodium glutamate in food. So, people in the US actually consume, on average, too much sodium from junk food and not enough potassium, but they probably don't know that they have a zinc deficiency. When you consume too much salt without maintaining a balance of salt and potassium, the balance of salt and other minerals.  such as magnesium, your levels of hormones such as renin and angiotensin II begin to increase. I won't go into details. You just need to know that salt increases blood pressure through these hormones because they cause constriction of blood vessels. You may have heard of an ACE2 inhibitor for hypertension, but the irony is that an ACE2 inhibitor deprives the body of zinc. And this aggravates the problem with hypertension. It deprives people of zinc, and a couple of other drugs for hypertension. Diuretics are another group of drugs that are often prescribed for hypertension, but imagine that diuretics also deprive you of zinc. Not to mention that antibiotics also deprive you of zinc, antacids deprive you of zinc, and birth control pills also deprive you of zinc. Zinc affects a couple more mechanisms of blood pressure. The fact is that zinc is a mineral that promotes the creation of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide dilates blood vessels, it helps blood vessels relax, it is very useful for people with hypertension, and zinc is necessary for nitric oxide to work. Zinc is also needed to create some Antioxidants, one of which is called sodium, which helps curb inflammation. It is with inflammation that a series of negative effects begins. Zinc is also necessary for the creation of leptin, a hormone that causes a feeling of satiety. Therefore, if you do not have enough zinc, you will overeat. You will definitely snack in the evenings. After all, you will not feel full. In fact, you are trying to get zinc, not eat chips. The question is how zinc deficiency occurs since there is no zinc in the soil. It will not be in food either. The lack of shellfish in the diet, red meat, excess sugar and other empty carbohydrates, alcohol, whole grains with vitamin A, especially fructose, can deprive us of zinc. And even if you have a lack of acid in the stomach, you will not absorb minerals, especially zinc. The foods richest in zinc are oysters, magpie clams, and red meat. Perhaps you need to get zinc not from red meat, but from something else if you have an iron problem. Now you know about the connection between zinc and hypertension. Also learn about the connection between potassium and hypertension from this video.