Hello, today we'll talk about coffee and what can be considered too much. This is an eternal question. First, let's define what a moderate amount of coffee is. This is two to three 240-milliliter cups or glasses a day. A large amount is four cups or more. In college, I drank an inordinate amount of coffee. I drank it by the teapot, not ordinary coffee, and Cuban coffee. As a result, I had adrenal fatigue, an ulcer, and various other health problems. So, I decided to discuss what happens if you drink too much coffee. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type. Thanks to such a thing as stress, during the course I will show you how to remove stress from the body, return a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. I'm waiting for you on the course now. During the day, I drink a little coffee. I drink it in the mornings, a very small cup of about 120-150 milliliters. If you overdo it, it will have a bad effect on us. The biggest negative effect of coffee on the body is the depletion of potassium stores. In fact, serum potassium is potassium in the blood, it is used to detect  Acute caffeine poisoning. Let's talk about what happens if you overdo it with caffeine. We're not just talking about coffee, but also soda, sports drinks, and other products that contain caffeine, such as tea or chocolate. What will a huge amount of caffeine lead to in your body? It will increase the production of katiramisu, halamines, what is it, and what is lamin, which is what is contained inside the adrenal glands. For example, adrenaline, dopamine, GMK, and norepinephrine. But in this video, we'll talk mainly about adrenaline. When you drink coffee, you stimulate adrenaline. When you increase adrenaline, you lose potassium. This is the first thing. Second, you increase the sodium-potassium pump. I've already made a video about this. There are all kinds of cells inside the body, and within the cells there are billions of small pumps. They create electrical energy. They are closely related to the functioning of the nervous system, as well as the contraction and relaxation of muscles. This requires a lot of potassium. These pumps are also needed for energy. When you increase the load on these pumps, you need a lot of potassium. As a result, potassium moves from the blood into the cells, resulting in very little potassium remaining in the blood. This is called hypokalemia. This is how you lose potassium. You also increase something called diaries. You essentially lose fluids. Caffeine acts as a diuretic, which is another way to lose potassium. You also activate something called respiratory alkalosis. The environment in the body shifts excessively toward alkalinity, and because of this, you lose potassium. If you drink coffee with sugar, you add another factor. This causes an insulin surge. As you already know from other videos, when there is an insulin surge, you need potassium. Because you have to store glucose in the liver and in the muscles in the form of glycogen, and for this, you need potassium. This means you will use up even more potassium. The same will happen if you add artificial sweeteners. I haven't yet talked about what happens with a potassium deficiency: cardiac arrhythmia, fatigue, and so on. In this video, I wanted to show and highlight the biggest problem from excess caffeine, namely, the loss of potassium. So, if you drink too much coffee, be sure to add more potassium to your diet, but the ideal solution would be to reduce your  daily dose of coffee thanks for watching