I have some interesting information about how much alcohol you can drink before your liver starts to fail. I drank alcohol in high school, college, and even after college, I continued to have what is called a hangover many times. I even remember when I was in my twenties, we had these little convenience stores all over town, I forgot the name, where you could get margaritas to go, and of course I would get a side of margaritas for us, drive home from work, and then habitually drink at least one or two every night, and this went on for six months. Apparently, it didn't go without a trace, because this mixture of alcohol and sugar made my back ache, and my joints hurt in my hands. I was constantly tired with red eyes. Then I thought that what I was doing was good for me. Now I know that it's not particularly good for me. Actually, back then, I knew little about health. I didn't pay any attention to taking care of my health. I managed to avoid the consequences for many years until they eventually caught up with me, but here's the data on alcohol in one study. Only 21 binge drinking sessions caused early stage liver failure. By binge drinking, I mean more than 5 units of alcohol consumed in two hours. What is a unit of alcohol? Let me explain. It's 18 milliliters of pure alcohol, which is equivalent to a can of regular beer, a glass of strong beer, 150 milliliters of wine, or A-50-gram shot of strong liquor. If you drink five such units 21 times in a row, this will lead you to the extreme stage of liver failure. It was also found that just one such binge increases liver enzymes. When you drink alcohol, about a quarter of the alcohol consumed is absorbed into the bloodstream in the stomach. The rest is absorbed in the small intestine, passing from the gastrointestinal tract into the blood. Alcohol then enters the liver. The liver begins to break down and neutralize this toxic material from all stages of the alcohol breakdown process. The first stage is quite toxic to liver cells. This is where inflammation begins, ultimately leading to the formation of scar tissue. This is called cirrhosis. But on average, when you drink only one unit, it takes about an hour of work for all the various liver enzymes to break down alcohol into less toxic substances.  substances, but over time, if you continue to drink, you begin to lose the network of enzymes that break down these toxins, and then toxic substances accumulate and cause great harm to the liver, pancreas, and so on. At the very beginning, fat begins to be deposited in the liver, and this fat creates inflammation, which then leads to scar tissue. Fat can also create insulin resistance, which increases inflammation. This is a kind of vicious circle. As for liver inflammation, it is called hepatitis. It usually begins no later than five years after regular drinking. As for cirrhosis of scar tissue, its development takes from 5 to 10 years or more. Because if you keep the liver in a constantly inflamed state, the body will begin to heal it with scar tissue. Because now the immune system is involved. It is interesting that during this entire period, the symptoms are not so noticeable. Sometimes there is fatigue. Sometimes the belly begins to grow, but this does not always manifest itself. Because there is also lean fat when fat is around the organs. But if the belly protrudes, this usually means that the liver is also fatty. There is also a disease called ascites. This is not necessarily fat, but the belly protrudes because the liver is already so bad that it oozes.  The abdominal cavity is filled with fluid. This is a fluid-filled abdominal sac due to severe liver disease. This is already a fairly advanced liver disease. As the disease progresses, more and more symptoms appear. One of them is arthritis, itching all over the body, especially on the soles of the feet, may be jaundice, yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, estrogen may jump and testosterone may decrease, gynecomastia and the like may appear. Lethargy will definitely appear, fatigue, there may be bad breath, loss of muscle mass, but otherwise, everything is fine. There are other factors that affect how alcohol affects the liver, and 1. The concentration of alcohol consumed, diluted drinks or stronger alcohol, and so the concentration, carbonated alcohol or not, it seems, carbonation aggravates the harm to the liver. It is also important to eat or drink alcohol with food and to soften the negative impact of alcohol on the liver. Very strong oxidation occurs in the liver. Damage from free radicals and the ability of enzymes to resist oxidation becomes increasingly worse. The liver loses function and can no longer remove toxins and cannot properly perform digestion. DNA is damaged and there is even a risk of liver cancer. People were diagnosed with liver cirrhosis at 40, 50, and 60 years of age. Now it is being diagnosed in younger people, as young as 25. Compared to 1999, by 2016, mortality from cirrhosis had increased by 65 percent. More and more young people are drinking and experiencing negative consequences. You need to know a couple of things. Sugar consumption has about the same effect on liver damage as alcohol consumption, especially if you consume fructose, glucose syrup, and fructose. Just because a person doesn't drink alcohol doesn't mean they won't experience liver problems. It's called non-alcoholic liver disease. Many medications we take harm the liver. I would say that alcohol, sugar, and medications are the three main factors that can destroy the liver, as well as viruses. If you decide to drink a lot and become an alcoholic, it's very, very important to eat a healthy diet to minimize the damage that will be done to the liver. I'm joking a little here because usually those who drink a lot of alcohol also eat a lot of sugar. Good news regarding the liver.  The fact that this is the only organ that can completely recover one hundred percent if you stop doing what is destroying it. If you have a fatty liver, half of the fat can be removed from it in just two weeks. To do this, you need to avoid those things that made the liver fatty. However, there is a point of no return when there is already so much scar tissue that the process is already irreversible. I hope you are not in this situation yet. If you want to know how to get rid of damage and restore the liver, I will tell you about this in this course. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos await you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.