So in this video I'm going to clarify the difference between carbohydrates and sugars. Should you just avoid carbohydrates on that diet and should you worry about sugar? ah, there are a lot of questions here, and so on that topic we're talking about digestible carbohydrates, not total carbohydrates. Digestible carbohydrates are total carbohydrates minus fiber. You see, fiber is carbohydrates, but it doesn't affect insulin in any way. That's why we subtract fiber. It doesn't raise insulin. The less fiber, the stronger the sugar release into the blood, and this will raise insulin levels. You should pay attention to digestible carbohydrates and keep them within 20 to 50 grams or less. Naked, and on a diet you shouldn't exceed 50 grams if you have a slow metabolism. If you want to lose weight, try to eat even fewer carbohydrates. Again, we're talking total carbohydrates. Vegetables are not included in this equation. It's better not to take them into account at all. I'm talking about greens and other vegetables, like tomatoes, carrots, and beets. They have a lot of fiber, but they don't contain sugars.  There are a lot of them too, they are still worth considering when counting carbohydrates, but as for most vegetables, like Brussels sprouts and kale, you don't need to count them. In fact, you should eat them. They contain micro and macronutrients and vitamins, for example, C. You also need to understand the glycemic index, which is an indicator of how different carbohydrates affect blood sugar levels. The less fiber and more sugar in food, the faster it raises blood sugar and the higher the glycemic index. If food has a lot of fiber and little sugar, then most likely it will be the opposite. Let's take celery, for example, there are a few carbohydrates, but it is mainly fiber. It contains almost no sugars, so the glycemic index of celery is extremely low, that is, fiber affects the release of sugar into the blood. Now let's consider potatoes. One potato contains 37 grams of carbohydrates, but it also contains 4.7 grams of fiber, and that's 32.3 grams of digestible carbohydrates. This is quite a lot and there is not much fiber, but look, there is little sugar, that is.  We look at the amount of sugar and evaluate, and in other products there may be more sugar. It all depends on the amount of fiber, the type of food, and the glycemic index. You need to take into account all three variables together. Here I was talking about raw potatoes. As soon as you fry and boil or bake them, the sugar will literally rise vertically. That's why chips and French fries have a very high glycemic index. The fact is that carbohydrates break down into simple sugars when cooked, and foods that cause a rapid release of sugar should be avoided. Let's take bread. In one piece of bread, there are 12 grams of carbohydrates, one and nine-tenths of a gram of fiber, which is 10.1 grams of digestible carbohydrates, sugars, 1 and 6 tenths of a gram. But don't forget, we're talking about one piece, so this is quite a lot. The problem with bread isn't just the high glycemic index. The grain contains a certain fiber, it contains phytic acid, and it depletes the supply of certain macro and microelements, zinc reserves. This alone can create a lot of problems, not to mention the release of sugar into the blood and about  How quickly the product turns into sugar and also bread contains gluten, which many are sensitive to, so on a diet we do not recommend grains and fiber from grains, for this reason, fiber should be obtained from vegetables, you should not eat crash but containing products such as rice, and what about fruits, for example, an apple has 25g of carbohydrates and 4.4 grams of fiber, that is, digestible carbohydrates 20.6 grams is a lot, but look at the sugar, a whole 19 grams, it's like eating a chocolate bar. Let me give you a real example. A few years ago, I snacked on apples between lunch and dinner, and also snacked in the evening with peanut butter. I ate a lot of apples. I weighed 96 kilograms then and then lost 81 only due to the fact that I stopped snacking on apples with peanut butter. Apples will definitely prevent you from entering ketosis. Berries are much better because they are not as sweet, they have more fiber than fruits and their glycemic index is lower. I will add something else.  Regarding potatoes, if you ate a raw potato, the sugar content would be this low, and everything would probably be fine. So, you can safely eat raw potatoes. The pleasure from this is highly questionable, in short, you need to evaluate all these variables: fiber, digestible carbohydrates, and the glycemic index. There will be a link to a video in the description that talks about it in more detail. Another thing I wanted to say is that there is such a thing as the insulin index. If you haven't heard of it, there will be a link to a video in the description about this. This applies to all non- carbohydrate foods and how they affect insulin levels. Thank you for your attention. If you like this topic, subscribe to the channel and I will notify you about the release of new videos.