In this video, I want to tell you how much water you should drink. I said earlier that you only need to drink if you want to drink, and this can be just one glass a day. But when you fast, you need more water than when you are not fasting. The reason is the loss of a large amount of glycogen, especially if you are in the process of a long fast for two or three days, then you lose a lot of glycogen. Since glycogen is a sugar reserve, losing it, you will lose a lot of fluid. I said fluid because it is not only water, it is a mixture of water with electrolytes and not salami, and their reserves need to be replenished. In this case, I recommend drinking 2-3 liters of water a day. This also prevents the formation of kidney stones. Because the reason for me is overly concentrated urine, which leads to the formation of oxalate crystals. But if there is enough fluid, the concentration will not be so high. So, 2-3 liters is 8-12 glasses of water. I recommend adding water, electrolytes, and sea salt. Don't forget about sea salt. They often forget and then wonder where fatigue comes from. You need a sufficient amount of potassium and magnesium and sea salt to avoid this. fatigue, flu, and general weakness, many take my brand of electrolytes. It contains 1000 milligrams of potassium. If you take this mixture without adding sea salt, you may feel weak due to a lack of salt. So in the morning, I pour myself a liter of water, take out all my supplements and vitamins, add a scoop of electrolytes, and also sea salt, dissolve about one-eighth of a teaspoon in water. My electrolyte mixture has so much potassium and magnesium, very little to the face, and salt. Because usually those who start ketosis have too much sodium, and when I don’t have enough, this mixture helps restore balance. But when you start China, restore your health, don’t forget about sea salt. I have a sports electrolyte drink, it contains more salt. The point is that when you fast, when you are on those, you need to maintain high levels of potassium and magnesium, as well as sea salt. Yes, it also refers to electrolytes, but I want to especially note it because most people don’t take enough sea salt. You need one or even one and a half teaspoons every day, and if you exercise, then much more. It all depends on how much you  I also sweat and add one spoon of grass juice powder to my morning drink because when you fast, your body slightly drops towards acidity, ketosis becomes deeper. Grass juice helps normalize this acid-base balance, and this is especially important if you are prone to gout, because when you fast, uric acid levels rise because it is an antioxidant. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salt course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.