 azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie, azie willieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieieie The EPA said that he was safe. It was like a minimum three years ago. The federal court considered this statement EPA. Now, the government tries to stop the issue of this issue. Roundup was released in 1974. For 20 years, farmers and farmers were destroyed by them. Then in 1994, all changed. The carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers of the most important scientific organizations on planet Earth, the same data, but the same results. So who speaks the truth? This question was the federal court, and he practically gave the answer. I will tell you. In 1922, the federal court looked at the EPA's report on the безопасness of glyphosate, and he did not just agree with him, he was overturned. The court said that this report was not that they could not make a decision, is the same way to the result of the glyphosate, which they are related to roundup. Then in the same document, the EPA said that glyphosate, the, скорее всего, is not causing the problem. The problem is that it is not to say, we don't know. And in the same document, they say, in principle, it is safe, because one is not to do another. The EPA has a government's opinion on the research. They wrote the rules they wrote themselves. The studies on животных showed that glyphosate causes ophthalates, but EPA ignored these data. The EPA ignored these data. The right now, subscribe and click on the bell, to turn on notifications. If you don't choose all notifications, the platform may not forget about new videos. This simple action will help you to be able to to further development of the channel. And we continue. So, the court said that the EPA's results are in accordance with his own recommendations. The carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers and these substances are more toxic than glyphosate. And EPA knew about this. Roundup every day попад on millions of farmers. Contact with the skin is the main path of his body. But EPA didn't measure how much blood is in the skin. It ignored this important thing. The court used the words, which means that it is based on opinion, and also on the facts. But the court refused to make the opinion and the EPA to make it again. It was in 1922, now 1926. The court is not yet to say that we are not yet to do it. You better understand all this, knowing that the glyphosate rating was made by the people who previously produced it. There was a man by the name of Jess Rowland. He was the chairman of the EPA's management of the EPA's program. The court wrote, the manager of the regulatory questions, that he was blocked by the investigation of glyphosate other agencies. In other words, he said that he would be able to leave the EPA and he would be able to do it, when we will continue to protect glyphosate. After the exit of the EPA, the Rolanda became consultant of the partner of the Monsanto. Then we were on the Copley, the toxicologist EPA, who was 30-year-old, who died from the liver from the liver. In 2013, in the letter of Roland, she was given a 14 mechanisms of the cause of the glyphosate and said that she was probably that glyphosate is likely to cause her death. Her words were to her, and said that you will be able to do it on your own. Unfortunately, she died in January 2014. Roland her words and remained the chairman of the committee of glyphosate. Then we were the EPA worked as an administrator of the EPA and the toxic substances. She was in Monsanto to be able to take care of their interests as a vice president of the government and then she returned to the EPA as an administrator. Then we have Mary Manny Busson who was a toxicologist of the EPA. When Monsanto needed to block the the glyphosate in another company they wrote to her her answer to her, she was a lawyer to her the EPA as a representative of the EPA as a representative of the EPA. The Sude also revealed that the Monsanto wrote a research for the public and public to the name of the of the 2000 of the the the the the the the the the the the the the the where he created a new job, a chairman of the FDA, and became a chairman of the FDA with the biggest influence on the regulation of the products. Then he returned to Monsanto as a president of the government as a government of the FDA, and then he was again in the FDA as a chairman of the FDA. These people, who are able to protect you, work on the manufacturer glyphosate. Here is what changed, because the cancer is not the only problem. In a few years, his carriers carriers but they are saying that the bacteria in our stomach have this path. Trillion microorganisms, which are responsible for our immune system, create a new mediator, protect the skin, help create vitamin and reduce the blood pressure, all they are in the way for glyphosate, especially lactobacteria and bifidobacteria. These two microorganisms really защищают us from pathogenes. This is really terrible. Pathogenes, which cause disease, are usually to glyphosate. And what is strange, one of the patients on glyphosate is to use as an antibiotic. The disease of nehodschlind's lymphoma, which is primarily linked to Roundup, was raised in the USA almost twice, from 1950 to 1999. The disease is a 80 000 Americans in the year. Bayer, the company, which is a Monsanto, is paid for 11 billion dollars by rachovum isca because Roundup. And then, in 1923, Bayer ticho he removed glyphosate from the new version Roundup. But what is what nobody says. What is the name of the roundup? What is the name of the new version Roundup? Glyphosate is replaced by four different substances. Decquat-dipromid, Floasifob, P-butyl, Triclopir and Monsanto, they are now in all the new formulas. Decquat-dipromid in 200 times more toxic so carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers carriers and provociate chronic disease. The package is almost different from the old version, but there is no warning about higher risk. So what can you do? First of all, I recommend you to eat organic products. Especially if you eat pshelous, I recommend you to eat organic. Organic certification is not allowed to be glyphosate. If you can't completely change organic, you can't eat a chicken with your kids. You can't eat a chicken with a chicken. I know it's important to maintain a microflora using fermented products, such as a phyton, and a papy. You can't eat bacteria, which glyphosate kills. I recommend you to see the level of glyphosate. There will be a link to the laboratory. The goal of this video is to inform you about if you don't know anything about it, how can you control it? Once we talk about a herbicide, it will also really leave a understanding, how will work your main coin of detoxification, which it is called a carriers carriers. and for information about how to keep the health of the brain you will receive from this course. The link is in the description. I invite you to the course on the channel on the channel of the brain. If you have a blood pressure, a blood pressure, a blood pressure and problems with food? Then this course is for you. He helps to restore the health of the brain. You will see my unique videos, special recipes and exercises for effective training. Subscribe to the course on the link below. See you soon!