If you are an athlete, this video will be especially useful to you. It is about how much potassium and sodium you need when you sweat. The problem is that most people worry about losing sodium when they sweat, but not about losing potassium. So this video is just for those people. We need about 4,700 milligrams of potassium every day. You can get by with two and a half thousand milligrams if there is no physical activity, but this does not satisfy all the functions of the body. You need at least 4,700. If you play sports, you have stress or inflammation, other problems, especially rheumatoid arthritis, then you need 6,000 milligrams per day. You need 2,300 milligrams of sodium per day. About a level teaspoon per day. But this is if you do not play sports. Let's say you train very intensively outside, it's hot in the summer, and you play tennis. You can lose up to two pounds. And for those who are better versed in the metric system, not that we Americans do, it's 0.9 kilograms, almost 1 kilogram of sweat every hour. So if you are a football player or a tennis player, or you  In a training camp, you are physically active, then you can lose a huge amount of fluid. What is the sodium loss? You know, the exact figure is very difficult to name, but approximately 500 to 2000 milligrams of sodium per hour is almost the recommended daily intake of sodium and potassium. You lose from 150 to 500 milligrams with sweat, but that's not all. There is a substance called glycogen. Glycogen is glucose stored in the muscles and liver, and each time glucose is deposited, potassium is needed. So, two things: firstly, you use up glycogen, and when you use it during training, you also lose potassium in addition to this amount. And if you are a marathon runner, you can take glycogen or gallium every hour. Some take it, a hundred milligrams every hour when participating in a race. If you take glycogen without gallium, potassium reserves are depleted even faster because potassium is required to store glucose in the form of glycogen. Even more will be spent, which is why marathon runners  There may be cramps, bloating, or fatigue. This is even more due to the loss of potassium than sodium. They consume salts but do not take potassium into account. Here are other symptoms of low potassium: nausea, vomiting, muscle weakness, muscle spasms, and rapid heartbeat. When you get a blood test, know that most of the potassium in the body (90-80%) is inside the cell, that is, in the muscles. It is in the blood. Therefore, there is a high probability that a blood test will not show a real potassium deficiency in your cells. I will leave several links in the description for additional information about kal. And check it out. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.