Hello, Doctor Berg, in this video we'll talk about myths about water. I know you were told that you need to drink 8 glasses of water a day. I was told this to everyone. They tell everyone this, and one day I'll finally find out who's saying this. If we need to do something just because we were told so, I always find this suspicious because most of these recommendations turn out to be complete nonsense. Probably everyone thinks that you need to divide your weight by 30 to get how many liters you need to drink per day. If you brought 90 kilograms, that would be 3 liters or twelve and a half glasses of water a day, and that's a lot of water. 12 regular glasses. Let's go over the myths. 1. It's 60 percent water, this is not true. On the contrary, there is zero percent water in the body. There is no water at all. It's all electrolyte solutions, blood, and lymph. All these fluids are electrolytes, these are elements, sodium, potassium, calcium, and there are many other things in these fluids. It's not just ordinary water, and that's not true. 2. The body doesn't know when it's experiencing  I love thirst. First of all, the body knows when it feels thirst. You can feel thirst, hunger, heat, cold, temperature. You can feel many things. You have 52 perceptions. When someone tells you that when you're hungry, you actually want to drink. This is fiction. It's a lie. Next, the third myth is that water washes away fat, so you need to drink more water because it helps you lose weight. There's not a single person in the world who has lost even a gram of fat because he drank a lot of water. This is a myth. You can't lose weight just by drinking water, and because fat doesn't dissolve in water, it can't be dissolved by pouring water on it. It's impossible. Take a piece of fatty bacon, pour water over it, shake it, and see if it dissolves. Sometimes it's just incredible what people believe in. Water also says that you need to drink more water to eat fewer calories later, and then your hunger will be less. This is true, but only until you go to the toilet for the first time. Myth 4: Water washes away toxins, and again, it's a lie. Toxins dissolve in fat, and don't inject pesticides, insecticides, and herbicides. Drugs are all fat-soluble, they don't dissolve in water. Water is nothing.  It won't wash away and the toxins will remain for life. In general, water won't wash away toxins from the image. Water helps dry skin. It's not true. Dry skin occurs with a vitamin deficiency, and because of this, the skin suffers. The eyes suffer and the mouth dries out. The body dries out when it doesn't have enough oils and fats. It's not about water. The same thing happens with joints. The joints are lubricated and the skin is lubricated. You look younger when the body has oil and fat, but not water. People who drink too much water are most dehydrated. How can this be? Because of the difference in electrolytes, there is a condition called hyponatremia. You can die from this condition. Is it okay to drink too much water because water washes out all the electrolytes and the cells in the body swell because they don't have electrolytes to use. Even the brain swells. This can lead to a coma or conformity, to an enlarged liver, to seizures. All this can happen if you drink too much water. As for me, I drink about 2-3 glasses of water a day. That's how much I drink for your body. It adapts if you drink little, you pee little; if you drink a lot, you pee a lot. The body tries to maintain a natural balance. Personally, I drink Pellegrino because I like that it's carbonated. Some people don't like it. It's natural mineral water. I think it's from Italy. That's what I drink. You can drink filtered water. The main thing is to drink only when you're thirsty. If someone starts telling you myths about water, send them this video. See you next time.