If you have chronic inflammation or pain, this video will be very useful to you. Inflammation is a huge problem. Unfortunately, people solve this problem by simply masking it with drugs, but the problem simply continues to exist. Today I will talk about the root causes of this problem. When the diagnosis is incorrect, it can worsen a person's condition, so it is vital to find the real root cause of the problem. Unfortunately, we do not often see this in medicine, and when I list possible causes, see which one looks like your case. I know that when a person is told the real problem, very often he simply intuitively believes it, it just seems logical to him. Yes, finally, someone has found the real cause. This is what I will try to do today and I will also show you the solution. So, in this video, we will try to identify the real problem regarding the solution. I will tell you what you need to focus on, but I will also tell you how to solve this problem and I have a lot of videos about this, but the first thing you need to do is try to understand what underlies inflammation. The best-selling drug in the world is the anti-inflammatory Humira. So, obviously, many people have inflammation. By the way, there is something very important that you should know. Cancer spreads in the area of ​​old injuries.  and inflammation So using the data that I will tell you to find the cause, you can potentially reduce the spread of cancer in such an area and God willing, get rid of cancer altogether because there is a very close connection between inflammation and cancer, inflammation and heart disease, inflammation and insulin competence So this is a problem, but inflammation can have many different sources, so when you start taking some natural remedy, say turmeric for inflammation and it does not work, then perhaps turmeric does not work on your cause of inflammation So let's consider the different causes of inflammation 1 elevated iron levels this does not happen very often and more often in men if there is too much iron due to some disorder, and in many men this problem develops after 50 years in the body A lot of iron can begin to accumulate because the body has a hard time removing it and this can cause cirrhosis of the liver And as soon as you start eating something like red meat or taking dietary supplements with iron, you feel very bad This is a good sign that you have too much iron excess iron can cause severe inflammation the case simply cannot get rid of the iron Here is another sign of excess iron you donate blood and you  It's getting better. Wow, and women's well- being improves during menstruation. This may be a sign of this problem. One of the remedies for this is phytic acid, it blocks minerals. This substance forms chelate compounds. I always advise avoiding it because it is found in cereals and it binds zinc, but as a remedy for high iron levels, it is effective. More data is available at the link below. If you think that this is your case number two, this is an important point and the main reason why many take Idol. You have an autoimmune disease. I have a lot of videos on this topic. The solution here is to take large doses of vitamin D3, 40 thousand e, constantly for some time, and you will feel better thanks to this. After all, if you just stop the inflammation from an autoimmune disease, especially if it is rheumatoid arthritis, the body immediately begins to eliminate all this damage and heal. Another remedy for this is Dudka in combination with vitamin D. Here, it is a type of bile salt that activates receptors for vitamin D without taking vitamin D itself. So, this is a very interesting remedy. But here, together with vitamin D, it can greatly alleviate an autoimmune disease. There is more.  data on this links to my videos on this topic below number three fiber As you know, the Cornelian diet is becoming very popular because people simply can't cope with fiber and I'm not even talking about grain fiber Who would doubt it If you eat grains with gluten, then even if you are not sensitive to fiber, all these omega-6 fatty acids simply tear the intestines and there will be all sorts of inflammation I'm talking about vegetables, even beans and so on, and legumes if the intestines are already damaged, then any fiber will increase this inflammatory process and the person will literally feel crippled, he will have many skin problems, various inflammations If you began to eat more fiber And you feel worse, sit on the Cornelian diet, does it get better, but all this is due to an imbalance of microflora in the intestines, because it eats fiber if you do not have the necessary microbes or there are few of them And these reactions occur due to fermentation in the intestines or higher in the small intestine, this simply destroys the intestines So that was number three number four is a very little known but very common reason and I know about this from  In my practice, people come with strong wills in the right shoulder and from fibromyalgia, mainly on the right, this is very common here and in the course of finding out the underlying cause, it turns out that the bile ducts are usually blocked by bile sediment or the entire gallbladder is simply sluggish for one reason or another, because of this, pressure is created that is transmitted through the tubes to the liver and the pain is reflected in this entire area, sometimes here in the back in the rhomboid muscle or in this muscle and so you receive therapy, undergo treatment, take medications. But if you do not understand that the problem is in the gallbladder and do not fix this problem, it will not go away. The remedy for this is here, I talked about it in connection with autoimmune diseases. This is a simple remedy, it thins the bile, bile begins to flow and you immediately feel relief and yes, you need to change your diet. I have a video about this, but the point is that here is just like a magic cure for gallbladder problems. I had this problem, it causes bloating, severe inflammation. I do n’t know a better remedy for this than here, number five, very  It is common to have severe bloating during digestion because you often eat in restaurants. And restaurant dishes have a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. Or you just eat regular food that has a lot of soybean corn oil that was fried in unsaturated fatty acids. This also destroys the intestines. There is an excellent analysis that you can do at home. There is a link to it below. It allows you to measure the ratio of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. You will be amazed when you find out how many people consume too much omega-6. Avoid some salad dressings and just do not eat in restaurants for a while and you will feel much better. Products such as chicken have a lot of omega-6 fatty acids. It is better to eat completely grass-fed beef because it has less omega-6 fatty acids. You have just taken antibiotics or have taken a lot of them in the past. This creates an imbalance in the intestines and even inflammation, which is fraught with scarring in the intestines. And this impairs absorption if  If this is your case, then none of the vitamins and nutrients you take simply do not work because the lining of the colon is covered with scars. The same thing happens if you also eat a lot of grains, as I did, which simply destroys the colon and at the same time your microflora is disrupted. Fermented foods or probiotics can help you. However, if you get worse, then you need to avoid these prebiotics for some time. And if you have small bowel syndrome, then bacteria are present in the small intestine and you will understand this because you get worse after probiotics, fiber, or fermented foods. If bloating increases from them, then you need to go on a root diet. It can be a little difficult to figure this out. But if this is your problem, I have a video about this. Number 7, let's say you have lower back pain. This is the first place where low vitamin D levels appear. How do you know that there is a connection? You can take an x-ray or donate blood for analysis. Yes, you can, but here's a very simple way: take 20 thousand of vitamin D3 and wait a few hours. If the cause of the problem is this, lower back pain will go away.  Understand that you need more vitamin D3, more sun. Number eight is food allergies. Of course, gluten is number one in this regard, but many people eat what they are allergic to: dairy products, nuts, eggs. There are typical allergies, there are rare food allergies, and not only them. They can be diagnosed by alternating foods. Eliminate certain foods. See if it gets better, whether the bloating and skin reaction have decreased. So you determine what you are allergic to, and an allergy test will show what you are actually allergic to. One way to deal with allergies, both seasonal and environmental, is periodic, long-term fasting. It will put the immune system in order. I also have a video about this. So, next, infection is number nine. Let's say you have a deep infection from an infected tooth, and you don't even realize that it is connected. If a dentist worked on you a lot and then problems arose, the matter may be in this. Very often, after dental treatment, including after root canal treatment, a general infection occurs that can affect the joints, for example, cause arthritis. A latent infection is also possible, for example, the Epstein-Barr virus. A latent infection is  The coronavirus goes into hibernation and waits until you get old and exhausted by stress, then it attacks. This usually manifests as lethargy, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, and not necessarily as a pronounced infection, but the key factor in the case of infection is stress. If many problems arise after stress, and usually this is severe stress, then you need to relieve stress by any means possible. No oregano oil, which I recommend for infection, will help you because stress activates cortisol, and cortisol paralyzes the immune system when the immune system is stressed. No, this also creates the basis for autoimmune diseases. But in the general case of infection, I recommend a natural antibiotic that also fights viruses. For example, oregano oil is an excellent remedy for yeast fungi, Candida, viruses, and bacteria. You can also take other remedies such as garlic, thyme, sage, there are quite a few. What about COVID, say, after you had COVID and now you have some kind of chronic inflammation, this is applicable to COVID. But in these cases, I highly recommend other remedies. I have a video about this, a link to it is below.  One very important nutrient that needs to be taken in case of this problem after covid is vitamin B1. It is needed in high doses for some time. I explain in detail this video which is linked below. If you have adrenal fatigue, this is number 10. Because there is a lot of stress in your life, you may have cortisol resistance. Cortisol simply reacts to stress and adapts the body to stress, but with prolonged excess cortisol, cortisol becomes inactive. An excellent example of this is Cushing's syndrome. Cortisol is elevated, but there are all the symptoms of low cortisol, namely, inflammation, allergies, skin problems. So, in case of problems with the adrenal glands and inflammation, adaptogens like ashwagandha are very helpful, and of course, vitamin D3 is very important. Gout is another inflammatory condition called high uric acid levels. But in fact, in this case, the body produces a lot of uric acid, but for some reason, the kidneys cannot remove this uric acid and it accumulates. The best remedy for this is to increase your pH and make the environment more alkaline. Thanks to this, gout attacks seem to decrease or  It becomes less acute. For this purpose, you need to use baking soda, alternating it with apple cider vinegar. After all, if you take a lot of baking soda for a long time, the opposite problem will arise. So, the pH needs to be raised and then lowered. There is a link to a video below about this, I already talked about allergies. But these are mainly environmental allergies. The remedy is also periodic long-term fasting, then insulin resistance. This is the root cause of many inflammations, which occurs in the stomach. What increases inflammation makes the liver become fatty. What increases inflammation. If you are new to my channel, you need the right diet. So, I have given you a lot of information. And now I want you to write in the comments. Here is what I am very interested in: which of these points seems more important to you in your case than all the others. And the general remedy for many of these problems is vitamin D. If you have not seen this video about vitamin D, take a look at it.