Hi all.  Today we'll discuss how to prevent kidney stones by following twenty scientifically proven tips.  You ask, what do I know about this ?  Am I an expert in this?  Well, I had a stone.  Never in my life have I experienced more pain.  I suddenly woke up with a severe, deep pain in my stomach.  It felt like someone had literally stuck a knife into my kidneys.  The pain did not subside.  I started to wake up my wife.  Darling, darling, wake up.  Take me to the hospital.  I'm dying.  Maybe she'll be here in the morning?  And I said, "No, we need to do it now."  And here we are at the hospital.  They gave me a morphine injection and inserted a catheter.  It was a nightmare.  I have never experienced such pain in my life. Two weeks later, I come home after a run, go to the toilet, start to urinate, and instead of urine, I see real blood.  I'm horrified.  What the hell is going on?  It looked like that kidney stone had sharp edges and was just rupturing the kidney.  If you've had a kidney stone or are at risk, you'll be so glad you watched this video. After all, on the Internet, in various videos, you can find all these solutions, all these explanations. But the question is: which one factor is most important to focus on?  And if you understand this, you will understand everything else.  I wish I had known this when I had a kidney stone.  I only found out about this a couple of weeks ago.  So, some super important information awaits you.  So, most kidney stones are calcium oxalate stones.  It is a compound of calcium and oxalate.  It is produced in the kidneys.  Sometimes urate stones form. Sometimes stones are formed from phosphorus.  But it doesn't matter, because the solution to the problem will be the same.  The solution will be this.   An online search for kidney stones yields information about citrates and citric acid.  For example, lemon juice helps dissolve the calcium portion.  But the body itself creates citrates.  However, many people with kidney stones have low citrate levels in their urine because their body is somehow unable to produce them.  I'll explain why.  We hear that we need to drink a lot of liquid, 2 liters per day. Why?  Because dehydration produces extremely concentrated calcium oxalate, which forms a stone.  But if the urine is diluted enough, the stone may never form. So this is also recommended to us.  And yes, this is important, but some people drink a lot of fluids and still develop stones.  So drinking plenty of fluids is important, but it's not the most important thing.  Number three.  Axalates.  These are compounds found in food.  They can accumulate in the body and cause arthritis.  They can combine with calcium to form kidney stones.  But axalates are not only found in food.  The body also creates them.  Most people probably had a bacteria that eats axlates as children, but it was later killed by taking antibiotics.  So many people no longer have the bacteria that eats axalates.  This may be one of the reasons why they have elevated axalate levels.  Axalates are found in abundance in almonds, in mental flour, in spinach, and of course in chocolate, in kiwi, in beets, in Mongolian peas, in various nuts and in legumes.  Nephrologists who deal with kidney stones have a brochure that says to avoid foods rich in axalates.  Number four. Vitamin K2.  Vitamin K2 prevents calcium deposits in soft tissues, joints, and blood vessels.  There is some evidence that it may help prevent calcium deposits in the kidneys and other tissues, but the data on this are limited.  We don't actually know whether K2 helps remove calcium from the kidneys, although there is some evidence that vitamin K2 helps retain calcium in bones and teeth. There is also information about urine pH. If your urine is too acidic, this can also increase the likelihood of stone formation. Therefore, it is recommended to alkalize urine to reduce the risk of certain stones, especially in infants. Citrates, lemon juice, etc. are suitable for this .  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Now we move on to the topic of vitamin D. And here things get quite interesting, because in fact, the only toxic effect of high doses of vitamin D is the formation of kidney stones. What's the matter here?  Do high doses of vitamin D cause kidney stones?  Well, once you understand this factor, everything will become clear with this too .  This element has an extremely high ability to bind axalates.  In other words, it binds to axalates much more strongly than calcium. And when this element binds with axalates, it does not form stone.  I'll give you one more hint.  It is a cofactor of vitamin D. That is, it is an assistant.  It is an essential element that allows vitamin D to work.  If you have a deficiency of this element, vitamin D will work less well.  That is, calcium can be absorbed in your intestines and enter the bloodstream, but it stays there.  It does not get into bones and teeth.  It accumulates in the blood and gradually penetrates into the kidneys.  And these are ideal conditions for the formation of kidney stones.  And it’s all about the deficiency of this element.  That's why when someone takes a lot of vitamin D but doesn't take this element, I'll talk about it later. His calcium level rises sharply and only gets halfway there.  It does not get into bones and teeth.  Moreover, this element controls calcium inside cells.  There are many health problems where calcium accumulates inside our power plants, the mitochondria in various cells, and ultimately damages the cells, leading to heart attacks and so on. There are even drugs to lower blood pressure, calcium channel blockers. And this thing is a natural calcium channel blocker not only for kidney stones.  but also for many other problems.  Next, phosphorus.  I won't go into details about phosphorus, but you need to know that phosphate stones can also form.  But if you have enough of this element, phosphate rock will not form. If you have enough of this element, you will also have increased levels of citrates in your urine, which dissolve calcium and prevent it from combining with axalates.  And this element increases the pH, making it more alkaline, thereby preventing the formation of urate stones.  It is also an antispasmodic.  When I had a kidney stone, it felt like I had a spasm in my kidney.  It's a pity I didn't have this remedy.  After all, this is a remedy for any spasms.  And it has an anti-crystallization effect.  Simply put, it prevents the stone from forming sharp edges. It slows down the formation of stones.  It makes the stone slippery enough so that it doesn't develop nicks and doesn't get stuck in the kidney.  This element helps to reduce the level of parathyroid hormone.  You need to know that if your parathyroid hormone levels are high, it takes calcium from your bones and puts it into your blood, making the situation worse.  But this reduces parathyroid hormone.  It works with vitamin D to help regulate calcium so it goes to the bones instead of the kidneys.  And this is magnesium. Magnesium.  Imagine, magnesium is undoubtedly the most important element to focus on to avoid kidney stones.  If you already have a kidney stone, you need to focus on magnesium.  Now let's discuss how to prevent kidney stones.  All this can be done if there is already a kidney stone.  This will help dissolve it.  These are 20 science-backed tips.   Did you remember to press the bell? Number one.  Magnesium glycinate.  300-400 mg per day.  If your diet contains enough magnesium, you don't need magnesium supplements.  Unless you are in a risk group.  Perhaps your parents had kidney stones or you are genetically predisposed.  Glycinate is glycine bound to magnesium.  It greatly improves sleep and also helps increase glutathione levels, which is an antioxidant that can significantly improve kidney health.  Therefore, I recommend taking magnesium glycinate with lemon water regularly. Magnesium glycinate with lemon water is an excellent remedy.  Magnesium glycenate is available as a soluble powder. You can also add lemon water to mineral water because mineral water is a good source of magnesium, so this will help a lot.  Number three.  Leafy greens.  The chlorophyll in leafy greens is green precisely because it contains magnesium.  Avocados contain a lot of magnesium. Pumpkin seeds contain quite a lot of magnesium. But if you count how much magnesium is in your food, it's likely not as much as you might think. You probably need to increase its dose to a therapeutic one.  Number five.  Should we reduce the axalate content in our diet?  Yes, they are found in spinach, almonds, almond flour, chocolate.  But here's what's interesting. These foods, spinach, mint and chocolate, are also extremely rich in magnesium. And magnesium binds to axalates. It is as if nature has specially added an antidote to this poison, this toxin, into these products.  I'm not entirely sure that spinach, almonds or chocolate can cause a stone in the mail. After all, they contain a lot of this antidote.  But just in case, you can eat less of them. Number six.  I already mentioned phosphorus.  We need phosphorus from regular healthy foods.   It won't do any harm.  But junk food, especially sweet soda, contains a lot of phosphoric acid.  This artificial form of phosphorus is harmful to the kidneys.  It won't help you avoid kidney stones. Not only can it cause kidney stones, but it can also create many other problems.  So I would cut out junk food and sugary soda.  Number seven.  If you take vitamin D, be sure to take magnesium as well.  Or if you buy a bat with vitamin D, it should also contain magnesium.  If you have enough cofactors, magnesium, vitamin K2, and zinc, they will help protect you from excess calcium in the body.  Number eight.  Avoid calcium carbonate. Almost all major brand multivitamins and minerals have calcium carbonate as their main ingredient.  And this is literally limestone.  We don't need a lot of calcium.  It can cause the formation of kidney stones.  Therefore, I recommend getting calcium from food, such as cheese and other dairy products.  They are made from limestone and are certainly not from dietary supplements where the main ingredient is limestone.  Number nine. Drink 2.5 liters of fluid per day.  I recommend drinking this much, but the water should not be soft.  If you have a water softening system, it removes minerals from the water.  Hard water contains both calcium and magnesium.  The risk of developing kidney stones is reduced by drinking hard water, such as well or spring water.  But no matter what kind of water you drink, if you drink 2.5 liters of liquid, you are unlikely to form a stone, especially if you do all this.  Number 10. Potassium-rich foods are important.  Foods that are high in magnesium are also high in potassium.  So there won't be any problems here.  Potassium alkalizes urine and helps prevent the formation of urate stones.  It also helps retain citrates.  This is another beneficial property of potassium.  11. Diabetes increases the risk of kidney stones.  If the norm deviates significantly in one direction or another, various stones may appear, but carbohydrates should be cut down to reduce the risk of stone formation. In type 2 diabetes, there is usually a severe magnesium deficiency.  If there is a lot of sugar in the body, whether it comes from food or not, the need for magnesium increases.  Sugar deprives us of magnesium and other nutrients.  Number 12. Fermented foods.  It may help potentially repopulate the gut with axalate-eating bacteria.  There are some interesting studies that suggest that fermented foods and probiotics may reduce the risk of kidney stones.  13. Avoid high fructose corn syrup and all junk food, as it increases the risk of kidney stones.  Next, reduce your alcohol consumption.  After all, it puts a lot of strain on the kidneys and liver, creating conditions for stone formation. 15. There must be enough hydrochloric acid in the stomach .  As we age, stomach acidity decreases, making it harder for us to absorb minerals like magnesium.  How do you know if your stomach acidity is low?  Typical symptoms: indigestion, gas, severe bloating, possible acid reflux, herbamine hydrochloride will increase the acidity in the stomach.  Not only will you relieve these symptoms, but you will also absorb more nutrients like magnesium.  The more chronic stress you have, the more magnesium deficiency you will have .  If you are under a lot of stress, you need much higher doses of magnesium, especially if you are not sleeping well.  17. If you sweat a lot , say during workouts or in general, you may have a magnesium deficiency, because it is lost through sweat.  If you spend a lot of time in a hot tub or sauna, you also lose more magnesium.  Also, if you're overtrained, if you do a lot of strength training, or if you run marathons, you need magnesium to produce energy, what's called ATP.  So the need for magnesium is extremely high for athletes, especially if you are overtrained.  The little motors, the mitochondria, need more magnesium.  There are also medications that deprive us of magnesium, especially diuretics, antibiotics, steroids, and birth control pills.  And the last one is the second one.  Sulfur in drinking water can deprive us of magnesium.  You have learned more about kidney stones.  If you want to learn what other deficiencies lead to and how to avoid them, take this course, link below. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals.  Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways: from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity.  How to fix this safely? Will pharmacy vitamins help?  What supplements should I take?  How and when?  In the Nutrient Deficiency course, Dr. Berg will discuss vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists. Everything you need to get a clear understanding of this topic.  Sign up for the course using the link below.