This is Dr. Burke.  Today we'll talk about how to strengthen your legs.  But the point is not just to make your legs stronger, but to increase your life expectancy.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. Your legs, their strength and ability to support you, are one of the best indicators of how long you will live.  After all, the legs give many early warning signals about dangerous conditions in the body.  And the older you are, the more important this is.  If you are over 50, you need to watch this video.  If you are under 10, check it out to prevent problems and to determine by your legs if you have a problem in your body. Number one is what's called peripheral neuropathy.  This usually happens with diabetes. After all, with diabetes, the blood sugar level is high, and because of this, the vascular system is destroyed, as well as the nervous system, because high sugar levels are toxic, and the reason why people with diabetes experience anemia, pain, tingling or tingling, first in the feet, and sometimes in the fingertips, is this .  There are very long nerves going to the fingers.  And the further these nerves are from the heart, the more problems they have, because they receive slightly less oxygen, blood, and nutrients than tissues that are closer to the heart.  If you have peripheral neuropathy in your feet, you need to understand what is happening.  It's a blood sugar problem .  You probably have diabetes or diabetes mellitus.  Normally, the body very tightly controls blood sugar levels.  In a normal state, there should be only one teaspoon of sugar in your entire blood.  And if you factor in all the starch in your food, you're looking at 50 to 100 teaspoons of sugar, including the hidden sugar that's ingested.  If the normal amount of sugar in the blood is one teaspoon, imagine what all this sugar does to the blood vessels and what the body is forced to do to remove this sugar.  He cleans it up like crazy, using a vacuum cleaner called insulin.   The normal sugar level is one teaspoon, but with diabetes there are only two teaspoons of sugar in the blood.  All this means is that the body doesn't like sugar in the blood, so it removes it. But with two teaspoons of sugar in the blood, a person has a problem with insulin.  Either there is strong resistance to it and it no longer works, or the pancreas is exhausted and secretes little insulin.  You've lost your sugar vacuum and your blood sugar is high.  That's when all the problems with blood vessels that I'll talk about arise. This is especially evident in the soles of the feet.  In general, excess sugar is fatal for blood circulation and nerves.  Number two. Swelling of the ankles and feet.  You know, when I travel somewhere or visit different places, I always notice someone in sandals or other open shoes with very swollen feet and swollen shins. I want to approach this person, but I refrain.  This is a very serious swelling. If you press on your ankle, it will leave an indentation.  This is the so-called postoseness.  This is not a trifle.  This is a big problem.  Or a person is left with a strong indentation around the ankle from the elastic of the socks.  Surprisingly, I had something similar. I had post-natalism in my youth, it’s amazing, but true.  This is a sign of poor circulation.  so bad that the kidneys, liver or heart suffer, and less oxygen reaches the feet because the blood does not circulate, it just stagnates there.  Imagine what a strain this is on the heart.  Here's how it works.  The arterial system carries blood to the extremities, to the fingers and toes.  The blood then reaches the end of this long chain, passes through capillaries, tiny vessels, and then enters the venous system.   The venous system returns blood to the heart.  In this case, it passes through the lungs, is enriched with oxygen, and the cycle repeats.  If at the end of this chain there is blood or fluid stagnating in the feet, there is a blockage in the system.  The heart works hard to push blood through the congestion.  So number two is a sure sign that you have a deeper problem.  It can't be ignored, something needs to be done.  I think you should choose natural remedies.  After all, doctors often simply prescribe blood thinners and observe.  Number three. Restless legs syndrome.  What is this?  This is when your legs become very, very restless.  I usually had this problem at night.  She drove me crazy. I had to get up at 4:00 in the morning and beat my legs because there was so much energy in them that I couldn't relax and sleep.  I didn't know that my diet was the reason for this.  Excess sugar and starch, and I was eating a lot of ice cream and drinking alcohol at the time, deprives you of certain vitamins and leads to excess lactic acid buildup, which causes a feeling of cramping and impairs circulation.  I didn't know there were a couple of remedies for this.  Firstly, you need to change your diet, and secondly, you need to take vitamin B1.  B1 is an excellent solution to this problem along with magnesium. B1 with magnesium counteracts the effects of large amounts of sugar in the diet.  But understand that a deficiency of B1 and magnesium is caused precisely by a large amount of empty carbohydrates.  So, dietary changes and taking B1 with magnesium will get rid of this syndrome. The problem with restless legs syndrome is that it deprives you of sleep, and lack of sleep shortens your life expectancy. There is a strong link between lack of sleep and an increased risk of heart attack and stroke. Lack of sleep increases the risk of diabetes due to increased cortisol levels, but otherwise, there are no problems with the third point .  Let's move on to number four. Deep vein thrombosis.  This is the formation of blood clots.  One of the dangers of thrombosis is that a blood clot in the veins of the legs can break off and enter the lungs.  This is bad.  It can even kill.  Between 90 and 95% of all heart attacks and strokes are caused by blood clots, not plaques, that form in the vessels.  So you need to pay attention to this.  This is very important.  There is something in the body that increases the risk of blood clots.  And I'll talk about this in the second part.  But two risk factors for thrombosis are stress and, again, a high-carbohydrate diet. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Let's move on to number five. Peripheral arterial disease.  This is a lesion of an artery that can occur not only in the heart area, but also in other parts of the body.  In particular, this is atherosclerosis.  decreased elasticity of the arteries, and not only in the heart area.  I'll tell you a little more about what to do about this. Inside the vessels there is a layer one cell thick.  This is the so-called endothelium.   It is very important to maintain the health of this tissue, because otherwise the vessels narrow, lose elasticity, become rigid, harden, they become inflamed, and then the body tries to heal them with the help of plaques.  It's a kind of adhesive bandage.  But an even bigger problem is the formation of blood clots, which can break off and travel to the brain, causing a stroke.  Many more people die from blood clots .  That is, peripheral arterial disease is plaque. Number six.  Chronic venous insufficiency.   What we are talking about here is the accumulation of blood in the veins. Very often this is associated with a sedentary lifestyle, as well as lack of exercise. After all, in order for the blood to return to the heart through the veins, the muscles must work.  Too many people move too little.   This results in venous insufficiency and blood stagnation.  The heart has to work harder to push blood.  Interestingly, with venous insufficiency, the skin color on the ankles changes, small brownish spots appear, and hair falls out. The skin becomes thinner and posturality definitely appears.  The problem is that there is not enough oxygen in the lower legs , and this can reduce life expectancy.  Number seven. Sarcopenia is the age-related loss of muscle mass.  One of the main predictors of mortality in old age.  Just loss of muscle mass. After all, muscles are a very important metabolic organ.  We have a lot of mitochondria.  These are energy plants, they help burn sugar.  If you lose muscle, you lose a very important reserve for long life. Sarcopenia results from a combination of factors including aging, poor diet, deficiencies of cofactors, especially magnesium, vitamin D and zinc, and a sedentary lifestyle.  And consuming animal protein in combination with exercise helps preserve muscle. But trust me, you need to learn from other people's mistakes and do your best to train regularly as you get older.  You should have a goal to improve your fitness every year.  After all, you are fighting aging.  You need to build up an extra reserve of physical fitness to compensate for the aging process, which no one can escape, and to ensure that you retain as much muscle as possible in old age.  Let's discuss type 2 diabetes first.  It's related to the peripheral neuropathy that I talked about and a lot of the other things that I talked about.  The more problems you have with blood sugar, the more problems you will have with the inner lining of your blood vessels.  And it just amazes me that when a doctor diagnoses you with diabetes, he doesn't immediately tell you to go on a low-carb diet.  Instead, they tell you, "We'll manage your blood sugar and even give you glucose tablets. If your blood sugar drops too low, take them to keep it up."  The point is that it all comes down to managing the consequences caused by the root cause, which is essentially an excess of carbohydrates in the diet.  I don’t want to go off topic, but I’ll say this: I don’t know if this is done on purpose. Probably yes.  In medicine, everything is fragmented, divided into separate compartments.  Everything is arranged in such a way as to hide or prevent the connection, cause and effect from being seen. Doctors are divided into narrow specializations. We don't put it all together.  The whole system is designed to avoid looking at the root causes.  Nobody looks at the lifestyle.  Everyone is just managing the consequences.  And even in studies, it all comes down to the fact that there is some connection, but no one ever says directly: “This causes this.”  Or they offer screening for early detection to get you on medication sooner. Unfortunately, there is no real prevention.  And if you have type 2 diabetes, you should try switching to a low-carb diet and intermittent fasting.  Two meals a day or even one meal a day.  Because, according to serious research, type 2 diabetes can be reversed in 10 weeks on a low-carb diet.  But in addition to this, you can improve the condition of the fatty liver, the arterial system, you can improve the blood supply to the legs and you can certainly alleviate peripheral neuropathy.  For peripheral neuropathy, I recommend two remedies that will help heal the nerves in the soles of the feet and the fingertips. One of them is benfatiamine.  Take one tablet four times a day.  Works great.  And the second is alpha lipoic acid.  These two wonderful remedies will help reverse peripheral neuropathy.  And we need to eliminate the root cause: put our diet in order.  Let's discuss the lymphatic system and veins.  So, with a sedentary lifestyle, most people accumulate fluid in their legs.  After all, the heart does not pump blood through the veins the same way as during exercise or movement.  But there is one great muscle.  This is the soleus muscle.  It is under the exocutaneous muscle.  This is a completely unique muscle.  And one person came up with an exercise for her. Rise of pyatoxidia.  Anyone can do it , especially those who lead a sedentary lifestyle and spend a lot of time at the computer. You can do heel raises and have a big impact on your blood sugar levels and circulation.   By doing this, you push blood back to the heart and reduce the load on it.  It's like you have a second heart in your calf muscle.  The soleus muscle is unique in that it does not tire.  She is incredibly resilient and very effective. I highly recommend doing this exercise while you are sitting.  I'll show you a video clip from the person who developed this exercise so you can understand how to do it.  Imagine your talocrural joint.  Sometimes it helps to have someone place one finger on the ball of your foot and the other on your ankle where it straightens. Imagine the place where the foot connects to the ankle.  You simply extend this joint.  This is the movement you need to think about.  This will help you avoid many of the mistakes we'll discuss later that some doctors make when filming videos for patients. Next, as you do this, apply light pressure to the ball of your foot.  This is the place where the toes connect to the foot, the so-called metatarsophalangeal joints. Apply gentle pressure to it, bending the tray. Don't press too hard or you 'll start to strain the muscles in your upper leg.  All thigh muscles should be completely relaxed. Further movements should be uniform and dynamic.  The speed can vary quite a bit, but the movements should be smooth, as you can see in these shots.  up and down, up and down.  Very smooth, even movement without jerking.  There should be no jerks or pauses.  We will discuss other points later.  And one more thing about muscles. Our muscles consume only 15% of their energy at rest.  The brain consumes 20% of energy at rest.  If you're sedentary and you're consuming a lot of calories and you think, "My muscles will burn those calories," no, they're only using a small percentage of that energy, 15%. This is why it is so important to exercise regularly and systematically. A few words about sarcopenia.  This means that as you age, your muscles become smaller and smaller, and you become weaker and weaker.  There is an interesting test called "Sit, Stand".  I'll show you a video clip about this.  This test predicts life expectancy.  And after the video, we'll see if you can do it.  I recommend doing this on a surface that is not too slippery.  Basically, you have to lower yourself down and sit down, and then try to stand up without using your hands. Let's see how this is done.   Is there any benefit to getting up from the floor more gracefully?  Of course, this is an indicator of overall strength, but especially core and hip strength.  So, here's how it's recommended to do it.  I'll show you how to start getting up from the floor without using your hands or kneeling.  We cross our legs and first just sit down.  How low can you go?  You can sit like this. Now can you cross your legs underneath you?  Then fall slightly or swing forward. And can you stand up without using your hands? So, let's look at this part first.  If you find this really difficult to do, just practice squatting.  How low can you squat?  Can you do an Asian pose?  This is a very deep preset.  You can press your hands to your knees.  I like to push my hips back.  This is a good one, it looks weird, even very weird, but it really helps improve hip mobility.  So, just squat.  Take something like a yoga block or a book. Sit on such a small elevation, chest forward and stand up. This way you can just practice basic squats. I already showed the pistol.  This is a one-legged squat.  Get a chair, practice squatting as low as you can and standing up on one leg.  Next is the wiper exercise. This exercise improves flexibility and mobility of the hips.  First option. Just lean back and do this back and forth .  The legs move like car windshield wipers.  Simply bend your knees and lower both knees to one side and then to the other. You can lean on your hands behind you.  Then you can try doing this exercise without supporting yourself with your hands.  Finally, try to keep your body more upright, without bending.  Keep your body straight and do this.  And then like this. If someone decides, I don't need to be able to stand up without using my hands, maybe I can get up on my knees and then on my feet. Continue this movement like this and stand up.  If you haven't done this test yet, pause the video and do it, and let me know below if you succeeded.  A few words about swelling.  I said that they cause damage to the kidneys, liver or heart.  Essentially, blood accumulates in the lower part of the body. You absolutely need to push it up through heel raises, walking, and exercise.  But don't forget about potassium.  Potassium is excellent at counteracting sodium and removing fluid.  It is a natural diuretic. And we need 4,700 mg of potassium every day. Few people get that much. This is a myth.  It's as if potassium is harmful to the kidneys. The truth is, if you have late- stage kidney disease, you should talk to your doctor before taking potassium.  But unless you have advanced kidney disease, potassium in high doses or even normal doses in the form of electrolyte powder will remove a lot of fluid.  But you also need to cut down on carbohydrates and do intermittent fasting.  After all, carbohydrates are another important cause of swelling. Many people, having switched to a low-carb keto diet, lose from 3 to 5 kg within 2 days.   A lot of it is water weight, and it is excess fluid that leaves the body.  This abbreviation is the chemical formula for nitric oxide.  H nitric oxide improves the condition of the inner surface of the endothelium of blood vessels.  helps to relax and dilate blood vessels. How can we increase nitric oxide levels? Exercise, sun, infrared light, and ultraviolet light increase nitric oxide levels. Nasal breathing, especially during sleep, increases nitric oxide levels.  High doses of vitamin D increase nitric oxide levels.  This is probably the most effective option.  And if we talk about food, then the best product for increasing the level of nitrates, which are converted into nitric oxide.  This is a rukala.  These are the greens that I eat, and beets.  I drink organic beetroot juice powder.  I add raw cacao powder, which is essentially chocolate.  I stir some cocoa into raw milk about two hours after drinking coffee in the morning.  After all, cocoa contains polyphenols, and they significantly increase nitric oxide levels.  And I combine it with beetroot juice.  The taste is specific, I like it.  If you mix it in water, it tastes a little nasty, but in raw milk it tastes great.  I use a blender to mix it well.  This is great for increasing nitric oxide levels.  Magnesium also increases nitric oxide levels. Nitric oxide levels are reduced by smoking, pollution, stress, a sedentary lifestyle, alcohol, empty carbohydrates, sugar, and healthy eating habits – these are antacids – as well as mouthwash.  Next, I have already talked about this several times, regular training. Let's say you can't overcome laziness or you don't have time to exercise. Micro workouts, very short workouts throughout the day, even just 1 minute, can be equivalent to longer workouts. Do what you can.  If you have a choice between the elevator and the stairs, take the stairs.  If you spend a lot of time sitting at the computer, take frequent breaks for short workouts.  This gives a cumulative effect.  But you really need to start moving more and more. And, of course, you need to get enough sleep, because you need to recover after training. I invite you to Dr. Berg's healthy ketogenic and intermittent fasting program .  Whether you're just starting out or your progress has stalled, this program can help you.  You will have access to a huge number of video tutorials.  There is a video about what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed .  There are lots of examples of what and how to eat.  I will also tell you what to avoid in detail. When you're trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom.  I will give you solutions that will definitely help you.   The next point is food.  This is an important part of a healthy ket.  You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition when it comes to food.  Because food is the very building blocks of your health.  And it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients.  It's not just about cutting calories, it's about nutrients too .  I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body is lacking, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. So, this program increases your chances of success and also shows you how to do it right to establish new healthy habits for the rest of your life.