Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. Let's discuss what's better: squeezing juice or blending. When is one better and when is the other? Squeezed juice is very good for chronic conditions, for example, during recovery after chemotherapy or some illness. Squeezed juices are very convenient because you can take a lot of vegetables and greens and easily drink them, so to speak. The problem is that without fruit, vegetable juices are difficult to drink. If you add fruit, apples, pears, etc., your sugar will jump. Even carrot juice has a lot of sugar, as a result, insulin will jump, and this is bad. But I recommend squeezing juices for chronic health problems. For most people, a blender is better because then the entire product enters. You can take vegetables and blend them, say with a small amount of berries. This mixture will contain all the fiber that softens the insulin response. The fiber does not allow insulin to jump. The fiber will provide food for the bacteria. There are hundreds of trillions of bacteria living in the intestines. I don't think there are even 1,000 trillion, hundreds of trillions of cells and 1,000  Trillions of bacteria grow both outside and inside. The bacteria in the intestines feed on fiber. It's better to feed them fiber from vegetables. They're made from bran. This will really help feed them. For most people, it's better this way. Personally, I put my favorite vegetable, kale, in a blender. It has a lot of vitamins and phytonutrients that are good for the liver. I personally like the dark green organic kind. I freeze it so it lasts longer. It's already washed and chopped. It's very convenient. I also like frozen small portions of parsley. Parsley has a very bitter taste. It's interesting that both of these products are side dishes, but as a side dish, no one eats them. Parsley should be combined with beets, and then you'll have a wonderful shake with a sharp taste. They're rich in vitamin A and the phytonutrient AMI. It's good for the eyes, for the liver, they help burn fat, and they eliminate fat around the liver. Personally, I'm not trying to lose weight. I recommend it. I personally add organic berries to the shake, about a glass of this mixture. For some people, berries can slow down weight loss, but that's if the metabolism is very  Slow and for most people there will be no problem if you add a glass of berries to the shake just so the taste is not so sharp, I also add lemon juice. I like it, is it Valkein and why? Because the trees grow on volcanic soil in Italy. This is amazing lemon juice. I add about 60 milliliters of juice to the shake. Why? Because lemon juice prevents kidney stones. Adding it to the shake is not necessary. I just like the taste. I like the citrus notes in the shake + protection from stones. I also add a teaspoon of wheatgrass juice concentrate. This powder additionally enhances my shake with some useful properties. Yes, there are vitamins and microelements and chlorophyll, but the juice of the grass type has one feature. It has a unique factor. I mean a growth factor. This does not mean that it grows. It is mainly good for the skin. It heals well. It was used to treat burns, because wheatgrass helps the skin heal. It has a restorative effect on the skin and on the inner skin. It is used for irritable bowel syndrome and stomach ulcers.  It helps very well, sometimes it even helps with leprosy, skin ulcers and diabetic ulcers on the legs. It helps with healing, a lot of things for collagen and overall health benefits, so I add it to my shakes. For this, I also add a teaspoon and beat everything in a blender. The result is two such jars. I drink one at a time, drink through a large straw, drink one jar right away and put the second in the refrigerator and drink in the evening. I drink tel shakes, but not every day, I drink them two or three times a week, on the other days I just eat greens or vegetables. That's how I get greens. If I drink a shake, I don't eat greens anymore. Shakes are good because they are convenient; I drank it and it feels good for my liver. If I miss a dose, I already feel unwell. Besides, shish saturates the body with moisture and seems to increase oxygen levels. It is easier to breathe when you drink it. The most important thing here is parsley. Try my recipe and tell us about the results in the comments. I hope you liked the video. See you again soon. Thank you very much for watching. Please.  Subscribe to the channel and see you soon