Let's talk about 9 prescription drugs that can kill, but of course, consult with your doctor. I'm not telling you to stop taking anything, I just want you to be aware of the risk /benefit ratio of these medications, as well as their effectiveness and side effects. 1 on my list is a common drug called corticosteroids. Basically, corticosteroids are silent killers. They are most often taken for inflammation, allergies, autoimmune diseases, asthma, psoriasis, and so on. I took corticosteroids for poison ivy allergies for many years and they definitely had side effects, but short-term use is one thing, but long-term use is another. We're talking about long-term use and what they can do to your body. And by the way, these are not the steroids bodybuilders use, these are different steroids. Here are some of their side effects: loss of appetite, moon face, which is when the face becomes round, belly fat, a hump, which is a large fat pad below the neck, thin skin, increased risk of infection, mood changes, osteoporosis, adrenal suppression.  and the worst side effect is bone marrow suppression. You need to understand that red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are produced by the bone marrow. If the bone marrow is suppressed, this can lead to serious consequences because the blood cells die and there is nothing to replace them with. As a result, there is a serious loss of white blood cells and anemia. The immune system can also fail, and a common cold or flu or just a sore throat can eventually kill you. People die from simple infections. If you take corticosteroids for a long time, talk to your doctor and discuss these serious side effects. The second is chemotherapy. I mean what is called systemic anticancer therapy. This is chemotherapy that affects the entire body. There is a study (link below) called 30-day survival after systemic anticancer therapy. It shows that this therapy increases the risk of death within 30 days. The problem with chemotherapy is that it does more harm than good. It kills the immune system. Sometimes, healthy tissue doesn't matter to it. Another problem is that it can't cope with  The real cause of the horn is located in the mitochondria, but instead it attacks the DNA of cells. Most studies of the true causes of cancer are now looking at mitochondria, they are DNA, and it's quite ironic that chemotherapy increases the risk of cancer. A side effect of chemotherapy, which should get rid of cancer, ultimately causes cancer. It is possible to develop secondary cancer after you get rid of the primary one. Is it possible to activate a cancer that already existed and went into remission? Because chemotherapy suppresses the immune system, a key system that helps fight cancer and maintain life. In the US alone, more than $200 billion has been spent on cancer drugs and procedures, as well as radiation therapy. It's also sad that 40 percent of health insurance is spent in the last month of a person's life when they are fighting cancer. Next, antidepressants: every eighth person is on antidepressants. Antidepressants increase the risk of premature death by 33 percent, with a total of 100 percent increase in the risk of suicide. The risk of getting into an accident increases by 40 percent, and if you add alcohol to antidepressants, the risk increases to seventy.  percent and all this for a side effect in the power of drowsiness, there is also serotonin syndrome, which occurs with an excess of serotonin. People do not understand that serotonin is needed by many organs, for example, the heart, lungs, kidneys, and liver. When you take drugs that affect serotonin, you also affect these organs, increasing the risk of dying due to the failure of these same organs. Therefore, there is a risk of dying from a heart attack and stroke or other diseases. The next drug is called bromocriptine. It is used for Parkinson's disease and also with high levels of prolactin in the blood. It can lead to fatal vascular failure. In this case, blood flow essentially stops and so-called sudden sleep also occurs. Let 's say you are driving and suddenly fall asleep. This is the most serious side effect of this drug. Next comes clarithromycin, an antibiotic that acts on certain types of bacteria. This drug increases the risk of death by 27 percent, mainly due to problems with the cardiovascular system. This can happen even after stopping treatment with this drug. I don't know about you, but I don't like this risk. The next drug is eyes. PIN im  It treats schizophrenia. It has a very high risk of serious side effects, including heart attack and the so-called lazy bowel syndrome, which can cause severe constipation and even death. The seventh idol, I already talked about it in another video. It is the best-selling drug for inflammation and everything related to inflammation. It is a biological drug and it suppresses the immune system. There is a danger sign on the box, which means that side effects can be very serious. Side effects can lead to infection, which causes sepsis, which is an infection of the entire body and even death. This drug has one caveat: it should not be taken for tuberculosis; it can lead to death. Further, colchicine is usually used to treat gout. Sanitary supervision has designated this drug as having a high risk due to its critical toxicity; it can lead to death even in small doses of 35 milligrams. Finally, digoxin, also known as khlama xin, is usually used for heart disease, cardiovascular failure, and atrial fibrillation. The problem with this drug is that it increases the risk of death by 20 percent, which is a lot, especially if taken with  Quinidine, I just wanted you to know that if you're taking these medications, you should consult with your doctor and find out if this is really the best choice. If you haven't watched the video about how to significantly improve your health, you should watch it. Here it is, take a look.