Today we're going to talk about anxiety and stress and I'll use one of my favorite books, a dictionary. But isn't it wonderful? The Oxford English-Italian dictionary uses and meanings of words. The beauty of this dictionary is that it was created for Chinese people learning English, so it has very simple, excellent definitions, whereas in other dictionaries you have to figure out the meaning of the words that appear in the definitions themselves, and then the meaning of the words in those definitions. So this is a great dictionary, it just gives the meaning of the word. So today we'll get acquainted with the definitions of different words that are related to anxiety and stress. I'll show you something very interesting on this topic. We can learn a lot about this. The first word we'll look at is the definition of anxiety. What is anxiety? Anxiety is a state of nervousness or worry about something bad happening. Essentially, anxiety is worrying about something. Let's look at the word worry. So, worry is constantly thinking about something unpleasant. What might happen or about the problems you have. So, when you worry, you think about something. What might happen. Or it might not happen. Usually people worry not about something pleasant but about unpleasant things associated with some problem. So when you are in a state of anxiety, you think about something. What may happen. Or it may not happen. And usually this is associated with something unpleasant. A problem. And let's look at the word think. Use your mind to consider something. Form related ideas. Try to solve problems. In our case, this part of solving problems is suitable. So when a person is anxious, when he worries, he actually thinks about problems. So, a problem is something that is difficult to deal with or that is difficult to understand. So, in theory, the better we understand something, the less of a problem it is for us. This is especially true for anxiety, because when we worry, we probably do not understand something. Here is an example. Let's say someone called you and left a message. You listen to this message and hear: Call me back, I have bad news, but you can't get through to this person. What will happen tonight? You will worry. You will think about this problem because you do not understand it. If the problem is not understood, it continues to exist. The second definition of this word is a question that can be answered using logical thinking or mathematicians this definition probably refers to mathematical problems but it also refers to what we do when we think about problems because we try to solve them we puzzle over them trying to solve them let's look at the word speculation how it is defined forming an opinion about what happened or may happen without knowing all the facts typical of TV news Yes thousands of people may die because of an approaching hurricane but that's not a fact at all it's just an opinion a hurricane is approaching we don't know if thousands of people will die but it's a great way to create a problem for you of course news agencies do this to get attention because facts don't sell well but speculation is good some things I can control and some I can't but I prefer to solve problems based on facts news agencies use something else called speculation or presenting facts and events in a worse light or in a more shocking form than they actually are of course they do this because it sells and can grab your attention and when reading the news you open articles with the most shocking headlines and we have one more word left to look at speculation is an opinion not based on  knowledge is essentially just an assumption, often people worry about something that was completely made up, most of these things are based on opinions, speculation, exaggeration, When you see a threat, danger, negativity, problems, Guess what happens to your adrenal glands, they begin to produce adrenaline and cortisol, How does this affect the immune system, because of this, we age prematurely, I decided to make this video to talk about interesting observations about how much time people spend on average worrying about things that they probably shouldn’t worry about, Just find more facts about what worries you to better understand it and take vitamin B1, it will greatly help your body and relieve you of nervous tension, taking adaptogens such as ashwagandha is very helpful, because what do adaptogens do, they increase sleep, adapt to stress, take long walks, keep exercising, be in nature and limit the amount of speculation and news in general that you are bombarded with, I invite you to an anti-stress course, stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with  The adrenal glands and can also be the cause of excess weight. In the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore the body's vitality. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also provide a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.