I came across some interesting information about soy, I decided to share it with you because the search engine gives a lot of wonderful positive information about soy. It’s very difficult to find acai, something bad about the nose, and a lot of bad things are connected with it. So, the information about soy is contradictory. If two facts contradict each other, if there is some contradiction, then this cannot be, then one of the facts is not a fact. So, I will introduce you to another point of view on soy so that you can make an informed decision about whether it is worth consuming. I am saying this because soy is contained in 60 percent of our products, that is, its own is simply everywhere, and the soy that is eaten in Asia is very different from SSO and in other parts of the world, for example, in America. I don’t think that Asians consume a lot of soy protein isolates, a lot of soybean oil, textured vegetable protein, or as much soy milk as Americans. Asians usually eat fermented soy. I found an interesting scientific paper on Oso and you should not know the link below. I will just briefly summarize it. Firstly, you may know that most of its own, this means that it contains traces. glyphosate is a herbicide and a large amount of soy and is processed with a solvent called hexane, alexane is not something useful, it is a very toxic solvent, soy also contains a lot of omega 6, this is a powerful pro- inflammatory factor, in 25 studies, menopausal women were given their own to combat hot flashes, and it was proven that soy does not reduce hot flashes, and yet how many millions of women consume soy for hot flashes and here is another interesting fact about soy, of all the soy produced, 85 percent are used to produce soy flour and soybean oil, of the 80 percent that goes into the production of soy flour, 98 percent of this soy flour goes to animal feed for cattle, pigs and of course chickens, which go away, and the safety of this has been little studied, and the soy flour that is fed to animals is not fermented soy, which is consumed by Asians, usually a waste product of soy oil production, and two percent of soy flour goes to people, 20 percent of these 85 are used to make oil, 95 percent of this oil is sold to people, again percent are used in industry, this oil is in  In all processed foods, in all fast food joints, food is usually fried in soybean oil. This is an extremely refined, processed, rancid oil that contains a lot of omega-6, and it is a powerful inflammatory factor and causes some minor complications, for example, the destruction of the intestinal barrier. I'm talking about the villi that absorb inside, and there is evidence that this oil causes atrophy of these villi. Soy also contains a number of chemicals. There is a lot of conflicting data about one such substance. Some studies show that it reduces the risk of cancer, others that it has no effect on cancer, and still others show that it increases the risk of cancer and increases the size of tumors. This is logical, because this substance is very estrogenic and also has hepatotoxicity. That is, it is toxic to the liver. It has an antithyroid effect. It blocks the conversion of T4 to T3, that is, the activation of the thyroid hormone. It can even block j. It is harmful to the reproductive organs. It destroys the endocrine system, that is, it affects hormones. Infertility  Allergies, nephrotoxicity, kidney toxicity, and even pancreatic hypertrophy, that is, and enlargement, as you can see, this creates many problems, but why is there so much soy in our food products? Well, here's my opinion: soy is one of the subsidized products, that is, the government pays farmers to grow this product, just like wheat, corn, and many other products. But among subsidized products, soy ranks first. Before the cultivation of grains, it was subsidized to help farmers in difficult times, but now it has become common practice. 85 percent of product subsidies are received by 50 multi-billionaires, only 50 top officials. That is, we taxpayers finance the government, and it pays farmers to grow products that actually exist. It is obvious that if you have a business with raw materials for which the government pays, and you then sell the products and make a profit, then this is a very profitable business. I think it is quite obvious to you where such powerful pressure comes from to force us to eat subsidized products like products made from corn, soy, and other grains and to trumpet on every corner that this is healthy eating, but you as a consumer can  Do something about it if people buy less of these products the market will switch to other products number one be very picky when ordering food in a restaurant do not order fried food do not order products containing soy start asking in restaurants what kind of oil you fry in ask if they have other oils besides corn, canola, soy, cottonseed advise them to use olive oil, coconut oil and the like number 2 carefully read the ingredients and just do not buy anything that contains soy and number three this is one of the obvious things that seems very simple but start eating at home you will be amazed at how many people have digestive problems bloating and they regularly dine out they do not realize that restaurants serve food that is very high in omega-6 fatty acids and it is difficult to control what you eat homemade yes can be healing for digestion and number four balance fatty acids consume more omega-3 fats and less omega-6 I invite you to my course you have a thyroid body type Hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, enlarged thyroid glands and nodules, excess weight evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product lists, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.