If you suffer from phlegm, there is a simple and inexpensive remedy, whether it is pneumonia, bronchitis, nasal congestion, asthma, or even tonsillitis, or just a sore throat, this remedy works. This remedy is salt. Salt has a long history as a remedy for diseases. Salt therapy was used back in the 18th century or even earlier to strengthen the immune system. Then doctors recommended going to the sea, breathing the sea air, and swimming in the sea. It was noticed that when everyone was sick, people working in salt mines did not get sick; they were quite healthy. What is so special about the relationship between salt and pathogens? Well, salt is great at killing bacteria. It has antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal, and yeast properties. It can be used against what occurs in the sinuses or lungs. It also thins mucus very well. There are many different ways to use salt. It all depends on your budget. The cheapest way is to go to the sea where there is sea air and be in this environment, breathing salty air. You can also take a teaspoon of salt, dissolve it in a glass of warm water and  Drink a solution. This also helps. You can go to salt caves, but this is more expensive. You can buy some sweat and use a saline solution. You can buy a nebulizer and gargle with salt water. This helps with phlegm and a sore throat. You can also go to halotherapy or buy a halogenerator, but this is an expensive option. Gala comes from the Greek word meaning salt. I already made a video about halogenerators where I introduced people to them. What they use is dry salt, it crumbles, and it is simple salt. Sodium chloride is not even sea salt. Apparently, sea salt cannot be used, it contains impurities that then settle in the lungs, and therefore you need to use 99 percent pure sodium chloride. A halogenerator crushes this salt into small particles and releases them into the air in your room so that while you sleep at night, you inhale very small particles of salt that act as an excellent absorbent. These particles also penetrate the skin. They are anti-inflammatory and antibacterial, and you will wake up feeling that it is easier for you to breathe because they  thin the mucus and help remove it, because it irritates the respiratory tract. Keep in mind that most acute respiratory viral infections are viral in nature, so antibiotics will not help you. They are now working with viral infections; you need to wait from 3 to 7 days, in some cases up to 10, while strengthening your immune system. Use products without side effects. Many people with small children worry when a fever appears and want to bring it down. But if you bring down the temperature, the duration of the illness will increase. You need to let the immune system do its job in every possible way, helping it with a high temperature. This is good; it does not allow viruses to survive; it destroys them. Three things that I always recommend are vitamin D, vitamin C, and zinc. It is normal for children to get sick. This is how their immunity develops. It is not bad. You do not need to keep children in a sterile environment; they should be in contact with the environment so that their immunity becomes strong. When I had a sore throat several times a year, every year of my life while I was growing up, now I rarely get sick because my immunity is strong. In general, if you need a simple and effective remedy for mucus in the nose or lungs, salt is what you need. If you haven't looked  Here's my video about immunity and how to help it, watch it.