I recently flew to a farm where they grow our type of Gra and make powder from it. I must say it was amazing. This is what real quality means. The quality of the soil, the quality of the processing. Now you will see everything in an interview with the CEO of the farm. I want to ask why you chose this place in Utah and not somewhere else. In ancient times, this Valley was the bottom of the sea. It was under ocean water. The next question is about the soil. The health and amount of nutrients in it depend on the quality of the soil in which the plant grows. After all, vitamins and phytonutrients are formed from microelements and minerals in the soil. This place was the bottom of Lake Bonneville. There was an ocean here for a very long time, then. This place was the bottom of an inland sea for a very long time. About 10,000 years ago, Lake Bonneville dried up and since then a lot of water has flowed here from vast areas untouched by civilizations in the center and south of Utah. This water has evaporated in this valley over the past 10 years, leaving behind a huge amount of minerals. These minerals allow us to grow crops that are not only rich minerals and microelements, but they are also unusually healthy. In fact, dairy farm owners in neighboring areas, even in Nevada and California, are willing to overpay for our products. With the same nutritional value as products from other places. I asked what is the difference between the juice type of grass powder and the gram type of powder. And as you will see, the difference between them is huge. Look, you know, I'm standing here holding this blade of grass. I adore it. Many people, especially if the blades of grass are so good, love to chew them. It's tasty, it's sweet, very tasty. But when I chew this blade of grass or when I eat this blade of grass, something very important happens. I chew it. And when I chew this blade of grass, I break its cells. Fresh grass can be compared to something filled with water. A cell is a bubble filled with water. The membranes of these cells consist of cellulose. But we don't digest it. These water-filled bubbles burst and I get a lot of nutrients from them that are perfectly digested and absorbed. I break these cells and Essentially, I squeeze the juice out of them. Right in my mouth, when I chew this blade of grass, I squeeze the juice out of it, absorb it, and assimilate the bubble in which there was water completely SMT and dried, which we need, in fact, they were enclosed inside a membrane that we cannot break down if we squeeze out the juice, we will get these nutrients. But if you try to consume a dried product in which the membrane surrounding the cells is crumpled and all this is even ground into powder, then we will get only a part of what can be obtained if you chew a fresh blade of grass or drink freshly squeezed juice, and our powder After adding water is equivalent to fresh juice, we know nothing about the overwhelming majority of chemical compounds of phytonutrients in this grass, we will learn something about them for centuries. This is definitely true, most products are cooked over a fire, the compounds radically change and turn into something that our body may not be able to use. Sometimes this is useful, because some nutrients are more available if food is cooked over a fire. But I think there are enough of them in our food, what is in food cooked over a fire for us.  It is quite enough, but what most people lack in our especially God nutrients which most people get very little of, but cooking on fire radically changes these nutrients and our passion our goal is to produce an easy-to-use product containing the same nutrients that I get when I chew a fresh blade of grass. This is our goal. VD Grass contains not only vitamins, minerals, essential fatty acids and amino acids, but also phytonutrients. We found that if a plant has a lot of chlorophyll, then NM has a lot of beta carotene, a lot of protein, a lot of sodium. That is, superoxide dismutase. If a plant has a lot of chlorophyll, then it has a lot of almost all the other compounds which, as we found, are sensitive to certain processing conditions, but I wanted to measure the amount of chlorophyll and other phytonutrients with three of the most popular green products on the market. We measure many indicators, but the chlorophyll level. We measure very often. We measure it to assess the situation on the farm. This is how we know when to harvest. If we harvest earlier or later than necessary, we will not get the maximum.  chlorophyll as well as protein and other nutrients known to us that are valuable, we turned to an independent laboratory. And as you can see from these diagrams, our juice has much more carotenoids, xanthine and chlorophyll. Grass juice, as I think, due to its high enzyme activity, is perhaps one of the most unstable juices I've ever dealt with. We process many different fruits and vegetables, and the juices of most fruits and vegetables can be stored in the refrigerator for a week or two without any problems. Grass juice won't work. If you squeeze it and put it in the refrigerator for 24 hours, it will spoil. It's interesting. It's very, very unstable. Wow, we found that if we delay from harvesting to squeezing the juice, 2 hours will pass, the quality will significantly decrease in just 2 hours. Wow. It would seem like 2 hours is nonsense, but it's not nonsense. It's interesting. We put a lot of effort into understanding how to minimize the time between harvesting and squeezing. We usually manage to do it in less than an hour. I asked how they manage it.  Process a practically raw form of Gras without heating it. From the answer to this question, you will learn about the incredible process during which they turn liquid into powder in less than 2 minutes at a temperature of 41 degrees. This is the temperature of water in the bath. Listen, as soon as the juice is squeezed, it immediately begins to spoil. We saw that the chlorophyll level decreases, the juice turns brown and loses its fresh taste and aroma. So, we monitor this very closely and this is what happens at a temperature of 41 degrees. If you heat fresh juice to 41 degrees, then over time, chlorophyll begins to gradually coagulate. At a temperature of 43, that is, 2 degrees higher, coagulation occurs instantly. Wow. In a split second, chlorophyll feedback gives us a product with poor solubility, as we call it. Yes, this means that we have exceeded 41 °, and so the indicator is the solubility of chlorophyll. You said that it takes very little time, a couple of minutes, to obtain dry powder from liquid. And how long is the product at 41 degrees? The product is at a temperature exceeding body temperature, 36 °, a little less.  2 minutes and no longer the product enters with a temperature of about 2 degrees and at the exit the temperature of the finished product is 41 ° and during the further process its temperature instantly drops to 23-27 degrees Yes, this type of powdered Graz is completely special when you drink it you just feel how it works immediately there is a feeling of satiety you know It's just some kind of and knowing all this you feel great Just great and the type of Gra in powder from other manufacturers just does not affect me at all I understand What a huge amount of work you have done to achieve this during a short tour here I saw What a huge amount of work it is firstly necessary to figure out all this build all this grow the product many are able to complete such a thing and now I can come and get the final product you have done a great job I really appreciate it 20 years of blood sweat and tears blood sweat and tears and but it's worth it the essence of your product low temperature I would like to know how you came to this what prompted you to a low temperature of 41 in fact it's a funny story I grew up in the industry of food supplements for many years  A client came back to us and said that he wanted us to produce a product that he bought from another manufacturer and with which he had problems. We were told that the product was dried at 36 degrees. We took their word for it and began to produce this product, but at first nothing worked out. After years of losing our mistakes, it worked out and we dried the products at 41 degrees instead of 36 because we saw that it works, and lowering the temperature does not give anything. The irony is that many years later we found out that they told us a lie. Well, that's how it happens. That is, we did what we thought someone else did, and since we believed that it was possible, we did it. I think people are concerned about the presence of gluten in the powder. It's a type of grass, but there is no gluten in young shoots. Gluten is contained in cereals in the grains themselves. Yes, so we strive to get the maximum nutrients, so our goal is to harvest when it has the most nutrients. But we also need it to be gluten-free. Sometimes some plants ripen earlier than others, and the ears of corn  They are formed earlier, but we cannot allow this, so we must harvest before any formation of the grain or the embryo of the grain begins. I thought so. The life cycle of a plant is a grain. A sprout, and then the plant grows more and more, the amount of nutrients becomes maximum at some point and then you harvest. Yes, this is part of some survival mechanism. After all, all these phytonutrients are needed so that it can survive and grow into an adult plant to produce an ear. The plant first seeks to accumulate nutrients, later these nutrients are converted into starches into sugars and eventually will produce grain as many grains as possible, the largest fat grains, this is the goal of the plant to produce large fat grains. For this purpose, the plant first stores as much energy as it can to produce many leaves, a lot of chlorophyll, a lot of protein, these are the nutrients that we need. So, at the first stage of the life cycle, the plant simply seeks to accumulate these nutrients, it simply accumulates as long as the soil and conditions in which it grows allow, and at some point it switches. And now it's time. convert all these nutrients essentially into grain, so because of stress, this process starts earlier, and if we can make the plant happy and healthy, then it will say from a survival point of view, I have time, resources, I will produce a lot of leaves, I will produce a lot and store a lot of energy. And when the time comes to ear, I can produce large, fatty grains in this plant. And we harvest right before this transformation begins. That is, before protein, chlorophyll, beta carotene, and many other nutrients like this begin to turn into starches, sugars. I am very glad that I came. Because I saw who produces this amazing product, I saw the fire in the eyes, how you post it, I really appreciate it. Thank you very much, this grass is so good that you can eat it. Just like that, although you know, the juice from it is still much tastier. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don’t miss new videos.