Hi, I was recently asked a question about sleepiness, but what causes it and what can be done about it. This disorder negatively affects sleep. This often happens with diabetes. Is there a connection? Yes, there is. If you have high glucose levels, high blood sugar depletes vitamin B1 stores. Thiamine is vitamin B1, which is necessary for the normal functioning of the brainstem, especially for the respiratory centers. They connect to the so-called phrenic nerve, which runs from the brainstem directly to the diaphragm and controls its work. Controlling the diaphragm's work and raising and lowering is the job of this nerve alone. If this nerve is cut, you won't be able to breathe. So what happens? This part of the nervous system is called the autonomic nervous system. It works automatically, but you can also control it. Let's say I don't have to breathe if I want to, but if I forget to breathe, the autonomic nervous system will begin to control breathing for me. When I sleep, it controls breathing for me. I don't have to think about it. Let's say your significant other snores and suddenly you hear his or her breathing.  This sleepy feeling stopped for a while, and these respiratory centers are definitely involved. It's a high sugar level, which depletes B1 reserves and ultimately disrupts the functioning of the respiratory centers. Among other symptoms of low B1 levels, lactate acidosis is a condition in which the pH shifts slightly toward acidity, which alone causes breathing problems. Another possible problem is disc, but essentially it's just shortness of breath. This is associated with what's called Berry Berry. This is a deficiency of vitamin B1 in a person. It can be moderate or asymptomatic. A blood test won't show it, but gradually a serious B1 deficiency can develop. There is also the so- called disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome (DIC), an infant simply stops breathing for no reason. In fact, this is also associated with a serious deficiency of vitamin B1 in a child, which disrupts the functioning of the respiratory centers. You can find a lot of information about this by studying Berry Berry or understanding the connection between DIC and B1 deficiency. There are many interesting studies. This is why it is very important for a baby to receive breast milk or  A mixture that contains enough vitamin B1 and other nutrients. Keep in mind that some mixtures are just sugar and have no nutrients. In general, I wanted to emphasize that if you have a ton of vitamin B1, you should start taking it and also take nutritional yeast. This will support your body and prevent both deficiency and those associated with high B1 levels. Thank you for watching. If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, do so now to receive notifications about new videos that I regularly record.