Let's talk about the true causes of breathing problems. I mean one thing: snoring in my sleep and various kinds of sinus problems. There's an interesting book I'm reading now, "Breathing: The New Science of the Lost Art," by James Nester. I mostly agree with the author, but I disagree with a couple of things, but I haven't finished reading it yet. Maybe something will change in the second half. But if you combine the data from this book with the data from Weston Price's book, in my opinion, you can get a good solution to breathing problems. He conducted an interesting study of indigenous cultures from all over the world. He looked at their teeth because he's a dentist and discovered something amazing. If you compare ancient peoples who ate better with the modern civilized world, we'll find a huge difference in the condition of their teeth. If you study the skulls of ancient people, you can see wisdom teeth. Nowadays, people remove them. Why did people have good, straight teeth, good facial bones, width, and a good bone structure? Nowadays, faces are becoming narrower. People develop a deviated nasal septum, which is why they need Braces have become the norm. It's strange that we need braces. Why do we need them? Why do people have such crooked teeth? People develop a window and snore in their sleep. What's the difference between what we did before and what we do now? James Nester focuses on the absence of chewing. Nowadays, we eat soft foods, soups, goko-mole, hummus, all kinds of thick sauces. We eat very tender steaks. We don't eat a lot of vegetables. We don't chew much, especially children. All they chew is gum. James Nester focuses on the absence of chewing, and Weston Price focuses on nutrition. It seems to me that both of these factors play a role. If you look at indigenous peoples, they eat a lot of whole foods, nutrient-rich foods. Micronutrients activate proteins that help build bones, and vitamins activate minerals that make bones stronger. With a nutrient deficiency, the structure and size of bones will not fully develop. This is a well-known fact. But if you chew little, or constantly eat soft foods.  then you don't activate the mechanisms that strengthen bones the same with other parts of the body if you want to strengthen your back this can't be done without using muscles you need to do exercises to strengthen muscles and bones because they are connected with tendons as for the face the main muscle in it is what is responsible for the movement of the jaw chewing if you don't chew enough then you don't use the facial muscles and there is only one problem our family is too small for teeth if there is not enough space for teeth to grow then they come out anyhow forward sideways back and we have no room left for wisdom teeth if the mouth is small then the airways will also be small this will interfere with breathing how people try to solve these problems it seems barbaric to me they do operations to make the airways more open let's think about wild animals they have crooked teeth they need brothers you no why because they chew a lot and they eat food that is suitable for their body that's what I recommend firstly don't feed children processed foods let them chew more often and more and so as for adults adults can seriously change the structure of the face which will help to breathe better and that's what I  For this, I recommend starting to breathe through your nose, it's better than breathing through your mouth, so there will be more oxygen in the body. Second, chew your food longer. I recommend eating greens, lots of greens, about 7-10 glasses a day. Sometimes people get scared when I tell them this. 7-10 glasses a day is too much for them, because that's how much chewing starts. You can use a blender, or you can replace it with something. I tell him, maybe then immediately ask your husband to let him survive the food for you so that you do n't have to strain yourself. But you should chew more because if you chew 7-10 glasses of greens, and chew thoroughly, you will develop your jaw muscles. You can also chew other foods, for example, steak, and not think about why it's not so tender. Chew it thoroughly because this way you strengthen and change your jaw and facial muscles. This will give you more oxygen, because the birth will open more often. You can start eating celery, carrots, and any other nutrient-rich food that needs to be chewed. 3 is  I learned from Weston Price's book that fat-soluble vitamins are very important, like vitamin D and vitamin K2. Both of these vitamins control calcium, and you need a lot of calcium in the right places to build teeth and jaws. In general, you don't need a low-fat diet. Eggs with yolks, cheese only not low-fat, fatty fish, fatty meat and grass-fed butter. Of course, it's very important to avoid processed foods and empty carbohydrates. And micronutrients. Micronutrients are needed to activate certain proteins in the body. Most people have a micronutrient deficiency because they are not found in food these days. Terme Rynych fertilizes the soil with only three minerals: nitrogen, phosphorus, and if so, where can we get other necessary micronutrients? They can be found in shellfish and crustaceans, in seafood, and also in seaweed. They should be added to the diet. But in this book, you will find recipes for what you can cook and chew. If you don't know what to cook for those, then the book will help you. A diet menu for two weeks, a diet for three and two meals a day, simple, tasty recipes from affordable products, the basics of chum salmon.  and fasting, follow the link below