Hello everyone! Today we'll start with our amazing quiz. I ask you, doc. True or false. There is no significant difference between synthetic and natural vitamin B1. Well, viewers. What do you think about this? We know that you have an opinion on this matter, as always. And now questions from social networks. Lisa Marie from Facebook. What do you recommend to reverse liver inflammation? It is probably caused by long-term inflammation. There are a couple of remedies in addition to switching to a healthy diet with intermittent fasting, which will trigger autophagy. This is when the body takes old proteins in scar tissue and processes them. There is also information that Primotonov is a form of vitamin E. It helps with any fibrosis, including cirrhosis. This is essentially advanced fibrosis. In general, you need to reduce inflammation and eat right. Unfortunately, with cirrhosis of any part of the liver, it cannot function properly and performs a minimum of its functions. Fortunately, we have a lot of liver in reserve, because for life, we only need 20-30 percent of the liver, but in my videos  You will find out what is causing the growth and then you can avoid it, because there are many different reasons. Rambla Blocker asks well. Is stomach acid strong enough to kill pathogens? A good question: How do probiotics survive throughout the intestines? Yes, stomach acid kills pathogens, it is quite strong. There is an opinion that over the years, acidity decreases and microbes can get into the intestines, especially if you take antacids. But do some probiotics survive in the stomach? Yes, there are probiotics that survive in the stomach. Mine also survive, and I am, of course, impartial, but not all survive. So, take those that survive. You know, there are extremely interesting microorganisms called extremophiles. They can adapt, and some can live at high temperatures near volcanoes. Some live on the ocean floor, withstanding pressure. Some live in the Dead Sea despite the concentration of salt. Some can live with oxygen. Some feed on metals and sulfur. Others don't care what they eat at all. Some even live in extreme cold at sub-zero temperatures. It's simply amazing how these microbes have adapted, so they, in particular, pass through stomach acid and can protect themselves from it. I will tell you about this.  A little more video that will be released perhaps in 2 weeks, this is extremely interesting and it is closely related to the topic of microorganisms in the intestines. Wait for this video, doc, can you remind us how prebiotics relate to probiotics? I always get confused about this. Probiotics are the bacteria themselves, and people take them to repopulate the intestines with bacteria that they have lost due to a poor diet, antibiotics, and so on. But the problem is that sometimes not all of these microorganisms take root. Many microorganisms in sauerkraut and so on may not populate the intestines, but they create the environment that the intestines need for the microorganisms that are already there to grow. If you take an antibiotic, many microorganisms go into defense mode, dormant in the form of spores and wait for a favorable environment. So, for the health of diverse microflora, you also need the right environment, the right Pash, the right food. And in prebiotics, certain types of fiber are usually used to feed the microorganisms, since this is one of their types of food. But some microorganisms adapt and eat calmly.  Meat is protein, not just fiber, and they have an amazing ability to digest what we can't digest, especially fiber. If you and I have about 17 digestive enzymes, these microorganisms have 60. So they can break down what we can't. In general, sometimes it's important to eat for the sake of your microorganisms so that they get the food they need. Food is a prebiotic. Thank you for the explanation, and we received answers from viewers to the quiz question: Is it true or false? There is no significant difference between synthetic and natural vitamin B1. 92% said it's not true. And 8% said it's true. In medical literature, it is said that the molecule of synthetic vitamin B1 is the same as natural, but this is not true because synthetic B1 is thiamine mononitrate, or, it seems, thiamine hydrochloride. It is essentially made from oil, and it needs something else that helps it be absorbed by active transfer, and natural B1 is called Aleane. This is not necessary, that is, natural vitamin needs much more.  I also recommend fat-soluble natural vitamin A, it crosses the blood-brain barrier. Think about how many problems B1 deficiency causes in the brain, the autonomic nervous system, the frontal cortex, the brainstem, the hippocampus, and so on. So, ordinary synthetic B1 penetrates poorly into some things. It may be beneficial, but not into others. And what about the other vitamin B1 I talked about, that is, benfotiamine, it is also fat- soluble, it is more likely needed for peripheral neuropathy in the feet with diabetes. It is soluble in fats, but for some reason it does not penetrate the brain. That is, it is good for any problems associated with diabetes. The spectrum of action of natural B1 is even wider than that of its two other forms. So, these are not the same thing. It is incredible that someone asks you if vitamin D is harmful for kidney disease. The problem here is that the kidneys are needed to convert vitamin D into the active form we need. And if the kidneys are damaged, you will not be able to activate the vitamin and there is a deficiency. Even with its normal level in the blood, because in the blood  They detect an inactive form. Ask your doctor if you can take vitamin D or perhaps its active form. After all, if you take the inactive form, it will not work because your kidneys are not working. And what should you do then? I think there is another form of vitamin D that can be taken for kidney problems. This is an excellent question, because due to kidney problems, vitamin D levels are terribly reduced. And this also leads to the development of osteoporosis. Wow, we wish you good luck. Roby from Facebook asks. What dietary supplements are best for achieving balance? Candida Candida is part of the yeast and fungus family. And the problem with it is that it grows excessively because the bacteria are destroyed, which cannot be contained, and then it sometimes begins to invade the small intestine. As a result, bacterial overgrowth occurs in the small intestine, or rather, fungal overgrowth, because this is Candida. Dr. William Davis wrote an excellent book, Super Gut, in which he describes how to grow a probiotic at home from two strains of bacteria. In organic cream, raw milk is not suitable due to the excess microorganisms in it. We need a special bacterium.  It can reach the small intestine and secrete natural antibiotics that are harmless to good bacteria, and it also has antifungal properties. So, this is an excellent program that allows you to perfectly cleanse the small intestine and improve its functioning. In general, with excessive bacterial or fungal growth, there are often many skin problems. You take an antibiotic and your skin immediately feels better, but then it gets even worse because you destroy bacteria. It is much better to populate the small intestine because certain microorganisms live in it. To take it under control and completely eliminate the problem with it, get rid of pathogens and then the skin will clear up. This is from his book, Super Intestine. It is extremely interesting. I will tell you more about this in one of the videos. Wow. How much information and something else. Candida feeds on sugar and empty carbohydrates. If you simply stop eating them, you will starve it. This is one quick way to get rid of Candida and fungi.