也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是!!也是 Thank you for watching us. What I don't say and what I don't recommend, it's not a diagnosis and a change. You can ask the doctor, before you follow any advice, or anything from what we say. Now, Steve, let's start. We have a lot of questions. The original BAD of Dr. Berger is not on Ozon and Wildberries. There are some counterfactors. The original product in SNG can only buy on drbergstore.com. Well, hello. Today we start with our wonderful Victor. You have a word, Doc. Why are some people feel a pain even after a sufficient amount of sleep? What do you think, friends? We will be glad to know. Now, we answer questions in the social media. It says BM2084 from YouTube. I have a syndrome of a stomach. What can I do to avoid this ужасного состояния?也是!也是也是也是!也是!也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是 but you need to continue to restrain the fascia, until these spikes don't disappear. It requires time, but in the end you will be able to get it. Good. It asks Hazel from YouTube, what do you do with a vitiligo and a disease of Hashimoto? A disease of Hashimoto and vitiligo is a combination of them, which are autoimmune problems. It means that in both cases very good results, they should give more high doses of vitamin D3. There are in the world, who have the law of the COIMBRA, in the USA, it seems that there are four. In this law, they use high doses of vitamin D3, they can be able to get the blood of the vitamin D3. But to your point, especially for vitiligo, there were excellent results, so you have a sense to try this protocol. You need to have 30000E vitamin D3, with the CO2, with the CO2, with the zinc, but there are about 30000E vitamin D3 that gives them some results. So I would like to do that. This definitely helps to improve the immune system. The same thing with Hashimoto also needs high doses D3. But I would also add a silen. Silen is a low-weighted antitels to different kinds of tissue and help to turn the T4 into T3. It's silen. D3 and silen are very helpful. And of course, in addition, I mean, and I mean, I should occur like I should occur like I也是 I should occur like I have been a healthy foods I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video I haven't been a video YouTube也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是!也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是 and the muscles are not able to relax. So, the problem is that the tension is that you are causing the pressure from the moment. And then you say, oh, I'm going to get back to you, so it's hard to relax. But so, you have to focus on the nose, slowly, slowly, slowly. You can't count. You can't count. Just slowly, slowly, and slowly, through your nose, you can't walk on the nature, you can't walk on the sun, take more B1, take magni, sleep more. These are all things that you need to be careful. Good. We're going to ask the question of Victorina. Why are they feeling the pain even after the amount of sleep? 60% said, they are in the deficit of nutrients. 20% said, they are in the blood of adrenaline. 10% said, they are in the deficit of vitamin D. And 10% of them are in the high level of insulin. Oh, how much more can go wrong? Is there a genius? So, I have been patients who sleep for 9 hours and were in the zone. And yes, there is a post-COVID syndrome, but now we are not about this. I want to focus on another reason, which is often common. If you are not in the right diet, you have a biochemical factors, vitamin and minerals, that help you to sleep and heal you really well. Because if you are just lying in the post, not going through the delta-vulner, if you are in the middle of the delta-vulner, and also quick of the sun, then you will wake up with the same, as you are in the same way, as you are in the same way. So, all of you were right. All of you were right about the results of the of the system, and they are in the same way. So, they are in the same way. So, they are in the same way. So, keto is in the same way, it is in the same way. If you are in the same way, if you are in the same way, you will lose your blood, and you will be able to eat it, and especially not eat it. So, it is very important. And then, also, you need to get the key nutrients for improving the sleep, for the health of the sun, vitamin D, magnesium, and zinc. These three nutrients, I think, are, the most important for the health of the sun. Very good. We are back to the star, the black baron of YouTube. He writes, I started taking BADO with the red pepper I wanted to try your product, but I need something that you can take in the way. Which is a good thing? It is a good thing. And you plan to do it in the same way, in the same way, I don't have a plan to make it in the form of capsule. I wanted only a form of capsule, but it is very uncomfortable. What is the challenge for me? What is it? It is one of those, which helps literally out of everything. It is a little easier to say, because of the climate. It is a lot of different features. It is so many different features. It is unique to how long it is and uses it with all kinds of cultures, and in very hard conditions, in which it is possible to live.也是也是也是!也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是!也是!也是 from his survival mechanism. So it's anti-inflammatory, anti-inflammatory. I don't want to make any claims here, but you can see my new video about this. It's a great tool. When anything doesn't help, I use a couple of ingredients. That's one of the ones that I use. It's one of the ones that I use. It's so many effects in the body. It's quite a bit of a shock. I invite you to anti-stress course. Stress is related to cortisol and can be found on problems with the body, and also be the cause of excess weight. In the course I show you how to get stress from the body and return to the body. Stress is related to the immune system, so in Patete Pro you will be a gift. Unique course, how to keep the immune system. I will tell you how to improve the immune system. Also, I will give you a list of best tools for its strength. I will wait for you on the course. I will see you on the course. Thank you. I will see you on the也是也是也是也是也是!也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是也是