Yes, how many people wash their faces with regular soap without even thinking about the consequences and then are forced to use lotions and creams, wondering why their skin is dry, they have to somehow cope with dermatitis and red spots on the skin. I would like you to better understand what exactly is included in regular soap and be able to find a replacement. So, let's look at the ingredients under number one. We have a substance called sodium lauryl sulfate. Sometimes they also use ammonium lauryl sulfate. This is a foaming agent. It is included in the composition of your shampoos, detergents, shower gels and promotes the formation of foam. I recently released my own shampoo and conditioner and some people are wondering why it does not foam like regular shampoos. The reason is precisely because it does not contain this ingredient. It is an artificial chemical that can irritate the skin, cause inflammation and make the skin dry. Sometimes this substance can contain impurities and carcinogenic chemicals, so be sure to read the ingredients. I mainly said that you can use such products on your face for the body, it is not a problem, but you should not wash your face with them. The second ingredient that you need to be careful with is parabens.  Keep in mind that they can be called differently, sometimes they write methylparaben and or propylparaben and avoid anything that contains parabens. These are preservatives with antibacterial properties, but they can mimic estrogen. Animal studies have shown that they even affect the ability to reproduce. Everything that gets on your skin is actually absorbed into the body. The skin is like a sponge. Remember this and it actually plays the role of the main protective barrier in the immune system. There are a lot of friendly bacteria on the skin that should not be killed. However, any antibacterial agent is dangerous because it will destroy beneficial bacteria. Antibiotics act in the same way, and this leads to excessive growth of unwanted microorganisms such as candida yeast and the like. The third ingredient to avoid is formaldehyde. It is good for embalming bodies, but not for embalming your face. It can increase the risk of cancer and actually dry out the skin. Next, we have artificial fragrances. Some types of soap have such a strong smell that it is very irritating. These substances are made from petroleum. These are petroleum products. There are special solvents that are used in this case, so choose either unscented soap or soap containing only essential oils, the following substance is called triclosan, triclosan has a powerful antibacterial effect, the problem is that it can destroy beneficial bacteria, increasing the risk of infection with E. coli and even methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, avoid triclosan, another common component, are we? Coal tar dyes, they are used for coloring, and are produced using petroleum-based chemicals, they have many negative effects, especially drying out the skin. In my youth, I suffered greatly from acne, and so I took a bar of regular soap from the store and rubbed it on my face, thinking that it would help, but my skin was getting worse and the acne was only getting worse, it didn’t help at all, so it would be better to spend a little more, but on something more natural and on something homemade or handmade, on something without sodium lauryl sulfate, without fragrances and synthetic dyes, use products made from safe fats based on essential oils. There's a lot of information about skin without oils and chemicals, about how the condition of your skin can help you understand what's going on inside your body, about the internal causes of skin problems and their solutions, all of this in my course, Health Diagnosis by Skin, I invite you to my mini-course, Health Diagnosis by Skin, if you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems, these aren't just skin defects, such signals indicate problems inside the body, in my course I'll show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause, sign up at the link below, see you there