Today I'll tell you about one of the best remedies not only for menopause symptoms but also for menstrual problems, that is, PMS symptoms. Does this remedy work for everyone and always? No. Sometimes you need other remedies, for example, vitamin E, iodine, kelp, seaweed, and many others from my recommendations. But this particular remedy works in most cases. If you have hot flashes, night sweats, mood changes, weight gain, sleep problems, or even uterine fibroids, menstrual problems, pain and cramps, depression, anxiety, an irregular cycle. PMS. Of course, PMS is all these symptoms. And this is a more serious form of PMS when symptoms worsen or fertility problems. If you have PCOS, that is, polycystic ovary syndrome. If you have symptoms from the list, I recommend black cohosh. I'll explain why if you search about this on the Internet, you will come across a lot of complex terms. Let's talk in general about one mechanism that explains a lot. The hypothalamus is the main regulator of all hormones in the brain. It works in conjunction with the pituitary gland, which  As if one level lower in the hierarchy of the endocrine system controls, the hypothalamus sends a signal to the pituitary gland ordering it to release hormones. This signal is gonadotropin-releasing hormone, so the pituitary gland understands that it needs to release two hormones, follicle-stimulating and luteinizing. These hormones move down and order the ovaries to release estrogen, progesterone, and also the egg into the ovaries. This is what happens. It's a closed communication chain. These hormones cause various orders to be sent, and then feedback occurs. It's like a thermostat. When you turn off the heating or cooling, when the temperature reaches a certain level, there are receptors in the endocrine system that turn off hormones at a certain level. The body is constantly adapting to the environment, food, emotions, stress, and so on. You need to know something about speed. If its level is too high or too low, many problems arise. Estrogen is a mood stabilizer; it is needed to produce serotonin. If estrogen levels drop, as after pregnancy, depression can occur, and right before menopause, and  Immediately after its onset, depression may penetrate. Many of these symptoms arise due to a sharp increase or decrease in this hormone. So, the valve agonists with tidine, the phytonutrients contained in it, have very interesting properties. It is able to reduce this connection, that is, gonadotropic releasing hormone and reduce the production of follicle-stimulating and luteinizing hormone, thereby helping to balance this entire chain. The cystic valve does not increase or suppress estrogen radically, it helps to balance it. After all, this plant is a selective estrogen receptor modulator. This means that it regulates estrogen receptors. Therefore, with an excess or lack of estrogen, it can help bring it into balance. As I already said, this plant is an excellent remedy for these symptoms, but not a panacea. So if it does not help you, try other remedies, such as vitamin E or sea kelp. Below is a link to sign up for my course dedicated to women's health. This topic and questions related to hormones are covered in much more detail. I invite you to my ovarian course.  and body type, this is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, product lists, and exercises for effective workouts await you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.