Let's talk about what vitamin is most often lacking in migraines. Migraines can be simply debilitating. They are accompanied by a heightened sense of smell, hearing, or vision. You want to be in the dark. Gagging and nausea appear. When I researched this topic, I discovered something I didn't know before. Migraines are most often a genetic problem, but by studying genetics, I found out that there is no way to deal with this. You just need to understand the factors of epigenetics. This is something that is above genetics and can help cope with a genetic defect. A genetic problem limits any ability, but epigenetics provides a chance to cope with it. Five out of one clinical trials have indicated the possibility of significant improvements in migraines. Four of them gave mixed results, and two did not give results because these migraines had a non- genetic but another cause. Migraines often affect the optic nerve. If you have this problem, especially on only one side, I think this remedy will help you. There are different theories about the causes of migraines. But no one knows for sure. However, there is a strong relationship between headaches and mitochondria, especially if the functions Mitochondria are weakened. A certain type of dysfunction prevents mitochondria from working properly. This particular vitamin is associated with an enzyme that helps maintain aerobic metabolism in the mitochondria. Aerobic means involving oxygen. When you eat food to turn it into energy, it must be oxidized, that is, oxygen helps produce energy. When this vitamin is lacking, this is what happens in the nervous system, including the brain, when overexcited. Working mitochondria speed up the work of neurons. In addition, damage by free radicals, inflammation, and oxidation are often directly related to mitochondria. This vitamin also helps produce glutathione, which acts like a sponge. So what kind of vitamin is this? Vitamin B2 or flavin, but in normal doses, it apparently does not work. You need to increase the amount of this vitamin to overcome resistance to it. A dose of about 400 mg per day is required. With a genetic problem in mitochondria, you need more B2 for it to work. The benefit of this vitamin is that it helps cope with hypoxia, a lack of oxygen. It stores oxygen in the mitochondria and makes  its work and one more small note with Parkinson's disease And this is a problem with the brain, one of the early signs of this disease is the failure of the mechanism associated with the work of glutathione when there is not enough glutathione Or too much oxidation, this can cause serious damage to neurons now I will give my recommendations And you In the comments will this help you take 400 mg of vitamin B2 as a preventative For example, you are starting a migraine attack I advise you to buy small tablets of 400 mg if such exist at all And tablets of 100 mg take one And after an hour another one after an hour another 100 mg and so on until the migraine goes away but not more than 400 per day I just want you to know about this interesting connection between migraines and B2 and so that you can help yourself Using this one of the causes of migraines is sodium deficiency, so taking sea salt can quickly reduce a migraine or headache Another point about migraines is that they are often accompanied by oxidative stress and free radical damage, so taking some powerful herbal Antioxidants often help with migraines, for example, ginger or turmeric, you can try them too. As for headaches in general, I have a video about what other causes this might have. I recommend watching this video. L