Of all the diseases, gout seems to be the most mysterious. You know, there is a theory that we eat too many foods high in purines, and the uric acid formed during the breakdown of purines turns into crystals and is deposited in the big toes. But many people who have gone on a low diet and have not gotten rid of gout, and those who start taking medications do not like the side effects of these drugs. Today, I will tell you about a very effective remedy for gout based on a different strategy. But first, I mentioned very interesting facts about gout that you should know. Most of the uric acid that is in our body comes from an endogenous source. What does endogenous mean? It means created by the body itself. The body creates this uric acid. Only a small amount of uric acid comes from outside with food. Half of people with gout attacks have normal uric acid levels, and the crystals that form from uric acid are not even located in the very place where a person experiences an attack of gout. Another theory, of course, is related to genetics. If you cannot find the cause of the disease, then it is probably just a matter of genes, but here too  There are holes in the genetic predisposition to gout, but mostly in Australia. I think one in 20 Australians develop gout due to genes, but of all those with a gout, only 10 percent have attacks of gout. So, there is so much confusion in this area that it is simply ridiculous. So, apparently, gout attacks do not necessarily cause pain due to crystals that dig into the tissues, it occurs due to an immune reaction. There is a certain immune reaction that occurs due to uric acid crystals, and this is what leads to inflammation. How to cope with gout attacks? I have found that when people stop consuming carbohydrates, sugars, especially fructose, high-fructose corn syrup, alcohol, especially beer, this change alone eliminates many problems with gout, but there are those for whom this does not help cope with gout attacks. What to do is this: for uric acid crystals to appear and thereby cause a reaction of the immune system, your body must correspond to an acidic environment. We know this.  Based on this information, if you rest, read your body just a little, I mean in therapy, rested, what not and matcha, this can immediately bring relief, and if you also start a keto diet, a low-carb diet with intermittent fasting, I think you will be completely fine, what is best rested, what urine sodium bicarbonate is, this is the main remedy, it has the least side effects, this is baking soda, it must be said that there are people sensitive to sodium, they are on a low-salt diet due to high blood pressure or for other reasons, if this is your case, then instead of soda, I advise using potassium citrate, although baking soda works a little better, of course, baking soda with water is not very tasty, so I advise adding potassium citrate if you want excellent potassium citrate, I will of course recommend my electrolyte powder since it is slightly sweetened and it has a lot of potassium citrate, add one scoop of this powder to baking soda, but you can use only baking soda, I recommend starting with a small amount of baking soda 1.8 teaspoons per glass of water, that is, a quarter liter, and after a couple of days  I would increase the amount of baking soda to 1.4 teaspoons and then I would increase the amount of baking soda to half a teaspoon and depending on the severity of the gout attack, you can try taking this once, two or three times a day on an empty stomach, taking about an hour's break between doses. You drank one dose, waited an hour, drank another dose, you waited another hour, drank another dose. This should generally lead to remission of gout attacks. You do not need to drink it with food, because it is an alkali that can neutralize gastric juice. Drink baking soda on an empty stomach at least an hour before meals. This is also a good remedy for uric acid kidney stones. This is not the same as ok salad stones. For other types of stones, it is better to increase the acidity of the urine. The question always arises of how far you can go without going too far. We do not need a not too alkaline environment, not too acidic. There is a link below on how to determine that your environment is too alkaline and if this is the case, you need to slow down. I want to touch on another study on the use of transdermal sodium bicarbonate has been studied using sodium bicarbonate in the form of a patch, it is applied to the big toe and sodium bicarbonate is absorbed directly into it and then you do not need to take it internally to avoid consuming a large amount of sodium, but I did not find where you can buy this transdermal sodium bicarbonate, so I can not give a link, but here's what might work, I don't know, you will have to try it yourself, dissolve baking soda in water and hold it in your big toe. There is an interesting study that baking soda can strengthen the immune system, mainly macrophages, which help reduce inflammation, and baking soda increases the number of T-cells, so apparently it also affects the immune system, and gout is actually a problem with the immune system. Many people drink baking soda for autoimmune diseases because it reduces inflammation. And here's what else you need to know about gout. Gout is very common in people with metabolic syndrome. This indicates an excess of carbohydrates in the diet, usually when a person eats offal or red meat and all that, he usually drinks beer or carbohydrates, so I  I don't really believe that gout attacks are caused by meat. In fact, many people who start a carnivore diet get rid of gout. But after interviewing many of those who are on that diet and who are trying to get rid of gout, I see that they are great, yes, but their diet contains the wrong carbohydrates. They usually don't follow the standard keto diet as I recommend. They have this diet, but when they follow the keto diet very strictly, things go much better for them. There are things that are important to avoid with gout. Number one is, of course, sugar, any form of sugar. This also applies to malt dextrin, which a video was recently released about. Secondly, all refined grains are empty carbohydrates. In addition, as for sugars, there is a sugar alcohol that can increase the risk of gout, and this is xylitol. So, if you have gout, you are better off using another sugar alcohol, for example, retreat or something like that. But you know that if you use stevia or monk fruit, you know, they often add maltodextrin, which is very bad corn sugar, which I advise you to avoid, especially with gout, of course. Alcohol, especially beer, can increase the risk of developing gout, and even medications like aspirin and diuretics can increase the risk of developing gout. The worst type of sugar for gout is fructose, and even some vitamins, such as niacin, can trigger a gout attack. Niacin is excellent for cholesterol problems, and this has been fully scientifically proven. However, if you have gout, it is much better to take a different form of B3, namely niacinamide. This is a version of niacin that does not cause redness of the skin. Niacinamide helps with gout and arthritis, but does not always help with cholesterol. But if you do not have gout attacks, you are better off taking niacin. Now you know this. I want to suggest a video on a related topic. I think you will be interested in this video about sodium. Here it is. Watch it.