If you have heartburn, indigestion, or gastritis, you will be very glad that you watched this video. We all know what acid reflux is. Heartburn is an excess of acid. Is it true that acid reflux differs in some way from excess acid production. They differ greatly. When you have heartburn, acid reflux or gastritis, where does this sensation actually occur in the stomach? Usually not. Unless there is an ulcer, the sensation usually occurs directly above the stomach in the esophagus or even in the larynx, because acid can travel up the esophagus to the throat. So, now you will learn that heartburn, or gastritis, or gastritis, is the opposite problem. It is usually not an excess of acid production, but an insufficient amount, and I will prove it. Let's consider this. I bet that if you go to the doctor with heartburn or acid reflux, he will not check the pH of your stomach, he will not check your acid, he will not look at it, it is obvious that you have excess acid. But here is the problem: when there is not enough acid, the valve above the stomach may not close tightly enough, and then the acid may throwing it into the esophagus, while you think that you have too much acid, but in fact, you just have acid where it doesn't belong. It's well known that acid reflux develops with age in youth, this problem usually doesn't happen. Only I am an exception here. After 20, I had serious problems with digestion, but it was more of an ulcer. Although acid reflux, I also usually had it. With age, after 40-50, acid reflux develops much more often, while with age, there is less acid in the stomach. With age, the acidity in the stomach decreases more and more. This is a contradiction, it's illogical. But only if you don't understand that usually the causes of acid reflux heartburn are a lack of acid. Yes, take at least the normal level. The normal pH level of hydrochloric acid in the stomach is from one to 3. What does this mean? This is the strongest acid in the whole body, in fact. This environment is 100 thousand million times more acidic than blood. Our acid is about like battery acid, and this is normal. After all, the function of this acid is to help us break down protein and turn a single steak into something.  The soup-like acid helps to unravel the coiled, ball-like protein molecules so that the enzyme released later breaks them down more easily. Thanks to this strong acid, we can ultimately obtain amino acids from the protein, the building blocks of protein, and every time we eat this long chain of amino acids, the body must completely break down the protein into small pieces so that it can then take these amino acids and create its own tissues from them. But let's go back to what we were talking about. We talked about the fact that acid reflux, acid indigestion, and heartburn occur due to decreased acidity, that is, because the pH in the stomach is no longer in the range from one to 3. It increases with increasing pH, the environment becomes less acidic. So, there are two main ailments caused by low acidity in the stomach. One of them is called hypochlorhydria. This simply means low acidity, that is, the pH is in the range of no one to 3, but say, up to 3 to 5. The second ailment is called chlorhydria. This means that there is no acid at all, but this is not entirely true.  After all, by definition, chlordedria means a pH greater than 5 in men and a pH greater than 6 in women, but 5.6 is below 7, a neutral environment, that is, some acid remains in the stomach. If you simply search for information about the symptoms of these two ailments, you will find a lot of interesting things. They both cause HRP. Acid Lux, heartburn, bloating, and all other symptoms of a lack of hydrochloric acid in the body. Hydrochloric acid is needed to break down food, especially proteins, for the absorption of minerals and vitamins, especially calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, and for the absorption of vitamins A, B vitamins, and vitamin C. Hydrochloric acid helps kill microbes, including pathogens, that are trying to get into the stomach and further into the body. At the correct pH, microbes die. So, no infection or pathogens enter the body. If there is not enough acid, anemia can develop because iron and B12 are not absorbed, an infection in the stomach and even an infection in the small intestine can occur. Where too many bacteria appear, this is SIBR syndrome, a type of bacterial overgrowth. And since proteins are not broken down, The immune system reacts abnormally, food allergies and even autoimmune diseases develop. If there is no very strong acid in the stomach, there is also a risk of developing stomach cancer. There is also a risk of developing Helicobacter pylori, a microbe that is usually found in the stomach but does not cause any problems. It becomes too alkaline, which increases ammonia levels, and it is too alkaline to survive. So, Helicobacter pylori is activated when the pH is not acidic enough, and this infection makes the environment in the stomach alkaline. And if you do not get minerals and protein, there is also a risk of osteoporosis. So, a lack of acid in the stomach manifests itself as indigestion, bloating, and gas, especially gas. And this is what really blows my mind. If we read about these two medical problems, we will see that their treatment is not aimed at increasing acidity. In fact, they do anything with it, but this is not what we are told. No, we will look to see if there is a problem with the cancer genes, then we will treat it. If there is anemia, we will treat it. If there is, but there is no medical recommendation to increase acidity due to the loss of acid. If you look at some of the main side effects of antacids  Proton pump inhibitors And any drugs that reduce acidity, one of the main side effects is low stomach acidity. If you treat low stomach acidity with something that reduces stomach acidity, what do you think will happen? You will feel worse. You will feel better for a short time after eating, because acid is thrown into the esophagus. If you reduce the acidity, you will feel better, but you will have all these other problems. Those who constantly take drugs to reduce stomach acidity have many problems. This could have been avoided if someone checked the pH of the stomach instead of simply assuming that too much acid is produced. So, I will show you a very simple, inexpensive method that allows you to determine without an expensive analysis whether you have low acidity. I will show you how to do this, but first I will explain something else about hydrochloric acid, due to which a person has a decrease in the amount of hydrochloric acid. If a person has hypothyroidism, this can lead to a decrease in stomach acidity. If a person eats improperly, a Helicobacter pylori infection can develop, or if, say, the immune system is suppressed, or Helicobacter pylori can be activated and alkalize the stomach. But this can reduce stomach acidity and we  We've already talked about taking antacids or other acid-reducing medications. Even a low-salt diet can lead to a lack of hydrochloric acid. Potassium deficiency, zinc deficiency, and even iodine deficiency. There's another possible reason: eating too often. Our digestive system isn't designed to eat three meals every hour and a half, with snacks in between. When we eat like this, over time, we essentially just deplete our digestive juices. We weaken our digestive system. And we do n't let it rest between meals. It's like someone who trains constantly and never allows the body to recover. And don't forget about all that insulin, which can lead to diabetes. And by the way, diabetics are four times more likely to develop herpes than other people. So, the number one remedy for eliminating this problem is betaine hydrochloride. It's sold over the counter. It's not a medicine, but a natural remedy. It shouldn't be taken only if you have an ulcer. Here's how I recommend starting to take vitamin hydrochloride. After all, if you've had heartburn or acid reflux for a long time, you could have developed an ulcer. If you take betaine  hydrochloride. This is the raw material for acid, so it can aggravate the ulcer. I recommend taking it like this: when you started eating and swallowed the first piece, take betaine hydrochloride. I don’t want you to take it on an empty stomach and then get distracted and not eat, because then you will have acid in your stomach, the ulcer can flare up. Swallow the first piece, take one capsule and see how it feels, and at the next meal, add another capsule of betaine hydrochloride, that is, take two capsules. But I advise you not to rush and take the second capsule after the second piece of food, that is, increase its amount gradually, but alternate the capsules with a couple of pieces of food and with each meal, add 1 capsule of betaine hydrochloride gradually until a feeling of warmth appears in the stomach. This means that you took too much and the dose will need to be reduced. One capsule was extra. Let's say you took 6 capsules and you felt a feeling of warmth in your stomach, then your dose is 5 capsules, or if you feel that acid reflux is no longer present. Uh  I don't have any digestion. No acid reflux after three capsules, then your dose is three. Continue taking this dose for some time, perhaps 1-2-3 months. Then take a break to see if the problem has gone away. I hope you are eating right to put other factors in order, such as iodine, potassium, sodium, chloride, and so on. Don't go too often. Follow the intermittent fasting program. As a rule, the average person needs from 1 to 6 capsules, and perhaps you don't need to take the whole handful at once. Take the capsules one at a time, alternating them with food. I think this is an extremely important video, because if you incorrectly determine the cause of the problem and use the wrong remedy, it will never get better. By the way, there is another possible cause of HR or acid reflux, and it is associated with a lack of one intravenous duct that controls the valve above the stomach, and you will learn about it from this video. Watch