Let's talk about the number one remedy for cataracts. Every fourth person over sixty has cataracts, and among those over 80, every second person has them. 28,000 people a day develop cataracts, many lose their sight because of it. There is slight oxidative stress on the lens. And now cataracts begin to develop. Oxidative stress on the tissue is similar to rust in the norm. The lens of the eye contains a structured protein called crystallin. This is one of the oldest proteins in the body. It is formed in the womb even before birth. The problem is that the body cannot replace this protein. It is not the liver that regenerates. If the lens tissue is damaged, it is not replaced. Many things can damage the lens. Glycation occurs. Glycation is the process of combining sugar with protein. By clinging to sugar, the protein becomes useless for the body. Now it is a damaged protein. That is why many diabetics develop cataracts prematurely. It also occurs with age. Steroids also affect the eyes, for example, prednisone. Glycation occurs due to excess sugar or  Oxidation with a lack of antioxidants inside the lens of the eye creates a problem. The lens seems to fog up, you look through a dirty lens and see little. Eye surgeries are not always successful and have complications. But there are antidotes for cataracts, it is very effective and safe. This video is about this book, its author is a British doctor. I will briefly summarize its contents and give a link to the book in the description. The author cites several remedies, including drugs such as metformin and other diabetes drugs with side effects, but he talks about natural remedies and they work great. One of these remedies is a special form of basket carnosine - a unique chemical compound that can be brought into a certain form in which it is able to penetrate the eye. The lens is a super-powerful antioxidant that can dissolve damaged proteins in the eyes and also activate the antioxidants of the body itself. This substance is not drunk in the form of a supplement, it is used in the form of drops, but it is not just carnosine. If you put regular carnosine in your eyes, it will not work. You need a combination with several substances. So that it can get inside the eye and To penetrate the lens, which is located somewhat deeper, you need carnosine. In this form, cetyl carnosine NC is able to penetrate the eyes, and when it gets into the liquid around the lens, it disintegrates and allows the basket to perform its miracle. During experiments at the Helmholtz Moscow Research Institute of Eye Diseases, scientists tested eye drops with a one-percent solution on rabbits in the laboratory. Unlike inactive drops, it penetrated the inner part of the eye in 15-30 minutes. At the same time, it began to act on glycated proteins in the lens of the eye. There are many membranes in the eye area, and carnosine is able to pass through these fatty membranes, penetrating deep into the cells. There were no side effects and was proposed as a treatment for eye diseases, including cataracts, glaucoma, corneal diseases, inflammation, and complications of diabetes. What does diabetes complication have to do with it? The fact is that diabetes increases the risk of developing cataracts. One of the main targets of diabetes. Scientists who experimented with rabbits then studied the effects of NSI on people. They selected  49 volunteers with an average age of 65 years and with age-related cataracts were then divided into three groups. In the first group, they dripped a one percent solution of N, the second group dripped a placebo, and the third did nothing. Patients were examined at intervals of 2 to 6 months. After 6 months, in 41 of those who were dripped NSC, lens clouding was significantly reduced. 90% of eyes showed a gradual improvement in vision. 89% of eyes completely restored sensitivity to bright light. And what did these scientists do? They found a natural remedy without side effects that helps get rid of cataracts. I will answer a couple of questions about the book. How long should you drip cataract remedies? At least 3-5 months. This is not cured in one day. Correction takes time, but these drops are not toxic. This is a natural remedy that slowly dissolves bad proteins that cause clouding in the eyes. In this video, I am not claiming that you can cure everything with this. I am just giving information for review. It is interesting that if you try to find such  NSC drops on Amazon you won't find them there It's very strange they used to be there and now they're not There are drops with other types of NC but it's not cetyl carnosine However, I found a couple of places where you can buy them online but not necessarily on Amazon The links will be below So what are we Concluding the risk factors diabetes junk food steroids all of this accelerates the formation of cataracts seed oils are the worst of all I would avoid them antioxidants can protect you from cataracts onions are a good example of an antioxidant egg yolks leafy greens red meat grass-fed all of this helps with antioxidants to fight these things vitamin A is very important for the eyes a good source of vitamin A liver oil and also grass-fed liver and finally B vitamins namely B6 B2 and Fala are very important for the eyes my goal is to give people alternative solutions without many side effects that act naturally and also give information about the real reasons Thank you and see you again you know what superfoods are these are products that bring great benefits to the body Dr. Berg's course will help you learn all about these products and their  Benefits: Short, concise videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, and boost immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are also available. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily.