First, I want to tell you a story. I live on a farm. I have a goat named Bennett. No matter what I do, Bennett gets through the fence and starts eating trees. This went on for a long time, but I found a solution. I patched up the holes in the fence. Now, Bennett can't get through it. I leave the house in the morning and Bennett is on the other side of the fence again. At first, there was a light fence, then I added an electric fence, pulled the mesh up with a fence, and eventually built a solid plank fence. But even this plank fence reinforced with live wires couldn't keep Bennett out. Then I had the idea to reinforce it all with wire mesh buried in the ground. Finally, the problem is solved. This fence will definitely keep her in the pen. The next day, Bennett is on the other side of the fence. Bennett is very nice. She looks like a cartoon character. So, it's hard to get angry with her, but I was furious with Bennett. I had one last resort. If this doesn't help, then nothing will help. I had to.  install cameras around the entire paddock And this is a big job we did it and guess how Bennett got through the fence she didn't get through the fence tiny dwarf goat Bennett I was shocked This is called missing information and it is related to our topic today sometimes information is not obvious especially if you have a dwarf goat which turns out to jump extremely high I have never heard and did not know about this So I will tell you something about dementia and you will be very glad that you watched this video when you study the problem very carefully analyzes this sample and everything looks absolutely logical This means that the truth is getting closer first I want to talk about a drug called Lupron it is used in the treatment of certain types of cancer because it suppresses sex hormones such as testosterone estrogen progesterone and so on but I read one study about Lupron and it showed that Lupron significantly reduces the symptoms of dementia and the missing information Olyu Prone is that Lupron has a powerful suppressive effect on Luteinizing hormone is a hormone produced by the pituitary gland. In fact, this hormone sends a signal to the body to produce various hormones such as progesterone and testosterone. Lupron suppresses luteinizing hormone. With age, the level of luteinizing hormone in people increases; the level becomes 11 times higher than in youth. If there is a lack of hormones in the ovaries or testicles or something blocks them, the pituitary gland begins to greatly increase the level of luteinizing hormone, and with age, the function of the testicles is actually lost. But we will focus on luteinizing hormone. Because the missing information here is that this hormone is associated with age-related cognitive decline with neuroinflammation ( inflammation of nerve cells) and also with impaired synaptic function. Synapses are the contact points between neurons; they begin to function incorrectly and it seems that patients with Alzheimer's disease have more luteinizing hormone than people with normal cognitive function. Now let's discuss progesterone. The fact is that  that progesterone levels drop significantly with high levels of luteinizing hormone. Apparently, progesterone is a very powerful neurostrong. Serone promotes the development of neurons. When I started reading these studies, I will give them below. I saw that there are a lot of articles about the interesting function of progesterone. It promotes brain function. Women have more progesterone. Therefore, they seem to have fewer negative consequences of traumatic brain injuries than men. Thanks to progesterone, the level of inflammation in brain cells remains very low. Progesterone helps increase serotonin levels, and it has been found that this reduces various addictions, such as addiction to gambling, cocaine, and other drugs. Those with more addictions obviously have less progesterone. It is interesting that progesterone prevents apoptosis, which is the process of self-destruction of a nerve cell and cells in general. If something is damaged in a cell, it kills itself. So, progesterone prevents this. Progesterone even reduces the disruption of the blood-brain barrier. And look, after menopause, progesterone levels in women drop sharply to almost zero. In men, this can happen a little later.  Let's say after seventy, and now the question is whether there is a natural remedy capable of suppressing luteinizing hormone and the answer is yes, it is Melatonin. Melatonin is able to suppress luteinizing hormone and indirectly increases progesterone levels. There is one very interesting book. I will leave a link to it. I really like its author. In a number of his books, he analyzes in great detail various topics from all sides regarding dementia. He advises women to take 75 mg of melatonin before bed and men 125 mg of melatonin before bed. I considered Melatonin from the point of view of improving sleep. And I have a number of videos about the effect of melatonin on cells. It is a powerful antioxidant, but I lacked information that it reduces increases progesterone. Experimental studies on mice. The link is below. The mice had symptoms of Alzheimer's disease or dementia, but Melatonin and exercise helped stop the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. And the author of this book himself has been taking 500 mg of melatonin for more than a year. Without Melatonin is usually taken at about 3 mg before bedtime, but you need 75 to 125 mg, an extreme dose. Melatonin brings many benefits, including undoubtedly for cancer, because Melatonin is produced by our mitochondria and is a powerful antioxidant. There are additional supplements that can be taken to lower luteinizing hormone and increase progesterone. One such supplement is called DHA. In addition, DHA can also lower cortisol levels. You can have a blood test for DHA levels if you are going to take this supplement. You can buy it in the form of a BA. Another dietary supplement is pregnenolone. But before taking it, you should have a blood test. To find out its level, there are other ways to get Melatonin. Sleeping in the dark stimulates the production of melatonin in the pineal gland. 95% of melatonin can be obtained if you are in the sun. I am talking about a certain frequency of solar energy. About infrared light, most ultraviolet light is emitted in the middle of the day, but not in the early morning and not late in the evening. This is when you can get infrared light without all this.  Ultraviolet infrared light penetrates directly into the body; it passes through clothing somehow. I was in the forest and I had a device that allows you to measure different frequencies of sunlight. I was walking through the forest and noticed something curious. It was almost dark among the trees, but infrared light still somehow penetrated there. The same thing happens when we sit in front of a fireplace or by a campfire; it increases our melatonin levels. By the way, if you want to learn about the early symptoms of dementia and haven't watched this video, I think it has 11 million views. Watch it.