I want to show you a very good, if not the best, remedy for bloating, which, among other things, is the most effective detoxifier in the world. This remedy helps not only with bloating, but also with gases, belching, nausea, diarrhea, headaches, food poisoning, problems with stomach acidity and the detoxification reaction that occurs. When you try something new, it often happens that people try some herbal remedy and they feel bad. This remedy also helps if you have bad breath, and this remedy is activated charcoal. I'm not talking about the charcoal that they grill kebabs on or heat the stove with, you don't need to eat it. We're talking about the charcoal that is sold in pharmacies. Charcoal has been used as a medicine since ancient times. One source, I'll leave a link below, says that charcoal was used as early as 234 BC. Charcoal has long been used to treat livestock. For example, if a cow has an intestinal disorder or infection, then charcoal is used. Charcoal was also used to increase bloating, perhaps due to its effect on the balance of pathogens and beneficial bacteria. If you have a water filter at home, then it contains  also used coal one layer or even the whole filter What does coal do This is what I want to talk about here we have a sponge And this is a magnet coal does not absorb substances it looks at them it works the same way with coal it helps remove particles by attaching to them be it poisons toxins proteins gases or any waste also coal helps well with poisoning Sorry, if you have a reaction to medications let's say you took a lot of medications and feel bad, you can take coal and you will feel better I'm still joking about medications But in fact these are poisons only in lower concentrations the third most common cause of death after heart disease and cancer are ethrogenic diseases that is diseases caused by medical error these can be errors during operations within deaths in this category is death from drugs coal is interesting because it has a porous structure this means that it has a very large surface area one cubic centimeter of coal if you open it up the surface area will be 1000 square meters this is a lot of coal has electrostatic magnetic properties it can adhere to other things if you take it it will help remove  Toxins, gases, and other substances that make you feel bad. How much to take. I recommend following the instructions that come with the charcoal. Everything also depends on what kind of charcoal you bought. Since we're talking about remedies, understand that charcoal only relieves symptoms, albeit naturally. Bloating, gas, nausea, headaches, and so on are usually caused by something else. I recorded a very good video in which I talk about the digestive system and bloating. If you haven't watched it, be sure to watch it. It's very important. Here it is.