I want to tell you about a very simple and inexpensive remedy that I think will not only improve your hair and nails, rejuvenate your skin, but also bring many other benefits. It may turn out that this natural remedy will relieve you of many problems, and collagen is the basis of all this. What is collagen? This is our connective tissue, tendons, ligaments, cartilage. All our collagen is one-third made up of one amino acid, glycine. Glycine is not an essential amino acid, that is, the body can create it. However, our bodies do not actually create enough glycine if we do not get glycine from food. Most likely, there will be a deficiency. The fact is that in ordinary proteins, in red meat, chicken, fish, even in eggs and dairy products, there is not much glycine. To get enough glycine, you need to eat chicken with skin, cartilage on chicken bones, or offal, but many people do not eat this. So, you can eat a lot of protein but not get this amino acid, and this can cause a lot of problems. Just listen. Glycine is necessary for the creation of the most important antioxidant of all our cells, namely glutathione. Without glycine, it is impossible to create Glutathione And therefore, it removes toxins, which means that toxins will accumulate and this leads to inflammation, in particular, therefore, Glycine has a powerful anti-inflammatory effect, that is, Glycine is extremely important for the liver. Glycine is also used as a remedy for leaky gut syndrome because it helps prevent inflammation in the intestines, which I have already talked about in many videos. I explained that autoimmune diseases begin with inflammation in the intestines. Glycine is also a part of many enzymes and various proteins. One enzyme, catalase, helps break down hydrogen peroxide in the body. Perhaps this explains the premature graying of hair in some people, because hydrogen peroxide bleaches hair pigment. Glycine is necessary for the creation of hemoglobin in the blood. That is, without glycine, it is impossible to create blood. Even gums need Glycine. Glycine is needed for DNA. It is so important. With a glycine deficiency, deep Delta sleep, which is needed for recovery, may not be possible. I also found out that glycine has another very important function: it helps get rid of uric acid. It is used even in the treatment of gout. Case Glycine competes with uric acid. Glycine also increases insulin sensitivity. So it perfectly normalizes blood sugar and can help with weight loss, fatty liver, visceral fat, and so on. In Greek, glycine means sweet. Glycine can be converted into glucose, that is, into fuel. Some areas of the body, especially the brain, need a certain level of glucose, but if we do not eat sugar, the body itself creates it. So, glycine can be a raw material for creating sugar. Perhaps you are afraid that taking glycine will increase sugar and this will take you out of ketosis, but do not forget about the benefits of glycine. It helps stabilize blood sugar. It may cause a small surge in insulin, but it will increase insulin sensitivity. So, it rather corrects the problem with insulin, whereas regular sugar does not normalize blood sugar at all. But here's what else is interesting about glycine: it stimulates a hormone that counteracts insulin, and this is glucagon. The action of glucagon is opposite to the action of insulin, which is why when we consume amino acids Protein, you don't have to worry about blood sugar spikes because protein is an insulin-antagonist hormone. So, your blood sugar is under control. If something increases insulin sensitivity, then insulin resistance decreases. I read another study, I'll leave links to all of this. It shows that Glycine can even prevent oxalates from binding to calcium. It prevents their crystallization and the formation of kidney stones. That's great. What causes glycine deficiency? The first reason is your diet. You eat only meat, not offal. If you don't eat everything that contains collagen, you will likely have a glycine deficiency because the body doesn't create enough glycine. The need for glycine is very high if you are stressed. If you take medications, if you drink alcohol, if you are affected by toxins, if your liver is made from gelatin, you can buy it in sachets, and so on. Add a little stevia. Eat it regularly to get glycine. I think this is a very easy way to get glycine. You can buy a bottle with glycine. In this case, you need to know that  The average person needs 4 to 10 gmm of glycine per day. Collagen can be obtained by cooking bones, but you need to eat a lot of bone broth to get enough glycine. But it is also possible. You can cook chicken soup. You need to take a whole chicken and simmer it all day over low heat. You will get a lot of excellent collagen, and it contains a lot of glycine. You can even eat pork rinds, but without added MSG and other chemicals, and you need to eat a lot of them, but this way you will get glycine. Different countries prepare glycine differently. In some countries they cook whole fish with the head and everything else. In some countries they cook broth from it. In some places they make chicken fillet, in others they make broth from chicken bones. There are many ways to get collagen. You may have heard of hydrolyzed bone broth. What does hydrolyzed mean, essentially? It means that the protein is broken down into shorter chains, they are called peptide chains, so it is easier to absorb collagen. After all, it has already been broken down. In addition to gelatin, Nox Blocks, there is another excellent product, beef gelatin from Great Lakes, if you take it.  Glycine. Should I worry about taking too much of it? Yes, but too much is about 600 g. 600 g, and you only need 4 to 10 g per day. I recommend taking Glycine with food, if possible, not on an empty stomach. With age, the need for glycine increases, and Glycine can potentially help with osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, thinning, and even kidney stones. I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.