Hi, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll talk about the long-term effects of low-carb diets. Nutritionists often write in various articles or recommendations that you can't stick to a ketogenic diet for long because it has so many side effects. Let's talk about this. Firstly, there are no essential carbohydrates. Essential amino acids are protein, essential fatty acids are fat, but there are no essential carbohydrates. If we talk about carbohydrates, we need some types, but not for the carbohydrates themselves, but for the vitamins and microelements. For example, plant carbohydrates are for the vitamins and microelements. The point is in them, not in the carbohydrates themselves. The body will not suffer from not consuming or not receiving glucose. Some will say it is needed for energy, it is not necessary. The body works much better on fat fuel, on titanium, they are on glucose. Or some are sure that a low-carb diet is a low-calorie diet. They are not the same thing. A low-carb diet is not a low-calorie diet. These are two different things. Or, another thing, reducing carbohydrates will cause a nutrient deficiency in the thyroid gland. This is not true. The thyroid gland does not need it. Glucose needs nutrients, but it doesn't need a lot of sugar. On a low-calorie diet, the thyroid can suffer because you're depriving it of nutrients. Carbohydrates have nothing to do with it. When I recommend the Chinese gene diet, I advise you to eat a lot of greens. You need to eat a lot of greens. We don't take them into account at all. We need nutrients from greens, but not from grains because they are poorly digested and contain gluten, which is harmful to the body. It turns into sugar very quickly. But people rely on what they say. They say that you can't stick to a low-carb diet for long because no one can hold out and eventually break down. This is not true. In fact, you can stick to this diet for a long time because the craving for a certain idea disappears, hunger disappears. These are the stumbling blocks of any diet. On a low-calorie diet or a high-carb diet, it will be difficult not to break down due to constant cravings. Here's another example from the field. They say that a low-carb diet is a high- protein diet. It's not that low carbs and high protein are two different things. I recommend  85 170 grams of protein is a very reasonable amount, you need acids to build proteins in the body, they say you include a whole food group, but before we exclude bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes, we exclude them because they are not healthy, B vitamins can be obtained from other foods, not necessarily from grains, and they also say a ketogenic diet, a low-carb diet can lead to a disease called diabetes or whatever it is called, tit acidosis, this is another lie, because kit acidosis can only occur if you already have type 1 diabetes and the body does not produce insulin at all, then this serious disease can occur, it is completely different if a healthy person is on a healthy and nutritious diet, there will be no tit acidosis, it is a very strong imbalance towards acidity in the body, this will not happen in fact, I don’t think that this is possible, don’t worry, it’s just that some people think that since these two words are similar, then these concepts themselves are identical, kit acidosis, and they are not identical, these words have the same thing, knees, this is not identical, and it just seems that they are not the same thing with  In fact, a low-carb diet helps correct insulin resistance. When insulin resistance goes away, the body is able to absorb much more nutrients, not only elements such as potassium, magnesium, and chromium, but also vitamins A and E, B vitamins, vitamin D, and omega-6 fatty acids. These fatty acids cannot be absorbed by people with insulin resistance. What are the benefits of a long-term low-carb diet? Lower insulin levels, improved cardiovascular health, weight loss, improved skin, and the possibility of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) going away. Excess fat from the liver, diabetes, and insulin resistance will improve. Cognitive function will improve, mood will improve, and dementia will decrease. This is nothing new, but every time there is a really good recommendation, someone somewhere will inevitably object. This always happens. Just realize that someone will definitely be against it. Just ignore it and stick to a low-carb diet. Thank you for watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, click this button below. Thank you. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. I'll tell you during the course.  What's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix it without harming your health? Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.