Today we'll talk about how to keep the brain young and healthy. We agree, and so the main raw material for brain cells and the main component of this entire structure is docosahexaenoic acid. For children, this is one of the omega-3 fatty acids. A large amount is found in fish, shellfish, and fish oil. Everyone needs to eat fish to get maidenhair and provide the brain with what it needs to maintain its structure. This is very important for a growing child's body, but even more important for a pregnant woman. The brain prefers to run on titanium dioxide, which runs on glucose. The brain also needs glucose, but don't get hung up on it. The body itself can produce glucose from both concrete and fat and protein to nourish the brain. It's not at all necessary to eat glucose. The brain prefers ketones. If you have both ketones and glucose in your blood, the brain will always choose ketones first. In diabetes, with diabetes or insulin resistance, the process of switching to a diet takes longer, and then you can add m-city oil to, so to speak, reinforce the ketones, that is, feed the brain more.  The bridge will be satisfied with the amount of ketones, and you will have more energy. Let's talk about what can harm your brain. The first is depriving the brain of magnesium. In asymptomatic magnesium deficiency, you may be eating few vegetables and foods rich in magnesium. The energy produced in neurons by mitochondria, that is, the cellular energy plants, will be depleted and as a result, the number and density of synapses will decrease. Therefore, magnesium is extremely important. There is a type of magnesium that is more beneficial for the brain than others, magnesium L3, and above it can penetrate between the circulatory and central nervous systems. It restores synapses and increases their density and thereby has a good effect on memory, cognitive functions, learning ability, and also prolongs. Don't forget to include greens in your diet. I'm not talking about pistachio ice cream or green lemon jelly, but about vegetables and so on. Too much iron as a trace element has a toxic effect on the brain, liver, and heart. Iron has corrosive properties and oxidizes the brain. If you have excess iron, it wouldn't hurt to get it checked. This is ethylene of diameter  Acetic acid is a hilok that helps remove excess iron. The main thing is not to replenish it again by taking iron supplements. Below is a link to my video on iron with very important details. Watch it below. The next point is brain atrophy in diabetes. With diabetes or insulin resistance, over time, the brain atrophies, it decreases in size, and this leads to impaired cognitive functions. To slow down or reverse this process, you should be in ketosis. How to do this? Forget about carbohydrates and practice intermittent fasting. It's simple. There are parts of the brain that have the ability to create new neurons. Thank God, parts of the brain are associated with memory and are capable of regeneration. Intermittent fasting is best for creating brain cells. Regular physical activity also contributes to this. All this also leads to an increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor. It's like fertilizer for neurons in your brain. Intermittent fasting and physical activity are among the main stimuli. Next, zinc is very important for the prevention of amyloid plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease. This is a kind of protein that accumulates here in the synapses. and disrupts communication between brain cells, which causes dementia. Zinc plays a huge role in preventing this. Intermittent fasting and periodic long-term fasting will also help get rid of amyloid plaques. Cell phones are very, very dangerous for your brain, especially if you hold it like this. Holding it like this, you are exposed to the effects of... If you haven't seen my video about this yet, be sure to watch it. It's not some kind of fad or myth, it's true. The link will be in the description. Don't press the phone to your head when talking. Keep it at a distance or turn on speakerphone, and definitely don't use Bluetooth. That video also talks about this. Electromagnetic radiation can be countered. For example, taking 50 milligrams of niacin per day is very helpful. Intermittent fasting is also very helpful. Vegetable oils cause strong oxidation. Their effect on the body is comparable to the effect of glucose and iron, so you should exclude corn, rapeseed, cottonseed, and soybean oil from your diet. Instead, switch to olive oil. Now let's look at hypoxia, which is a lack of oxygen in certain parts of the brain. There can be many reasons for this. For example, a previous head injury, such as fins ult, a microstroke, or your parents dropped you on your head as a child, or you have a history of nosocomial or cerebral palsy. The supply of oxygen to the brain is disrupted. What can you do first? Aerobic exercise: go outside, walk, ride a bike, run regularly every day. This will increase the flow of oxygen to the brain. Hyperbaric oxygenation has recently become very popular.  The link will be below. The benefits that this therapy can bring are confirmed by serious studies. It is very effective and you should definitely study this issue, especially if you want to cope with hypoxia. The process is as follows: you are closed in a chamber and almost 100% oxygen falls. In normal air, oxygen is only about 21 percent. In a hyperbaric chamber, it is increased to almost 100 percent. The pumped pressure promotes the entry of oxygen into the lungs, into the blood cells, into all tissues of the body and into the brain cells. If there are damaged areas of the department suffering from hypoxia or ischemia, that is, a lack of oxygen, then the therapy will help fill the tissues with oxygen to heal them. There are many areas of application, but it is very useful for the brain. Further, ketones. If your fuel is ketones, this will help increase the level of A2 and reduce the level of CO2. There is another disease that, in my opinion, many have but is asymptomatic. This is Wernicke- Korsakoff syndrome, in other words, a deficiency of vitamin B1, and this greatly affects your memory, especially the ability to create new memories. Over time, this will affect your gait, lead to apathy, affect vision and provoke problems. But also a simple vitamin B1 deficiency. B1 deficiency Many people have it, but they don't even know what the deficiency is due to. It's related to the functioning of the mitochondria, the energy plants of cells, with elevated glucose levels. If you consume glucose, simple carbohydrates and sugar, you will very quickly deplete your B1 reserves and create a deficiency. So, glucose, high-fructose corn syrup, alcohol, and white rice will burn up your vitamin B1 reserves and you will begin to develop all of this. Vitamin B1 deficiency can lead to other problems. There is a link to my report on vitamin B12 at the 2018 summit under the video. If you haven't seen it yet, watch it. It's a very good presentation. Further, iodine deficiency in the body can affect your IQ. To avoid this, don't forget about iodine. Selenium deficiency can lead to mercury poisoning because beta-mercury binds to existing selenium in the brain and, as a result, antioxidant protection is disrupted. For example, glutathione levels are disrupted, and with its deficiency, you can no longer resist free radicals and oxidation. So, selenium is very, very important. Vitamin D, almost everyone suffers from this.  If you're deficient in vitamin D, you're more susceptible to inflammation, including in your brain. You'll also have trouble sleeping, and vitamin D can help correct this. So, how can all this data be summarized in five points? How do you get zinc and copper from seafood? I have a strong idea. If you add fatty fish, halibut, and salmon, you'll also get the necessary dose. Get more sun to get vitamin D. It's almost impossible to get vitamin D from food alone, or from supplements. Dark green leafy vegetables are rich in magnesium and potassium. This diet is a given. Intermittent fasting is very important. Regular exercise is very important. So, that's the bottom line. Thank you for watching.