Hello, it's me again today, we'll talk about the body's response to stress, vitamin D, and 11 of the most beloved vitamins. Let 's start with the autonomic nervous system. What is it? This system helps the body and organs adapt to the environment. It works behind the scenes and constantly adapts the body. So, if you find yourself in a stressful situation, or fall asleep, or have dinner in the field, or go out into the cold, your body adapts to this environment. The system is divided into two parts, actually, three, but we won't go into detail. The parasympathetic division controls rest and digestion. This part is activated in rest mode when everything is fine. You're resting and calm, but as soon as you start to get going, a different system is activated. The sympathetic nervous system is completely different with the opposite function. It prepares you for stress. The autonomic nervous system regulates the activity of all organs, glands, and blood vessels, nerves in the back, in the lower spine, and even in the brainstem. Basic survival functions are embedded in the brain: heartbeat and breathing, hunger, satiety, and the "run-run" mechanism. That is, you would run away from a tiger.  You 're fighting a tiger in a club, and there's also the reproduction these days. Tigers are n't chasing the zone like they once did a long time ago, but war is a psychological thing. They're chasing us. Our reaction in both cases is identical, except there's no game nearby. If you're under stress for a long time, the sympathetic nervous system begins to dominate your sleep, affecting the quality of sleep, and is no longer in rest mode. One of the most obvious symptoms of this is anxiety. You're nervous, you can't relax, and if it gets significantly worse, panic attacks may even begin. This is accurate, and the dominance of the sympathetic nervous system is associated with nightmares, saunas, and the symptoms become chronic. This means that the sympathetic nervous system can't cope. Typically, the following happens: stress mode kicks in, and then, when the stress has passed, the parasympathetic system helps you recover. This system is interesting because it's always active. This system constantly tries to calm you down. For example, when you sleep, exercise, and your heart rate increases significantly, and then you stop. This system activates and tries to understand your pulse. This can be imagined as a fading wave. It tries to lower your pulse, calm the nervous system, and  Help fall into deep sleep, but if the sympathetic division dominates, this does not happen, you do not fulfill the strength for appetite. It is amazing that the nervous system needs a lot of vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 is not just one of the B vitamins. Perhaps this is one of the most important vitamins for the nervous system. I will not just lie down on the system as a whole, but also on the central nervous system or physical and, of course, the vegetative symptoms of vitamin B1 deficiency in the body are identical to the symptoms of an incapacitated vegetative nervous system. If the operative nervous system is damaged, a person experiences the same symptoms of vitamin B1 deficiency. The reason is that the nervous system requires a lot of vitamin B1 to function. What are the symptoms of B1 deficiency? Under you, something is when you suddenly stand up and you feel dizzy and you need to sit down. There are many symptoms associated with this, the most important of which is depression. We have already talked about anxiety, tension, constant nervous tension, and a state of absent-mindedness. Fedosov, inability to concentrate, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children often leads to loss of orientation. Eating is often found in dementia or illness.  Alzheimer's and irritability in spouses often have strange tired legs, there seems to be no reason for fatigue, but you are constantly falling over. Fibromyalgia is very common symptoms of B1 deficiency. There are many more notes. These are the main ones. Vitamin B1. The body's ability to adapt to the environment and circumstances is suppressed. There are other strange symptoms, for example, in warm weather, your feet are cold, but on the contrary, they burn in cold weather. Or you sweat even though it's cold outside. Or after getting out of the shower, you suddenly start sweating. Or you think that sports in a warm room are not at all for 3. Stand after eating. This is strange, because in theory, this is also the body's energy, so what is left for you? Or you feel dizzy if you take out all these common symptoms. The next question is what can cause a deficiency of vitamin B1. The first reason is stress. Constant stress leads to depletion of vitamin B in the nervous system and these symptoms will begin to appear. The more you insure, the more vitamin B1 your body needs. The second reason is simple sugars, not carbohydrates. If you eat a lot of sugar or refined foods.  You need a huge dose of vitamin B1 when you cleanse carbohydrates. The problem is that when you cleanse carbohydrates, vitamin B1 is removed from them, and you consume placebos. When you eat natural products, like cane sugar or whole grains, they contain a lot of vitamin B1. After cleaning, it is gone. When you consume these products, you deplete your B1 reserves, and these symptoms begin to appear after a year. Coffee leads to a vitamin B1 deficiency, as does excess tea. Eating chocolate and indulging in wine depletes vitamin B1. I didn't want to make this video myself to show the connection between vitamin B1, stress, diet, and the state of the autonomic nervous system. If you have these symptoms, go into fight-or-flight mode. Nutritional yeast is an excellent source of vitamin B1. As a short-term measure, I'm not against synthetic vitamin B1, but only if you also take natural vitamins. Taking a large dose of vitamin B1 can disrupt the supply of other vitamins. One of the sources is nutritional yeast. Another analogue of vitamin B1 is benfotiamine. Photo: benfotiamine is fat-soluble.  Vitamin B1 is absorbed by brain cells 25 times faster than regular water-soluble vitamin B1. Thank you all for watching and see you later. If you enjoyed the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.