I want to tell you about a very good remedy for angina, as well as for any heart rhythm disturbances. This natural remedy is useful to have on hand if you have heart problems, heart failure, or have had a heart attack. It makes particular sense to keep it with you on a plane. I'm talking about hawthorn fruit extract. It has been used for a long time for circulatory problems and respiratory diseases, namely, for irregular heartbeat, hypertension, chest pain, hardening of the arteries, and other symptoms of heart failure such as difficulty breathing and weakness. But nowadays it is mainly used for angina, chest pain, it improves blood circulation and normalizes the heartbeat. This natural remedy has been well studied and proven to significantly improve heart function and the ability to perform physical activity in case of heart problems. It has been found that it is as effective as the drug Captopril, a heart medication, it also helps with shortness of breath and general weakness. Where hawthorn gets such beneficial properties is in certain phytonutrients that help dilate blood vessels.  By improving blood circulation, they also protect the inner surface of blood vessels from oxidation and free radicals. Before replacing your medications with this or other medications, consult a doctor. I am not claiming that this will heal your heart or replace any medications. Two powerful components have been found in hawthorn: firstly, proanthocyanidins and secondly, bioflavonoids. These two substances have a very specific effect. They relax the coronary arteries, the spasm of which is directly related to that. Therefore, I advise you to have this remedy with you when you are traveling on an airplane. Keep it in your pocket just in case. You know what superfoods are. These are products that bring amazing benefits to the body. Dr. Berg's course will help you learn everything about these products and their benefits. Short hired videos about more than 40 superfoods that help improve health, reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, improve gastrointestinal function, increase immunity and energy. Notes, recipes, and additional materials are waiting for you. Follow the link below to join Dr. Berg's course to eat healthily for  health