Chum salmon recipes from Eric and Karen Berg Hello everyone, good afternoon, and we have another amazing recipe. You must love shrimp, it's a healthy seafood product that has a lot of microelements. Okay, what is this crown? It's a fryer style with shrimp. It's a classic fry style with pepper shrimp, sesame seeds, and I like broccoli and other goodies. I like everything except broccoli. Let me try it. In this dish, we took shrimp with the tails. I'm tired of it with my hand and fork. You can take it without the tail. It's delicious. We both had a whole shrimp in our mouths, but it was worth it. Tell me why seafood is so healthy. I won't be a shrimp eater and I'll share with you. Seafood is very rich in microelements that are extremely important and are usually scarce in the human diet. Seafood contains zinc and copper, as well as omega-3 fatty acids. Imagine a healthy friend. Essential substances. It's incredibly healthy. I think everyone needs to eat more seafood.  This is one of the ways, it's delicious and simple, these are quick recipes. Of course, if you want, you can take other vegetables. Yes, I would take it. Okay, let's look at the recipe: a tablespoon of sesame oil, a large head of broccoli, separated into florets 225 grams of chopped bell pepper 2 crushed cloves of garlic, half a teaspoon of grated ginger Set the vegetables aside. A tablespoon of sesame oil, a kilo of two hundred raw shrimp, salt and pepper to taste. Fry until pink Add the vegetables to the shrimp. Two tablespoons of liquid and minus 2 chopped stalks of green onions Drizzle with sesame oil and mix. Sprinkle with sesame seeds on top I invite you to my Healthy Chum Salmon course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do.  To fix this without harming your health, hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.