If you have any inflammation in the digestive tract, be it in the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, you will be very glad that you watched this video because I will tell you about a simple and inexpensive remedy that literally has no side effects. It can be used for gastritis, esophageal irritation, ulcers, and also if you have a hernia, it helps with diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, and even Crohn's disease. Any inflammation in the digestive system is worth trying. Just look. What method is now used to treat all this? One of the remedies that use antibiotics. Antibiotics are extolled. So they are called the most incredible discovery of our time. Well, if this is so, they have definitely created a lot of problems for us. They take antibiotics. Doctors prescribe 73 billion antibiotics every year. It turns out that something like, correct me if I'm wrong. 9-10 antibiotics for every man, woman, and child on the planet. That's a lot. The problem is that they can kill quite a lot of friendly bacteria in the intestines. And what about those bacteria that survive? Have you heard such an expression?  What does n't kill us makes us stronger is exactly what happens when you take antibiotics. The microbes that survive turn into super microbes. Later, they can speak in technical terms, they can give you a hard time. They are capable of creating a lot of problems. They were previously friendly. Now they have become less friendly. Some microbes that didn't cause problems before have now become pathogens. Salmonella eschar or Cacter pylori, Candida. Although they used to live in peace with your body, now they are very hostile and can cause a lot of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. Such things happen. Even with cancer. When someone undergoes chemotherapy, it kills all of their cancer cells. Maybe, but usually not. Usually, a small part remains, and these few percent, five or one percent, that remain, change. They become stronger. They can come back and successfully resist any treatment. Of course, stronger chemotherapy can be used. But doesn't your own immunity suffer from such chemistry? And what to do then without immunity? The same problem will arise between countries if they start using nuclear weapons. This can indirectly harm them. I will tell you about one natural remedy with virtually no side effects. It will not destroy all the microorganisms in your body, like that.  How foods are pasteurized. It won't reduce the number of germs. It won't turn your germs unfriendly. It will help make them even more friendly. This remedy is called cabbage juice. There are a lot of studies around the world. Below are links to some of them. The dosage depends on the severity of the inflammation. For mild cases, drink one glass a day. For severe cases, drink 4 glasses. This is about 1 liter. Cabbage juice is a very interesting remedy. In the past, I already recommended cabbage for any digestive problems. When they have gastritis or digestive problems, cabbage is apparently best tolerated. I think I know why. It contains four interesting compounds that can help the gastrointestinal tract. The first is the so-called vitamin U. It helps speed up the healing process of ulcers or lesions in the digestive tract. It protects the mucous membranes throughout the digestive system and also protects against erosion. It helps. Wherever there is irritation, inflammation, or damage, it has even begun to be used externally. Apparently, it helps even with depression. Vitamin U is also found in other foods. Hundreds of vitamins, butter, whole milk, and  It's interesting about animal fat. If you're on a root diet and eat a lot of animal fat, it apparently reduces inflammation in the intestines, but pasteurized milk will probably only do harm. After all, it's sterilized, and unpasteurized milk apparently contains something that helps with inflammation in the intestines. This is only one of the beneficial substances in cabbage. The second is called sulforaphane. Sulforaphane is also found in broccoli and broccoli sprouts, Brussels sprouts, and other cruciferous vegetables. For example, in cauliflower and kale, as well as watercress, sulforaphane is good for ulcers caused by Helicobacter pylori, and this is one of the most important triggers for another compound, n-RF-2. You don't need its full name. The important thing is that it helps with detoxification. It is also an anti-inflammatory and a powerful antioxidant. It helps normalize an overactive immune system. Thus, it suppresses inflammation without reducing the immune system's ability to repel attacks. In addition, in  Cabbage has a lot of vitamin C. I have a video about this in it. I'm talking about leaky gut. Leaky gut. It's something like subclinical scurvy. If you think about it, scurvy manifests itself in another part of the body in the gums, which bleed, and collagen suffers, that is, the connective tissue in this area. Holes appear and the connections are not tight. If this happens in the intestines, holes and leaks also appear there, just like in the area of ​​the teeth where the gums bleed. What happens to the gums can happen from the intestines. Different particles penetrate through the holes. The immune system reacts to them and various inflammations occur. Juices have a lot of vitamin C. There is another wonderful thing. El glutamine. El-glutamine is a very common remedy for intestinal inflammation. It also helps well thanks to you in the intestines. Any problem with inflammation in the intestines, or glutamine can help. El glutamine is useful in other ways too. It can help reduce ammonia levels. As for Helicobacter pylori, which causes ulcers, it has such a  A strategy to produce more ammonia to raise the stomach's lining and create a more favorable environment for yourself is four powerful ingredients. In cabbage juice, you need fresh and juicy raw organic cabbage. You can use both green and red cabbage. Juice it fresh and drink it. It's extremely effective. There are practically no links to the research below. This is truly an ideal situation. An excellent remedy is very inexpensive. You will need a juicer, but in all other respects, in my opinion, this is the ideal solution. Yes, this is a solution, but it is also important to understand what caused the inflammation and also figure out what is best to eat. And what should you avoid in the future? To support your microbiome, we need it to be varied and rich and aid digestion. We also want to know what foods are the healthiest, and you can learn about this from this video.