I want to talk about two health killers when people snack and when they graze. What is the difference between these actions? They are similar. Snacking is when you eat at a certain time, for example, between lunch and dinner or before bed. Grazing means that there are no restrictions on time, type of food, or quantity. They eat continuously, and this can be seen at parties where food is laid out all over the house, and yes, people eat one thing, another. Someone brings some food with them. They seem to graze in a meadow. If someone advises you to snack so as not to overeat, understand that this is the worst advice that can be given to someone. Let's talk about the problems that can arise if you snack or graze. A person begins to eat. Blood sugar rises, and it doesn't matter what it is. insulin begins to rise to lower sugar. Now the person has less blood sugar and wants to eat. This is what you must understand. Food causes hunger. About an hour and a half later, especially if you eat carbohydrates. A person snacks. Sugar rises. insulin rises to lower sugar. Sugar drops, and it's time to eat again. This goes on and on. The problem is that when this happens.  It becomes a habit, insulin levels get higher and higher, insulin resistance appears and all the accompanying symptoms: frequent nighttime trips to the toilet, fatigue after eating, food cravings, especially for sweets, belly fat appears, blood sugar rises, vision deteriorates, consciousness becomes clouded, inflammation develops and the list goes on for a long time. Some people can eat to relieve depression. The problem is that they may feel better for a while, but then the depression will intensify, because as soon as insulin rises, it activates its side effect of worsening mood. Some people eat for energy, but the more you eat, the more tired you get, because a side effect of high insulin is fatigue. Some eat when they are bored or when they are stressed, but again, the more they eat, the more cortisol they will have, and therefore stress. The short-term pleasure of eating carbohydrates causes a surge of dopamine, and then dopamine resistance develops. Some people eat carbohydrates for pleasure, increasing dopamine, it gives them a pleasant sensation that lasts at most 30 seconds, then it disappears and people need more, but the more  They eat, the stronger the dopamine resistance, they need more and more carbohydrates to get this effect to such an extent that it stops working. When they eat so many carbohydrates, they not only stop getting pleasure, but also pain and inflammation arise. Of course, some people eat simply because they have it, and even for no reason at all, so as you can see, this is a trap. In my opinion, many people do not realize that when they fast, and correctly, it can happen that the body will come to a state in which there is no hunger at all and no craving for food. You will feel like you just ate because you eat your fat. You eat your fat all day long. When you eat your fat, ketones are produced, this is pure fuel. You will feel good. You will not fall into this vicious circle. Your cognitive functions, concentration, memory will improve, and your mood will also rise. There will be no anxiety or depression. You will be on the rise. If you have not yet done fasting, this can be achieved if you fast correctly. First and foremost, you do not need to have breakfast. Before, I said that you need to have breakfast. The problem is that there is something I did not know and did not know.  Here's what I mean when you eat anything, it doesn't matter if it's proteins or fats, and especially carbohydrates, you stimulate insulin to some extent, then insulin will lower your blood sugar, and this will cause even more hunger. You sleep all night and don't eat, you're starving, then you wake up and go, and so on in a circle. If you don't eat constantly, you can force your body to start burning its fat reserves, but if you eat, you won't be able to. When you eat, you stimulate insulin and slow down or block the ability to burn fat. It seems to me that many people don't understand this, so at the very least, don't eat breakfast. Many people aren't hungry, but they still eat breakfast, and this is a big mistake. If you're hungry in the morning, it means that you ate too many carbohydrates yesterday, so you should avoid carbohydrates in your diet. By doing this, you'll make fasting easier for yourself. Fasting is much more difficult if you eat carbohydrates, and that's why carbohydrates activate insulin, and this causes hunger, and yes, in principle, it stimulates insulin production and leads to hunger. Secondly, food causes hunger about an hour and a half after eating. Thirdly, this is for  Those who are used to constantly grazing and snacking should no longer buy unhealthy food; garbage belongs in the trash. If unhealthy food is lying around the house, just don't bring it home. Ask your family members not to buy it either. Make it very difficult to get. Make it inaccessible. Fourth, be as active as possible. Play sports. Go outside. And so on. And I already talked about number five: avoid carbohydrates in your diet. If you haven't seen my video about how to stop eating bread, watch this link.