Today we will discuss magnesium stearate, a common ingredient in many supplements. It is used as a common anti-binding agent. What is it? This ingredient allows the powder to pass through the equipment that produces the supplement (the enzymes that put it into capsules). This ingredient also allows the tablet to pass through the gastrointestinal tract slightly better. It also slightly improves the body's absorption of ingredients because it is a salt of a fatty acid in the United States. It is classified as GRAS. This stands for generally recognized as safe. A report from the National Center for Biotechnology stated that up to 2.5 grams of magnesium stearate per kilogram of body weight is considered safe. What does this mean? This means that if you weigh about 70 kilograms, you can consume up to 170 grams of magnesium stearate per day and it will not harm you in any way. It is important to understand that the average amount of magnesium stearate in one capsule is only 4 to 8 milligrams. When you take magnesium stearate, it breaks down into magnesium and stearic acid. Magnesium is good for the heart, for muscles, it helps to calm down, it is useful for anxiety and improves sleep, it helps the formation of ATP, this is the body's energy carrier and gives energy. As for stearic acid, this is a fairly common part of your diet. It is a common standard fatty acid. It can be processed into energy or converted into a cell membrane. It is found in vegetable oils, animal fats, and cocoa butter in chocolate. If you consume chocolate, 34 percent of it consists of stearic acid. The average woman consumes 5.7 grams of stearic acid daily, and the average adult man consumes 8.2 grams of stearic acid daily. If compared to a dose of 48 milligrams, this is a completely insignificant amount of magnesium stearate. The amount of magnesium stearate that you get with dietary supplements is 800 times less than what you already get with food. Now about the research, I found one in vitro study, that is, it was conducted not in the body, but in a small petri dish. It showed that there are no changes in chromosomes, no gene toxicity at all. I found another study that many use to demonstrate  Magnesium stearate toxicity claims that magnesium stearate consumption suppresses T-cells. However, if you read this study, they did n't conduct experiments on regular mice, but on genetically modified mice that were created with a deactivated stearic acid enzyme. In other words, these mice were unable to metabolize the new acid. It turned out that if you give stearic acid to mice that don't metabolize it, their T-cell count decreases. Does this apply to humans in any form? Of course not, because we have enzymes that break down stearic acid. All studies showing the side effects of magnesium stearate were conducted in laboratories on mice that were fed as much magnesium stearate as a human could never consume. So, before you believe any second-hand information about magnesium stearate, read the studies yourself using the links in the description and form your own opinion.