This is a very interesting topic. I will leave a link to this study. They conducted a study on the fact that stevia in the form of whole leaves has the ability to kill the pathogen that causes Lyme disease. This is a breakthrough. Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete. The spirochete is a spiral bacterium carried by ticks. Lyme disease does not affect everyone, but only some people with weakened immunity. By the way, if you have erythema migrans, this does not always mean that you have Lyme disease, but the main remedy for Lyme disease is antibiotics. The problem is that they do not always work. In 20 percent of cases, the body develops resistance to antibiotics. The problem is that when you stop using the antibiotic, the condition worsens, the disease returns and sometimes you have to take antibiotics for a very long time. This bacterium has existed for millions of years and has developed defense mechanisms to survive. If you have a healthy immune system, it will enter the body and enter a dormant state. Sometimes it forms a biofilm, like little calcium houses in which they live and which allow them to remain unnoticed so that the immune system does not notice, and so they can sleep for years, waiting until a suitable environment is formed.  They wait until you're overexerted, until you're old and decrepit, until your immune system shuts down, and then they come out and attack you. But in this study, stevia was compared to three different antibiotics, and it showed significantly greater effectiveness than them. Stevia also turned out to be able to destroy both the spirochete itself and its biofilm. The study wasn't on humans yet, but it sounds promising. If you have Lyme disease, it wouldn't hurt to try it. The problem is that when you take antibiotics, they increase biofilms, they lower your immunity. There are many natural remedies for fighting Lyme disease. I have many videos about this, and now Stevia is on this list. If you have n't subscribed yet, click the button below to find out about new videos. He spoke in verse.