Today I'll tell you about one of the best products for dry and wrinkled skin of hands. Especially in winter, due to dry air and lack of vitamin D, hands can get very dry, but there is more than one reason. I'll tell you what can be done to solve this problem. If anyone is interested, am I growing a beard? Yes, I'm growing a beard. I'll see. Will it suit me? People smear their hands with all sorts of creams. They understand that everything that is smeared does not disappear or evaporate. But it is absorbed into the pores, enters the bloodstream and goes straight to the liver. Therefore, you need to watch what you apply to your skin. 22% of all personal hygiene products are based on petroleum, including solvents such as benzene, as well as mineral oil, which, by the way, washes out important fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and vitamin K from the skin, causing dehydration, dryness, redness, cracks, and itching of the skin of the hands. Tap water contains chemicals such as fluorine and chlorine, which are very aggressive for the skin, not only for the hands, but also for the face and the whole body. When you take a shower, a shower filter is a good buy. The skin is constantly exposed to chemicals that  accelerate aging if you add to all this the current situation in the world When you need to wash your hands 20 times a day it is not difficult to imagine the consequences do not get me wrong I am not against washing your hands you need to wash your hands to reduce the spread of viruses I wash my hands very often so I am not against this However the problem of dryness redness itching cracks peeling and aging of the skin of the hands can be solved in different ways And it is not easy to go to the pharmacy buy cream smear it on your hands and then find that after 5 minutes they are dry again it turns out there are thousands of different types of microbes friendly microbes that live on hands and all over the body although they are called microbes But these are friendly there are also friendly fungi about 14 different fungi living on hands when studying the microbiome living on the surface of the skin and in particular on different parts of the body it was found that the greatest variety of fungi species is actually on the heels incredible on the hands there are about 14 species of friendly fungi such relationships with microbes are called symbiosis symbiosis means interaction receiving mutual benefits microbes protect us We give  They need a home to live in, and different microbes are in symbiosis with each other, so they must learn to live together. I would like people to also learn to be in symbiosis with each other. It is very difficult to be tolerant of what is not like them. Different cultures, different points of view, different beliefs. For symbiosis, you need to be able to be tolerant of differences and it is imperative to realize that these so- called microbes are not dangerous. Therefore, you do not need to focus on fighting all microbes because without these microbes, we basically cannot exist. They really help us live. They produce vitamins and provide immune protection. And when they are no longer on your skin, pathogens, harmful microbes, come instead and begin to develop, which create problems. And here's what else is interesting: non-pathogenic friendly microbes. If you change their habitat, if you make it more stressful, they turn into pathogenic microbes. Environmental changes change the type of microbes living on the body under stress. Some of them go crazy, so it is very important to maintain a comfortable, healthy environment for the life of microbes and not expose them to constant stress. Let's move on to the product itself. If you apply  A couple of ingredients on the skin, the picture will radically change and friendly microbes will heal happily. I also want to touch on the topic of skin, it is not alkaline, it is acidic 44 with diarrhea. This is a fairly acidic environment. And if the pH rises, it becomes more alkaline, problems begin, the skin swells, inflammation occurs. So, you need to be careful what you apply to the body to avoid causing problems. I want to mention something else, I constantly talk about this: skin, appearance, hair, nails. This is a reflection of what is happening inside, what you eat, what you avoid, how you take care of the body to maintain its health. I will give you a remedy that will help. But you must definitely act from the inside, take care of your nutrition and this will be reflected in the appearance. Yes, I am talking about reducing carbohydrates and intermittent fasting, two powerful tools that will slow down the oxidation or rusting of tissues because sugar, a product made from refined flour, varnishes and so-called vegetable oils, soybean rapeseed oil, which are found in many of our foods, accelerate skin aging. To keep your hands in order, you need to adhere to two basic rules. Firstly, avoid products that dry out the skin and speed up re-forget about creams containing petroleum products, just don't use them. By the way, I have a greenhouse, so I work with the soil all day. I very quickly realized that you need to wear gloves. Because when you dig in the soil, there are various clays. Minerals and microbes living in it can quickly dry out. When you work with soil, like a potter or with various chemicals, I know one man who worked with solvents, and these solvents washed away all the vitamin E from his hands; they literally turned red with cracks and blisters. In general, all these mineral oils, petroleum products, and solvents wash out fat-soluble vitamins. So they need to be replenished. And here are the two main tasks: firstly, to restore the skin's fat-soluble vitamins, vitamins A, D, E, and vitamin K, and secondly, understand that the friendly microbes living on the skin are in symbiosis with you and don't try to mercilessly destroy them without the opportunity to recover. Between constant hand washing and exposure to chemicals, it is very important to allow the skin to restore microbes.  and even feed them, which I'll tell you further, and now the product itself is a mixture of three simple ingredients. The first ingredient is egg yolk, white, but we don't use just one egg yolk per bowl. What's special about the yolk? The egg yolk is an embryo, it contains all the fat-soluble vitamins, as well as other essential fats that are very difficult to obtain from other foods. The egg yolk contains a sea of ​​​​retinol, vitamin A, vitamin E, and it also contains vitamin D, vitamin K, omega-3 fatty acids, and all these vitamins can be absorbed into the skin. Not to mention that it contains a lot of lecithin, which really helps soften the skin on the hands. Lecithin is an antidote to cholesterol, it helps break down cholesterol, and it also contains Halin, another good nutrient that acts like bile salts and helps dissolve some key fat-soluble nutrients so that they go directly into the skin. So, put one egg yolk in a bowl, then take one teaspoon or 14 g of honey, preferably manuka honey. Add and mix Manuka honey, it has antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal, anti-inflammatory properties, helps heal wounds, and is generally very beneficial for the skin. In addition, the sugar in honey feeds microbes. This compress is for the skin of the hands. I recommend doing it no more than twice a week so as not to introduce microbes to sugar and not recalibrate beneficial microbes because microbes feed on carbohydrates, they do not follow the Keto diet. The last ingredient is two tablespoons or 26 g of extra virgin olive oil. See What you are buying? Beware of fakes. I have a video about this. If you haven't seen it, the link is in the description. So, egg yolk, honey, and olive oil. Mix everything well and apply the mixture to your hands for 20 minutes. Do not rinse immediately. Let everything be absorbed, let it act on, nourish, and restore the microbiome. Then, after 20 minutes, rinse your hands. Your hands will be very soft and pleasant. It is better to do this before bedtime, so throughout the night you do not wash your hands, and the skin is restored. Repeat this twice a week. So I gave the recipe as follows. I recommend watching a video about fighting aging and maintaining youth. If you haven’t watched this video, be sure to watch it here.