Let's talk about one of the most effective vitamins for healthy skin. No, it's not vitamin E or even C, although they are very important. The most important vitamin is B3. Because if you have a vitamin B3 deficiency, you can develop a disease like pelagra. There is also an asymptomatic B3 deficiency. And this is not a full-fledged disease. It is a condition in which dermatitis appears, dry, flaky, peeling skin, redness, sometimes even skin cracks and bleeds. Vitamin B3 is necessary to maintain healthy skin. It even protects and restores DNA at a deep level. It penetrates very deeply. In addition to helping the skin, vitamin B3 is needed for many other things. It helps with cholesterol, it reduces the risk of schizophrenia and depression. In 1931, a chemist discovered that if you give vitamin B3 to a patient with pelagra from sawdust. Even then, they made a connection between sawdust and vitamin B3 deficiency. They found that patients with pelagra ate too much corn or flour, refined flour or rice, or drank too much alcohol to solve this problem at that time, instead of I advise people to avoid corn flour and rice, manufacturers began to enrich cereals with synthetic vitamin B3 and other vitamins. If you have been watching my videos for a long time, you are most likely on Keto intermittent fasting and you do not need to worry about it. After all, you do not eat corn flour rice and well, you do not drink. Maybe you drink, but hopefully not too much, and you may have noticed that your skin has improved. But if you have recently been on my channel eating these products, then perhaps you need B3. I recommend taking it in the form of spots on the skin. Skin cancer slows down skin aging and can also help with acne. This is probably why many skin creams contain vitamin B3. I found that vitamin B3 can be obtained from almost any food, so this is not a problem. The problem is eating foods that deplete vitamin B3 reserves. I will keep this connection for you. If suddenly you have a vitamin B3 deficiency, this can be a simple solution. And thanks for watching, I invite you to my mini-course: skin health diagnostics. You have papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems. This is  These aren't just skin defects; these signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I'll show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.