If you or your child has ADHD, you might want to take cod liver oil. ADHD stands for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. It's a combination of lack of concentration and restlessness, an inability to sit still. Cod liver oil is very interesting because it contains not only omega-3 fatty acids, but also vitamin D and vitamin A. While regular fish oil contains only omega-3 and almost no vitamins A and D, cod liver oil is more beneficial. This oil is also sold in capsules, but cod liver itself can also be bought canned. The product must be commercially produced. It's quite tasty, but the question is how cod liver oil, rich in glycogen, helps improve concentration, memory, and learning. Our brain is approximately 60 percent fat. The cerebral cortex is 20 percent fat, where the retina is an extension of the brain, it consists of nerve tissue, neurons, that is. Brain cells and synapses that provide signal transmission are rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids increase the production of something called brain-derived neurotrophic factor. This protein substance helps the growth of nerve cells in the body. Omega-3 fatty acids also have a serious and anti-inflammatory effect on the brain. In a 2018 mid-level analysis of randomized trials, it was found that children with ADHD had a significant deficiency. Both children and pii are affected. If you take cod liver oil, you need to know a couple of things. First, it's not a quick process. It will take up to three months for the effect to appear. Second, it most likely won't work if you're not eating right. If you're new to the channel, I'll explain. If you 're on a high-carbohydrate diet, this will prevent you from getting results. A combination of a proper diet and taking cod liver oil will work great. There's another remedy that I think is worth adding: vitamin B1. I recommend getting it from nutritional yeast because vitamin B1 is great for the hyperactivity part of ADHD. There will be a little more information about this below.  Also, about what you need to eat. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.