Let's talk about food for dry eyes. The glands that produce tears and the ducts through which tears flow depend on vitamin A. Vitamin A directly controls the cells that line the inside of the glands, as well as the tear ducts, and other tissues covering the inner surface of the body. With a deficiency of vitamin A, the inner lining of the glands and ducts can change shape, become thicker, the tissues can become harder, and tear production can decrease. A person may experience dry eyes without understanding anything, he will go to the pharmacy and I hope he does not buy eye drops with steroids because they have a lot of side effects. The three most distinct symptoms of vitamin A deficiency are, firstly, dry eyes, starting with blindness, like real blindness. There is a huge percentage of children in certain countries who had a vitamin A deficiency and they went blind. There is a huge connection between vitamin A and vision. Secondly, blurred vision. Vitamin A does many other things related to immunity and mucous membranes. But now we are talking about dry eyes. This is a symptom of vitamin A deficiency. I do not recommend going to the pharmacy to buy vitamin A because  Most of the vitamin A sold is synthetic. This vitamin has many side effects. It's better to eat foods rich in vitamin A. The highest concentration of vitamin A is found in cod liver oil. You can buy canned cod liver, which is also a good option. You can eat this liver. There's also a lot of vitamin A in fatty fish. Butter and cafe butter contain vitamin A. Cheese contains vitamin A, especially fatty cheese. Egg yolks contain a lot of vitamin A. Beef also contains vitamin A. Unfortunately, the very concept of vitamin A includes provitamin A, beta-carotene, and some other carotenoids. In fact, beta-carotene and vitamin A, although it is considered a vitamin, still need to be converted into an active form called retinol. When you buy food and the packaging says it contains this much vitamin A, don't fall for it. Most likely, it's a provitamin. Let's figure out why this is important. The conversion of a provitamin into an active form isn't that effective, meaning 20 molecules are required. provitamin to create one molecule of retinol, the active form of vitamin A, but in addition, half of the world's population has a genetic variation, that is, polymorphism, which to some extent prevents this conversion from occurring, so do not rely on provitamin thinking that you are getting vitamin A itself. Beta-carotene and other carotenoids, by the way, are phytonutrients. They have many benefits. They are antioxidants and do a lot of things, but this is not the same as retinol. Therefore, if you are trying to get rid of dry eyes by taking beta-carotene, it may not work. Retinol is only found in animal products. If you are a vegan and you have dry eyes, this may be the reason the conversion to retinol does not occur. There are other problems. Let's say you go through all this and you still have dry eyes. Then you may have intestinal inflammation due to the fact that you took antibiotics. You may have liver problems, fatty liver, or gallbladder problems, or the gallbladder was removed and now you do not have enough bile. This could be Siber bacterial overgrowth syndrome. It deprives you of  It can be recognized by excessive bloating after eating, especially from fiber and vegetables. I already mentioned fatty liver, but it could be an inflamed liver. All liver problems can affect the ability to absorb vitamin A. Vitamin A is stored in the liver. When the liver fills with fat, it loses the ability to store vitamin A and other fat-soluble vitamins. I think I've covered everything I wanted, thank you for watching.