Awesome recipes with Karen and Eric. So, let's go.  What are we cooking? I know, I know, you like my microphone. What is this? I already said that I am from Pennsylvania. And my favorite comfort food as a kid was potato pancakes.  My father is Polish, my mother is Pennsylvania German, and they both made potato pancakes.  They were always served with sour cream, which I don’t have today.  But I really wanted to find a replacement for potatoes and cauliflower was just the thing .   Wow . I love to grab a good cast iron skillet and fry up some pancakes.  What could be better: broccoli or cauliflower?  They can be taken raw. Simply mix the ingredients, slap it in the pan and fry until crispy.  They hold their shape perfectly.  More gods. And yes, serve them warm with sour cream. It tastes like potatoes. This is true. Yeah, Karen, it's really delicious.   Yes. Another, another wonderful recipe with healthy cruciferous vegetables. Yes, this is our everything.   Yes. Anti-cancer vegetables.  This thing is too big for me.  It keeps slipping. I try not to look so as not to laugh.   The new microphone won't arrive until tomorrow, so that's it for now All for the sake of science.  Nothing will stop us from bringing knowledge to the masses. Excellent microphone. Okay, you'll go after filming. Let's move on to the official part. Play computer.   That's right OK.  Overall, you will love this recipe.  I don't know what else to say. Okay, let's get to the recipe. Got it. Fine.   Yes. 115 g chopped cauliflower, 50 g grated mozzarella, one egg.  If it's small, take two. 30 g almond flour, 30 g finely chopped onion, three pinches of salt and pepper. Mix the ingredients.   A tablespoon of parsley. Stir. Heat the frying pan.  Add oil. Place the dough in small portions onto the hot frying pan and press down lightly on top. Once one side is browned, turn over. Place on a plate lined with paper towels to drain off excess oil. Bon appétit. You are a naketa, and there is a holiday ahead. Prepare delicious and healthy meals with this holiday keto recipe book.  Hot and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and bread, as well as calculation of calories, proteins, fats and carbohydrates.  Order the book Festive Darkness using the link below.