I have very interesting information about what happens when the body begins to dry out. I'm talking about dry skin, dry hands, when your hands become dry and wrinkled, or say you have dry mouth or dry eyes, what causes this dryness? It has many causes. Let's start with the skin. People with dry skin usually use moisturizers to combat dryness, but after 5-6 minutes, the skin is suddenly dry again and you need a moisturizer again and again. You realize that everything in this cream goes directly to your skin, into the blood, liver, and other organs. If it contains petroleum products, chemicals get inside the body. Unfortunately, many moisturizers. As a result, they dry you out because they contain certain substances, such as alcohol, whether it's the alcohol you drink or the one in the cream, can dry you out from the inside. Further, petroleum products. Look at the ingredients in the cream and don't take anything. What contains petroleum, psychotropic drugs, blood pressure medications. There are more than 500 drugs. A side effect in the form of dry skin. If you have diabetes, you have a tendency to dry skin. Mineral oil is harmful in products for both external and internal use. The autoimmune disease lupus can also affect the eyes. The mouth can make the skin and hair dry. If you drink tap water instead of spring water and you don't have a filter, you get fluoride, chlorine, and a host of other chemicals that completely dry out the skin. Not to mention that tap water can dry you out from the inside. Realize that dry skin can be caused by what you put on your skin. And by what you take internally. Another obvious reason is soap. Excessive hand washing or the use of some kind of detergent. Detergents draw out fats. You essentially draw very important fat-soluble vitamins from the skin, such as vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, and many fats that are not vitamin A, essential fats and are needed to maintain the skin's water balance. If you have intestinal problems, this can lead to a variety of skin problems, one of which is dry skin. If you have dry skin and intestinal problems, I would take probiotics and I think the improvement will begin in  during the week and the liver is a very important organ for the skin, you can clearly see from the skin what is happening in the liver if you have cirrhosis of the liver, liver inflammation, if you have fatty liver, you will have problems with and dry skin is definitely one of them, because what does the liver do? Fat-soluble vitamins are the main organ in which some of these vitamins are stored, for example, vitamin A, which is related to the eyes. So, let's move from the skin to dry eyes. If you have dry eyes, the most likely cause of this is a deficiency of vitamin A. I remember I once had very dry eyes so much that my eyelids stuck to the cornea, this impaired vision somehow. I opened my eyes and tore off part of the cornea. So I have a long history of eye problems, especially with their dryness, and I had a problem with the gallbladder for 20 years. And I didn't even know about it. The pain from the gallbladder is reflected in the right shoulder. Problems with the gallbladder are often accompanied by a deficiency of bile, so fat- soluble vitamins are not absorbed, and primarily vitamin A, so this problem can be either dry eyes or  Like poor vision in the evenings when it's dark and you're trying to drive, vegans who don't eat saturated fats often have problems with bile and the gallbladder, because bile production is triggered by saturated fats. So if you don't trigger bile production, you may have a bile deficiency and a deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins. By the way, since we're talking about vitamin A, I'll tell you something very important. People think that beta-carotene is vitamin A. After all, it's called vitamin A, but beta-carotene is just a precursor to vitamin A. So when you see orange or yellow carrots, yams, or other plants that have a lot of beta-carotene, the perennial veins also contain beta-carotene, but plants don't have the active form of retinol, which beta-carotene converts to. Realize that even though beta-carotene is called vitamin A, it's not its active form. It still needs to be converted to its active form, but only about three percent is converted. So, don't expect to get Retinol, the active form of vitamin A, from plants. It's almost impossible, by the way. In perennial  The yolk also contains beta-carotene and also Retinol. It contains both, but the point is that Retinol is needed to prevent dry eyes. The best sources of retinol, that is, the active form of vitamin A, are liver, egg yolks, and cod liver oil. So, as a rule, dry eyes are caused by a lack of something in the diet, or usually problems with the gallbladder. You also know that your microflora creates secondary bile salts, but there may not be enough microflora, and because of this, the eyes may not receive vitamin A. The reason for dryness in the body, which I will talk about, and I am talking about the skin, dry mouth and dry eyes are associated with menopause. Let's say you are going through menopause and a hormonal shift occurs. Usually, this causes a decrease in estrogen levels, but progesterone levels decrease even more, that is, progesterone levels decrease greatly. And estrogen levels are not so strong, and the ratio becomes so low in progesterone. And a lot of estrogen, but it is slightly disturbed. It is the proportion that can greatly affect the skin. It can affect collagen, and usually because of this, the skin is very  dry Therefore, women after menopause have very dry skin, they begin to use creams, but there is no effect. And sometimes their skin looks wrinkled on their hands or face. This is what I recommend. You could apply progesterone cream and get a good result, but I think. First, you could try taking DHA. Yes, hydro- epiandrasterone is a natural product, a kind of building block for these hormones to increase their levels, it is like raw material to produce more progesterone and estrogen, as well as other hormones such as cortisol, testosterone, and so on. If you take it as a dietary supplement, you need very little. If you take too much, hormone levels can increase excessively. The last thing I want to talk about is dry mouth. What causes dry mouth, in addition to what I have already said. If your body secretes less than one tenth of a milliliter of saliva per minute, then you have a saliva deficiency, which is the cause of dry mouth. By the way, saliva creates some compounds such as sodium percarbonate. And this is baking soda to reduce acidity in the mouth. So, if there is enough saliva, this is very useful.  It prevents the formation of dental caries. I have a separate video about this. Antibiotics can cause dry mouth. Antibiotics increase the risk of infection with Candida, which can also cause dry mouth. If you eat sugar, which Candida feeds on, it will never go away. So, if you have Candida, you definitely need to eliminate all sugar from your diet. This will help a lot. The next point is stress. Stress can greatly change the salivary glands. In the past, when I was very afraid of speaking in public and I had to speak, my mouth was so dry that I could not speak. So, the reaction is high levels of cortisol or adrenaline affect the salivary glands. This is associated with dry mouth. Strengthening the adrenal glands and Overcoming the fear of public speaking will help a lot. Perhaps another situation is if you had, for example, Covid, or even if you were given some vaccines against this virus, this can cause. A side effect of dry mouth is usually associated with zinc deficiency. So, with a lack of zinc, dry mouth also occurs. I already said that alcohol can cause dryness, because  In the morning you are completely dehydrated, your head may hurt and your mouth is definitely dry. Teeth whitening at the dentist if fluoride is used, as well as excess fluoride in toothpaste, can also affect the microflora in the oral cavity and cause dry mouth. The last point and probably the most important diet. If you are on a high-carbohydrate diet, you will notice that you have more in your mouth. Of course, you need to reduce carbohydrates. So, I gave you a lot of information about dry eyes, dry mouth, dry skin. Below are links to some videos with more detailed information about dry mouths and eyes, but as for a remedy for dry skin, I have a new formula that I highly recommend you try. It has two components: Lanolin and oil with vitamin E. What is Lanolin? It is a natural substance that is secreted by sheep and perfectly protects their skin and wool. It is a natural product that you can buy and apply to the skin. It is a great thing for dry skin. This product has a slight smell, you may not like it, but it is not that bad and it is natural. Buy a natural product without the usual detergents, deodorants, and alcohol. Buy a natural product. Pour a little. Add a couple of drops of oil with natural vitamin E to a saucer. Mix well and rub into your hands and other parts of the body. You will feel an excellent moisturizing effect. Especially in winter, I think you will really like it. I invite you to my mini-course: health diagnostics based on skin. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.