The number one superfood in the world is not green powder at all, it's red meat. Don't rush to turn off the video. Yes, Listen. Yes, you were taught that red meat is a dirty protein. Everyone knows that red meat is a carcinogen. It causes cancer, type 2 diabetes, bowel cancer, heart disease due to saturated fats. Why then do I call it a superfood? I have amazing information that you most likely don't know. Yes, green powder contains vitamins, vitamin C, beta carotene, and much more vitamins and minerals, B vitamins, and many other fat-soluble vitamins. Greens also contain magnesium and potassium. Red meat also contains them, but not much. But there is a lot of iron, selenium, and zinc. In my opinion, the most useful thing in green powder is phytonutrients. There are a lot of them there. Yes, they are very useful. Some phytonutrients are also found in red meat. If it is grass-fed, red meat increases glutathione levels, which is an antioxidant. It also contains D, as well as carnosine, which is also an antioxidant. It protects.  from glycation, the combination of sugar with protein, which makes the protein more sticky, but protein has something else of sorts. The icing on the cake. In vain, I'm talking about cakes. Well, okay, I had a problem with foggy consciousness. I couldn't wake up and got up very late, but then I came across the book, Mastering the Zone. In the second chapter, the author writes about protein and how it reduces the effect of insulin. insulin increases due to carbohydrates and creates many health problems. The author's main idea is that protein stimulates something, and this something is a hormone called glucagon. Glucagon is associated not only with weight loss, it stabilizes blood sugar levels. Of all the vitamins and minerals found in red meat, I drank them in the form of dietary supplements. I was lacking protein. Powdered greens are an inferior food, they have very little protein. That's why, when I was a vegan, I constantly wanted to eat protein. That's what I was missing, and the highest quality protein is found in red meat, but in grass-fed meat, not in processed meat. But they are usually not distinguished, but  No one has proven that grass-fed red meat can cause cancer or heart attacks. There is no such evidence. Think about how much protein is in our body. We have a lot of muscles and 30-35% of the total protein is collagen, which is ligaments, tendons, connective tissue, fascia, which fits the entire body like a wetsuit. Collagen is also in cell membranes and in the skin. Proteins. Bones are 90% collagen, all your enzymes, and in the human body there are more than 74,000 different enzymes. They are all proteins. All neurotransmitters are what help us think. Many hormones are made up of protein. Blood contains protein. We also need a lot of protein for immune cells. An interesting process occurs in the human body: autophagy. When you exercise or fast, autophagy occurs in the body. This is a process in which all damaged tissues are processed, receiving building blocks for DNA. Among the amino acids, there is Taurine, which is abundant in red meat but very little in greens in powder. Taurine is needed to protect against high blood pressure. Another amino acid is leucine. Leucine is very important for triggering muscle synthesis. There is another interesting process, gluconeogenesis, which means the production of new glucose. It mainly occurs in the liver and a little in the kidneys. During this process, the body produces glucose from protein. In other words, if glucose is needed, and some tissues need it, it cannot be replaced by anything else, the body starts a mechanism for extracting amino acids from reserves. And these are usually muscles and converting them into glucose. So, yes, we have a reserve of amino acids, but if you do not eat enough high-quality protein, you can face a problem when the body does not have enough amino acids, it will begin to increasingly crawl into the muscles and you will lose muscle mass. My main idea is that of everything you eat, red meat is number one in terms of its benefits. Yes, some people have denigrated their results and showed that processed red meat in the diet quite likely increases the risk of cancer. These are the pies. I will share an interesting observation. If you see that everyone tells you one thing, especially on behalf of official medicine, the truth is in the exact opposite direction. This is especially applicable to red meat. They tell you to avoid it, it will harm you.  will kill cows are destroying the planet we need to get rid of cows Really? But here's something more interesting. Firstly, there is a hypothesis, the so-called protein lever hypothesis. Animals. Insects and people will continue to eat until they satisfy their need for protein. This is also discussed in the book The Dory Effect. The author talks about insects, they eat and eat, they will get enough protein. I know this from my animals, for example, horses. If they eat a certain grass, especially in spring or autumn, they overeat carbohydrates, gain fat, suffer from insulin problems, but in fact, they simply don't have enough protein. Think about it. If you eat, for example, this, all this boxed food has one feature. It always has extremely little protein. And if it is there, like in meal replacements or protein bars, you can notice that this protein is of the lowest quality. For example, milk protein in the form of Casin is a refined protein, or soy protein isolate is the worst protein. But protein also raises insulin in the blood, so why do n't you get fat from it? Because protein at the same time stimulates  Glucagon. Glucagon reduces the effects of insulin, helping to stabilize blood sugar when low. You shouldn't eat candy, you should eat protein. Protein always has a good effect on my blood sugar. I also want to note the difference between red and white meat. Red meat contains something called myoglobin, a protein that helps carry oxygen. White meat has less myoglobin than red meat. Red meat also contains more iron, which is especially useful for anemia. Another advantage of red meat over white meat is that it is more effective support during physical activity or sports. Cows, sheep, and goats have a unique ability to concentrate nutrients from grass, turning this grass into amazingly healthy meat. What's even more interesting is that lechal animals have a huge stomach, sometimes more than one. It's full of microorganisms that secrete enzymes for digesting fiber. The animal provides a home for microorganisms, and they, in exchange, convert fiber into energy for the cow, as well as into the protein it needs. In addition, most of the dead microorganisms are absorbed by the cow and converted into energy protein.  - it is not only the most satiating but also the most thermal, it helps burn more calories than fats or carbohydrates. And if you want to know what other foods are needed for a healthy diet, this course will help you with this. I invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down, this program can help you. A huge number of video lessons will be available. There is a video on what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed. There are lots of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information.  and knowledge about how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything correctly to acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.