Hello everyone Today we will take wonderful breakfast cereal and conduct an experiment we will eat this cereal for about a month So we will take heart-healthy cereals made from whole grains and they are usually made from whole grains and maybe instant oatmeal and why not add to all this breakfast bars ka This is sarcasm I will not eat this but I will tell you about the consequences After all, I ate all this for 28 years, what will happen to you if you eat cereal for breakfast every day as a child our metabolism Our body is not yet damaged probably because we did not eat it chronically but over the years the harm accumulates and problems arise I think many children can get away with it At least for now After all, their mitochondria are not yet damaged in them What is called a very flexible metabolism they can burn a lot of excess sugar but over the years things are getting worse Let's take these fruit rings like cereal In 40 grams of these cereals there are 160 kilocalories grams  18 sugar is about 4 and a half teaspoons of real sugar, usually found in sugar like table sugar. Although this is not it, but let 's say it is. The glycemic index is about 75, and that's a lot. But it's not 100. Each 40 gmm of cereal is 4 and a half teaspoons of sugar, which is a lot. But there are hidden carbohydrates here. It's about the overall carbohydrate content. After all, if you look at the first ingredient, it's rice in the form of rice flour, and the glycemic index of rice flour is about 95. That is, this rice flour, this carbohydrate, this main carbohydrate in this product, raises blood sugar levels more than sugar itself. But this rice flour is not classified as a sugar, it is classified as a starch, and of course, the fiber content here is zero. That is, there is nothing here that would restrain a jump in blood sugar. There are only digestible carbohydrates. In fact, this ingredient can be classified as sugar, because it acts like sugar. And taking this into account, it turns out that there are not 4 and a half teaspoons of sugar here, but nine teaspoons. Grams of cereal, that's how much sugar. The one who eats it gets it and this sugar gets into his blood, but the question is, which of you or even your children eats only 40 grams of these cereals for breakfast? You can eat more than that, say, four times as much. I used to eat it. And that's already 36 teaspoons of sugar, and that's just for breakfast every morning. Can you imagine what will happen to your blood sugar? What kind of hunger and mental fatigue you will have? Not to mention how it affects all your organs. Now let's discuss the idea of ​​healthy whole grains. Let's say whole grains are healthy. People usually think that if I eat whole grains, they are healthy in addition to all the harmful things like sugar, then my food will be healthier. Let's look at a couple of things. When we add sugar to proteins in cereals such as gluten or fats, and these cereals also contain oils, the process of glycation begins. Glycation is simply the binding of a sugar molecule to fat or protein. These molecules accumulate in the body and are unusable. They are called CPGs, which means  End products of glycation, they cause severe inflammation, diseases, insulin resistance, diabetes, premature aging, and a host of other problems. So, adding something useful to something harmful will not make it useful. Not to mention that synthetic vitamins are added to gold, as well as minerals like reduced iron. These are elemental minerals, not some kind of easily digestible minerals, in fact, this is the form of minerals that is found in the earth. Elemental form. This is a completely different chemical structure than iron in beef or spinach. Also, ascorbic acid from corn starch and sulfuric acid, reduced elemental iron, as well as B3, B2, B1, folic acid, B12, and I repeat, all these vitamins are synthetic; some of them are made from oil and other chemicals. The problem with these vitamins is that it is the E version of vitamin C. Although I do not consider this vitamin C, ascorbic acid and sugar are very similar in chemical structure. If you take them together, the body will end up taking sugar before taking vitamin C, and therefore vitamin  C is not actually absorbed in the presence of sugar. Besides, all this sugar will kind of negate the effect of all these vitamins simply because a lot of these vitamins will go into metabolizing grains are very useful, but the problem with whole grains is that they contain gluten. You see, gluten is a protein or even a group of different proteins in grains, especially in wheat and other grains. This is the only protein that our body does not digest and many people have either an allergy to gluten or an intolerance to gluten and it causes inflammation in the intestines. Also, whole grains contain a lot of phytic acid. Phytic acid also blocks minerals, especially zinc. In fact, many children in the world have a zinc deficiency because they are fed cereal. Eating cereal does not go without a trace. You say, Okay, we will take protein, take gluten, and remove Feta by cleaning the grains, but now we have refined grains, right, the spike in blood sugar will be stronger from them. Here's what else  It's interesting that in studies of whole grains, they are often compared to refined grains. So when you read an article about cereals, look at what they are compared to. In the control group, one group ate whole grains, the second refined grains. Of course, the former will do better. That's what you need to understand. Yes, whole grains are better, but does that mean they are healthy? That's the question. Another problem with cereals is the abundance of GMOs, genetically modified products, in essence. Look at some of the ingredients. Corn is mostly GMO. 95% of all corn is GMO. Beet sugar, GMO dextrose, corn syrup. Wheat flour is not GMO, but wheat is sprayed with glyphosate, Roundup. In fact, this is the whole purpose of GMOs: to make plants resistant to glyphosate to spray the field and kill weeds, not the crop itself. Now the crop is resistant to glyphosate, and such plants kill insects by releasing chemicals. Is this healthy? We learn that modified food starch is usually made from corn, cottonseed oil, cotton is GMO. Imagine, maltodextrin is usually obtained.  made from corn or other starches and it's GMO oats are usually not GMO but they are sprayed with glyphosate soluble corn fiber is an ingredient in the cereal in the box people have been fighting for years to have GMO products listed in the ingredients so they can see them but companies desperately resist these requirements and they came up with something Now they are transparent but instead of GMO they now write bioengineered food ingredient this means GMO you can see the small shri here that's where it says there are other things artificial colors BGT and BHA are preservatives they act in the body like estrogen sometimes people want to get a convenient maybe the best version of cereal So they buy these cereal bars for breakfast 100% whole grains will give you energy for a long time gluten free okay here's the problem the carbohydrate content 29g and 3g fiber And on top of that there is added sugar 6g added sugar per serving that's a lot of sugar and there is protein Remember about glycation nae cereal syrup  tapioca peanuts brown rice flour cane sugar peanut butter canola oil raisin paste peanut butter peanut flour millet sea salt buckwheat I think after these bars some people will be very tired a few words about my health It was a major turning point in my life for years I had problems with my blood sugar with my health severe brain fog I was irritable depressed couldn't wake up until 11 or 10:30 I was looking for answers and came across the book mastering the zone I read the first chapter and that's all I read in that book and it said something about blood sugar empty carbohydrates insulin how could I miss that in school but the next day I stopped eating what I always ate for breakfast And I used to eat cereal and tex for breakfast every morning and ate a beefsteak from buvat that's all And it was a huge change in my head like a helmet was removed from a thick fog Within a few minutes I  it became so good that I just wow Wow, this is exactly what turned the wheel of all my health problems back, I just stopped eating sugar, especially for breakfast. Of course, then I wrote a book where I advised everyone to eat protein for breakfast recently. I updated this book and improved some things in it. We don’t need breakfast at all. Just don’t eat until lunchtime. And you’ll be fine. A couple more things about this: cereal is also known as ultra-processed food. I would n’t even call it food. After all, it doesn’t look like food. It’s junk, and yet 67% of calories children get from ultra-processed junk food. This is junk food, and unfortunately, stores are full of it. 83% or 4% of products in stores are ultra- processed foods. So, if you eat cereal every morning for one month, you will have what happened to me: prediabetes, constant utter fatigue, inability to wake up in the morning, grumpiness, depression, anxiety, arthritis, foggy thinking. Not to mention weight gain, fatty liver, and so on and so forth. I suggest that if you eat cereal, or your children eat it, here’s what Just try it once. Eat something protein-rich for breakfast instead of cereal: scrambled eggs with bacon, beef steak, fish, anything protein-rich, and see how much better you feel thanks to one tiny change. Then decide for yourself what to eat. If you don't know what to cook on chum, the book "Chum menu for 2 weeks" will help. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from readily available products. The basics of chum and fasting. Follow the link below.