Hello everyone. Today we will start with a quiz and then we will answer the accumulated questions. It is your turn, doc. Is it true or false that E. coli is a normal, friendly microbe in the human colon? Dear viewers, is this true or false? EO Rambla writes that he has post-traumatic stress disorder. I am no longer taking medications and I feel better than when I was taking them. Can you recommend natural remedies for lowering cortisol? Yes, you need ashwagandha. You need long walks. You need to increase your oxytocin levels. I have a video about this. Many things such as music, comedy, affection, pets, and communication are very important for lowering cortisol. Nutrition should be healthy, this is intermittent fasting. All this will help you a lot. If you ever have a panic attack or anxiety appears, focus on breathing. Inhale and exhale slowly. Inhale for three to four seconds and also slowly. Exhale because this is automatic. Breathe through your nose. This will automatically affect the nervous system and you will calm down. There are many ways. We wish you good luck. Sylvia from Facebook since childhood.  I feel bad in the sun and I start to get a headache. Why do you think this happens and what can I do to feel better in the sun? There is data that with a deficiency, sensitivity to the sun is possible. I might make a video about this. So maybe you need to take B1. And besides, people with very fair skin cannot stand a lot of sun, they cannot sunbathe and immediately burn. Such people need to be very careful. Here are two pieces of advice I can give. An interesting question from Diana from Facebook. What do you think about drinking only water for 10 days in a row? Will this decrease muscle mass? I think yes, to some extent, but then eat healthy foods rich in amino acids again to restore it. But water fasting has a healing effect, especially with cancer. It strengthens the immune system and eliminates some problems. If I got cancer, Steve. I would fast for 10 days, that's what I would do and this is the most powerful thing I could do. Then I would eat once a day for a while, then I would fast for 3 days, then I would eat again, then I would fast.  5 days is the most powerful cure for cancer, someone asks well From Yutu with Nick Swordfish 82 Is it possible to drink crystalite on Keto I remember these drinks I don't like them I don't like crystalite You can drink them But this is not the best choice in the world read the ingredients See if they meet our recommendations So yes Okay good luck Mike Rambla I was diagnosed with epilepsy And prescribed a drug that makes my hair fall out I sympathize Mike Are there natural remedies for this side effect Well, you need a very strict ketogenic diet That is, you need more anro on fat and not on protein I have a video about this So you will enter ketos and can get rid of epileptic seizures there is a very interesting study on high doses of magnesium just do not take magnesium oxide because magnesium oxide is absorbed by only 34% You need magnesium glycinate in fact I posted a video on this topic today you can watch magnesium also helps with epilepsy I would combine this with  The keto diet is great. Perhaps it's worth reminding viewers that although we are happy to be on YouTube about what should be on it, many of our videos have disappeared. How can viewers find these videos? They are on Rambler. They are on my site. But the thing is that there are some things that are forbidden to talk about, Steve, and they are listed on YouTube. For example, last week, YouTube removed three videos about colloidal silver. You can't make videos about colloidal silver. You can't make videos about black salve. You can't talk about it. You can't talk about vaccines. I posted many of these videos on Rambler. It's interesting that there are some things that are forbidden to talk about. It's simple. What are we even allowed to talk about? What's the problem? We're giving out misinformation. Who decides? So this is definitely a problem. I don't like it. I think we should have the right to talk about anything and not worry about it. So you need to go to Rambler. Yes, to find these videos there, but we have the right to discuss the issue. True or false. E. coli is a normal, friendly microbe in the human colon. 8% answered that you are right. A  2% said it was a lie, great, otherwise I was worried whether I was right or not. It's interesting that E. coli has beneficial properties. It helps us and doesn't bother us if it's in the large intestine, if it gets into the small intestine, or from the large intestine, since we've lost resistance. Or we swallowed it and it got into the stomach and then into the small intestine, then our relationship changes. We have no protection from it, and then it gives us a hard time, then we get it. So, our relationship with E. coli is friendly or hostile, depending on where it is, but E. coli is an extremely amazing organism. It's very interesting. I want to make a video about this. It has a fungal screw that allows it to move extremely quickly. It's simple when you see what it's capable of and all that. It's very interesting. And it doesn't bother us if it lives where it should. This is another reason to take care of the microflora. That's how things are. Guys, here's an interesting question. IBS with ramla. Why do I start yawning when I exercise? What's the problem here, probably?  You don't have enough salt. You need more sodium. It's good to take salt. Carissa from Facebook asks what you think about using monk fruit as a sweetener. I think this is not a problem. Some add erythritol to it. Although monk fruit is sweet, for some reason it does not give full sweetness. Yes, monk fruit is excellent. I definitely recommend it. Excellent. Lucky from YouTube asks: What is the best way to maintain health this fall? Recommend some specific dietary supplements before the cold and flu season. Yes, you need to take vitamin D at least 10,000 IU per day and zinc. Take quite a lot of them. And of course, vitamin D also would n't hurt. These are a couple of the most important things to get through this fall season. There are other things, such as vitamin D, but zinc and vitamin D are the most important. Excellent. Today is our day. Rambla vtx 13 from Rambla. Why do I even have heartburn? Desperate spoons of apple cider vinegar will help with this. Tutka and chlorophyll. If you have heartburn from apple cider vinegar, then you either have gastritis or an ulcer. In this case, you need a different approach. Take zinc carnosine, it will help heal the ulcer if you have one, and also possibly juice concentrate, a type of grass powder, note I said not concentrate, a type of grass powder, but juice concentrate. That is, you don’t need fiber, you only need juice. There is no gluten in NM, only chlorophyll. Chlorophyll heals the stomach and does it well. So you can take it. It will help reduce acidity and all that, but you don’t need to drink acid if it makes you worse. I hope this helps. Harry Rambla. How long should you take BAT with probiotics daily? How are they different from prebiotics and which is more effective? Gut health. Microbes prefer fiber and fiber. These are prebiotics. I advise getting fiber in the form of vegetables and not in the form of the new synthetic fiber that is recommended to us. These are corn fibers, tapioca fibers, and I don’t think they are useful, but they are persistently imposed on us. I think that a probiotic is important, especially if you have ever taken antibiotics. Buy a complete probiotic that can survive in  stomach acid and also eat fermented foods which of these is more important and both are important but it depends on your background and fermented foods are sauerkraut kimchi even raw milk cheese fermented dairy products kefir some yogurts it's even great to make your own probiotic after all when you received a probiotic you can take a couple of tablespoons of the newly obtained probiotic and grow a new culture from it and then again this is a very cheap but troublesome method because you need a yogurt maker I will also make a video about this Believe me this is if you can grow Prim the way you want it BC changes great Anisa with a tuba ate a natural remedy that allows you to get rid of BPH the doctor says the only option is surgery and medications Is the question from a woman or a man Anisa So I think it's a woman Clearly we are talking about benign prostatic hyperplasia so maybe she is writing about her husband among other things what is happening here Here is what vitamin D and zinc are very important because they ensure that the prostate maintains the correct size there is one drug called, I think, finasteride chemically  This drug that reduces the prostate is very, very similar to progesterone and there is interesting data that progesterone cream helps inhibit a very powerful form of testosterone DHT, which creates the problem with the prostate, that is, taking progesterone is a natural solution to this problem. Without side effects, there is other data about this. Perhaps we should make a video on this topic, but if I were you, I would look for information about this to figure it out. And on this happy note, Steve, I think it's time for us to wrap up. So I think so. I wish everyone excellent results and see you again.