Today I want to discuss a couple of oddities of gout. Why do 70 percent of people with gout have high blood pressure? It's strange, isn't it? Especially considering that uric acid. And most people know that gout is the accumulation of uric acid in the big toes. It is considered a powerful antioxidant. If it is an antioxidant, then why is there accompanying high blood pressure and why is it accompanied by severe pain in the big toe. Let's discuss. I have some very interesting calculations and thoughts. If you have gout, you won't regret looking at this. It is not only caused by high levels of uric acid in the blood. It has been established that the level of uric acid in the blood is in no way associated with gout attacks. But it is known that gout pain is caused by uric acid crystals that create inflammation. What is happening? It is known that the kidneys with gout are able to effectively remove uric acid, and it is retained in the body and somehow penetrates the joints of the big toes and crystallizes. The main medicine for gout is Allopurinol. Its action is to suppress the formation of uric acid. There is an enzyme called santine oxidase that helps produce uric acid, and this medicine blocks it. This enzyme, how do we lower uric acid? The problem with this drug is that it has side effects, and serious ones, so many don't like it and look for alternative ways to fight gout. But I think when you understand what I'm going to tell you and when I analyze all these mysteries and paradoxes, you will find a solution. A common natural remedy for gout is celery seeds. Another remedy is ordinary cherries. Both remedies suppress this enzyme. This is a problem, so they help some people. But there are a couple more points that I want to raise. 1. Why is there such a strong correlation between gout and hypertension and cardiovascular diseases? This is a mystery. This is due to another paradox with conflicting information. The fact is that uric acid is considered an antioxidant, but at the same time, it is an oxidant. Here's a contradiction for you: how can it remove inflammation and cause it? If it is such a powerful antioxidant, then why does it cause heart problems? Why is this one of the signs of future heart problems? It is also associated with insulin resistance and even fatty liver. But how is this possible if it is an antioxidant? Let me tell you a few interesting facts.  The first thing I found out is that uric acid inhibits nitric oxide. And many people strive to increase their nitric oxide to lower blood pressure for the heart to protect the inner wall of blood vessels. It is considered a strong antioxidant. It is a powerful vasodilator, a vasodilator, it is very useful for hypertension. People need it for various purposes, for example, for erectile dysfunction. After all, if it is a powerful base dilator, then it helps with an erection, so people take, for example, Viagra, it increases nitric oxide. Or they take its natural analogue, el-arginine, which increases nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is a powerful antioxidant, but uric acid suppresses nitric oxide. If you think about what happens to gout patients, severe inflammation develops in their fingers, damage from free radicals, severe oxidative stress develops, and if there is no nitric oxide to counter this, there will be problems. And here's what else is curious: nitric oxide helps regulate the very enzyme that produces uric acid. It can reduce or inhibit this xanthine oxidase, and on the other hand, uric acid inhibits nitric oxide. What happens? I think that in more  There must be some deep genetic weakness that creates a predisposition to this problem when a person is unable to remove uric acid and may not even be able to produce enough nitric oxide or absorb it enough and now I will talk about other aspects of this phenomenon let's go back to celery phytonutrient does not increase nitric oxide is practically not present in celery stalks But it is found in large quantities in celery seed extract and also in celery leaves in these small leaves that we cut off and do not eat, they are exactly what you need to eat for gout celery leaves this phytonutrient You can also get it from artichokes artichokes are a good source And also sage and thyme it is also found in many other leafy vegetables I want to also note that some people even claim that they cured gout thanks to artichokes another common method is to reduce the amount of salt It seems that salt inhibits nitric oxide especially if a person is sensitive to salt when I read this line in this  An article came to my mind when they talk about salt sensitivity. In fact, they are describing a potassium deficiency because any salt sensitivity disappears if you get enough potassium. Now the question is: What is the connection between potassium and nitric oxide? Apparently, potassium significantly increases nitric oxide. This may explain why there are quite a few reports here and there indicating that taking potassium helps relieve gout. That is, sodium restriction helps with gout, and potassium intake helps with gout. I think it's a matter of proportion. If you normalize it, everything will be fine. But if you have a lot of sodium with gout, that is, salt, this can create problems. I always advise eating a sufficient amount of salt, preferably sea salt. But for some people with gout, this is probably not the best option. It might be better to limit salt, but start seriously increasing potassium to a level at which gout will likely go away. Another point related to potassium is that diuretics excrete potassium, as does sodium. Diuretics also lead to a decrease in nitric oxide and uric acid, and potassium creates an alkaline environment. We also know that if you increase the alkalinity of urine, gout attacks occur.  There will be less. There is another interesting connection. Omega-3 fatty acids also increase nitric oxide, and we know that omega-3 is anti-inflammatory. The main idea regarding nitric oxide is that it is an antioxidant. If you have an inflamed big toe, you need antioxidants, and nitric oxide may be just what you are missing. There is also data on uric acid. Now I will tell you whether it is an anti- or pro-oxidant. Well, I think both, because there is data that when it gets into tissues intracellularly, it becomes a pro-oxidant, which explains a lot. Because if uric acid gets into the vessels, or, say, into the joint, it begins to cause inflammation. That's why we need nitric oxide. It is not only anti-inflammatory, but also an antioxidant. There is a new term, infasome, a protein related to innate immunity. Apparently, the infosome triggers a series of inflammatory processes in the cell. An attack of gout. Nitric oxide suppresses these processes very well. What else provokes an attack of gout is fructose. When fructose is consumed, it increases during pruning, and it so happened that Fructose and sugar reduce nitric oxide. This is all very interesting. But what should we do? First, increase potassium levels through food and by taking supplements. You can take electrolyte powder in tablets. They burn. There is only a dosage of 99 mg, so you will have to drink several of these tablets several times a day. If you drink electrolyte powder, you can drink several scoops throughout the day. This will give you enough potassium. Eat foods with potassium. At the same time, I recommend limiting sodium intake for severe gout. Just don't put a lot of salt in. This will help. Just remember that sodium, that is, salt, deactivates nitric oxide. Next, eat foods that increase nitric oxide, for example, celery leaves, common cherries, artichokes, leafy greens. Avoid fructose and sugar. And the last piece of advice is very important. I think it will help you. Help your kidneys with something that promotes the elimination of uric acid. In my practice, I used the drug Rinofood, it's a good thing. Order it and take it for gout. As for potassium, it's a very important mineral, so important that I created a story about it.  I invite you to read a separate course about what you know about the most important electrolyte, potassium, arrhythmia, seizures, tremors, high blood pressure and poor sleep, the consequences of potassium deficiency, how to replenish it safely and correctly. I'll tell you about it in my course about potassium. Sign up at the link below. See you there.