In this video, we'll talk about why a child may have dark circles under the eyes. This is due to iron deficiency. This doesn't necessarily mean that the child has anemia. Iron deficiency can occur without them, and although anemia is possible, iron deficiency can lead to other symptoms of fatigue, lethargy, dizziness, paleness, irritability, and sometimes a child craves ice or even dirt. This is because iron is necessary for enzymes and the transport of chemicals. There can be many symptoms. Where does iron deficiency come from? The child either doesn't eat foods containing iron or eats something that blocks iron. It's also possible that there's a problem with digestion, which is why iron isn't absorbed. This could be irritable bowel syndrome or Crohn's disease, which interferes with the absorption of elements. If the child was given antacids, it's likely that the stomach has low acidity, and acidity needs to be increased. If the child was given a lot of antibiotics, this can also interfere with iron absorption. But the most common cause of iron deficiency in children is related to the grains they eat, even if the child eats whole grains. The fact is that bran contains substances called citations. There are quotes in cereals and other foods, and these are chemicals that bind iron, making it very difficult for the body to absorb it. There are two types of iron: heme iron, easily absorbed iron from animal products, and there is no dimova iron. Iron is found in legumes and other plants. If a child doesn't eat enough animal food, red meat, chicken, turkey, pork, this may be the reason why he developed an iron deficiency. Because animal products contain the type of iron that is very easily absorbed. So, the child needs to stop giving cereals and instead give red meat, liver. If he doesn't like liver, there are liver tablets, but it must be from grass-fed animals. Seafood, shellfish, octopus, midi oysters, they all contain quite a lot of iron. You can eat oysters even as a supplement, but under no circumstances give your child iron in the form of a supplement bought at a pharmacy. It's not the same thing. Is it better to get iron from food or food complexes? Just feed your child something that contains iron. Yes, it is found in vegetables and  Spinach, but it's harder to digest. If there are deficiency symptoms, give him red meat, liver, and seafood. Vegetables and greens are also needed because they contain vitamin C and many other nutrients. After all, with an iron deficiency, there are usually other deficiencies. And the good thing about vitamin C is that it helps absorb iron. Well, okay, thanks for watching. Thank you very much for watching my videos. I'm very grateful to you. You can leave comments under the video and write your opinion.