Today we will talk about the dark side of ashwagandha, but first let's discuss its bright side. It is a powerful plant. I also take it periodically. What else will I tell you, but I do not take it constantly? Ashwagandha has been known to people for a very, very long time and its effect is directly related to stress. It helps reduce stress, helps reduce anxiety, especially when a person is nervous. It can reduce Cortisol, which is why athletes drink it. It can increase testosterone and reduce cortisol, improves sleep, especially if you get up in the middle of the night at 2 p.m. It speeds up recovery, helps lower blood sugar and reduces insulin resistance, which helps you lose weight. You do not need to take ashwagandha if you have hyperthyroidism, for example, laziness. Because ashwagandha speeds up the thyroid gland. And if your thyroid gland is already working hard, you should not aggravate this. It also lowers blood pressure. If you already have low blood pressure, I think you should not take it so as not to lower it even lower. If you have low cortisol, perhaps you should not lower its level even more. I also do not advise pregnant women to take it.  and nursing women are sensitive to nightshades, you also should not drink it if you have a genetic problem. When you have excess iron in the body, I also do not recommend it. Now let's move on to what people often write online: if you take too much of it and for too long, you can find yourself in a situation where your emotions seem to have frozen. You feel a kind of numbness. You can suspect an excess of serotonin. But this is not known for sure. I have a theory about this. The phytochemicals in ashwagandha are produced by the plant. These substances protect against insects and other external threats. In other words, these are pesticides. The question arises. Why do we then take it? Because in small doses, these molecules have a positive effect on the body. Training is also stress. Why do you need these muscle micropores that occur during training? Because the body adapts and becomes stronger. Apparently, ashwagandha has a similar effect; it creates a little stress, the body adapts and becomes stronger. Hence the term adaptogen. Most people who have problems with it took it for too long and in large doses. When you take it in the amount of 1 mg per day  3500 mg per day, then side effects may occur, so I recommend a dose of about 600 mg per day, dividing the intake into two parts of 300 mg and do not drink it for a long time. How long can you do this? I advise taking ashwagandha for no longer than two months in a row. Then stop taking it, then the body will not have time to get used to it and there will be no stimulation of some receptors. What can be a problem? After a break, you can resume taking it, but the benefits of ashwagandha are too great for us to miss out on the beneficial ones because of its harmful qualities. Since we were talking about stress, if you don’t know yet, I have a course in which this subject is discussed in great detail, I recommend paying attention to it and sign up using the link below. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore beautiful hair. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system is waiting for you as a gift. I will tell you How does immunity work and what reduces it? I will also give a list of the best means for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.