Intermittent fasting brings great benefits but there is also a dark side and I will also talk about it its benefits are weight loss cognitive improvement concentration memory help in solving heart problems and so on usually things get much better here but here is what you need to know about intermittent fasting you do not go for some time and most of what I will tell you does not apply exactly to fasting for 17 or 18 hours we are talking about long-term fasting say two days or three or even longer this information is more about this So let's start food is needed not only to get fuel for the body but also to get nutrients from it If you do not eat because you are fasting, your nutrient intake is limited But if your diet does not provide you with all the nutrients, not just a deficiency but a subclinical nutrient deficiency can occur and this can create a lot of problems almost everything I will talk about is connected with this we will discuss the first point is refeeding syndrome So let's say you fast for 3-4 days or 5 days and then eat a whole  A mountain of food at once is bad. Especially if it's a mountain of carbohydrates and you already have a deficiency of some nutrients. This is dangerous and can create a lot of problems. To break the fast safely, you need to eat a little, wait a couple of hours, eat a little more. I would not eat carbohydrates, but a little protein, maybe an egg or some greens, wait a little, maybe eat nuts, an avocado, something like that. Don't do that. Like I did once. I just didn't eat for a long time and then ate too much. I ate a whole mountain of food. I felt very good for about a minute and then oh my God, I didn't feel so good. I felt very bad during the fast, my body was unaccustomed to such a quantity of food. So, break the fast gradually first. Eat a little. I will give a link below to more detailed information about this, but the problem with refeeding syndrome usually occurs if there is anorexia or chronic alcoholism, or impaired absorption and a person does not get enough because there is inflammation in the intestines, or in the case of advanced age, progressive diabetes, or even because of some medications.  like antacids or diuretics depriving you of nutrients or simply due to a vitamin B1 deficiency. This is what causes refeeding syndrome, because in this case, liquid electrolytes move from cells into the blood. So, this is the first. Second, dirty chum salmon. In essence, you eat few carbohydrates, but do not pay attention to the quality of food and nutrients. And as I already said, the problem is always a nutrient deficiency. If you eat junk food, even if it has few carbohydrates, its quality is low, it has no nutrients and there may be problems. After all, you do not eat and therefore get even fewer nutrients. Take zinc, for example. The zinc reserves in the body last for about four days. But if your food is low in zinc, like people, and you begin to starve, then this deficiency worsens, and zinc deficiency can weaken the immune system. It can affect taste perception, vision, it can affect the skin, it can affect the stomach, for example, cause gastritis, and so on. Third, you do not take nutrients when fasting. I recommend always taking at least electrolytes, trace elements, and B vitamins.  The point is that if you do not take electrolytes, including sea salt, when fasting, especially if you fast for 2, 3, 4, or 5 days, then problems can occur, such as weakness, dizziness, loss of consciousness. I know of such cases. In addition, if you are on ketones or fasting, you are living on ketones. When we live on ketones, we need more nutrients such as vitamin B1, other B vitamins, and even potassium, which means that Keto fatigue, Keto rash, or general weakness can also occur. Fourth, kidney stones. There are several causes of kidney stones. Most often, oxalate stones form. Let's say you are on the Teto diet with intermittent fasting. Often, people eat a lot of almonds. Perhaps they eat sugar-free chocolate. Perhaps they eat spinach. These foods contain a lot of oxalates, and a predisposition to kidney stones can aggravate the situation. Eliminate these foods. If you have such a predisposition, I would drink lemon juice with water and drink enough water, about 2 liters.  pono a day, this alone should protect you from kidney stones, another type of kidney stones are uric acid stones, with prolonged fasting, uric acid increases, then its level decreases and stabilizes, this is not some kind of painful condition, because uric acid is perhaps the most powerful antioxidant in our blood, so its high level does not mean that you will have gout or some kind of arthritis. No, it only means that during fasting, some chemical changes are possible. Here is an excellent remedy for counteracting uric acid when you start eating after fasting. Eat a lot of greens, which I always advise to remove the acid that can concentrate, this can be difficult for those on a carnivore diet. But I have not yet seen problems with uric acid, the body somehow copes with it and people do not have more problems with gout, but less. Although they eat a lot of animal protein, it is interesting that fifthly, if you have anorexia, you have a nutrient deficiency, intermittent fasting will aggravate the problem, so I do not recommend intermittent fasting to those who have bulimia or anorexia I advise them the keto diet is a must, but not prolonged fasting. Sixth, athletes who have not yet adapted to fat when someone starts the keto diet, they begin to adapt to ketosis, which is three days, and then it takes from one to three months to fully adapt to fat metabolism. So, adaptation to fat takes much longer than you might think, and during this you train. When you may not have yet adapted to fat, and during training, your energy level may drop. However, there are athletes who have adapted to fat over time in a few months, and they burn fat three times faster than others. They are simply tireless. In fact, this takes more time, and during this adaptation, you should move your training time and train immediately after meals until it adapts, and if you train without consuming enough sea salt, your muscles will be weak. Potassium is also very, very important. Seventh, prolonged fasting is not the best idea for children in adolescence if there is excess weight, say, obesity. Perhaps it is worth twice a day and it is definitely necessary to exclude snacks. I do not agree that it is necessary.  snacking all day The point is that children need to eat three big meals a day and the food should be rich in nutrients Why Because we are trying to prevent nutrient deficiencies And these days it is harder to get nutrients from food Go to the store lettuce there is mostly grown hydroponically and the problem is that it is fed with only a few minerals and this lettuce is kind of tasteless It is unlikely that it has as many nutrients as lettuce grown in the ground Eighth nutrients are most important for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers because they need to eat for two and the body is depleted when giving milk Vitamin D deficiency alone can lead to various dental malformations in a child and in the future he may need braces He may have an incorrect bite flat feet may have crooked legs and all this can be easily prevented if the mother gets enough of the right nutrients And most vitamins for pregnant women are synthetic pregnant women need natural vitamins just like breastfeeding mothers and also  Unfortunately, some baby food undergoes deep technological processing. Look at its composition. Natural food is not even close to being there. Unfortunately, there are some alternatives. I will give a link below to what I recommend for children's nutrition. This baby food is much better. Ninth, if you are losing muscle mass, say you are of age and have started to lose muscle mass and you are fasting intermittently. I recommend adding another nutrient to your diet - a mixture of amino acids. This way, you will get raw materials but will not face the problem of converting them into sugar. Amino acids will go towards creating muscle mass and preventing its loss, and B vitamins, electrolytes, and so on will help amino acids turn into muscles. After all, all biochemical processes, all enzymes mainly need protein. In addition to the protein needed by muscles, tendons, fascia, and connective tissue, all these protein molecules need cofactors and coenzymes. And these are vitamins with minerals. As you can see, we have returned to these nutrients. I am trying to place great emphasis on this point. And tenth, ketoacidosis. If you  Read about the dangers of fasting, about the dangers of the ketogenic diet, you will see this word more than once. Ketoacidosis is an excess of ketones in the body. An excess of ketones creates an acidic environment in the blood. And this can be very, very dangerous. There is terrible confusion here. And now I will explain everything. There is physiological ketosis and there is ketoacidosis. These are two big differences. Ketoacidosis is very rare. Except in cases when a person has diabetes that is not controlled. This happens when, with type 1 diabetes and sometimes with type 2 diabetes, a person forgets to inject himself with insulin. With type 1 diabetes, the cells of the pancreas essentially stop producing insulin. What happens to blood sugar? It rises sharply because there is no insulin to regulate it, but insulin also controls ketones. insulin suppresses ketones. If there is no more insulin, a huge amount of ketones is produced, so the body begins to burn fat at a frantic rate and the ketone level becomes very high, above 10,111. As a rule, physiological ketosis is a natural state. We cut back. Carbohydrates and usually the ketone level becomes from 5 to 3, I have seen it above five or six. And for this you need to fast for a long time and exercise, but the vast majority of people have a ketone level of 3, which is much less than 10. Ketoacidosis occurs with uncontrolled diabetes, with chronic alcoholism, when taking certain medications such as aspirin in large doses, when taking certain drugs such as cocaine, ketoacidosis occurs if you abuse cocaine. Ketoacidosis is also possible with chronic liver disease when the liver is severely damaged and at the same time the person has diabetes and even with improper nutrition during pregnancy. As you can see, there is a condition predisposing to ketoacidosis, but it happens very rarely. Physiological ketosis is not a disease, it is a very healthy condition and its benefits are enormous. If someone says that ketosis is toxic, just ask him, what about Glucose toxicity? It is high sugar, a lot of carbohydrates. These are all side effects of diabetes caused by extremely high sugar levels. What about This danger and think about this: Ketoacidosis usually occurs because a person eats too many carbohydrates; a person eats a lot of carbohydrates, not a few; the pancreas is destroyed and ketoacidosis occurs. I just wanted to talk about all this, and now if you want to know how to properly give interval feedings, you need to watch this video.