Hello, I have a special guest today. We will be discussing some very interesting effects of using infrared light for gout. This is Dr. Ben Pearl, he is a podiatrist and he has been working in this field for quite some time. In general, welcome to the interview, Doc. Thank you for inviting me. I have been watching your videos for some time now and I really like your approach to solving problems. You teach people to use products that are available at home and at the local pharmacy or health food store. It is great. You do the same thing. I think you think outside the box. I have watched some of your videos so I wanted to talk in person today. I want to focus on the topic of gout. Many people have gout and people do not want to take medications because they sometimes have terrible side effects. I know that your clinic offers different types of therapy. I would like to focus on red light therapy and discuss the different types of red light therapy for gout. In general, thank you for responding. I will not take up too much of your time and I have a couple of questions right away. People are confused about red light because there are different parts of the spectrum with different wavelengths. There is a far and near infrared region. Could you explain it in simple terms?  language Does this have a big impact on therapy? Do these different frequencies cause different effects? Well, I think we are talking about the fact that most people mean infrared LEDs. This is a very safe device that brings great benefits to the musculoskeletal system. They perfectly eliminate synovitis of the joints and also appreciate. And if we talk specifically about gout, they can even help improve cell permeability, which, as you know, is associated with the exchange of ions, and uric acid is essentially something that is produced in excess in the body, so these devices can improve this entire metabolic process in cells, removing by-products from the cell. Regarding the parts of the spectrum you mentioned, low levels are not as powerful, so they require more time of exposure, a higher dose, but nothing bad you say. About frequencies closer to visible light, and near or far. Although, of course, we are talking about the near infrared region. Yes, yes, when it comes to something like a laser, where other amplitudes are present, heat is already generated, and it is obvious that this is more suitable for use in a clinic. Although, as you know, there are laser devices on the market for home use, which our Ministry of Health has approved for sale for home use. But it is best to check such devices on the Internet to make sure that they meet the requirements. But these devices work with a different part of the light spectrum and they have a slightly different effect and some people combine different types of therapy, they use different frequencies, they do not get used to any one frequency, even within the same frequency. If it is possible to change the cycles, as in some protocols where you can change the cycles, use different intervals of exposure to Light. This can also enhance the therapeutic effect. Yes, and healing the body. When you irradiate a patient with gout with infrared light, you usually use a specific protocol or use mixed frequencies or I think there are red light therapies where different frequencies are used. So you can tell more specifically, perhaps, about how to use red light at home. Yes, I would make sure that I have an original infrared light device that You need to read reviews and make sure that the company is not selling you just something that claims to meet a certain standard. I think this is the best way to check this. For example, this device does not have this, unlike the one that I use for another method of exposure, it does not have the ability to use different frequencies, it produces only one purity. When using this device, we can vary the time.  impact and I'm trying to use mixed methods of energy impact to cause different effects in the body that would work in tandem and create energies. I agree, let's say someone has gout and he applies this therapy to his big toe. How long on average would the therapy last? 10 minutes, five minutes, 15 minutes. How would you do it? I think with a device for home use, you need at least 20 minutes and it would even be good to do it twice a day, that is, in the morning and in the evening. And as you know, the lowest metabolic rates are usually observed early in the morning or late in the evening when the body enters a phase of greater relaxation and, as a rule, at these moments, attacks most often occur, blood flow decreases. Well, and so on, and it is precisely during these periods that it is good to use therapy. In addition, this is consistent with the working hours of most people. Yes, tell us a little about. I apologize. What are the results? Does it help immediately or does it take time, many procedures, a week, two weeks. What can you say? I'm glad you asked about this. Because, especially during an exacerbation of gout, you need to do some of what you talk about in your videos to influence the production and uric acid excretion Along with other worlds I don't want anyone to think that this is something separate, this is one of the tools, one of several, we use energy in combination with other measures such as dietary correction and obviously bringing the body's hydration in order for it to overcome an attack of gout for a preventive effect, you can reduce the procedures to one per day for prevention instead of two procedures per day. As you know, one of the main culprits. And many do not see how gout is related to how much fructose they eat and they think I eat natural fruits, fruits contain fructose, just like regular table sugar, and you know, if we talk about evolution, in the past, people ate much less fructose than today, and fructose actually turns into uric acid pretty quickly. But even if we talk about the evolution of fruits in general, if we look at where some fruits came from, they were originally much less sweet, we have bred such hybrids of fruits that simply overflow the body with fructose, this is one of the things that I discovered if you remove fructose, gout recedes to a huge extent. So, it is imperative to take into account the diet and that  What aggravates gout even on the Keto diet? Selitol seems to be able to increase the so- called pseudogout. Axalates and all that can irritate the thumb. You know, I'm on the teto diet. I don't eat fructose or sugar, but he eats a lot of xylitol. This could be a hidden factor. That's why I invited you because I wanted to discuss two things: infrared light and electromagnetic therapy. Do you use it? Can you tell me about this therapy? Yes, it can also be done at home? Yes. First, I'll show you a large device that I have here. I'm very glad, Dr. Berg, that I have one of these devices at home. It's essentially a copper wire that creates a magnetic field. The device runs on electricity, and unlike. You remember the craze for magnets in shoes, they simply had too few gauss to cause more significant changes that are needed for cellular metabolism. What does the word gauss mean? It's simply the level of magnetic energy. What is gauss? Gauss is the power, roughly speaking, the power of an electromagnet. For example, some rugs that are now widely and widely sold, I won't name the companies or advertise them, but they are widely sold, had a kind of  There's a lot of hype about their health, they're about six tenths of a Gauss, and they're excellent for health. And this device produces up to 4,000, so you can't, thousands, yes, yes, that is, you ca n't, for example, bring it to the chest of a person who has a pacemaker, it can interfere with him, it will disrupt the signal of a mobile phone, if you bring it close, stripes will appear on the screen, and so on. So these are large devices, they have a closed circuit, so the radiation from them is considered safer than from mobile phones. Well, in terms of energy, I think this matters, as with any other device, it needs to be checked. If you're taking it for home use, there are websites with reviews of devices for home use, and for a few hundred dollars instead of several thousand dollars, you can easily find a device with a smaller ring, that is, instead of a large plastic case, there may be a smaller one the size of a quarter or half a dollar coin, this is a very flexible ring made of copper wire, and there may be a couple of such rings that, in case of gout, you can put, say, on your big toes, and the power supply box will be much smaller, it will be the size of a power supply, whereas much larger devices are the size of a microwave. I like a device that produces somewhere around several  hundreds of Gauss and not 0.6, although everything is fine there, even low levels accelerate the formation of bone tissue, even six tenths of a Gauss, because the frequency, that is, hertz, is also important, this is another key factor. So, the more complex the device, the more frequency options it has. For example, my device can change the frequency from 7 to 60 hertz. And some smaller devices do not have many cycle frequency options. If we talk about gout, what frequency? How many hertz would you use? I sometimes use up to 60 percent, this is somewhere around two and a half thousand Gauss. I use a cycle frequency of somewhere from 7 to 28 hertz, while the frequency changes cyclically, one frequency is maintained for, say, 2 minutes, then the next frequency is turned on, and so on in a circle. It seems you said earlier that you see changes in the tumor after just one session. Yes, a decrease in tumor acuity, yes. In some cases, I was able to measure the circumference of a body part and, say, the circumference of the ankle decreased by three- quarters of a centimeter. I filmed some of these measurements on video to document some cases so that people understand the full scale.  what can you expect because in the center it reacts a little differently As you know, great So, electromagnetic fields and I also talked about their danger But if they are controlled in a ring, I think it's much better Have you ever heard of using methylene blue together with light to enhance the effect I like this idea because of the light spectrum So I will need to research this you know all these things are interconnected that is, it all leads to the idea of ​​such a fundamental process as photosynthesis and how, under the influence of light, plants produce energy this is the same basic idea but a different application so everything related to color has some effect on energy Yes, this is amazing new data now they are even conducting cancer research they take methylene blue which has a very interesting effect on mitochondria and act on it with light because infrared light penetrates the body light penetrates the body and enhances the effect on mitochondria it acts on the electron transport chain It's something like a conveyor belt of electrons And since most problems are associated with mitochondria, we act on the very heart of the problem experiments with the addition of methylene  blue is interesting because it usually gets where we need it and it amazingly absorbs electrons coming from leaky mitochondria And about the big toes I would be interested in just experimenting with these therapies with methylene blue and see what gives the greatest effect here we are trying to work at the basic cellular level we are trying to improve the functioning of the cell get rid of something trying to make sure that electrons are not created only free radicals and this is closely related to iron metabolism our cells are essentially sodium potassium pumps people think about chemistry and physiology Oh I remember something sodium potassium in connection with nerves and confusion let me remind you that it is so rare but in every cell, be it a bone cell or smooth muscle cell, potassium and sodium are exchanged so our bodies are essentially like batteries that respond to energy regarding your words about fading if we can find out how Dark upholstery in a car interior absorb more light there are definitely hints of this and I will be interested to see after I study the articles how it is  can be included in the protocols Yes, and so I recently filmed some videos - 2 different pH inside and outside the cell about how, you know, in order for there to be a battery for energy to accumulate inside the cell for its normal functioning, gradients are needed, a difference is needed, or two different electrolytes, two different pH, two different concentration gradients for a flow to occur, and when crystals accumulate, waste accumulates, lactic acid looks like there is damage in the membrane. So I think in the future we will abandon drugs in favor of natural remedies. But this is a completely new area, people are just starting to look at all this, but apparently there will not be a lot of research here, because you can’t really make money on simple things. Unfortunately, especially on methylene blue, because you can’t patent it anymore, it’s one of the first drugs, but it seems to work wonders in terms of restoring oxygen levels in the mitochondria in terms of removing excess electrons so that the mitochondria can then be healed, so Yes, I just wanted to add. Regarding the studies you mentioned, I spoke with one company that is preparing materials for the ko and on the topic of cell healing for healing wounds like those of diabetics using electromagnetic fields, and you said kai is that the commission  The research submits data to the National Institute of Health and so that people understand why they don't do a lot of research in this area to get to the point where they need money, you have to submit an application to the government. It's several thousand dollars. You have to really believe in your product to even start this. In addition, because of the pandemic, everything else has simply faded into the background. So if there is a grant for cancer research, this will probably be a higher priority. Although it would seem, oh my God, people have diabetes, diabetes is literally marching on our side, we have an obesity epidemic and all that, nevertheless, these studies take too long to reach the research commission for it to make sense to start a study. Therefore, even in relation to those that, as you said, don't promise a lot of money, even if there is a company that provides support and wants to help the development of science, sometimes things move at a snail's pace. It's crazy. Well, I am very grateful to you for your time. You probably have patients waiting for you. I will give a link to your website below and write a few words so that people can contact you, perhaps about other related issues. Thank you, Doc, for taking the time. I am grateful. We will continue to communicate and share new information in the future. I really enjoyed the interview with Dr. Berg. Thank you very much for inviting me to your program. I continue to learn from you.  I really like the idea of ​​collaborating and exchanging ideas, and I assure you that what Dr. McCoy did in the old Star Trek series has become a reality today. As you said, we now want to coordinate protocols to get more support for each of our studies, for each of our patients, and based on these observations, we accumulate knowledge. Well, thank you very much. If you haven't subscribed yet, you need to click the button below to find out about new videos. He spoke in verse.