Well, I don't know how to tell you, but you're not getting any younger. I do n't know who invented this concept, but it's a strange phrase, of course. We all know that we're getting older, but how can we prolong our lives? This is one of my goals, so that people can live a longer and, of course, a better quality life. Is there some kind of test that shows how long you'll live? Can you determine this by the number of wrinkles? The holder of the life expectancy record lived 122 years. That's quite a lot. There were probably people who lived even longer, but it wasn't documented. I remember from my practice, I had many traveling seminars in different government agencies, and one woman invited me to come to the nursing home where she lived. And there they had people of different ages, from about 60 years old to about 90, and I remember when I was giving a presentation there, I asked the age of those present. I was shocked to learn that there were people in their 60s, literally in wheelchairs, they were 63-65 years old. I thought, Wow, that's incredible. I'm 58 years old now, and I'm already a Grandfather. Sometimes, that's  It's hard to wrap my head around because I don't consider myself old. I remember when I was young, I looked at my 50-year-old grandparents and thought, "How old are they?" In general, I think before 60, people felt like they do today at 40. This is just my opinion, but you can't say how long a person will live based on how many wrinkles they have, how much gray hair they have, or how much their hearing has deteriorated, or how much their vision has deteriorated, or if their cognitive functions have deteriorated. Some people can even live a very long time with dementia. Arterial calcification. This is a good predictor of mortality. With age, the body generally hardens, calcium accumulates in the joints, the tissues become rigid, this accumulation of calcium. Also, with age, we become shorter, we lose height, the spine shortens, then bone loss also affects growth, and with age, we begin to fall more often than usual. But there is another indicator of longevity that I want to discuss: muscle loss and muscle mass and strength. As we age, we lose muscle. There is a very strong relationship. I expect the loss of muscle strength and mortality from  Old age is not necessarily about muscle mass, it's about their size, it's about their strength, because with age, muscle atrophy begins, muscle loss, this phenomenon is called sarcopenia, the main muscle that atrophies first is the quadriceps femoris, which is why it happens especially after menopause and more often in women. Because they have a lot of estrogen, there is great weakness of this quadriceps muscle, it looks like cellulite. But in fact, this is atrophy, fat is also involved, but there is also very significant muscle atrophy. To diagnose sarcopenia, in addition to CT and MRI, the gold standard for diagnosis, the Stand up test or the chair stand up test can indirectly show you how severe your sarcopenia is and indirectly can tell how long you will live. There are other factors, too. But this is a good indicator. I want to conduct an experiment. I want you to just stand up if you are sitting. Stand up, even though you are watching me on the computer and are unlikely to be standing. Stand up. But if not on the phone, write in the comments. Is it difficult for you to get up? How long does it take you to get up? Can you get up abruptly?  An even more indicative test would be to sit on the floor and stand up vertically from the floor. With sarcopenia, you will have to roll and bend over and push off the floor with your hands and stand up. You will take a long time. If you jump up quickly, then you can exclude this problem. There is another good test I recommend. 2 is a hand grip strength test. You can use a hand expander. If you are a man and cannot squeeze an expander with a force of 66 pounds or 30 kilograms, then perhaps you have this problem. For women, the normal squeeze is 44 pounds or 20 kg. Here are two good home tests that show how relevant this problem is for you. Now let's discuss what we can do to live longer, what we can do to increase our life expectancy and make it high-quality, and what can be done with sarcopenia. Many people have this disease. One of the main symptoms of vitamin D deficiency is muscle weakness. Vitamin D is extremely important for muscle strength, especially with sarcopenia. So, the first thing I strongly recommend is to start taking vitamin D for muscle strength. It just so happens that  Vitamin D also promotes longevity because it is closely involved in the functioning of the immune system, reduces inflammation, has anti-cancer properties, is very good for the heart, is useful for autoimmune diseases, it is connected with many things, it can influence, in my opinion, 19 thousand different genes. So vitamin D is useful in some ways. Secondly, resistance training is a very important thing. If you can regularly perform an exercise program consisting of resistance exercises, it will be very beneficial for longevity compared to no exercise or irregular exercise. I like to vary exercises. I do a lot of different exercises. I still do sled pulls uphill to move forward. I have a video with a guy named Ben Patrick. He runs his own channel on YouTube. It's a great interview. There we discussed walking backwards and pulling weights backwards. I still train like that lately, I do Pilates. I really like it. It involves the whole body and a new type of exercise is absolutely amazing. It's a little different, called geratonics. I'll leave the link below. It's an amazing training program that includes strengthening movements. It's voluminous, unlike flexion and extension exercises, it exercises the whole body in different ranges. movements You have to see it To understand, you need to go to a gym where these exercise machines are great The third point is very important And not only for sarcopenia but also for prolonging life Food rich in nutrients I will give an example, let's say, for example, you have a deficiency of folic acid folates So, this alone can cause your DNA the same disturbances as from radiation In other words, with a deficiency of folates, DNA is damaged and cannot be restored and this shortens life, as studies have shown and this is just one nutrient 4 Fasting will undoubtedly prolong your life Let's say with age you have developed sarcopenia and perhaps you eat once a day because you may not be able to fast for 5 days, especially with muscle weakness, this is a bad idea, but one meal a day is what you need Fasting increases growth hormone it enhances autophagy the processing of old damaged proteins it will prolong your life 5 Keep cortisol low Cortisol is very destructive to muscles Especially for the muscles of the legs and buttocks If you haven't watched the video about this I will leave the link below Cortisol is necessary  In normal quantities, but not in high amounts, excess cortisol definitely paralyzes the immune system and shortens life. The sixth point, but in my opinion, it is in first place in importance. Internal attitude. A study was clearly conducted on this. Knowing what you live for is very important for longevity and overall happiness. Unfortunately, there are not many such people. People do what they really want to do, but I dare say that internal attitude is the main condition for a long life. 7. A sufficient amount and high quality of protein to fight sarcopenia. You need raw materials that will replenish your proteins, not only muscles, but in general, we need proteins in abundance in the chemical pathways themselves. And of course, high-quality eggs are the best source of protein. If we talk about sarcopenia itself, there is a type of amino acid leucine called hmb. This is a breakdown product of leucine that will help fight sarcoidosis. I just wanted to mention it because it is a good remedy for sarcopenia, and you need to know a lot about longevity, so next, it will be useful for you to watch this video. Watch it.