Hello, I'm Dr. Tag with a couple of tips on what to do if you have dark circles under your eyes. Look, I've drawn this. It's not just one problem. There may be several reasons that cause them. Yes, it could be hereditary. But if not, and if your relatives don't suffer from this, take a closer look at this: first, the nasal sinuses. If your sinuses are clogged with mucus, this indicates lymph stagnation. Because the eyes are surrounded by lymph nodes, swelling may occur. In addition, blood flows back through the veins. The veins are blue, so there will be a darkening effect under the eyes. This is a consequence of lymph stagnation and backflow. If this is the problem, then the best solution for clearing the sinuses is nasal lavage. The links will be under the video. There is a very good remedy called colostrum. It helps the immune system fight allergies. I will also give a link to a detailed description. You can also drink the so-called Mormon tea. What is it? Mormon tea is a weak version of ephedra. I do n't know if you've heard of ether, it was taken off the market.  Because it increases adrenaline, but honestly, the danger of this is very small even compared to the danger of aspirin. It helps very well with nasal congestion and lingering pneumonia, and also with asthma and bronchitis, and is very effective. This tea has been drunk for two thousand years, of course, it cannot be patented and it is inexpensive if you drink it under supervision, monitor your blood pressure, do not drink it during pregnancy, there will be no problems. This tea is very good to drink in the first half of the day to relieve lymph stagnation and a runny nose. And of course, do not eat dairy products and any wheat products, both can clog the sinuses. And here's another thing, let's say you went to a restaurant and they ate dishes that contained wasp and sugar, or for example, a hot dog or a burger with a BUN, French fries and Coca-Cola. This can also lead to sinus congestion. This is another reason. Get your diet in order and the sinuses will clear out. Let's move on to the liver. If you are doing a body cleanse or toxins have accumulated in the liver, dark circles under the eyes may also appear. The best remedy is simple milk thistle. It fights liver damage, it's an excellent and safe remedy, it won't cause a reaction like with detoxification, many who take colostrum or probiotics experience an immune reaction leading to the same problem when taking any drug for the first time, including colostrum, start with a small dose, and I think milk thistle won't cause problems. Now let 's look at the adrenal glands. Adrenal fatigue, excessive stress, and lack of sleep can also appear, and dark circles under the eyes need to be addressed. This is the topic of a separate video. There will be a link below. First of all, start taking long walks, don't sit in front of the computer around the clock, you need to get enough sleep. Anything done to improve sleep is a big plus, and the next point we'll discuss is sleep, perhaps the most important point. By improving the quality of sleep, you can get rid of dark circles under the eyes, so sleep is very important. Vitamin D helps the adrenal glands, it also improves sleep, so get in the sun every day. We've already discussed that walks reduce stress, it's also reduced by potassium-rich vitamins, and yes, if physiological sedatives are present, it relaxes the body, removes sodium, and gets rid of  Excess fluid in the body is another reason for this. Usually, an imbalance of potassium and sodium leads to the appearance of bags under the eyes. But the skin does not necessarily darken from this, but you need to get enough sleep in any case. Another reason is allergies. If you are allergic, by the way, and sinuses can give you a shortage. A high dose of vitamin C will greatly help you. Colostrum also fights allergies, like some other drugs, under the video I will give links. See which of these is right for you. Once you decide, focus on this. Keep in mind that the skin under the eyes is very thin and therefore it is easy to see veins under it. They are blue and can look like dark circles. Try my advice and write comments. Thank you very much for watching. By the way, click the subscribe button to stay informed and I will keep you updated. No, some nonsense. You probably already subscribed, but if not, click this button to find out about new videos.