 batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch roughly 150 participants divided into two groups. One group of two just added two bags of sardines in a week. The other group of sardines didn't eat. In the group, which ate two bags of sardines in a week, the risk of diabetes was reduced from 37% to 8%. The research was called a great scientific discovery. My question was, what happens, if you eat three of these bags every day, five days? One bag of sardines contains 23 grams of milk. It's a good amount. You have a 900 mg of EPA and DHA. Only batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch EPA and DHA. You know what, American's? It's about 100 mg EPA and DHA in a day. But if you multiply this number on 3, it will be 2700 mg EPA and DHA. It's a new level of the whole day, and it's just incredible how much this can be done. I'll be back to this. I'd like to buy some of the sardines with the skin, with the boasts and in the olive oil extra virgin. So, I'm going to do the first day, when you eat only sardines, of course, you will drink water, electrolytes, you can drink tea, coffee, if you want. If you want, you can add some of the leaves, but only a little bit. So, what happens when you eat the body? What happens when you eat the body? No sugar? And the body starts to burn fat. He's going to burn fat. He's going to burn fat on the burn fat on the burn fat. In the beginning, the body starts to burn fat, which is a lot of water, which is in the body, in the body of glycogeno. In the first days, the body of glycogeno is going to be with glycogeno. With glycogeno, there is a lot of water, so, at the beginning, you will be able to get a lot of water. So, I recommend you to drink electrolytes, and in there must be kaly, magni and natri. Now, this type of food is very different from the diet, when you only drink water and electrolytes. So, here we add very much nutrients in the body, with a lot of nutrients. It's much easier for most people. They will feel not weak, but strength, and will get a lot of nutrients. So, we can call it a lot of nutrients. And this is also a diet, which is a diet, which is a diet, which is a lot of use. But we are adding a lot of nutrients in the diet, which is a lot of nutrients. Most people add a lot of nutrients from the diet, which are in the amount of nutrients, which is far from the diet. So, now, subscribe to the channel and click on the bell, to be able to get all notifications. If you don't choose all notifications, the platform will not forget about new videos. This simple action will help you to continue to develop the channel. And we continue. So, now we are getting the same amount of nutrients, as well as food, consuming the calorie diet for 5 days. The first two days, for some people who have been able to do it for some people, for some people who have never done it before, because to the body needs to be able to get into the ketosis. In fact, our mind loves the ketosis in the video, which is the ketosis in the video. But to get into the ketosis, it needs a couple of days. So, for batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch On the second day, who never had this before, will be difficult. You will have a hunger, a dopamine. It's not the same as a normal hunger. You want a different kind of food, some of the chips, something else, something else with a different taste. But you won't be a hunger, because the body starts to use your fat. You literally eat your fat all the time. Even when you eat your fat, you eat your fat. If you don't cut the sugar, you don't increase insulin, you're eating the weight of glycogen in the stomach, but we already have them. So we, in a way, use the fat. If you have a choice, it's a choice. And you start to feed the brain, and you start to feed the brain. And you will start to increase your fat. You will start to increase your attention. So if you have a little bit of a respiration, it will start to increase. Because what in omega-3-physic acid is called rezolvins, which helps to turn off the inflammation. But to work it out, you have to have high doses. Well, you will get 2700 mg EPA and DHA, so you can't remove it. So we can remove it. In most of the BADs with omega-3, in one dose, it's only 200 mg DHA and EPA. So we're doing 2700 mg. So we're going to do 2700 mg. So you will increase it. It's better to move it. And you will sleep better. And you will sleep better. And you will also improve it. Now, this is what I know. Many people eat meat, because there is a lot of people. There is mercury. But in mercury, mercury is very small. It's like 0,003,000 g per million. If you compare it with a tunt, in cerdin, mercury is 27 times less. But in cerdin, there is cilen, and it's a line of mercury. So you don't worry about mercury in cerdin. Day three. Day three. This is interesting. Day three. If there is a tunt, it's a consciousness, it's completely gone. You will wake up. You will wake up with a completely clear head. The concentration of attention is increased. Because ketones are completely turned into work and they will be going to your neurons. You will get three days you will get 288% of the normalcy of Ceren. So that the cell is going to change the cell of T4 into T3. And you feel that metabolism works better. Especially when it comes to the temperature. You will not feel cold, even if it is cold on the street. Because the cell of the cell works better. The amount of omega-3 cells stimulate the cell of the cell of the cell. I explain what it is. This is a body of the cell of the cell of the cell. Because it is very high, because it is very high concentration of mitochondria. It is energy stations of the cell. And so when you activate this cell of the cell of the cell, you batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch Only one important thing is for нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап нап batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch Because, looking at the mirror, you will see that your face changed and started to look better. Your skin started to look better. Your skin will be healthy and healthy, because omega-3 cells are in the membranes of all the cells, including the cells of the cells. This is not only the inner view, but also the feeling. Your skin will become much more because the cell will increase. You finally have to turn off the cell, which was chronic. So you will lose weight of the cell, increase the cell, increase the cell, and the skin will become much better. Now, remember, I mentioned taurin. Taurin causes splice gamba. Gamba – it's a healer, a mediator. So it's related to stress. You will be comfortable, stable, stable, you will be able to sleep. You will sleep better. You will not have to sleep in the night. You will not have to sleep in the night. You will sleep in the night. Also, it will bring your microflora to your microflora. It's also a benefit. It's also a benefit. It's a benefit to your microflora to eat these microchlorons. It's not a good thing. It's a good thing. Because they become lousy, they become lousy, they become lousy, they become lousy, they become lousy. When you eat, they become much better. And your microflora to become more different. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. So you'll improve the body. It's a good thing. And your microflora to become lousy. One batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch You don't have any pressure on your skin, your skin looks good, you get 5000% of the normal B12. You have a strong movement in the relationship of omega-3 and omega-6 molecules, because you consume about 13000 mg omega-3. So, the blood cells work better, the muscles are strong, the heart is strong, and you wake up with a bode with a clear brain. But the main thing is that you control your body, your body, your body, and can continue in the same way. This is a great victory. It's like you train your soul, like a muscle, and every day your soul becomes more. You, basically, are no passenger, but the driver of the car, who leads you to the health. The ability to say no to a mucousor, it's a big deal. Okay. Many people are responsible for their body. He causes a tithe and a call to eat a vrede food. But this will be done on this diet. Now your body is on one of the waves with your mind, and you can achieve this success. As I said, you can eat electrolytes every day and take a complex vitamin group B, especially B1. Your body is on a 4-day basis. 4. Did you batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch batch Thank you.