Seminar on body type Some people exercise 7 days a week for 2 hours a day and still don't lose weight. The question arises why, for some reason, some people are able to lose weight and others are not. Let's talk about this. If you look around you will see that there are four types of body type. Some have weight concentrated in a great belly, others have a bloated belly, some have weight concentrated in the hips and forearms, and some people are large. I created a system for losing weight based on body type and I will tell you what it is based on. Because if something upsets a certain balance inside your body, it will affect the shape of your body on the outside. There is nothing worse than doing all this work in vain. There are people who constantly suffer one failure after another. It's not that they are lazy, crazy, or lacking willpower, but in the lack of results. Today we will find out the reason for this. What's interesting is that you actually don't have a problem with your weight. It sounds strange. Someone will say, "Have you seen me?" Your excess weight is a symptom. The problem is actually in your hormones or in your slow metabolism. Let's talk about hormones. One woman told me there is no need.  I'm coming to the seminar because I've had all my hormones removed, but you have over 600 hormones in your body. We'll discuss everything today. I hope you're taking notes. Of course, I'm joking, but we'll talk about those responsible for burning fat. First, let's define what a hormone is. I need a volunteer. Come on, great. Stand here. I volunteered, and someone else. Yes, come on, you stand here. You'll be a fat cell. Good. And you'll be a thyroid gland. Good. So, thyroid. You'll communicate. Cover your ears, pretend you don't hear. And like this, thyroid. Say hello to a fat cell. Hello, good. Tell me, burn fat. Burn fat. Good. Do you have children? Three, three. Were you talking to a child who is n't listening to you? What did you do? Repeated, excellent, burn fat. You speak louder. Yes, of course. Burning fat. Okay, yes, she'll start to blush. So, hormones. This message is sent through a distance and it should reach the ears, that is, the hormone receptors. This message has many functions, but we're now talking about the hormones responsible for burning fat. produces and sends the hormone after receiving it, fat should be burned by most people, that's what happens, the message is sent but not heard, that's why people continue to gain weight, okay, thank you very much and thank you too, sit down and now since we've dealt with hormones, let's move on to the first body type, the thyroid body type is characterized by an even distribution of body weight throughout, the thyroid gland is located at the base of the neck, show everyone where it is, lower here it is about 6 centimeters, the name means that it looks like a shield, this is really so, this is what it looks like, clear further, if the thyroid gland does not work, you will begin to accumulate too much potential energy, otherwise it is called potential energy, fat, which one prefers, the first option sounds better, yes, I will need to order T-shirts, I'm not fat, I have a lot of potential energy, so that's what fat is, who doesn't like its fat, but honestly, yes, well, why does the body create it if it only upsets you? Is there any purpose? Maybe someone considers it a pillow to make it softer? No, it's a survival mechanism, in other words, this mechanism developed in During evolution, fat helps protect you from hunger and stress. Your body stores fat to help you. Now you look at it from a different angle. But the question remains: how to get rid of its excess. Well, most people go on a diet. What do they do? What is a diet? Is it hunger? Hello? And what happens when you're on a diet? You can't starve yourself. They reduce calories, count calories, watch portions, everything in moderation, and ultimately create more potential energy for what they want to get rid of. What people do to lose weight actually ruins their metabolism and thyroid problems. Problems with excess weight are caused by the fact that thyroid hormones get into every cell of the body, and each cell gets bigger, and the whole body gets bigger. The first sign here will be a craving for carbohydrates. You know, starch, bread, pasta, cereals, pancakes, cookies, lemonade, juices, alcohol, lollipops. All of these are carbohydrates. Tell me, who among you has ever eaten something like this and you knew that you shouldn't have eaten it? How do people justify themselves when they eat something harmful?  a little bit, can I, I deserve it, great, children in Africa are malnourished, I shouldn't let good things go to waste, just a piece of nothing, then I'll drink some water, no one is perfect, and when you do that, as a result, you come up with a reason why you can, and that is, eat, and they accumulate, one day in a health food store, I saw one of my clients, I just noticed her through the window, looking at what she was buying, and I saw the shelves with baked goods, and she was slowly approaching the shelf with brownies, and I was watching, will he buy it or not, and so she walks around this stand, looking around, and finally, before taking it, she looked around again, and then took it and ate it, and then she looks up, and our eyes meet, her face turns whiter than paper, she turns and leaves, but I caught up with her and said, listen, everything is fine, relax, if I hadn't come up to you and said that nothing serious, I would not have seen her again, people tend to hide these little secrets, when something is broken, for God's sake, you are breaking the main thing, don't  You're hiding this, tell me and that's the end of it, because we need to understand where this craving comes from, and thyroid problems cause a craving for tasty things, bread, potatoes, starch, and rice. You know, sourdough bread from the oven with butter, for some reason, people with this type love it. In general, they are drawn to carbohydrates. They have problems with their hair, their hair thins, breaks, and stays on the comb, because hair is protein. They also have problems with their nails, these longitudinal grooves form on their nails. Let's see, do you have nail polish? Here they are. Will someone call an ambulance? I'm kidding. This could indicate thyroid problems. Loose skin also indicates thyroid problems. Here, here. Maybe some of you have seen this in colleagues or relatives. Some people already have thin skin, dry hair, and eyebrows fall out. Here on the outside is the thyroid gland. Their feet are also cold. They sleep in socks. Doesn't everyone sleep in socks? No, not everyone has problems with thermoregulation. They also always have  Tired people can sleep for many hours but wake up unrested. You see, this is a thyroid disorder. There are questions about it. People with a prominent thyroid disorder have trouble absorbing vitamins. You see, vitamins are not broken down in the body due to a slow metabolism. There are over a hundred intercellular enzymes in the body, which break down other substances, and they simply shut down. Matcha is very expensive, because all vitamins pass through transit. So, just as a note, the problem is not only with the absorption of vitamins, but also with the fact that most vitamins are artificial. Look, in nature, some vitamins always come in combination with others. Ascorbic acid is one component of the vitamin C complex; it itself is simply an antioxidant; its job is to protect the most beneficial vitamins. Vitamins such as p.c.  Also, copper is what makes up natural vitamin C, which is found in nature, and this is synthetic, that is, ascorbic acid, and what's interesting here is that it is obtained from corn starch and sulfuric acid. This is how ascorbic acid is made. Corn does not contain vitamin C, and yet it is made from it in this NC artificial. If you take a lot of ascorbic acid, you have seen it in the form of large 500-milligram tablets. The natural vitamin would be the size of a golf ball, and this is a tablet. Too much ascorbic acid will cause a deficiency of the other components. An artificially created vitamin C deficiency. My friend went to Mexico to be treated for cancer and received 100,000 milligrams of vitamin C through injections, or more precisely, ascorbic acid. As a result, his gums were bleeding, which is a vitamin C deficiency. Varicose veins, spider veins, bleeding, and severe fatigue are all symptoms of scurvy. Therefore, you should always look at the label and make sure that it is real, that it is derived from plants. You don't need all these chemical names that make your tongue slur. That's how most vitamins work.  Synthetic 99 percent and even the most popular, but I won't name them. Okay, Centrum Silver. And here's another one. It's called calcium carbonate. It's a salt. It's sold as a calcium supplement. Calcium carbonate is limestone, it's like a rock. You might as well go and chew on a concrete wall. You take this jar of vitamins. It's as heavy as a paperweight. Most of it is calcium carbonate, meaning limestone. It won't be absorbed. It will only cause kidney stones. So, read the labels. Make sure the vitamins are derived from plants with legible names. They are artificial. Most vitamins and minerals are derived from metals or stones or salts that aren't absorbed. This is important. Some say it doesn't matter, but that's not true. This is also aggravated by a prominent body type that doesn't absorb anything. It's not surprising that vitamins don't give any results. I invite you to my course. You have a thyroid body type, hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, and an enlarged goiter.  Thyroid cysts and nodules, excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body, this course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, a list of products, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there. Let's move on to the next body type, and this type of adrenal gland is your adrenal glands. These are the glands above the kidneys. Let 's point your finger at the adrenal glands. So, these glands are associated with stress. Who among you has experienced stress? 1 2 3 4 5 6. Give an example of what causes stress: work, road, teenage children, husbands, excess weight, school, relationships, life, money, and examination. Is this familiar to anyone who has had a tense relationship with someone at least once, and we won't continue twice. So, the adrenal glands react to stress and prepare the body for it. If you imagine that a tiger will be running after you for the next ten years, and how your body will react to this, you will understand what happens to the adrenal glands, how they burn out. If a tiger is running after you, you won't be able to sleep, you won't be able to have  Offspring due to problems with the corresponding hormones will have problems with digestion, blood pressure, cholesterol, which is completely related to blood sugar, because the body runs on sugar, I'll go through the entire list, the adrenal glands regulate stress, and stress accumulates, yes, you are like a container that fills up, in fact, right before you started gaining stubborn weight, some stressful situation occurred and this is always true, you always ask a woman, she thinks it's just calories, remember when she started gaining weight, what happened right before that, it turns out she had a child and had a hysterectomy, a cesarean section, a tubal ligation, she got married and divorced all in one day, just a lot of things have happened, even excess weight in children arose after asthma attacks, ear or throat infections, there can be many reasons for stress, but stress accumulates and over time, too many applications appear on your computer, that is, in your body, all this accumulates and you turn into a box of stress. Some people are so wound up in life that they can't even relax and sleep, a probable source of the strongest stress for people  These are other people and there are rights, there are individuals who really get under your skin, for example, whiners, please help me, please, have they ever accepted help? No, okay, let me push you down the stairs. I'll help you. There are doctors, there are hostile, rude people, there are also depressed people, they upset you, you can do this, they don't, it won't work, and there are happy people, they are always happy. It doesn't bother me, but if a person is depressed, they don't like happy people, they are too positive, but there is a certain type of personality that really infuriates me. They are also called passive-aggressive or contractors. Let me show you who they look like. Look at me with hostility. You smile. You look angrily, but now I smile. Hello, nice to meet you, but there is a knife behind your back and in your face. They will say that they support you, but in fact they are destroying your reputation. They love gossip. You know those people. They give a compliment but accompany it with a barb, like, a nice jacket, by the way, I got it at a second-hand store. Who says that? It's crazy. Nice haircut. I cut it myself. I had an uncle, yes, it was definitely him, and he tells me.  Congratulations, you've studied to be a chiropractor. When will you study? But a normal doctor? Some people encourage you, others put you down. These same people put you down. Their hidden action makes you immerse yourself in yourself. For example, you're doing well, you look tired, you're not sick. In fact, everything was fine before these words. Personally, I know ways to fight back. Do you want to know if anyone knows this technique? Just reverse the flow, direct it at him. You've had it for a long time. You haven't had anything there, and he'll stand in front of the mirror for hours and look at what he has. He directs your attention inward. Okay, let's get back to a less difficult topic. But if you're in a relationship with such a person and you're trying to reason with him somehow, don't bother trying to reason with him. It irritates you. You 're trying to show him that he's not himself, but he still won't understand. Everything is more important to him than even personal success, so it's better for you to just ignore him. He has an adrenal gland. Vova, like, when the adrenal glands burn out, your stress tolerance drops. You can't stand people anymore. They annoy you. It especially hurts the incompetent ones who make mistakes and as a result you react stronger than necessary so that you don’t go crazy it’s the adrenal glands they are like a buffer against stress, as if it softens stress sometimes this buffer breaks down and you become irritable your thoughts they come to mind not in turn but all at once and your memory the adrenal glands affect the gps in the brain you go to the stairs and what did I want to come back you talk to someone and in your head you have your own conversation maybe you wait for him to finish to say something because the thoughts in your head are spinning too fast 24/7 you decide something and can’t stop solving problems and generally thinking the adrenal type is constantly thinking about something the fact is that he is in survival mode in fight or flight mode and the problem here is that this further inflates the adrenal glands but in fact this person should turn them off for at least half an hour a day go for a walk look at the trees birds will unwind without headphones and not Staring at the phone. Do any of you sit at the computer for more than five hours a day? 16 hours a day. Valga. What's happening here? The computer also puts the body into a state of stress, especially if it's constantly near your body. I try to keep it away and when going to bed, don't leave electronics near your head (cell phones, etc.). Personally, I'm very sensitive to energy fields and I don't like talking on the phone at all. It feels like there's a microwave in my brain. I just refuse. I have to run. There's no need to ask me for my number. I never answer the phone. I don't like cell phones. So, when your adrenal glands are stressed, you can't stand the stress and your hormones start to rise, which causes fat to appear on your belly. Your body shape isn't kidney-type. The weight is here in your belly. Why is it primarily in your belly? Because the body experiences stress and, for the sake of survival, fat accumulates around the most important organs, right in the belly area. The body is trying to survive. This is a defense against hunger. Hello, low-calorie diets, and so the main weight is here. How many squats will remove such a belly? Nothing will work. Because it's not the weight that's the problem, it's the hormones. You need to lower your cortisol. What people do to lose weight ruins their metabolism and hormones. You shouldn't make the problem worse by taking stimulants. They're already stimulated. There's nowhere else to go. The fat goes here, and over time, instead of getting energy by burning fat in the stomach, the body burns the muscles in the legs before it gets to the fat in the stomach. That is, the body will use proteins in the hip area, and this affects the knees. That's why there are so many problems with knees. Collagen is the glue that keeps the body from falling apart and breaking down. That's why you get loose skin and a saggy belly that looks like a bag. When you get up from the couch, you have a hard time getting up and climbing the stairs. Your legs get heavy, and that's not the limit. After the body eats your legs, the adrenal glands take over. The gluteus maximus muscle, who knows what that is, is what's below the back. As a result, a person not only has thin legs and a large torso, but also a lack of a bottom, a belly, and you have something like that.  We saw how much there is ahead, okay, I'm kidding, I'm saying you need to start right now. I mean, prevention. My relatives had a waist like this before menopause, and after it's like this, so before the adrenal glands will create problems by reacting to stress, and this will affect the ability to sleep. In theory, when you sleep at night, you should go through four waves of sleep: here is shallow sleep and here is deep sleep, here below, here we have the so-called delta sleep. It is in this sleep that you burn 98 percent of fat. Not during the day. All fat burning occurs at these moments. If you don't sleep, you won't burn fat, but your mind says you think it's a waste of time. You need to walk in your sleep to burn all these calories. Let's focus on calories. Physical exercise burns calories, that's true, but it's not a fact that calories are in fat. Look, when an ordinary person plays sports, he puts the body in a state of stress. Yes, it sounds quite interesting, but all the benefits of these activities are at the moment of recovery from fourteen to twenty-four hours later during deep sleep. If you sleep, if you give yourself  Have you heard of the kick x system or crazy workouts? As I see it, people usually start doing this at about forty-five. Have you ever seen an 18-year-old do this? If endurance recovery and fitness are at a low level, you can hurt yourself with such extreme workouts. I constantly see people with strains. After that, I was once at a training session with my son. He was wrestling. He was 16 or 17. I also used to wrestle. We enter the gym and see fathers standing around the mats. 1. Lesya is standing in socks and you can see how they want to enter the circle. Because they think they are 18. 1. He breaks a rib. 2. He almost had a heart attack. It's funny. And only mentally you may be 18, but physically it's not a fact at all. All the benefits are during recovery after a workout. You stress your body, but then you need to recover, and that's when fat is burned. Not during exercise. If you don't believe me, go work out for three hours and weigh yourself here. Afterward, you've lost 900 calories, but not a drop.  Have n't lost weight? All about losing weight. If you can recover. Your adrenal glands aren't easy to recover for. It doesn't adapt. Exercises are only good if you change and adapt to them. This is exactly what we're dealing with. How do you achieve body changes no matter what? Who among you, 18, could eat almost anything without any consequences? And who now thinks there will be consequences? What's the difference? The difference in metabolic rate. Your metabolism is what's disrupted. Choose exercises based on your adrenal gland's ability to recover. It's better for you to just walk on a flat path than run to burn calories. What do people do? They cut calories, starve themselves, train until their pulse drops. This is precisely what prevents them from losing weight. And don't despair, because they've been told, but everyone knows that diet and exercise are necessary. Am I really willing to bet that those who say that have never worked with a single person in their lives? I've worked with thirty-five thousand people in the field of weight loss for 25 years. I believe the patient because I observe him, even with proper nutrition, it's not  It works, he storms the treadmill, it doesn't work, so the reason is inside the training needs to be adjusted to the body's ability to adapt, you don't need to put everyone on the same frame, everyone needs their own adrenal gland to come out or can't relax and fall asleep because he's on edge due to the number of thoughts, or wakes up at two in the morning more alert than he was during the day, and after lunch or at three o'clock he falls asleep on the go, so he can't sleep or wakes up, or the bladder, which is controlled by the adrenal glands, says an idiom and he gets up to go to the toilet several times a night and this is the adrenal gland to come out, it's better to sleep, the adrenal gland is oh-ho-ho, like half an hour before the alarm, just fell asleep, it's already time to get up, is anyone of you familiar with this, and this is not the limit, and so he from the participants of Vate PA, sleep is disrupted, he is not able to achieve changes and training, and his cognitive functions are also affected and much more, for example, pressure before this is one of the symptoms of the adrenal glands of his type, high blood pressure, I always look at the top number if It's high, which means the adrenal gland is failing. It's all because the body has lost the recovery mechanism that prevents blood pressure from rising. So, blood pressure, sugar, diabetes, is a sign of the adrenal gland, type 1, type 2. Blood sugar control, cholesterol, this type is also needed by the adrenal glands to produce hormones. The stronger the stress, the more cholesterol is needed. All allergies, including sinusitis, low vitamin D levels, are also related to the adrenal glands and type 3. The doctor says take vitamin D. You have a deficiency, but he doesn't find out why. You understand, arthritis and all the others, and you, in general, everything related to inflammation, is the adrenal gland failing. Bad handwriting means I write half a word normally in my head, but the other half disappears somewhere. Blood pressure, sugar, cholesterol, allergies, vitamin D, inflammation and cognitive functions, as well as insomnia. Otherwise, you are completely healthy. And here is the problem. The problem is that medicine is treating this without asking why there is no assessment of what they are doing. The city is a symptom. You understand, these are all symptoms and they turn the symptom itself into a problem. They confuse the symptom.  And the problem is really not obvious why no one but me asks this question if you ask a doctor the reasons in response you will get a very tricky scientific name you have radiculitis that is back pain okay you have fibromyalgia what is that but you have pain all over your body you have plantar fasciitis what is that pain in your leg you have de stat 1c sounds very scientific means that you can't twist your arm like this back and forth you have a spondylodesis that is well you have a broken back nothing but labels post-traumatic stress disorder that is you were stressed recently also a diagnosis of non- compliance with doctor's orders seriously this is not a joke disorder not following doctor's orders if you don't do what the doctor tells you I told my son and he said this is not for real guys and I am a fairy to him in what sense not for real guys he says this means I will not listen to you but it is clear well then the doctor will give you a diagnosis you are not doing what the doctor tells you maybe you didn't want the surgery maybe you need a second opinion here you go  What does a diagnosis of bipolar disorder mean? It means joy and sadness. What's wrong with joy? Do you have clinical depression? Maybe you just don't sleep? Those who don't sleep experience depression. It's amazing, and then they treat it with poisons, forgive me, with medications. Personally, I think that healthcare overlooks health. Sometimes I don't even know if I'm the only one who thinks this way, or maybe someone else has thought about this. It's strange. Healthcare doesn't deal with health, but with diseases. Any discipline has fundamental principles, and these principles are very high, and all other principles are built on them. In my work, the principle of health for the sake of losing weight is losing weight for the sake of health. Health is the main thing, it's very powerful. Because if you do n't know this, you can easily buy into another unhealthy new diet or some harmful trick. But if you evaluate it from a health perspective, then yes, it can work. Let's take the word food. Who of you eats food well, and who of you has never read what food is in a dictionary? I'll tell you: food is a complex of substances necessary to maintain life and continue the growth of the body, from the Latin word meaning support. Care nutrition that is food is nutritious that's why we eat there are no other reasons besides health and nutrition itself, but go to the grocery store and ask yourself what to get no no really not worth it otherwise buy a cake better ask yourself what will be nutritious for me what to eat to get nutrition this approach will save you from many problems I say for sure there are no nutrients in fast food there are none except artificial vitamins in politics there are also fundamental principles I think in politics one of the fundamental principles the main principle is not to spend more than you have I'm talking about the budget is not an unreasonable principle although you don't have to worry about it and this is sarcasm but here's another example what about healthcare in general the principle can be like this you need to create your own health just imagine if we directed only one percent of the money that goes to the treatment of diseases to the creation of health to the prevention of diseases and everything is in the bag and I'm talking about prevention the problem is that the doctor says to come back in six months and you continue to come examination after examination I'm very sorry you have cancer pull yourself together we're starting chemotherapy what was done for prevention to create health nothing and what now the old fashioned way in  I should have taken out life insurance a long time ago. I wonder why it keeps reminding me about insurance. I went to the doctor, my cholesterol is up to 180, which is quite good, and the doctor says everything is normal, but I'll prescribe medication for prevention. Why do I need it? Yes, but we prescribe them to everyone now, and I refused. Thank you, no need. 1 pill is free. Try Otrova, Staten, it has side effects. Yes, stop all these articles. You can't find out everything, you get a kickback. In short, the pharmaceutical industry is very corrupt. You're probably aware that I'm trying to convey to you that you should start creating your own health. Doctors don't know how I trained 2,400 doctors, and none of them teach how to make a person healthy, except maybe the food pyramid. Drink water, eat fiber. You understand, all these are small things, so you yourself must be able to create health and create it yourself. Cancer needs 20 years to grow. There are probably cancer cells in every body. It is the current actions that protect the body and fight cancer. You simply need to create your health every day. Look at people, otherwise I listen to a person, I sort of divide him in two, and what he does to create your health and what does it do to destroy it, do nothing that destroys and it's amazing  Everything is becoming so simple, wow, just look, you just can't imagine, your legs can't imagine that cravings for various foods are simply a deficiency of such a nutrient as potassium, and a lack of potassium makes a person crave sweets. 100% everything is simple if you replenish the daily norm, if there will be no cravings for sweets, who of you craves sweets? Okay, if I tell you what to do, you follow my advice to get rid of this craving in a day or two, okay, then here's my advice. The usual daily norm of potassium is 4700 milligrams. How much potassium do we eat in bananas? It's not four hundred milligrams. How many bananas should you eat? 12 bananas. So, of course, you won't eat 12 bananas. It turns out you can't even imagine how much potassium you need. A lot. Well, what you can do is eat greens. You need 7 glasses. 7 glasses in total. It's not difficult. A couple of salads a day will satisfy your daily potassium needs. These cravings will go away.  A fantastic method for preventing diabetes, here it is, potassium consumption helps normalize blood sugar. Who among you doesn't eat 7 cups of salad a day? Few people eat that, and how much potassium are you planning to get? That's the problem: people don't know what nutrients are in what foods, and the soil is depleted. To get the necessary amount of micronutrients right now, these are elements that the body needs in micro quantities. With the current state of the soil, you would have to eat food that would contain 27,000 calories. It's not very easy. You'd have to eat a lot every day, so you need to somehow enrich your diet. The main thing is to make sure that the nutrients are of plant origin in the right concentration. That's the problem: people don't know how to create health, so it's just awful. Let's go back to the adrenal glands. God, their problem is fluid retention. All electrolytes, potassium, and sodium are controlled by the adrenal glands, and problems with them lead to a loss of potassium and salts. There's nothing else that happens due to which fluid moves, and fluids accumulate in the ankles. Press on the ankle and an indentation remains. This is fluid retention.  It shouldn't be, but put pressure on the ankle and see if a small dent remains, call an ambulance, and such fluid swelling in the ankles is exclusively a problem with electrolytes because the adrenal glands retain fluid, in addition, this type will be drawn to salty foods, this is the adrenal glands and type salt is a mineral that we charge the battery, so in the evening you want chips to recharge your dead battery, most of you are like a car battery is dead and you fill it with gas, why doesn't it start, you push it and it is heavy, electrolytes, liquid, then how much water should you drink 8 glasses, yes, who told you that, they said once, I finally know who it is and not because it is a myth, I was told this myself, but I still do n't know where this information came from, drink only when you are thirsty, that's what I discovered, the more water you drink, the more dehydration, because water washes out electrolytes that should retain water in the body, there is such a condition, it seems, it is called hyponatremia, that is, excess water, it washes out electrolytes, it is fatal to drink too much water and die, so Drink when you want to drink. I have a device for measuring fluid in the body. Those who drink more water are usually dehydrated. Nothing is the limit. They are everywhere and at the same time I have no idea where they are. I have no idea who they are. Fluids are also present. Calcium is also controlled by the adrenal glands. Calcium is needed to switch off at night. It's not only protection against bone loss or muscle cramps due to unhealthy adrenal glands. The rings will be deposited not in the bones but on the bones, which is arthritis, bursitis, tendonitis, tartar, cataracts, kidney stones, and gallstones. Any other types of bursitis. And also twitching in the left eye. Yes, it 's calcium. What about people taking calcium carbonate, limestone, only in the form of dietary supplements or vitamin complexes? Every time you take a prescription vitamin from a pharmacy, it's just a quiet horror. How low can you fall? There are simply no words. It's an ordinary stone. A mineral must be of plant origin. Look, plants break down minerals in the soil, absorb them, and bring them into a digestible form. Plant minerals are ten thousand times finer than regular minerals and metal salts, such as those in sea salt, up to ten thousand times finer. It's like comparing a golf ball to the Empire State Building. These minerals are absorbed much better. It has happened that you ate but were n't satisfied, as if something was missing, even from water there simply weren't any nutrients. Where does dio come from? How do different foods work due to deficiency, and so are sinus problems. Another diagnosis is blocked sinuses. How terrible everything is here. How much everything has gotten out of control, and now the solution to the healthcare problem isn't in a higher budget, but in prevention. The whole philosophy is broken. You can't make money on prevention, it's too cheap, seriously, very cheap. In fact, I could look at your food expenses and I would probably see that in a couple of weeks you spend hundreds of dollars on food that could be replaced with healthier food. This alone would be creating health. It's not complicated. You just need to choose what to buy. How do I know? Yes, I go to the store and see what they sell there is terrible.  It's probably surprising that people take it since it's sold. Finding food in a grocery store is not easy at all. The adrenal glands and body type are also involved. There are still questions about this body type. There's a very interesting type of snoring. There's a nerve that runs along the back wall of the sinus. With the help of cortisol, the adrenal glands kind of compress it, and it shrinks, and as a result, the person snores. The adrenal glands and body type are also involved. Sometimes they don't tell us that I snore, but of course, I don't agree. I'll record it on a voice recorder. Okay, so, from the adrenal gland, I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type because of such a thing as stress. During the course, I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system awaits you in the package. I'll tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course. The next body type is ovarian, here it is, see where.  Weight accumulates on the hips in the saddlebag area. This is estrogen dominance. Why don't you see many men who look like this? They do n't have ovaries. That's right, the ovaries will produce too much estrogen, and it accumulates fat on the hips below the waist. The arms increase in size, and also the breasts of one of my patients. She had a Chicago-type breast, an eighth- size breast. I didn't think this could happen. I thought 5 was the maximum, so 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. This is estrogen dominance. How do I know if it's dominant? It looks like this. And also heavy monthly cramps, PMS. Do you know what this will lead to? I've encountered this so many times. Estrogen dominance. What should I do? Cut it out. Doctors don't do anything about it. There are foods that can normalize and p. 1. I'm talking about cruciferous vegetables. Cruciferous vegetables include Gale, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts. What no one eats is that they perfectly normalize estrogen levels, normalizes it, and chemicals  Thank God we have these products, the main thing is to eat them, but usually after cooking there is nothing left in them. Ovarian type all conceivable problems with periods, they are painful, monthly headaches, monthly cravings for some food, PMS, who of you knows women with PMS? Okay, I see, husbands sit and joke, that is, problems appear every month cyclically, varnish, because hormones manifest themselves in waves, like circadian waves. Infertility due to estrogen also occurs. You know what is amazing is that a person is dominant in estrogen and that they are given contraceptives, which is the opposite, and this will only increase the dominance in the country. What food should they stay away from? Why? Because soy has a very strong effect on estrogen. The soy that is sold in America is not the same as in other places, it is not fermented, it is soy powder, soy protein isolate, which leads to tumors in the liver, ovaries, and uterus. They very actively form tumors and I constantly see this in men who drank too much soy milk, lactation even began. I told them to exclude soy.  Estrogen is very, very harmful to the liver and but so many products contain and anagen is modified almost one hundred percent of soy gamma in the USA for sure, that is, its structure is changed too many unknown studies there and the fact of GMO is not necessarily indicated on the label they may not indicate also soy is found in many processed foods and in many diets amazing really why add all this crap it raises estrogen because it is cheap very cheap when I created the formula Kirill Sheika I wanted to add protein there and my assistant says let's add soy it's so cheap I say no I will not add it it's the same as murder so I added spirulina it's algae a kind of sea vegetable so there is organic personal protein and kale the main thing here is not to overdo it with estrogen if there is meat and dairy products they should be organic without ovarian hormones and type cravings for dairy they love ice cream cheese cottage cheese yogurt this is an attempt to get some hormones to restore the disturbed balance but it does not work yes they have enough problems and later when they live to  52 larvae stop functioning, you understand, and what is an auxiliary organ, that's what cinque is, and these triangles are the adrenal glands, they take up the baton, and now if the Kamina Pousi adrenal glands are weak to work for themselves, and that guy will have to adrenal glands, and then all sorts of problems will begin, hot flashes, sweating at night, someone has hot flashes, it's clear, hot flashes are essentially short circuits in the electrical circuit in your body, and they just make you feel hot, for someone this is happening right now, so there will be hot flashes, and the ovarian type body ends up looking like the body of this type after menopause, which is what I'm trying to convey to you, and the fact that you should do something now before it's too late, someone is probably thinking about, apparently, I have a mixed type, all at once, some type is still primary, excess estrogen will block the thyroid, which is why pregnant women have thyroid problems, excess estrogen and block and causes various problems for many, almost thyroid type, when pregnancy you have to take medications because of the surge in estrogen all this works together if the liver is sick in soon we will get to this the thyroid gland will not be able to work the thyroid gland needs the liver to convert the pro hormone the activation of this hormone by 80 percent occurs in the liver I had a patient she was not on a diet suitable for her type she was on a high-protein diet she had a liver type and with it such a diet is contraindicated and as a result she lost weight but also lost all her hair although a couple of gray hairs remained she had a very beautiful wig and so she comes and asks for help I say what happened look and it is clear there is something to work on and I asked her what happened after this diet my hair fell out yeah everything is clear they played with the liver now the thyroid gland has failed but here is the problem she was going to get married and her fiancé had no idea that she was bald a delicate situation before the first wedding night dear wedding behind the surprise and then he takes off his in some movie there were removable arms and legs we are with her I have a method for relieving old stress, acupressure, not acupuncture, I worked with her liver, after three weeks her hair began to grow, she was happy, got married, her husband never found out, everything was wonderful, and so these hormones have dominant ones, they are capable and they set the tone as you age, these ten 4, 5, 6 hormones change, metabolism slows down, we agree, you can’t continue to count calories as if nothing has changed, you need to consider hormones taking into account the activation of hormones responsible for burning fat, I invite you to my course, ovarian body type, this is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms and other gynecological problems, externally this is expressed in the deposition of fat on the hips and lower abdomen, my course will help you restore women's health, you are waiting for my unique videos in the list of products and exercises for effective training, sign up for the course at the link below, see you, let's move on to the next type, but first I will briefly show you something about hormones, there are three dominant hormones, if they are present even in small amounts, they will completely block the action of hormones that burn fat, you understand, others  In other words, there is something to avoid, there is something to do, this thing to avoid is much, much more important than what needs to be done, this is a small step, you understand, so the first is insulin, insulin is a hormone that regulates or lowers sugar levels, every time you eat sugar, you provoke insulin, and diabetics, their sugar rises and does not fall, must take insulin, the presence of even a drop of insulin in the body can completely cross out and negate all the useful things you have done, let's take a cookie as an example, 80 calories can be spent by walking a couple of kilometers, but the sugar in this one cookie will block fat burning for three days if you have a slow metabolism, like most people, half a glass of orange juice, a glass of wine, unless prescribed by a doctor, this is just sarcasm, wine is alcohol, sugar will block everything, and insulin is a trifle, but there are so many potential problems, we must provide a replacement for the food that draws you, I know, breaking habits is almost impossible, we do not want to make your life completely joyless, let's adjust a little, there is something you can eat, brownies without sugar, without flour, you can, you should  Just know how to cook it and we have recipes for you, you can store goodies in the refrigerator and eat every evening, just kidding, whenever you want, the second hormone is cortisol, excess cortisol is stress and the end of weight loss, how to get rid of stress, sleep, walks, I teach acupressure techniques, with its help the body gets rid of stress and falls asleep perfectly, and it also relieves long-standing stress, and so cortisol blocks fat burning, for example, physical trauma, but loss, for example, the loss of someone close or divorce, so loss hits the adrenal glands many times harder than physical trauma, so some people never recover from a big shock, hence autoimmune diseases, lupus, multiple sclerosis, they are preceded by loss, and the last on the list of hormones that make you fat is estrogen, remember the hidden sources of estrogen are hormones, Europeans are slimmer than Americans in America, girls start their periods earlier, their breasts grow larger, children are fatter. Some will say that the reason is not in hormones, but I believe that it is in them if  You understand that turkeys are given hormones, that's why they are so big, huge, and grow quickly. If you eat turkey with these hormones, can these hormones get into your body with the meat? If this turkey is just gigantic, can you also turn into a giant? Become a giant? This is not America for you. You were born at the wrong time in the wrong country. In other poor countries, you see more nutrients, but people come here and get fat. I see this all the time. They were doing well until they came here. Welcome to Virginia. So, when we eat, we must understand how to strengthen the endocrine system. This is very important. The last type is hepatic. The liver is here on the right, its dimensions are 20 by 15 centimeters. It weighs about one and a half kilograms. Put your hand on the liver, it's on the right, this is here. Well done. Your liver is an extra organ. You don't need it at all. Of course, this is a joke. If your liver stops functioning, your belly will gradually start to bulge. We've seen people like that on the beach in swimming trunks. Sorry for such memories, but this is such a spherical belly. It's hard and high. If you slap it in the  On one side, it will shake because there is mostly liquid there, it is called ascites, abdominal dropsy, this is the real fluid of the liver and it goes into this very bag and no squats will help here, skinny legs, basically everything is here and it is not only beer, this liquid is from the deteriorating liver, the food that destroys the liver is deep- fried proteins, animal proteins, fried steaks of this thickness, deep-fried every night before bed, and yes, like fried itself will lead to the same, all this fat in the meat is detrimental to the liver, the worse the condition of the liver, the lower the tolerance of heavy proteins, with age, the tolerance of red meat decreases, that is, as a result, you have to adjust your diet to your weakness, but the liver also has a big advantage, it is the only organ capable of completely regenerating, the only bad thing is that it takes three years with a certain diet, you understand, a lot of things are concentrated in the liver, liver problems can cause pain in the right shoulder, why is the liver in the right shoulder, because the pain will radiate here with liver problems, do not sleep on the left side, otherwise it will put pressure on the heart, in this case, sleep on the right side, liver problems Red spots on the skin can cause rashes, such as psoriasis, eczema, liver spots, itching, heat on the feet, a white coating on the tongue, this is a fungus, chronic halitosis, this is bad breath, they often breathe right in your face as if they don't know what they smell like, are you really bloating their stomach and that's how the liver produces bile, some will say that it's correct to say bile, in fact, you can say both bile and bile, so bile is like detergent, it breaks down men on dishes, it helps digest fats and it helps absorb fat-soluble vitamins, vitamin A, vitamin A deficiency causes problems with night vision, sinus problems, dry skin, you will have this yellowish spot in the eye, many problems are associated with vitamin A, without vitamin D there will be problems with calcium, problems with seasonal depression without vitamin E, problems with libido because of vitamin E, so food without vitamin K, dates, that is, many problems due to a lack of bile if you don't have enough  bile, you will have bloating after eating, your stomach will swell, you will belch, headache on the right in 98 percent of cases, the cause of headaches and migraines is precisely this when your head hurts, do an experiment, press here on the gallbladder, press and hold for 2 minutes, the headache will immediately go away, the problem is not in the head, the problem is here, if you step on a dog's tail in the hall, this is a misfortune, so a question to answer, and so bloating and belching, many do not have bile, they swell in the evening, like pregnant women, although during the day the stomach is flat, this happened with him, so here is the liver type, his mouth even waters at the sight of fried food, he can’t digest anything fried, but he is drawn to exactly what you can’t digest, another indicator after eating, he wants something sweet, because he does not digest fats and he needs to quench his thirst for sugar in the blood, and in the morning he grumbles because his blood sugar is low, who has met grumpy people in the morning on Monday morning when you arrive at work, go up to him and  Tell me, you know, John, I was upset with you because you kept grumbling, but now I know it's because of the liver. I forgive you. Or when you go to a cafe with a buffet, oh, stand in line and forgive me. Have you examined your liver? Your right shoulder doesn't hurt, and your feet don't itch. Show me your tongue. Here's Dr. Berg's phone number. Call him. By the way, it's not Putin. But don't mention me. Yes, you do it this way, otherwise you'll get offended. The problem with this seminar is that you'll be judging everyone you know, wherever you go, you'll have liver problems, but you'll have thyroid problems.  oh sorry, and so this is the liver type, cruciferous vegetables will do very well for such people, I invite you to my course, liver type body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you, it will help restore liver health, my unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training, sign up for the course using the link below, see you later, okay, there are still questions about body types, yes, I noticed in your picture the liver type is represented by a man and I know a man cannot be an ovarian type, but what about the others, what do men with other body types look like, very rare, the question was, what do the male bodies of these other types look like, the primary thyroid body type is very rare, usually it occurs if the thyroid gland is removed due to estrogen dominance, usually the cause of the thyroid type is excess estrogen, men with this almost never have adrenal glands and type is a very common phenomenon, since the cause is stress, this is probably the main reason, it is due to many years of poor diet, the ovarian type is also common  these three common phenomena if this man had a thyroid type of physique he would be large everywhere if he had an adrenal gland and like his belly would hang down protruding from above you see the ovarian type in men of course does not usually happen unless he drank soy milk what I will say next is extremely important this is the most important of what I said today so come back here everyone right now you are here you have heard that obesity is dangerous to health because of it diabetes and heart attacks and strokes and cancer bad luck all this so I was told the same but I found that this is a complete lie it is a myth I will explain I had a patient 29 years old weight 140 7 kilograms completed my program this was a long time ago guess how much she lost in 1 month no-no-no-no-no absolutely right a few did not lose any weight at all who of you would be upset not having lost any weight but she was not upset because her health improved in the second month she lost 9 kilograms in the third month 28 kilograms and in  At that moment it dawned on me, I don't need to lose weight for the sake of health, but on the contrary, to become healthy, to lose weight for others, it's the opposite, it radically changed my approach and now all I aim for is to make a person healthy and I started to succeed in what no one else could. It's all about health. You can't be overweight and be healthy. Become healthy and the excess weight will go away on its own. Obesity is a symptom of an unhealthy body, not a reason. Why do this? To come up with new drugs for obesity and also a symptom. You understand this. So here's what I want from you. Change your point of view about the goal of losing weight to creating health. Let's change your goal right now. Come on, let's do it in the back rows too. It's great to decide to create health, because that's how you lose weight. Forget about diets. You need to adjust your lifestyle. Forget about vitamins. If you can't fix your diet, just understanding this is the main thing and this principle will help you not only lose weight but also get younger with age. I'm 65, okay, I'm kidding. I'm 47, but I feel like I'm 25. I can overcome it in my children and I'm actually working to reverse aging.  and I want the same from you, so that every year you do little and for this you just need to change your point of view, not just ardi, you must understand that there are three steps to do: 1. Determine your body type; 2. Do what is necessary for your body type; and the third step is to stick to the plan by creating healthy habits that you can follow for a long time; create your health every day; it needs to be created like everything else in life; thank you for coming; I hope you learned something for yourself; thank you for your attention; have a good day; thank you very much; I invite you to my course, Healthy Keto, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again; during the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health; hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results; join us too