Let's move on to the next type, but first, I'll show you something briefly. Hormones. There are three dominant hormones. If they are present even in small amounts, they will completely block the action of fat-burning hormones. You see, in other words, there is something to avoid, there is something to do, this thing to avoid is much, much more important than what you need to do. This is a small step, you see. So, the first is insulin. insulin is a hormone that regulates or lowers sugar levels. Every time you eat sugar, you provoke an insulin release, and diabetics have sugar that rises and doesn't fall. They must take insulin. The presence of even a drop of insulin in the body can completely cross out and negate all the useful things you've done. Let's take a cookie as an example. 80 calories can be burned by walking a couple of kilometers. However, the sugar in this one cookie will block fat burning for three days. If you have a slow metabolism like most people, a glass of orange juice or a glass of wine, unless prescribed by a doctor. This is just sarcasm. Wine is alcohol, sugar. It will block everything. insulin is a trifle, but we have so many potential problems.  We must replace the food that craves you. I know it's almost impossible to break habits. We don't want to make your life completely joyless. We'll tweak it a bit. There are things you can eat: sugar-free brownies without flour. You just need to know how to cook them. We have recipes for you. You can store goodies in the refrigerator and gorge yourself every night. Just kidding, when you want the second hormone, cortisol. We have excess cortisol, and this is stress, and weight loss is over. How to get rid of stress: sleep, walks. I teach acupressure techniques. With its help, the body gets rid of stress and falls asleep perfectly. It also relieves long-standing stress. Cortisol blocks fat burning. For example, physical trauma, but loss, for example, the loss of someone close or divorce. Loss will hit the adrenal glands many times harder than physical trauma. That's why some people never recover from a major shock. Hence, autoimmune diseases, lupus, multiple sclerosis. They are preceded by losses. The last on the list of hormones that make you fat is estrogen. Remember, hidden sources.  Estrogen is hormones. Europeans are built like Americans. In America, girls start their periods earlier, their breasts grow bigger, and children are fatter. Some will say that it's not the hormones that are the cause, but I think it is. You understand that turkeys are given hormones, and that's why they are so big and huge and grow quickly. If you eat turkey with these hormones, can these hormones get into your body with the meat? If this turkey is simply gigantic, can you also turn into a giant? This is not America for you. You were born at the wrong time in the wrong country. In other poor countries, food has more nutrients, but people come here and gain weight. I see this all the time. They were doing well until they came here. Welcome to Virginia. So, when we eat, we must understand how to strengthen the endocrine system. This is very important. The last type is the liver. The liver is here on the right, its dimensions are 20 by 15 centimeters, it weighs about one and a half kilograms. Put your hand on the liver, it's on the right, this is here. Well done, your liver.  an extra organ, you don't need it at all, of course, this is a joke. If the liver stops functioning, your belly will gradually begin to bulge. We've seen people like that on the beach in swimming trunks. Sorry for such memories, but it's such a spherical belly. It's hard and high. If you slap it on one side, it will shake because it's mostly liquid. It's called ascites. Abdominal dropsy is real liquid. The liver sends it into this very bag. No amount of squats will help here. Thin legs. Basically, everything is here, and it's not just beer. This liquid comes from the deteriorating liver, and the liquid that destroys the liver is deep-fried proteins. Animal proteins. Fried steaks of this thickness every night before bed. Deep- fried and yes, like fried itself, will also lead to all this fat in meat. It's detrimental to the liver. The worse the condition of the liver, the lower the tolerance to heavy proteins. With age, the tolerance to red meat decreases. That is, as a result, you have to adjust your diet to your weaknesses. But the liver also has a big advantage. It's the only organ capable of completely regenerating. The only bad thing is that it takes three years with a certain diet. You understand, a lot of things are concentrated in the liver. Problems with  Liver problems can cause pain in the right shoulder. Why is the liver in the right shoulder, viewed from the right? Pain will radiate here if you have liver problems. Don't sleep on your left side, otherwise it will put pressure on your heart. In this case, sleep on your right side. Liver problems can lead to rashes. These are red spots on the skin. Psoriasis, eczema, liver spots, itching, heat on the feet. A white coating on the tongue is a fungus. Chronic halitosis is bad breath. They often breathe right in your face as if they don't know what they smell like. Are you like that? Do they really have a bloated stomach? The liver produces bile. Some will say that it's correct to say bile. In fact, you can use both bile and bile. Bile, like a detergent, breaks down men on dishes. It helps digest fats and helps absorb fat-soluble vitamins. Vitamin A deficiency causes problems with night vision, sinus problems, dry skin. You will have a yellowish spot in your eye. Many problems are associated with vitamin A.  Without vitamin D, there will be problems with calcium, problems with seasonal depression, without vitamin E, problems with libido because of vitamin A, and food without vitamin K, there are many problems due to a lack of bile. Even if you have enough bile, you will have bloating after eating, your stomach will swell, you will belch, and a headache on the right is the cause of headaches and migraines in 98 percent of cases. When you get a headache, conduct an experiment. Press here on the gallbladder, press and hold for 2 minutes, the headache will immediately go away. The problem is not in the head. The problem is here. If a dog steps on the tail of the gym, this is a misfortune. So, a question to answer. So, bloating and belching. Many people don't have bile, they swell in the evening. How do pregnant women want a flat stomach during the day? This happened to me, so here's the liver type: his mouth waters at the sight of fried food. He can't digest anything fried, but he's drawn to what he can't digest. Another indicator is that he wants to follow the trail. He doesn't digest sweets, and he needs to quench his thirst for blood sugar. In the morning, he grumbles because his blood sugar is low. Has anyone met grumpy people in the morning? On Monday morning, when you arrive at work, go up to him and say, "You know, John, I was upset with you because you kept grumbling, but now I know it's because of the liver. I forgive you." Or, when you go to a cafe with a buffet, stand in line and say, "Sorry," and have you had your liver examined? Your right shoulder doesn't hurt, and your feet don't itch. Show me your tongue. Here's Dr. Berg's phone number. Call him. By the way, don't let him have a stomach, but don't mention me. If you do, do it this way, otherwise he'll get offended. The problem with this seminar is that you 'll be judging everyone you know wherever you go. You'll be hepatic, but thyroid. Sorry, that's the liver type. Cruciferous vegetables will do very well for such people. I invite you to my course. You have a liver body type.  A protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you later. Okay, there are still questions about body types. Yes, I noticed in your picture the liver type is represented by a man and I know a man cannot be an ovarian type, but what about the others? What do men with other body types look like? It's very rare. The question was, what do the male bodies of these other types look like? The primary thyroid body type is very rare. It usually occurs if the thyroid gland is removed due to estrogen dominance. Usually, the cause of the thyroid type is excess estrogen. Men with this almost never have it. The kidney type is a very common occurrence because the cause is stress. This is probably the main reason. It's due to many years of poor dieting. The ovarian type is also common. These three are common. If this man had a thyroid type, he would be large everywhere. If he had adrenal glands, his belly would hang down.  protruding from above, you understand, ovaries like men, of course, usually don’t exist, unless he drank soy milk, what I’ll say next is extremely important, this is the most important thing I said today, so come back here right now, you’re here, you’ve heard that obesity is dangerous to your health, it causes diabetes and heart attacks and strokes and cancer, bad luck, all this is so, I was told the same, but I discovered that this is a complete lie, it’s a myth, I’ll explain, I had a patient, 29 years old, weight 140, 7 kilograms, completed my program, this was a long time ago, guess how much she lost in 1 month, no-no-no-no-no, absolutely right, she didn’t lose any weight at all, who of you would be upset about not losing weight at all, but she was n’t upset because her health improved, in the second month she lost 9 kilograms, in the third month she lost 28 kilograms, and at that moment it dawned on me, wow, you don’t need to lose weight for the sake of health, but on the contrary, to become healthy, to lose weight, with others, everything is the opposite, this radically changed my approach and now everything I  I aim to make a person healthy and I started to succeed in what no one else could. It's all about health. You can't be overweight and healthy. Become healthy and the excess weight will go away on its own. Obesity is a symptom of an unhealthy body, not a reason. Why do this? To invent new drugs for obesity and it's also a symptom. You understand this. So here's what I want from you. Change your point of view from the goal of losing weight to creating health. Let's change your goal right now. Come on, let's do it in the back rows. They also decided to create health, because that's how you lose weight, forget about diets. You need to adjust your lifestyle. Forget about vitamins. If you can't fix your diet, just understanding this is the main thing. This principle will help you not only lose weight but also get younger with age. I'm 65, okay, I'm kidding. I'm 47, but I feel like I'm 25. I can overcome it in my children. I'm actually working to reverse aging and I want the same from you so that every year you do little. And for this you just need to change your point of view. It's not just ardi. You must understand what to do. Three steps: 1 Determine your body type, do what is necessary for your body type, and step three, stick to the plan by creating healthy habits that you can stick with for a long time. Create your health every day. It needs to be created like everything else in life.