next body type is ovarian here we see look where the weight accumulates on the hips in the breeches area this is dominant estrogen why do you think you don't see many men who look like this they do n't have ovaries that's right that is the ovaries will produce too much estrogen and it collects fat on the hips below the waist arms increase in size and also breasts one of my patient she is ovarian type had breasts of eighth size I didn't think that this could happen I thought 5 is the maximum so 4 5 6 7 8 this is dominant estrogen how do you know that it is dominant it looks like this and also heavy monthly cramps PMS all this you know what it will lead to fibroids I've encountered this so many times dominant estrogen what to do cut out doctors don't do anything about it there are foods that can normalize estrogen and I'm talking about cruciferous cruciferous are Gale broccoli Brussels sprouts cabbage something that no one eats they are excellent  They normalize estrogen and chemicals, thank God, we have these products, the main thing is to eat them, but usually after cooking, there is nothing left in them. The ovarian type has all conceivable problems with menstruation, they are painful, monthly headaches, monthly cravings for certain foods, PMS. Who of you knows women with PMS? Okay, I see, husbands sit and joke, that is, problems appear every month cyclically, because hormones manifest themselves in waves like circadian waves. Infertility due to estrogen also occurs. You know, what's amazing is that a person is dominated by estrogen and that they are given contraceptives, which is the opposite, and this will only increase the dominance. What foods should they stay away from in the country? Why? Because soy has a very strong effect on estrogen. The soy that is sold in America is not the same as in other places, it is not fermented, it is soy powder, soy protein isolate, which leads to tumors in the liver, ovaries, and uterus. They very actively form tumors and I constantly see this in men who drank too much.  soy milk even started lactation I told them to exclude soy, after all, estrogen is very, very harmful to the liver and but so many products and contain and anagen is modified almost one hundred percent of soy gamma in the USA for sure, that is, its structure is changed too many unknown studies there and the fact of GMO is not necessarily indicated on the label they may not indicate also soy is found in many processed foods and in many diets amazing really why add all this crap and it also increases estrogen because it is cheap very cheap when I created the formula Kirill Sheika I wanted to add protein there and my assistant says let's add soy it's so cheap I say I won't add it it's like murder so I added spirulina it's algae a kind of sea vegetable so there is organic personal protein and kale the main thing here is not to overdo it with estrogen if you eat meat and dairy products they should be organic without hormones ovarian type is drawn to dairy they love ice cream cheese cottage cheese yogurt this is an attempt to get some hormones to restore the disturbed balance but this  It doesn't work, yes, they have enough problems, and later, when they reach 52, the larvae stop functioning, you see, and what is an auxiliary organ, and that's cinque, and these triangles, the adrenal glands, they take up the baton, and now if Kamina Pousi, the adrenal glands are weak, and that guy will have to work for the adrenal glands, and then all sorts of problems will begin, hot flashes, sweating at night, some people have hot flashes, it's clear, hot flashes are essentially short circuits in the electrical circuit in your body, and they just make you feel hot, for some, this is happening right now, so there will be hot flashes, and the ovarian type body ends up looking like the body of this type after menopause, which is what I'm trying to convey to you, and the fact that you should do something now before it's too late, someone is probably thinking about, I apparently have a mixed type, everything at once, some type is still primary, excess estrogen will block the thyroid, that's why pregnant women have thyroid problems, excess  Estrogen and block and causes various problems for many almost thyroid type during pregnancy have to take medications due to the surge in estrogen all this works together if the liver is sick and soon we will get to this the thyroid gland cannot work the thyroid gland needs the liver to convert pro hormone the activation of this hormone by 80 percent occurs in the liver I had a patient she was not on a diet suitable for her type she was on a high-protein diet she had a liver type and with it such a diet is contraindicated and as a result she lost weight but also lost all her hair although a couple of gray hairs remained she had a very beautiful wig and so she comes and asks for help I say what happened look and it is clear there is something to work on I asked her what happened after this diet my hair fell out yeah everything is clear played with the liver now the thyroid gland has failed but here is the problem she was going to get married and her fiancé had no idea that she was bald a delicate situation until the first wedding night dear wedding is over a surprise and then he  She's filming hers. In some movie, she had removable arms and legs. We worked with her. I have a technique for relieving old stress. Acupressure is not acupuncture. I worked with her liver. Three weeks later, her hair started growing. She was happy. She got married. Her husband never found out. Everything was great. And so, these hormones have dominant ones. They are capable of setting the tone. As you age, these ten 4, 5, 6 hormones change. Metabolism slows down. We agree. You can't continue counting calories as if nothing has changed. You need to consider the hormone taking into account the activation of hormones responsible for burning fat. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective 3 vag are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.