Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. In this video, we'll discuss key nutrients for beautiful hair. I always say that you need to work from the inside out. What's important is what goes into the body. They include creams and serums, shampoos and conditioners applied to the hair. They won't fix or restore anything. When hair is dead, hair needs to be nourished from the inside. Zinc is very important, son. It's one of the microelements. It's needed for enzymes that help grow proteins. Hair loss occurs due to zinc deficiency. This is one microelement. Next, we have biotin. It's found in many products. With their help, you can restore your hair. Biotin is a B vitamin. It's needed for building growth and metabolizing proteins. Biotin also strengthens hair, making it thicker. If you take only biotin without some other B vitamins, a deficiency can develop. So, be sure to take biotin. You can take it, but be sure to take a B vitamin complex, but only non-synthetic ones. Next, vitamin B6 is a kind of spark plug. It helps everything else function well. It's especially needed for proteins, for hair, but not only for hair, also for skin, nails, and muscles. People with vitamin deficiency need it.  B6 there are problems with proteins in general and with collagen in particular and since hair is collagen vitamin B6 we need further we have copper copper is another trace element like zinc with copper deficiency split ends appear hair ends split ends can be fixed with a haircut but why not use them as an indicator of internal problems have a very important trace element to solve it further trace elements in general there are about 90 trace elements in total trace elements are elements that are needed in very small quantities they participate in the creation of enzymes and proteins they are needed to form proteins in the body ligaments tendons hair nails and so on silicon is another very important trace element it is needed for hair and nails to be strong and not break so if you have brittle hair you need silicon there are food supplements in which only one trace element silicon further collagen is needed because hair consists of this protein collagen some have this problem low acidity in the stomach so they suffer from heartburn acid belching this indicates that a person does not have enough gastric juice and the stomach does not digest collagen so that  Due to digestive problems, the body literally loses collagen. The type of collagen that I use. I have a product like this, I'll give you a link. I use collagen from the scales of commercial fish because it contains a unique collagen that helps restore and grow hair, and it contains all the necessary nutrients, as well as natural B vitamins. Sometimes a person develops alopecia, in which hair falls out only in places, and sometimes it just falls out. Sometimes a bald spot appears. This happens in men and not only with hormonal problems. The reason is elevated androgens, and no matter how many nutrients you consume, you won't be able to restore hair precisely because of the high level of androgens. How to deal with this? You need to take something that deactivates the enzyme that causes hormonal shifts. This is the root of stinging nettle. This is a very useful plant that I recommend and which will help stop excess androgen production, especially in women. This root is also in my product. These are all my videos about the most important nutrients. Share your opinion in the comments and thanks for watching. Click the subscribe button. Forgot what's next.  Until next time, I'll tell you, I'll tell you, click yes, you will receive a notification. Definitely a notification. I finally remembered. If you like my video, click the subscribe button to receive notifications about new videos. Thank you very much.