Today we will talk about the products that best cleanse the liver. The liver is not necessarily dirty, it does not accumulate toxins. In fact, its main function is to neutralize toxins, poisons, and chemicals. The liver is not a storage facility for poisons and chemicals unless it is fatty, because toxins are stored in fat cells. Healing the liver from inflammation is accompanied by the formation of scar tissue, which is fraught with cirrhosis, loss of liver function, and a host of other problems. But the liver itself is not a storage facility for toxins. I want to talk about the products that best restore all liver functions and maximize its ability to neutralize toxins, and this can only be done through nutrition. But first, let's look at the various functions of the liver. The liver neutralizes toxins. It produces bile. Bile is a detergent that helps break down fat and extract nutrients from it. The liver is the main producer of hormones. Yes, one of these hormones is IGF-1, insulin-like growth factor. This is a hormone that is very similar to growth hormone. Growth hormone is produced by the pituitary gland, it goes to the liver, it acts through the liver and  fr1 can be considered a kind of supplement to growth hormone, it performs very similar functions, it helps burn fat, it is an anabolic hormone, so it helps build muscle, it is associated with protein synthesis, it also helps to use fat stores and sugar stores and use them as fuel, the liver also produces steroid hormones such as estrogen and progesterone, testosterone, vitamin D3, which, by the way, acts as a hormone, and perhaps this is a hormone, but it is classified as a vitamin, and another hormone is cortisol, the main anti-inflammatory hormone, the main hormone that allows you to adapt to stress, without cortisol, the body cannot adapt to stress, and it exhausts you, 80 percent of the cortisol circulating in the blood passes through the liver, and all these steroid hormones have one common source of cholesterol, the liver not only produces cholesterol, it plays a key role in the creation of these hormones, and here's what's interesting: people take drugs to block cholesterol, for example, statins, because of this they cannot effectively create all these hormones, and a lot of problems arise, and the liver produces a significant part of the cholesterol that is in the body, and guess what material it produces  Cholesterol, if you said from the sugar we eat, you're right. Cholesterol is produced from carbohydrates. The liver also produces some proteins that transport various substances throughout the body, such as cholesterol and various hormones, estrogen and testosterone. These hormones are made from cholesterol and don't move well in the blood, so the liver packages them in protein so they can be transported. That is, the liver acts as a post office. It packages various things and sends them throughout the body. These proteins not only transport something, they also act as a buffer for certain hormones, that is, they regulate them. For example, if there is too much estrogen or cortisol, the liver regulates them with the help of these proteins to maintain balance. These are just some of the many functions of the liver. The liver performs about 500 functions. Before moving on to foods, I want to briefly describe the symptoms of liver damage. One of the symptoms is itching. Another symptom is the skin and the whites of the eyes turning yellow. This is called jaundice. The next symptom is lethargy. Next, joint pain. Very often, stiffness and joint inflammation are caused by liver problems. A feeling of nausea is clearly a symptom of liver problems. Poor cognitive function can be associated with the liver, and gallstones are a sure sign of problems.  With the liver, because the liver produces bile, and gallstones are formed precisely because of a lack of bile and high cholesterol. Well, okay, let's move on to the best product for the liver number one. Cruciferous vegetables are kale, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts, radish, arugula, wasabi, mustard, and mustard greens. All of these are cruciferous vegetables. They contain a lot of the natural nutrient sulforaphane. Sulforaphane promotes liver detoxification, helps the liver get rid of inflammation. Inflammation leads to insulin resistance, leads to high insulin levels, diabetes, and can even lead to cancer. So, sulforaphane is a very important nutrient for protecting the liver. It can also help if there is fat in the liver. If sulforaphane is present, let's say you drink too much coffee, sulforaphane helps quickly neutralize things like caffeine, medications, drugs, various chemicals, and even poisons. Cruciferous vegetables with sulforaphane can strengthen our liver so much that it will function better even 2 weeks after you stop eating these vegetables. That is,  Cruciferous vegetables are beneficial even when you no longer eat them. It's great that if you eat cruciferous sprouts, you'll get much more sulforaphane, especially if you eat broccoli, radish, or even mustard seed sprouts. Sprouting seeds is a smart idea, as a small amount of sprouts in a salad is enough to get a powerful effect. One of the main enzymes that activate sulforaphane is destroyed by heat, so if you overcook broccoli and especially cauliflower, you won't get all the sulforaphane they contain. Unless you add a few sprouts or raw cruciferous vegetables to your salad, or add a little mustard to your food, there's a lot of this enzyme in mustard. Mustard is a cruciferous vegetable, and the enzyme will help activate sulforaphane in cooked foods. This is another reason to add different foods to your salad. For example, cruciferous sprouts contain many other phytonutrients that improve liver function. They greatly help reduce free radical damage, a complication of diabetes, and improve insulin sensitivity.  Reduce insulin resistance and normalize blood sugar. Personally, I eat a lot of arugula. I add it to salads. It contains a lot of enzymes that activate sulforaphane. I also eat a lot of raw cabbage, for example, in the form of this salad and sauerkraut. It is rich in enzymes. Sulforaphane is essential for believers in sulforaphane. In general, cruciferous vegetables are champions of all foods. Point number two: garlic contains a lot of sulfur. Sulfur is great for detoxifying the liver and also acts as a natural antibiotic. Garlic has a powerful effect against bacteria and fungi, viruses. Garlic is great for removing fat from the liver. Garlic also contains a lot of vitamin B1. Garlic is a real superfood, it is an anti-inflammatory agent, a powerful antioxidant, and it has powerful anti-cancer properties. The next product is good for the liver: turmeric. The active phytonutrient in turmeric is curcumin. Curcumin has a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. One woman had headaches all her life. She had to take pills in huge quantities for many years, and her liver condition was getting worse. One of her main actions was to start taking turmeric daily and she hasn't had any  The headaches just went away, but now that she no longer needs to take pills and her liver is much better, it must be said that the liver is a resilient, strong organ, it can recover unless it is completely destroyed, even if there is almost nothing left, it can function, many people have destroyed a significant part of their liver but continue to live, amazingly, the liver is the most durable organ, it can withstand a lot and recover, turmeric also helps remove heavy metals from the body such as lead and mercury, cadmium and even arsenic, turmeric helps restore liver function and its regeneration, turmeric helps stabilize mitochondria, so it has powerful anti-cancer properties, because cancer begins with damaged mitochondria, turmeric has been very well studied, especially in terms of its ability to reduce fat in the liver, if you combine a ghetto diet, that is, a low-carb diet with intermittent fasting, as well as turmeric and some other of these substances, the liver will be very healthy, the next point is beets, its ability to cleanse the liver has long been known, it helps reduce the level of liver enzymes if it is elevated, phytonutrients and pigments in beets promote the release of bile  Salts, and this helps reduce fat in the liver. Beets are a hepatoprotector, meaning they protect liver cells and can significantly reduce liver inflammation, which means they can slow down fibrosis, that is, the formation of scar tissue and cirrhosis. Can someone ask if beets are compatible with a light diet? Will they cause a spike in blood sugar if you don't juice the beets and steam them? They contain some carbohydrates, but if you add fiber, it will lower insulin in response. Half a glass of beets contains only about 6.7 grams of carbohydrates, not that many. The next product I'll talk about is mushrooms. Why are mushrooms so important for the liver? Mushrooms are one of the foods with the highest glutathione content, one of the main antioxidants for the liver. There's especially a lot of it in tinder fungi, oyster mushrooms, and other mushrooms. Mushrooms are hepatoprotectors, meaning they protect liver cells. The next product is avocado. Avocado is great for restoring and stabilizing the liver. There's also a lot of it in avocado.  Glutathione, which protects the liver, but the main thing about avocado is that eating 1 avocado a week is enough to significantly improve liver function. Avocado has a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. Liver inflammation leads to a huge number of problems, including hepatitis, fatty liver, and cirrhosis. Anything that can reduce inflammation is very beneficial for the liver. The last recommendation for the liver is extra virgin olive oil. Just a little bit of this oil in salad dressing can significantly improve the functioning of liver enzymes. Extra virgin olive oil reduces fat in the liver, increases insulin sensitivity, reduces insulin resistance, and this is a very powerful remedy for inflammation. So, here are the best foods for strengthening liver health. A more detailed analysis of liver problems and how to solve them is in my course. The link is under the video. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.