Hello.  Today we are answering questions again.  Whatever I say is not a substitute for consultation or treatment from a doctor.  And even if my words sound like advice or consultation, consult a doctor.  And we begin. We were asked a lot of questions.  Let's answer them.  Steve, Dr. Berg's original supplements are not available on Ozo or Wildberries. They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog.  What increases insulin resistance more: carbohydrates or frequent meals? Friends, send us your answers, and in the meantime, we'll answer questions from social media. Written by shi from YouTube.  I get severe pain in my right lower back or hip when it's very cold.  Hot tea and other hot drinks relieve pain.  What's happening?  It looks like he's found a cure. Well, it looks like you have a problem with cold tolerance. I think it's usually thyroid related .  With age, blood circulation deteriorates and cold tolerance decreases. In this case, you probably need to take iodine. And you might even need to take magnesium. This might help.  This is what I advise. Okay, asks Danil from YouTube. Can you recommend the best form of wormwood to take? No, I would just find the right wormwood extract.  I would find a product with real good reviews and buy it.  If many people have tried this product and liked it, it must be better than others.  But be careful, because sometimes reviews are faked. When you read them, it’s clear that they were all written by a neural network, and not by real people.  Or all the reviews are written in this spirit: wonderful, great, amazing.  And yet there is no specificity as to what exactly is beautiful. Erica from YouTube writes well.  What are the best minerals for women over 50 to take?   The main mineral is magnesium.  It is extremely important.  Most people are deficient in it.  And the deficiency is difficult to detect because magnesium is found in cells.  And a blood test won't show much.  Next, potassium.  It is extremely important for energy production, for the heart, sugar and blood pressure.  Extremely important. And, of course, microelements, the main one being zinc, but also many other microelements.  Therefore, I recommend taking them in combination. They are very important. For example, selenium, for example, manganese, for example, cobalt. We need all of them not in large quantities, but in small ones, but they are necessary for biochemical processes in the body.  You may not feel a direct effect from taking them, because they can affect your hair, tendons, the recovery process, sleep, or something else that cannot be seen right away.   This is what I advise.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  Very good.  Let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  What increases insulin resistance more: carbohydrates or frequent meals?  80% blame frequent meals, while 20% believe it's carbohydrates. Frequent meals.  Why?  Because every time you eat, insulin rises, no matter what you eat.  As a result, insulin levels are constantly high, and carbohydrates don't increase them as often and allow them to decrease. So the biggest enemy of weight loss is snacking. They are worse than carbohydrates during meals.  How many people are snacking? If you want to find out, look at what they sell in stores. They even have entire rows of snack foods, and even two, three, or four of them .  This is sarcasm.  After all, snacks are everywhere. And they are forcing it on us.  Have a healthy snack.  Here's a protein bar for you.  But insulin will still rise, so I am strongly against snacking. I heard that type 2 diabetes shortens the life of men by 11 years and 7 months, and the life of women by 14-something years.  I read about this in one article. How much harm does type 2 diabetes cause to people ?  Have you assessed how much it reduces life expectancy? It definitely shortens life expectancy. Type 2 diabetes has many complications.  It mainly affects four tissues or organs: the eyes, nerves and brain, vascular system and kidneys.  Everything else is more or less okay. But the problem is that it is destructive. And here's what really amazes me. Look what doctors do with diabetes.  They only manage very distant consequences and do not look at the root cause at all.  They manage symptoms.  And I think because they're being managed, people think, "I'm fine, the doctors know best, I'll continue to manage the symptoms."  But you don't want to remove the root cause.  You understand that harm can occur even if you take medication. You understand that medications will not reduce many of these complications, especially without addressing the underlying cause. Many people whose blood sugar is controlled still go blind.  They have peripheral neuropathy, kidney problems. So again, I don't think doctors are stupid.  I don't think so. I think they do this on purpose, because this way the drugs sell well. Agree?  Someone on YouTube with the nickname 9545 asks: What is the best way to heal leaky gut and stop candida overgrowth? The fastest way is root.  Diet, there will be no intestinal irritation, and it will heal.  Eat once a day.  The colon will begin to heal and the small intestine will cleanse itself.  In your case, in addition to the root diet, I recommend eating Roiteri yogurt.  I have a video about this beautiful culture.  I think it's called depression and your germs.  Something like that.  There I show how to make a sour cream-like substance with Elroyteri bacteria.  It helps a lot with SibR, bacterial overgrowth.  That's what I would do. Fine.  Susan from YouTube asks, what are the best supplements to take after gastric bypass? After gastric bypass, you're missing part of your digestive system, so you need to get nutrients that are easier to digest. So I would take maybe liquid vitamin D. That's one option.  I would also take more micronutrients. You may need bile salts and perhaps even betaine hydrochloride to improve stomach function.  I have noticed that after this surgery the need for nutrients increases, which can lead to deficiencies.  So you need to take a little more of them.  Excellent question, charming city from YouTube. What do you think about red light and infrared therapy for body pain relief and weight gain?  Is this somehow related?  Infrared light is very useful and I am all for it.  You can try. But at the same time, one should not ignore the deeper causes of inflammation.  And one of the main reasons is a lack of vitamin D, as well as an excess of seed oils and a lack of omega-3, cod liver oil. This can cause systemic inflammation. And now you get red color therapy.  And in general, this is a good therapy, but find the root cause, otherwise you are treating the consequences. More than 50% of sunlight is infrared light. This is why the sun is so beneficial.  Another beauty of infrared light is that it increases the level of melatonin in cells. Melatonin not only improves our sleep, it is also an antioxidant.  So it can take cellular health to the next level.  That's why even in winter I try to be in the sun as much as possible. Of course, there is not much sun in winter. This is what I advise.  Great.  Asks for Strumble's silver 007.  What can be done about microcracks in teeth? I think something can be done about this.  I have n't studied this as deeply as I'd like to yet.  I've just started.  But there is information that it is possible to cure it. And when I studied it, I saw that it was possible. I haven't looked into it fully yet, but I will look into it and interview a couple of people. There are ways.  It's a pity I didn't know about this much earlier.  After all, at the first sign of decay or a crack, oh, let's put in a crown, but there must be ways to fix it. I will find doctors who specialize in this or read books and start trying.  Okay, writes Amy from YouTube.   Will the protein in your collagen powder break my fast?  I usually add it to my coffee in the morning.  I also add it to my coffee in the morning.  It may break the fast a little, but not much.  After all, not much of this collagen is converted into sugar.  But it is still a protein, so it may raise insulin only a little.  But it's very convenient, it dissolves well, so I still add it, and I don't see any problems here and I haven't noticed any problems with sugar at all because of this.  I thought you might be interested in using a continuous glucose meter.  Or check your sugar before and after to see what's going on. Fine.  Matthew from YouTube asks what is the most effective way to treat a stomach ulcer or gastritis? You need to take vitamin U. The letter U here stands for ulcer.  Its other name is methylmethianine.  It is found in cabbage juice. So, I eat Babis brand sauerkraut.  Yes, I always have it in the fridge. I give it to my wife too.  I pour in a quarter glass of juice. I either eat the sauerkraut itself or drink a quarter of a glass of its juice and give it to my wife.  It's very rich in vitamin U. You can make your own sauerkraut or buy unpasteurized sauerkraut, and what it contains will heal your ulcers. This is vitamin U in sauerkraut.  I also recommend taking zinc carnassine.  This is another excellent remedy for ulcers. Fine.  Jez from YouTube asks what benefits come from taking Neem and Maringa powder? It is an excellent antimicrobial agent and can be sprinkled on plants in the garden.   It has a lot of useful properties.  And maringa generally does amazing things. But I think all of this needs to be supplemented with high-quality animal protein. They are often taken for some nutrients, but you won't get a lot of nutrients from plants. They need to be supplemented with animal protein, offal, and the like. I found grass-fed bivshtek at the health food store, with organ meats like liver and heart.  My God, I feel physically stronger when I eat it.  And on my farm, I will now also add offal to minced meat . Yes, Maringa is a great thing.  Nima is also combined with another protein.  That's what I would do.   Here's a question from someone with such a long nickname that I won't even try to read it.  Speech and a small cyst in the right kidney.  Are there any recommendations?  What to do about this?  So, I All cysts in the body, internal and external, seem to respond very well to correcting the insulin problems. I don't know why exactly, but I've seen it happen.  So I would cut back on the carbs and see if the dough stabilizes.  It may also decrease. Many people have tests on both the liver and other organs.  We don't know the exact reason for this.  I would do some health building and see if it goes away. Fine.  And the last question for today. Muslim from YouTube.  What do you recommend to a diabetic with a removed gallbladder and impaired liver and stomach function? Wow. If you don't have a gallbladder and you have all these problems, you probably don't have enough bile or at least it's not concentrated. So, you will probably benefit from tutka, but on an empty stomach twice a day, as well as regular ox bile. after eating. Then you will benefit from the bile that you probably don't have enough of, and then you will be able to extract all the fat-soluble substances from your food. And fat-soluble nutrients are vitamins A, D, K, omega-3 fatty acids.  You will be able to absorb all of this and it will help you a lot. And on that note, thanks for watching. Subscribe to our channel and see you soon.