If you have loose, sagging skin on your arms, you 'll be very glad you watched this video. Typically, people with loose skin on their arms think that this problem is related to fat and they just need to lose weight, so they do cardio and change their diet, but it's of no use. First, I have to tell you what the real problem is. And based on this, we can find an excellent solution. I want to introduce you to one term: sarcopenia, which is an age-related loss of muscle mass. You may or may not have this, depending on your age and something else. You sit due to lack of mobility. If we deprive a muscle or joint of movement, then the question is: does the muscle actually maintain the shape of the arm? And the answer is no. It maintains the shape of the arm. This is what our body has: a kind of tissue wrapped around the fascia. This is a bag that surrounds the arm and very tightly holds everything inside it. In this picture, we see the skin at the top, directly under the skin, there is a layer of fat called subcutaneous fat. Below, under the layer of fat, there is the first layer of fascia. Under the fascia, there is another layer of fat, and under it, there is another layer of fat.  fascia and underneath the muscle, the fascia also loses mobility due to the fact that a person does not move and also due to age, yes, you may have fat on your arms that you need to get rid of, but perhaps fascia and muscle atrophy is a more serious problem. I am now reading this interesting book, shock wave therapy for fascia, in this video I do not recommend shock wave therapy, it is more suitable for solving mild problems with fascia, but now we are not talking about them, I want to read something from here, by the way, the book is very expensive, the tone of the fascia can change, the fascia itself has contractile cells, its tone can change and the Question is this: How can we restore the mobility of the fascia so that it begins to move, but the problem is this: if you pay attention only to individual muscles and train only two muscles, do triceps extension and biceps flexion, this does not affect the fascia, it only affects the muscles, fascia is a much more dynamic tissue and it covers many different muscle groups, so the solution that I recommend is not associated with exercises only for muscle contraction and relaxation. This is rather a functional exercise involving at least muscles, because fascia is  This is a continuous continuous tissue. If you focus only on this small area without paying attention to what it is connected to, there probably won't be any big changes in your back. So, I'll show you the exercises that are best to start with. I'll give you a link to them. No need to reinvent the wheel. Just look at how this girl does these exercises. She perfectly performs the most incredible dynamic functional exercises with her arms without any weights. The fascia provides elasticity, flexibility, posture, it holds everything in place. Without fascia, our body would be shapeless. The solution is to create a lot of movement in this area. Even in anatomy and physiology courses, they study what muscles are attached to, and this is important. But in real life, only one or two muscles. Our movements in life are very dynamic. Therefore, if you go to the gym and load muscles in isolation, one at a time. I don't think this is the best type of exercise. Especially for the fascia, because the fascia covers the entire body. Different muscles are like one big film that everything is wrapped in. So, this is the first step. I advise you to watch this entire video. This is an exercise for the arms. As you can see, there is a stopwatch on the screen. You can repeat the exercises after her, and now she will show you.  The first exercise in which not only the arms but also the shoulder girdle are involved, no weights. Now she moves on to another exercise. This is a different movement, here the shoulder girdle of the arm is involved, and so on. Then there are a number of additional exercises, in particular, in the exercise she takes her arms to the sides and brings them together. They seem easy. But this is incredibly difficult. Your arms will burn during the first workout. Do as much as you can so that your arms do not hurt too much during these functional exercises. We perform a series of movements that involve both the fascia and muscles. Do the exercises as much as you can and over time the pain will disappear. It may take a week for the pain to completely disappear, and then Repeat the workout. Continue doing these exercises over and over again until you can. Perform them with ease and the pain after training will be very little or none at all. After these exercises in which we load the muscles, it is necessary to engage the fascia to a greater extent with the help of such an elastic band. And I found a very good exercise for this purpose now we will look at it. As you can see, the man stretches the band and leans to the side as much as he can, while he really activates the fascia, all the fascia that is located here and goes down the entire arm. Here  So, we need to stretch all this fascia, because to combat atrophy, you need to not only load the muscles, you also need stretching, stretching helps activate the fascial tissue and begin to compact it, because it contains contractile tissue, of course, you need to stretch the other side with a tourniquet, both sides are stretched, then we see that he moves on to another exercise, here he is kneeling and doing the same, this is an excellent stretch for the fascia, it will allow you to tighten the skin of the arms, stretch both sides, when you are finished with this video, go to the next video, which I found excellent, now we add weights for the arms when performing exercises, this video is called strong arms and shoulders, a thirty- minute strength workout with dumbbells, of course, you need to use dumbbells of the appropriate weight, perhaps start with 2 kilogram dumbbells, then 4 kilograms, maybe 7 kilograms, heavier is most likely not necessary, so we see that she uses dumbbells and lifts them over her head one by one, I like this exercise much more than bicep curls, because here the entire arm and shoulder are loaded in general Everything, not just triceps, a very functional and simple exercise, there is a repetition counter, we don't need to count, an excellent video, no need to reinvent the wheel, you can use these three excellent videos to restore the fascia of the hands, as well as atrophied muscles of the hands, so I posted the first of these three videos here. Check it out