Today we will talk about what to do with vascular calcification, this is not the first video on this topic. There is a good test that allows you to find out whether you have calcium in your vessels or not at all. This is the best predictor of death. If you are not familiar with this test, this video is in the Ketch course, but in this video I will tell you what to do with vascular calcification and how to deal with it. Of course, it is better not to allow this at all. But if calcium is already there, this is what you need to do and my recommendations do not replace the doctor's instructions. Below are the links to what I said. Study the information and draw your own conclusions. The first natural remedy is allicin. This is a phytonutrient found in garlic. A study was conducted on animals that found that allicin reduces vascular calcification. So if your pet has calcium in the coronary artery, immediately feed him garlic. The second is butyric acid, what is it? This is a compound that is produced by intestinal microflora during the processing of fiber. It is best obtained from vegetables. In general, this is a short-chain fat produced by bacteria in the intestines. It is also associated with a reduced risk of developing  vascular diseases thirdly lycopene is a phytonutrient found in tomatoes and many other vegetables there is interesting data that lycopene can reduce the thickness of the walls of blood vessels and also reduce their stiffness sometimes you can hear idiotic statements like 'so you can eat ketchup because it can reduce the risk of heart disease because it contains lycopene' of course we know that this is not true and olive oil can significantly increase the amount of lycopene in the body by as much as 82% this is because like other phytonutrients lycopene is a fat-soluble compound, which means that it requires bile if you add more fat to the diet, it will be absorbed better fourthly omega-3 fatty acids they are in fish oil and also in cod liver oil which in my opinion is even better we know that omega-3 is a useful thing in all respects, but it also reduces vascular inflammation it also reduces the risk of blood clots on the other hand omega-6 fatty acids increase vascular stiffness and can increase the factor  the occurrence of blood clots when I talk about Omega 6 I mean soybean, corn, rapeseed and cottonseed oils there is one type of Omega 6 that is very well accepted by blood vessels and does not cause inflammation, this is GLC or hamalia acid, it is found in borage oil, black currant seed oil and evening primrose oil, GLC can reduce inflammation, it can reduce the thickness of the walls of blood vessels and also reduce the formation of plaques in them, below there will be a link to very interesting information sixth vitamin K2 Surely you immediately realized that you can’t do without it I recommend taking the mk7 version of vitamin K2 in a dosage of 300 micrograms every day What does vitamin K2 do? It activates a certain protein that does not allow calcium to be retained in blood vessels, this is very, very important seventh tocotrienol tocotrienol is a type of vitamin E complex, they are 50 times more powerful than tocopherols and they can significantly reduce inflammation in blood vessels, they can reduce the amount of reactive protein, this is a biomarker of inflammation on 40% last and most importantly, do everything possible to reduce and eliminate insulin resistance. There is a connection between insulin resistance and vascular calcification until you correct the situation with insulin resistance. Other means will not work. I will leave a link below. You need to switch to a healthy ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting. After a while, you will notice changes. I believe that the fight against insulin resistance is most important with canola, vitamin K2, and omega-3. Other compounds are also good, but they are more secondary as a means. Thank you for watching and see you soon. Dr. Berg's workshop course, a coach on intermittent fasting and the Keto diet, more than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which can be learned in 3 months of training, receive a certificate, become a Keto coach, help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your schedule, do what you like, sign up for the course using the link below.