You know, for some reason, some people don't like that belly fat. They want it to disappear. Today, we'll talk about 10 foods that can help get rid of belly fat. Let's get started. What is belly fat? It's visceral fat. I want to show you a book. This is a medical atlas from Seba Publishing House by Frank Meter. It's a volume about the endocrine system. There 's a small chapter here devoted to cortisol. You see this picture. This is belly fat, and this is excess cortisol. Let's first discuss the connection between cortisol and belly fat. Cortisol converts protein into sugar. It forces your liver to create new sugar from non- carbohydrate sources such as fat, ketones, and proteins. If you have elevated cortisol, which is a stress hormone, you need to quickly synthesize sugar. The body will create a lot of sugar. People with elevated cortisol often don't eat sugar, but their body gets sugar from other sources, and this increase in sugar raises insulin. Elevated cortisol can even lead to diabetes. That's why one of the side effects of prednisone, which is a synthetic cortisol medication, is diabetes. So, the reason for the appearance of fat is  Belly fat or visceral fat is associated with the hormone cortisol, which creates sugar, which then increases insulin. In reality, we get a surge of insulin. Cortisol alone creates belly fat. This is a fat-storing hormone. It doesn't matter if insulin soars due to a high-carbohydrate diet or sugar intake, or due to elevated cortisol, or due to frequent snacking. If you eat too often, you can accumulate excess fat in your belly. Belly fat usually appears after the liver has already become fatty. Most of the visceral fat that surrounds the organs gets there, flowing out of an already overcrowded liver. So, if you have belly fat and looking down you can't see your feet, this means that there is a lot of fat in your liver. From there, it spills over into other areas of the body because there is no longer enough space for it in the liver. So, knowing this information, we can say that the food that will help you should either lower insulin levels, lower cortisol levels, or make the liver fat. When I go through the list, someone will be surprised that I advise eating certain fats. You may think that you need to avoid fats to get rid of  fatty liver or from fat in the belly area, but this is not true. Let's start with number one on the list, eggs. What is it about eggs that can help remove belly fat? Well, firstly, they have practically no carbohydrates, which means they will not increase insulin because they are a good source, and in fact, the best source of protein. They produce very little waste in the form of glucose, because if you eat too much protein, especially the wrong type, it will also turn into sugar. So, in terms of the quality of dietary protein, eggs are champions. Low-carbohydrate protein stimulates the hormone glucagon, which is opposite to insulin. Glucagon will also help burn fat. Eggs contain a lot of lecithin, and lecithin helps break down fat in the liver. Eggs are rich in choline, which also helps dissolve fat in the liver. Number two, salmon. What is so special about salmon? Salmon contains a lot of omega-3 fatty acids. It is one of the richest sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids do two things: they lower insulin by increasing sensitivity to it and also help lower cortisol. In addition, they literally have 0 carbohydrates. Number three, cod liver or Cod liver oil If you've tried cod liver, you might like it or you might not. I like the taste. Try it in cans. It's similar to a can of sardines. Well, it says cod liver. I think it's a good product. Cod liver is mostly fat, but it also contains proteins and it's a sea of ​​omega-3 fatty acids that increase insulin sensitivity and reduce cortisol levels. The second option is cod liver oil. If you don't like the burping from this, my plan is to take capsules number 4. Sauerkraut: how can it help us? Firstly, it can improve liver function, and according to one study, it also helps reduce fat in the liver. It's an excellent anti-inflammatory. Fiber provides food for microflora, which then produces an interesting type of fat very similar to titans and acts as fuel. Sauerkraut also contains probiotics, and when you eat such wonderful probiotics in fermented foods, this alone can help you lose weight, because now the bacteria are working for us. Besides, sauerkraut has the highest concentration.  One glass of sauerkraut contains up to 700 milligrams of vitamin C, which is amazing. The adrenal glands, which produce cortisol, need vitamin C. It's a key nutrient that supports us during stress. Of all the vitamins needed by the adrenal glands, vitamin C is number five. Cruciferous vegetables, for example, kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and arugula, I love them. I love cruciferous vegetables. They contain phytonutrients that are beneficial for fatty liver disease. The minerals, especially potassium and magnesium, found in these vegetables can actually reduce stress. They help lower cortisol and normalize sleep. Potassium is also one of the most important minerals for lowering insulin. I recently recorded a video about this. As for magnesium, this mineral is an excellent relaxant. It helps you feel calmer and sleep better. And of course, the fiber from cruciferous vegetables is beneficial for the microflora that feeds on fiber. Number six is ​​a hamburger. Nick is probably wondering why it's on this list. I do n't mean a meat BUN, but a lacy cutlet.  Made from high-quality beef, no ketchup, and no French fries. Essentially, it's a combination of fat and red meat, which is sometimes easier to digest than a leaner cut of meat. Therefore, this cutlet has even less of an effect on insulin. It has practically no carbohydrates, is rich in nutrients, and is full of vitamins and minerals. I eat a lot of hamburgers, feel great, and my blood sugar is normal. A lot of it is, of course, completely grass-fed. Number seven: avocado. Avocado contains so-called oogo k tenge, a specific substance in avocado fruits that normalizes blood sugar. It increases insulin sensitivity and can help reduce insulin resistance. Among other things, it is very useful for people with fatty livers. Avocado is an excellent ketogenic vegetable thanks to its fat. It has a lot of fat and very few carbohydrates, and in general, these are vegetables. Try avocado with a beef patty and sauerkraut on top. Number eight: broccoli sprouts. You can eat other sprouts, but sprouts contain  Broccoli contains a lot of sulforaphane, a phytonutrient that is very beneficial for cancer, but also for reducing visceral fat. One study, albeit on mice, showed a 20 percent reduction in belly fat in these animals, as well as a reduction in liver fat. So, if you have pet mice or hamsters, you should give them broccoli sprouts. About growth, broccoli, as well as any other, is very rich in nutrients. The highest concentration of nutrients in plants is at the sprouting stage, but it is not necessarily preserved in the adult plant. Okay, number nine is asparagus. Asparagus contains a substance called asparagine, a certain natural compound that helps remove toxic ammonia from the liver. Ammonia is a byproduct of protein breakdown. If the liver is damaged and ammonia accumulates in it, you should definitely eat asparagus. This phytonutrient helps with blood sugar in insulin resistance, increases insulin sensitivity and reduces its levels. In addition, the fiber in asparagus is good for the intestines.  nourishes the microflora and this is another way to normalize blood sugar levels and of course it has a lot of fiber and a minimum of carbohydrates number 10 nutritional yeast do not buy nutritional yeast enriched with synthetic vitamins often add synthetic vitamins which are essentially made from oil cheap vitamins of very low quality many companies add such vitamins when producing yeast apparently yeast eats them which enhances the b-complex in their composition but you do not need this you need simple non-enriched nutritional yeast they can be found either in tablets or in powder form the powder can be added to salad it turns out very tasty nutritional yeast tastes like parmesan add olive oil or vinaigrette dressing this is a very healthy product nutritional yeast will not only provide you with B vitamins which will help with fatty liver but also provide you with vitamin B1 in large quantities to reduce cortisol and stress by mixing in a salad the products from the list we will get magnesium we will get potassium we will get fiber and phytonutrients we will get nutritional yeast you can add a small An avocado and a beef patty with sauerkraut next to it is simply the perfect food for losing belly fat. So, we've discussed the foods you should eat, now let's talk about what you shouldn't eat. This is no less important. Watch this video.