Hi, in this video I want to introduce the top 9 superfoods on the planet. First, let's talk about kale. It's very bitter. It's very good for the liver, removes fat from the liver, eliminates gallbladder congestion, and improves bile production. In general, it's best to start eating more bitter vegetables, and there are most of them in the body. They contain a lot of vitamin C, vitamin K, and vitamin A, but mostly, they'll help gradually cleanse the liver and rid it of toxins. They're also anti-estrogens, so if you have excess estrogen, kale will help restore balance. Cabbage contains bile, a nutrient that's very good for the brain, good for the heart, and good for muscles. It helps with leaky gut syndrome. Cabbage juice is great for ulcers and everything related to irritable bowel syndrome, and cabbage even helps with acid reflux and heartburn. Brussels sprouts are very similar, they have practically the same properties, but Brussels sprouts have something interesting.  The fact that it does not have a negative effect on the thyroid gland is because sometimes cruciferous vegetables can have a negative effect on the thyroid gland because they deplete iodine reserves, but for this you need to eat a lot of them, so I recommend eating seaweed with them and then everything will be fine. But Brussels sprouts have the same advantages as cabbage, but without the effect on the thyroid gland. Let's move on to radishes. They have a lot of sulfur, so they cleanse the liver of toxins very well. Radishes especially help eliminate chemicals and poisons. It helps with first and second phase detoxification, in which the poison turns into water-soluble particles that are then excreted from the body. Radishes help with nasal congestion because they help clear mucus from the nose. Especially Spanish black radishes can be eaten for sinus congestion, you can eat them for phlegm that just can't get out of the lungs. It perfectly thins mucus and phlegm. Then there's beets. Beet tops contain a lot of potassium, more than any other vegetable, and beets themselves  It's also good, why? Because beets contain a lot of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is useful for increasing the elasticity of arteries, lowering blood pressure, increasing testosterone, and normalizing estrogen. These are just a couple of its properties, but in general, it is good for the liver and gallbladder. Even asparagus. Asparagus is good not only for its fiber, which feeds the intestinal flora, but also because it is a remedy for anxiety, good for calming, helps with stress, and is very rich in vitamin B1. I like asparagus. When I eat it, I become very calm, especially the next day. That's why I recommend it. It is also a good diuretic, removes fluid from the body, prevents kidney stones, and does many other useful things. Everyone knows about garlic. Garlic is the most effective anti-cancer, antiviral, antimicrobial, antifungal, and anti-yeast remedy. It simply cleans out harmful microbes from the body. It is a good preventative for various problems, which I cannot talk about here, but you can look for it yourself. In general, garlic strengthens the immune system well. Turmeric is a powerful anti-inflammatory agent. It is good for the brain and is considered a product that slows down aging.  Finally, parsley. Parsley is another one of my favorite foods, and usually no one else, but it has more vitamin A than Kiev, three times more vitamin C, and than oranges, it has twice as much iron as spinach. It's just a super food, it has a lot of vitamin K. I would take parsley along with some lemon juice and make myself a kale shake. It will be very bitter and good for the liver. So, this is a list of super foods that I consider the best on the planet. I hope you liked the video. Use this information and start eating these foods. See you soon.