90% of all chronic diseases come from this one lie.  This lie is told all over the world: by professors, doctors, nutritionists, dieticians, personal trainers. Ready? Glucose is the body's preferred fuel .  Yes, friends, sugar is good for your health. Removed.  That's all.  If glucose is so important and beneficial, why does the body struggle to get rid of glucose as quickly as possible?  From an evolutionary perspective, we would not be able to survive if we relied on glucose. Mister Caveman, is that so?   The average thin person has about 100,000 kilocalories of fat in their body.  If you eat a lot of sugar, the body will remove it from the blood very quickly, but it will not burn it all.  So what happens to the excess sugar?  Does it just disappear or come out with urine?  No, it turns into fat.  Yes.  Our body needs glucose, but it only needs a small amount, and the body can easily produce it itself.  Why does he do everything to remove glucose from the blood as quickly as possible? We are told that 50 to 60% of our calories should come from carbohydrates.  They are converted into glucose.  When you check your blood sugar and it'S4.4, which is normal, you only have a teaspoon of sugar in your blood.  Just imagine how much sugar people eat every day. Just a huge amount.  Sugar has no place there, and the body works hard to get rid of it.   The pancreas literally has to pump all this sugar out of the blood .  Sugar has never been our primary fuel.  This is a spare fuel. If sugar is natural for the body, then why does it only store 1,700 calories of sugar?  This is the amount of sugar we eat per day.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  The most common cause of 90% of chronic diseases is high blood glucose levels, sugar level fluctuations. It tears blood vessels from the inside, like shards of glass, and causes inflammation.  Sugar in quantities greater than 4 g - that's one teaspoon, 1/5 of a slice of bread - begins to cause problems in blood vessels, and the body has to remove the excess. Imagine how much sugar people pump into their blood.  you have to produce a lot of insulin to remove it.  As a result, we have high levels of insulin, which continues to clear sugar.  And the body has to compensate for all of this with the help of insulin resistance. It slows down the penetration of sugar into cells to prevent glucose toxicity.  insulin resistance is a signal from the body that says, "Stop stuffing me with sugar." Here are the most common symptoms.  Frequent trips to the bathroom at night, brain fog, memory loss, belly fat, vision problems, mood problems, anxiety, depression, inability to go between meals without snacking, intense hunger, carbohydrate cravings, palpitations, fluid retention in the ankles and feet, sleep apnea.  And these are just the initial symptoms.  If nothing is done, diabetes will develop within 15 years .  After 25 years, brain degeneration will occur and dementia will develop. Type 3 diabetes.  Chronic spikes in blood sugar lead to cataracts, glaucoma and emocular degeneration.  Vessels in the eye, kidneys, nervous system, especially the inner surface of the vessel walls.  All this is destroyed by glucose.   Did you remember to press the bell? Why aren't people afraid to eat glucose?  It's all about this lie that is being told everywhere.  Namely, that glucose is the preferred source of energy.  This is not true.  But the food pyramid states that 65% of calories should come from carbohydrates.  Studies have shown that if you eliminate glucose from your diet, go keto, and eat no more than 30 grams of carbohydrates per day, people have a 90% chance of becoming insulin-free within 10 weeks.  This is a low-carb diet.  Of all the things you can do for your health, a low-carb diet is the best.  This lie about glucose being the body's preferred fuel was invented by the food industry.  He infiltrated various industries, bribed scientists, and blamed saturated fats.  And all because you can make a ton of money on empty carbohydrates . With subsidies, you can buy 1 ton of corn for only $180. How many packs of corn flakes can be made from one ton of corn?  If you haven't tried the tetoken diet, give it a try.  And once you start, you'll quickly realize that it's not glucose, but titons that are the preferred fuel for the body, especially the brain. Dr. Berg's workshop course.  Intermittent fasting and keto diet coach.  More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, lists, and most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience, which can be adopted in 3 months of training.  Get certified, become a KetoCoach, help people and achieve great success.  Work from home on your own schedule.  Do what you like.  Sign up for the course using the link below.