Today we will talk about the so-called fecal microbiota transplant. Why might this topic be interesting to anyone? Well, it turns out that this method is becoming mainstream in medicine. It is very effective against clastridium deficiency and irritable bowel syndrome. It acts more powerfully than antibiotics and has shown excellent results in autism, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. It reduces the risk of cancer, Parkinson's disease, chronic fatigue syndrome, acne and even depression. However, I have questions about this therapy. How long does it really work? If you return to your normal eating habits, will you be able to maintain this microbiome or will it change again depending on your lifestyle? What people really need to do is find out what it eats and similar things. Fecal transplantation is a very ancient thing; it has been used for two thousand years in China. This therapy has been used in various situations. But all this brings us to a very important topic: this therapy is excellent for various ailments and shows the connection between our microbes and innate and acquired immunity. The importance of microbes for health.  The brain and for digesting things that are difficult to digest, such as fiber, the importance of secondary bile salts that these microbes produce, as well as the importance of bile in general, are also important for skin and autoimmune diseases. Almost all such diseases begin in the intestines. If your microbes are friendly to you, you are unlikely to develop autoimmune problems. For example, there are bacteria that help reduce the risk of kidney stones because they help deal with oxalates. Other microbes affect uric acid, reducing the risk of gout. Some microbes produce anti-cancer substances. We really need to change our point of view on these bacteria and microbes in general. We attack microbes as the only cause of infection, but we are increasingly beginning to understand that they are not the cause of infection. The immune environment is the cause. The more we sterilize our environment, food, and intestines, the more such therapy we will need. Now about what to do and what not to do. You need to limit contact with various drugs and chemicals. Especially with the one used for GMO products, glyphosate. It is also a patented antibiotic. We do not need antibiotics in our bodies, just like animal meat.  There are a lot of sterilized products sold, pasteurized food, dairy products, canned food, juices are sterilized even with radiation. This is madness. Instead, you need to eat enough raw foods. I mean raw vegetables, not raw chicken, but maybe you'll like rare steak. It's healthier. The more food is cooked and pasteurized, the less beneficial bacteria it contains. What's so special about plants? Yes, they give us fiber that microbes feed on, but I don't know if you know, but plants are simply filled with microorganisms. It eats raw plants, and microorganisms come out. Of course, it depends on where the plants grew. If, for example, aeroponics are used, there won't be many microorganisms in them. But if it grew in good soil, there will probably be a lot of microorganisms. You'll benefit from this. In one of my videos, I discuss a very interesting topic: how plants actually get nutrients, and they get them by eating bacteria. This is how most of the nutrients are obtained. Plants get them by eating bacteria. Plant roots eat microorganisms and extract nutrients from them. they spit them back out and the cycle repeats many microorganisms climb up the stem or trunk of the leaves and there help this plant this is a whole new area that is worth looking at when growing food and also in animal husbandry I will conduct a series of experiments on this topic very soon which I will talk about on my channel So stay tuned I found two labs that can recognize microbes in plants and we will do all sorts of tests there are also certain phytonutrients that act not only as prebiotics they can help reduce the number of harmful bacteria for example sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts and other cruciferous vegetables can help suppress and destroy Helicobacter pylori this bacterium is the cause of diseases such as ulcers gastritis and even some types of harp from plant foods there are many benefits some flavonoids kill microbes quercetin has been shown to suppress E. coli another plant pigment anthaxanthin is effective against salmonella someone might say wait I thought that in Plants contain a lot of antinutrients and you need to eat animal foods rather than plant foods. If you have digestive problems and can't tolerate plant foods, it's possible. But I'm not saying just eat plant foods. Eat them. Perhaps the main antinutrient that negatively affects health is oxalates. But this problem is easily solved if you simply avoid plants that contain a lot of oxalates. This list includes spinach, beetroot, Mongolian greens, and kiwi nuts. And of course, potatoes. If you're on a keto diet, you've already excluded them. Chocolate also contains a lot of oxalates and should be avoided. Of course, legumes and grains are very rich in oxalates, especially grain products, which are supposedly healthy. The point is that the presence of antinutrients in plants doesn't mean you need to exclude them all. For example, if you have gastritis and discovered that cabbage, which is also very rich in sulfa-raphane, can help in this situation. In fact, it's one of the few vegetables that is easily digested, so as to increase the diversity of microflora. Eat more different vegetables and plant foods except  listed above instead of choosing one vegetable and eating only it all the time Eat fermented foods, pickled vegetables, sauerkraut, kimchi, they are rich in beneficial microbes You can also have cheese and raw milk or kefir, they have a lot of beneficial microbes Another way to increase the diversity of the gut microbiome is to try to minimize stress, which, imagine, affects the intestinal microflora. Fasting regularly, intermittent fasting, as well as intermittent long-term fasting also increases the diversity and health of the intestinal microflora and even Physical exercise is useful in this regard, the goal is to create an environment where these microbes could thrive When you change the environment, exposing it to stress, for example, Taking an antibiotic, your so-called relationship status with these microbes also changes very much, before they were friends and now they are not. The same thing happens in the soil If you start to fight something in the soil, sometimes this leads to the growth of fungi in nature, among other things, fungi feed on bacteria and if they do not have enough food, they begin to attack Plants and cause them diseases, they are not satisfied with the habitat there is not enough food, the same thing happens in the intestines Taking an antibiotic you expose  Stress fungi, namely Candida, and this affects you, unfriendly interactions arise that affect you negatively. Although before this you had symbiosis. And this did not bother you. Normally, Candida is present in the body anyway. Usually, it does not harm us until we change this relationship by changing its habitat. If you are a woman and are expecting a child, I strongly recommend that you breastfeed. The very first breast milk is called colostrum. It contains the mother's immunity. It contains friendly bacteria that enter the gastrointestinal tract and populate it. The same thing happens with plants. A seed is not only genetic information for growing a plant. It is a kind of Noah's Ark. It is filled with all kinds of microbes both inside and outside. Understanding this, you change your approach to how to handle names. Maybe it is worth populating the seeds with some microbes so that they grow better. And many people need to regularly take probiotics, especially while taking antibiotics. Today I told you about many things, but I think this is an important topic that needs to be well understood. There is still a lot of information, and I have very important