Are there ways to find out if you can develop blood clots in your vessels? In this video, I will talk about 7 different indicators that you may have a blood clot. The presence of symptoms does not mean that you have a tromp. You just need to understand what your body is trying to tell you and what different symptoms can mean. Symptoms directly depend on where the clots are located. They can be in the lungs, in the heart, in the legs, in the brain, in the pelvis, and anywhere where there are arteries and veins. So, first, cramps or tension in the legs. In the shins, there may be pulsating tension cramps that appear due to deep vein thrombosis. Second, shortness of breath due to blood clots in the lungs or in the heart. Breathing becomes quickly disrupted, especially when walking for a long time or climbing a mountain. Third, a sudden increase or decrease in blood pressure. Fourth, an unexplained increase in heart rate without a decrease. 5. Swelling of the legs, feet, ankles, hands, or arms, usually on one side. 6. Excessive sweating. Seventh, a change in skin color. It can become red or pale. There are other symptoms like fatigue, but these seven are the most common. If you have  It would n't hurt to get some of these symptoms examined. I'd also like to recommend a couple of very important nutrients that naturally prevent blood from thickening. They're not for thinning the blood, but simply prevent blood clots from forming. Vitamin E, specifically tocotrienols, is a very good form of vitamin E and a good preventative for blood clots. You should also regularly consume garlic, which is also a good preventative for blood clots. Quercetin is also a good preventative. Turmeric is another effective remedy. Cayenne pepper is excellent for prevention. Here's what you need to know. People with diabetes have an increased risk of blood clots simply because they have high blood sugar. People with insulin resistance have a higher risk of developing blood clots in people with diabetes, and those who eat a lot of sugar or carbohydrates have a much higher risk of developing blood clots. If this bothers you, be sure to switch to intermittent fasting. Details are available at the link in the description. I invite you to my Healthy Chum Diet course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight doesn't return. I'll tell you what's preventing you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. This course has already been completed.  Hundreds of people have achieved very stable results, join us too.