I want to tell you about 15 very beneficial effects of exercise that go far beyond just weight loss. Exercise has a genetic influence on the body, which means that they can influence our genes in a very positive way. Our bodies are designed for physical activity. We have more than 10 million sweat glands. These glands are our air conditioner. They help us adapt to the heat during exercise and cool down. We are able to secrete a liter of sweat every hour if necessary to cool the body. Exercise also activates various systems where the body is working, but the results depend on your ability to rest and recover, and through measured loads, you will not get all the benefits that I will tell you about. So, let's get started. The first thing is improving the functioning of the autonomic nervous system. What is it? This is a nervous system that works automatically. It consists of 3 parts, but I will talk about two of them: the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. Some parts of the body are more strongly connected to the first system, others to the second. For example, the digestive system is more strongly connected to the parasympathetic part, which is responsible for rest and digestion. On the other hand, the adrenal medulla is 100 % connected to the sympathetic part, but the heart  50/50 connected to both the sympathetic and parasympathetic systems in my clinic I usually did a heart rate variability test a test for the balance between the sympathetic and parasympathetic I explain all this to you because it is related to the next few points the second reduction in the risk of a heart attack and this is related to what was said above look usually the heart beats in a certain rhythm knock knock knock knock knock knock and you might think that the pauses between heartbeats at rest should be the same but no in a healthy body they should differ let me explain what I mean for example your pulse is 60 beats per minute that is one heartbeat per second so in the heart rate variability test measures the time between beats it is not the same and the greater this difference the greater flexibility your heart is capable of the more elastic the muscle tissue and vascular part of your heart when the heart ages or is inflamed it seems to stiffen and you see the same intervals of the heart rate this is not a very healthy condition if tension arises in such a body it does not  enough flexibility physical exercise increases elasticity of the heart increases heart rate variability and reduces the risk of heart attacks also reduces the risk of high blood pressure because the blood vessels become more elastic just increasing heart rate variability reduces the risk of high blood pressure by 35-50 percent fourth exercise reduces the likelihood of stroke 5 they can reduce the risk of some types of cancer lung cancer bowel cancer by 16 percent uterine cancer by 16 percent and even breast cancer by 11 percent because exercise stimulates the antioxidant network that protects the body from damage by free radicals so by exercising you actually build an antioxidant network that helps reduce mitochondrial damage to a minimum to explain this I will skip to the last point adding energy by doing physical exercise you actually increase the number of mitochondria and also the size of the mitochondria and this increases energy capacity so exercise gives you energy 6 reduces the risk of diabetes why because the genetic effect of exercise increases the sensitivity of muscle cells to insulin so if you have insulin resistance due to which  There are so many health problems: fatty liver, excess weight, high blood pressure and diabetes, and so on. Exercises that increase insulin sensitivity are very beneficial for you, so they lower blood sugar, so exercise will help both burn excess sugar and lower insulin. Seventh, exercise reduces the risk of anxiety and depression because you improve the synthesis of various neurotransmitters, including dopamine. You also increase the production of endorphins and help lower cortisol. That's why it can significantly reduce stress. I think this alone is worth doing exercise. When you exercise, you disconnect from everything that worries you, and this is incredibly healing. 8. You reduce the risk of dementia and improve memory. The part of the brain that atrophies in dementia is called the hippocampus. Exercise slows the decline of this part of the brain, and that's great, because it's the cause of dementia. So you improve cognitive abilities. You can even increase the synthesis of the so- called brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which helps grow new neurons. 9. I already mentioned this, reducing stress and cortisol levels, which improves sleep. I noticed that the more regularly I exercise, the better I sleep.  10. Physical exercise develops willpower in people who cannot exercise regularly or adhere to the rules of intermittent fasting for a long time or constantly and strictly follow their children usually lack willpower and physical exercise develops it. The eleventh exercise helps reduce inflammation, but only if you recover. If you exercise and your muscles hurt, but you continue to exercise and the inflammation does not go away, this will not work, you must rest and recover. 12. Physical exercise can prolong life. I already told you why it reduces the risk of heart attacks and strokes, cancer, and so on. 13. The ability to reproduce increases, great news. 14. Physical exercise helps with lower back pain and it really helped me. I recently started training with a power sled. I do deadlifts with it backwards and I forgot what lower back pain is. This also significantly reduces joint pain. 15. I already mentioned that exercise gives you more energy. I think it’s really time for you to start exercising regularly. If you haven’t seen this video about exercises yet, I think it’s worth watching.