The best herbal remedy that can be taken for liver disease is milk thistle. When I said liver disease, I mean fatty liver, cirrhosis, replacement of healthy tissue with scar tissue, and liver inflammation, hepatitis. And when I say lacy liver, I mean both non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and alcoholic fatty liver disease. By the way, if you look at the difference between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and alcoholic fatty liver disease, you will see practically no difference. It's interesting that there are non-alcoholic reasons why the liver can become fatty, and it all comes down to one thing: insulin resistance. insulin resistance always accompanies non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. This includes excess insulin, which is taken due to excess sugar, excess simple carbohydrates, and definitely fructose, for example, high-fructose corn syrup. Unfortunately, more and more children are starting to have fatty liver. Every tenth child has a fatty liver, and 17 percent of these ten percent already have scar tissue in the liver. If you look at the stages of liver destruction, we have a fatty or inflamed liver, which then overgrows.  scar tissue and then it results in cirrhosis this is a late stage of liver disease which is already irreversible there is a point of no return you also need to know about this disease that there are very few symptoms of liver damage they appear already at the very last stage and in most cases it is too late to do anything to find out if your liver is fatty you can look at your shoes if your shoes are not visible because of your protruding belly then you have fatty liver when the liver becomes fatty fat is poured into the spaces between liver cells and around the liver itself there is so called visceral fat this is fat around the organs and inside the organs themselves like topical fat this is fat that accumulates outside the fat cells and spreads everywhere because it does not have enough space but no matter what problem you have with the liver milk thistle is a very good remedy a group of compounds in milk thistle that cause all these wonderful effects is called silymarin this group of compounds that can greatly help your liver firstly this is the most important effect milk thistle can protect you from poisons that is drugs and from poisons too because medicine is poison for the liver drugs like  paracetamol with ios if you are taking medications, I highly recommend taking milk thistle with them to protect the liver from damage. I also recommend taking this herb during chemotherapy. Most of the silymarin is found in the seeds. Milk thistle seeds are what they look like. I recommend growing milk thistle yourself, as it is not expensive. It is essentially a weed that may be growing in your yard or field. Wait until the milk thistle flower turns white and in the next 2 weeks you can collect the seeds. But in general, milk thistle spreads its seeds with the help of the wind like a dandelion. In general, put on gloves. Pick off the top of the plant. It is a fluffy ball with a bunch of seeds. Turn it over and shake it into a bag or bowl. Then separate the seeds from the ear, which looks like a small parachute. Then take the seeds, grind them in a coffee grinder and add them directly to the salad greens. You can also add them to a shake, for example, with blueberries, or to a keil shake with a small amount of kefir. In general, they can be prepared in different ways. This is an amazing plant. It protects against Poisons from medications, it can even protect against mushroom poisoning, snake bites. I'm talking about poisonous snakes and the effects of alcohol. In general, milk thistle is capable of many things. It can also reduce the amount of fat in the liver and regenerate liver cells. It reduces liver enzymes, which are an indicator of liver damage. It does all this by increasing two important powerful antioxidants. One is the antioxidant, and the second is glutathione. Another effect that this herb has is affecting blood sugar levels. It helps regulate them by lowering insulin and glucose and reducing insulin resistance. This herb also helps with depression, although this is beyond the scope of the topic. Milk thistle also reduces inflammation, especially hepatitis C. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.