 Eregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregregreg and that is what is happening in the body. I do want to say that there are some psychological reasons, but this video is not about them. The problem is that the difficulty is a state of fear, a state of a fear, a state of a fear, a state of a feeling or a feeling of a feeling of a bad thing. You start to feel uncomfortable, especially when you are trying to sleep. It hurts, thoughts are in your head. It can affect your self-consciousness. It is interesting that the body can cause a feeling of a fear, and then it can cause a fear of the body. When the fear of the body changes, there are many different things on the level of physiology. All this is holding the body in the regime of B.L.B.D., the opposite regime of the rest of the body, which allows you to feel calm, sleep, and not to worry. There are some tests that are measured the activity of the lymphatic nerve system in every moment. It is called the variable rhythm of heart. There are some tests that are measured, like the часов, which are measured. I used this technology in my practice. It is a weird thing. It is a weird thing. Some people would come and sit quietly, but inside the body, it is like someone who has to push on the gas pedal. They are just in a stress, because the work of their nervous system is a broken. So, there are some reasons for certain emotions. For example, children. If you have a blood sugar in the body, it is not a calm, it will be like a gorilla, it will be a distressful and a nervous system. And it is not a psychological problem. It is a physiological problem, the level of the blood sugar in the body. And that is number one in our list. If someone has a blood sugar in the body, it will feel a distress and a distress. He will always be on the contagion. Just think about it. Since nothing to do with contagion in families, it's just because of the blood sugar. It's just because it's missed it. People don't see it. When the blood sugar falls, you have to do it, you have to do it, you have to do it, you have to do it, you have to do it. When it's missed it, it's missed it to the cortisol, but to the adrenaline. they make the brain produce sugar, so that it will grow. So the important thing is to take the blood sugar and adrenaline to increase the blood sugar in the blood, so that the brain gets oxygen. You don't have any way to keep oxygen, you know? You don't have a fat sugar, where you can take oxygen? You have to take the blood sugar. This is why it's important to be a fat sugar in the blood. Usually, when they talk about a low-fat sugar, especially the medicals recommend to take a little bit of a sourdough, to quickly increase the blood sugar. Because the blood sugar will be lifted, but the question is, what will be next? He will again fall. Because what is the cause of the blood sugar? His blood sugar is reduced by a hormone insulin. insulin is a hormone that keeps the blood sugar in a low-fat sugar. And so if you have to do it for to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. You can put it in the list. Yes, the drugs can cause a lot of trouble. And again, it's not a psychological problem. You do something that creates a effect. And another reason is low blood. The blood is one of the solutions to the problem of the sugar. You can do it more blood. But you know what? You need to get a lot of blood not because of the blood, but because of the blood, the body, the body, the body, the body, the body, the body, the body, the body. All the biochemistry of us is based on the blood. When you don't get from the blood, you have a lot of blood, you have a lot of things. And it's very difficult to get enough blood from the body. And so many vegans and vegans are suffering from the deficit of the quality of amino acids. For most of the time, you need more amino acids. And so many vegans are in the body. And they are surprised by the blood. And they are surprised by the mood. And so again, it's another physical reason of the psychological problem. And the big thing is, is there a lot of trouble, when you eat more blood? If so, it's the reason in this. Before you're here, I want to make you a gift. I want to make you a gift. It's my daily daily daily in the form of a checklist. It's a lot of years, to be able to make the most important and important and important things, which I do every day and feel like I'm on 18, although I'm 60. In the document, it's only one page. So all that you need to do is to be able to do in the description, to download, to download, to download, and to download. And so, it's not just a habit. It's a real зависимость. You eat, you feel the weight, then the weight, then the weight, then the weight, then the confetti, the cookies, the cookies, and so on. Why not just take a habit and stop using the sugar? The sugar is a good source. The sugar is a good source. But the effect is quickly and the brain needs a new dose. It's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, it's a gap, and to be able to choose, it's a system. The marathon with sugar is a step, it's a step, which helps save the責任, you get three tasks in the week, and they spend 15 minutes in the day. a day. It's just simple, without any theory. You make one change for another and see the result. You are not alone. In the marathon, there are a chat, the discussion and the experts are who respond every day. The support is one of the most powerful sides of the marathon. For 8 weeks, the participants are getting rid of the sugar, they are getting rid of the sleep, they are getting rid of the sleep and they are feeling differently, easier, more comfortable, more confident. The sugar keeps you stronger, but you can get rid of the circle with knowledge, knowledge and step by step. To join the marathon without sugar, you can see the link below. Start to change yourself out of the way.