Magnesium comes to the market in different forms and h9 glycinate citrate today we will talk about triana magnesium This is a very special form of magnesium in the form of triana magnesium is able to cross the blood-brain barrier and get into the hippocampus, which is associated with memory, learning, concentration, attention with all cognitive functions. And also in the cerebral cortex, which performs many high- level processes. This form of magnesium is used mainly if they want to improve some brain function, because other forms of magnesium may not cross the blood-brain barrier. So let's discuss its benefits. Magnesium is necessary for the production of ATP. And this is the source of energy in the body. Our brain uses 20% of our total ATP, while it accounts for only 2% of body weight. It is very greedy for ATP. So if you have a magnesium deficiency and you cannot create enough ATP, you may experience clouded consciousness, confusion, many problems with neurons, and there may be a very special problem with neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitter It calms, it reduces anxiety, it relaxes us properly. And if  You have a magnesium deficiency and low GABA, you will be a little on edge, a little anxious, worried and all that, so magnesium threonate is an excellent remedy for Troy thoughts in the head from excessive anxiety, especially at night when we are trying to sleep. And if you add natural vitamin B1 to magnesium, this will be an excellent combination to solve this problem. Magnesium has another function: magnesium is an electrolyte. Electrolytes are needed not only by muscles but also by nerves. The driver of the heart rhythm needs electrolytes. Is the brain part of the nervous system? Yes, therefore, with a magnesium deficiency, the development of neurological problems can begin, and here are two problems of this kind, number one: neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. This is why people with Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and even with multiple sclerosis almost always have a magnesium deficiency and one key point about multiple sclerosis. Don't forget about vitamin D. Magnesium is needed for the absorption of vitamin D, but vitamin D is also needed for magnesium to work in the body. They are extremely important in any autoimmune disease, including multiple sclerosis, and in fact, any Inflammation, magnesium regulates calcium. Magnesium is a calcium antagonist, and people with hypercalcemia (excess calcium in the blood) almost always have a problem with the brain. They have many problems. A search for the phrase hypercalcemia and side effects reveals confusion, memory loss, depression, anxiety, and problems with cognitive function. So, calcium deposits in the brain are very dangerous, and one of the reasons for this is a lack of magnesium in the brain to regulate calcium. That is, magnesium prevents calcium from getting stuck in brain cells. Not to mention other places such as the kidneys and joints. Vitamin K2 also regulates calcium and prevents it from accumulating in blood vessels and joints. A couple more interesting beneficial properties of magnesium: it strengthens the blood-brain barrier. Our brain has a barrier that protects it from things like infections and toxins. We also have a barrier in our intestines. It prevents various things from entering the body, but just like a leaky intestine, the blood-brain barrier can also be leaky, and magnesium can strengthen this barrier and prevent this condition. Magnesium helps prevent oxidative stress.  Magnesium acts as an antioxidant, helps increase the level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, it can be compared to something like Rastishka for the brain, it helps brain neurons grow and develop, because over the years, and also due to poor nutrition, our brain atrophies, shrinks, and that's all. What increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor is useful, and magnesium increases it, and fasting, training, and by the way, since we're talking about Adriana magnesium, it's also good for so-called androgenetic alopecia, which is hair loss in patches due to high levels of androgens, especially in the presence of syndrome ovarian ovaries. So this product is useful not only for those who improve brain health, and the point of this video is that there are different forms of magnesium for different conditions. For any problems with the brain, magnesium is needed atrioventricular for many other problems, such as cramps, fatigue, and heart problems. I would use magnesium glycinate, and citrate is also suitable, it also helps. Especially for the prevention of stones, health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to  Decreased immunity: how to safely fix it; will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when; Aware of nutrient deficiencies; Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them; more than 100 lessons, you and lists, everything you need to understand this topic; sign up for the course using the link below.