I was recently asked if I should train while fasting. Let's talk about this. So many people think that you need to eat before training to get energy for various reasons. Let's first discuss 4 variables in training: the type of training, the intensity of training, how hard you train, the duration, how long you train, and recovery. The goal of training is to increase fitness, strengthen the health of the whole body or some system, to become stronger and healthier, to reduce the amount of stress. Training has many benefits and this is only a small part of them. You load your body, put it in a state of stress, and then it adapts to it, it becomes stronger and more resilient. You don't need to overdo it with the load because it has a bad effect on sleep, interferes with getting rid of inflammation and reduces the benefits, so you need to figure out your optimal intensity and duration of recovery. If you trained before and gave yourself only a few hours to rest, you will not see any changes. All the good things happen during recovery: replenishment of glycogen stores, growth of new capillaries, new mitochondria, restoration of cell structure, restoration of enzymes, and enzymes do all the work in the body; removal of lactic acid. If there is a lot of lactic acid in the body, which the body cannot use up, because the body can use it.  As fuel, this can result in lactation, which can cause restless leg syndrome, breathing problems, and many other problems. I made a video about this. The endocrine system is also involved here. There is a surge in growth hormone, which promotes not only muscle growth but also the growth of other proteins, and in general, the growth of a hormone such as glucagon increases in protein recovery. It essentially helps burn fat. The problem is that when you eat before training or do carb loading, which I highly do not recommend, you reduce the production of growth hormone and can potentially increase the amount of lactic acid in the body because it forms itself during the breakdown of glucose, and you seriously reduce the ability to burn fat. Because if you eat, the body will burn the calories you ate, they are your own. When you fast, your production of growth hormone increases additionally. Because training stimulates growth hormone. Fasting also stimulates it. If you combine them, you will significantly increase growth hormone. Fasting is great because it gives a huge recovery effect, just a huge leap in recovery. This will be useful to you when the body is trying to recover from stress and exertion in order to form  New capillaries and mitochondria so that cell structure is restored even better. Training during fasting can increase fat burning by 20-30 percent and it also helps with insulin resistance. Some people eat carbohydrates before training in order to cause a big insulin surge to build more muscle, but the problem is that this also increases insulin resistance. The body doesn't like so many carbohydrates. The stronger the insulin resistance, the less you will absorb amino acids, proteins, and nutrients. By fasting, you increase your overall sensitivity to insulin, as well as its effectiveness, so you can absorb more amino acids and nutrients. I knew one guy who trained and wanted to build muscle. He consumed so many calories and a lot of carbohydrates. He switched to ketogenic fasting and lost weight and then wanted to gain weight, but this time he did everything healthily. He began to consume a maximum of 50-60 grams of carbohydrates per day, still on ketogenic diet, and began to build more muscle mass simply because he reduced insulin resistance. Before that, he consumed a certain amount.  calories, but at the same time, he couldn't absorb nutrients and protein. Now, with the same calories but with different food and without insulin resistance, he was finally able to absorb nutrients. This helped build muscle. As for the type of training, it all depends on recovery. If you stop at a very good level, do aerobic training, low-intensity walks, something easy, and then move on to something more anaerobic. In high-intensity training, complex resistance exercises are suitable when as many muscles as possible are involved at high intensity. This will be very useful for the production of growth hormone. In short, you should strive to train during fasting because it is very useful mainly for recovery. Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, subscribe so you don't miss new videos.