I invite you to a program on healthy theta and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I will also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. Thus, this program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  healthy habits for the rest of your life what exercise or activity has ever existed on this planet burns the most calories today we will discuss all this information is true for someone who weighs about 70 kilograms and we will proceed from the fact that a person devotes one hour to all these types of activity many of these exercises cannot be performed for a whole hour but just for ease of comparison I count these types of activity by the number of calories burned per unit of time and then I will explain some very important points about calories because it is not only about burning calories let's start with sleep we burn 50 kilocalories per hour when we sleep then sitting sitting position sitting on the couch we can burn 65 kilocalories per hour just doing nothing By the way, if you chew gum you can burn a few hours more if you laugh you can burn a few kilocalories per hour more if you fidget you can burn a few kilocalories per hour more but very insignificant So if you sit in front of the TV in the evening and eat Popcorn. Turn on a comedy, start laughing, fidgeting, and chewing gum along with the popcorn. Then, when we stand, we spend a little more energy: we burn 110 kilocalories. Sex is not an exercise. Although it can probably be considered exercise, about 2 kilocalories are burned per hour, but it’s unlikely for many. It’s enough for a whole hour, perhaps. It lasts, I don’t know, four minutes, maybe 10. Then, the plank. An hour of the plank burns 240 kilocalories. Strange. I thought that much more was burned during the plank. I’ll need to double-check, but it’s unlikely that most people can hold the plank for longer than 10 minutes or 1 hour. Walking at a moderate pace for about 5 kilometers per hour is about 240 kilocalories per hour. Bowling 250 kilocalories. Vigorous cleaning of the house: 250 kilocalories. Gardening: 270 kilocalories. Yoga: You can burn 280 kilocalories. Brisk walking 6-7 km.  340 kcals Golf 360 kcals per hour Elliptical trainer at a moderate pace is about 400 kcals per hour More advanced yoga such as power yoga allows you to burn about 400 kcals All workouts in the next cell burn about 420 kcals Softball Baseball Roller Blaine Inline skating Cycling at a speed of 16 km HF Intense weight lifting Dance workouts Zoom and aerobics at a moderate pace all this allows you to burn 420 kcals per hour Intense aerobics with dance will burn about 440 kcals per hour Volleyball 450 kl HF Walking with a backpack 450 CC HF Tennis 450 kcals Rowing 470 Cycling at a speed of 19-23 km HF is about 470 kcals All workouts in the next cell burn about 480  klo per hour basketball football running 8-10 km HF intense training on the elliptical trainer 400 80 kilocalories per hour then moderate-intensity swimming 510 kilocalories cross-country skiing I did this This is a pretty serious workout 550 kilocalories per hour martial arts judo karate and other 560 kilocalories per hour jumping rope 560 kilocalories per hour I would look at this indoor and outdoor rock climbing 570 Lori it certainly depends on the amount of movement So it is unlikely that anyone can climb rocks for a whole hour intense rowing 570 kilocalories kickboxing 580 kilocalories intense cycling 23-25 ​​km HF 590 kilocalories running 10-11 km HF 590 kilocalories  Vigorous swimming, high-intensity interval training, CrossFit - all this allows you to burn 590 kilocalories per hour, of course, without taking into account rest periods, etc. During rest, so much is obviously not burned. Running uphill does not burn 800 calories per hour. I would like to see someone run uphill for an hour. I think it lasts for 15-20 seconds and then you need to rest. Running at a speed of 16 km HF is very fast - 1226 kilocalories, of course. No one can run that fast for an hour, but you can burn so many calories compared to other types of activity. But look at chopping wood with an axe - 1196 kilocalories per hour. Now, the exercise that allows you to burn the most calories is short-distance sprinting - 1200 kilocalories per hour. It sounds crazy, of course. But if you run short distances using all your energy, a lot of calories are burned. All this is very interesting, but we need to explain the main points about burning calories. What is the purpose of burning calories? Why burn calories at all, probably to lose weight? But then you need to ask the question, what kind of calories should you burn? Should you burn calories from sugar? Or should you burn calories from fat? Or maybe you should burn calories from protein from your muscles? Probably not, you probably need to burn fat. But if you eat sugar, you will burn sugar. If you eat fat without sugar, you will burn fat. If the body starts burning your protein, your muscles, it means you are overtrained, you haven't slept, or perhaps you are on a long fast, and you use not only glycogen stores, but also fat stores. The body burns muscles last, but this is called hunger. Many marathon runners have some atrophy. After all, they produce so much energy, burn so many calories, that it is very difficult for them to maintain large muscle mass. After all, if at high intensity you increase the duration of the load, the level of cortisol increases, and cortisol destroys muscles. When it comes to calories, it is very important to never allow wind. Let's look at what happens inside the cells during training. We use energy using a mechanism called mitochondria. The number of calories you burn. How healthy are your muscles? Mitochondria How to find out what condition your mitochondria are in. See How much energy you have. Do you retain some endurance and energy even after training. Some drugs destroy mitochondria, for example, statins. They block cholesterol. One of the main reasons for this is that statins deprive a person of a very important nutrient that mitochondria need to produce energy. This is the enzyme Q10. El carnitine is another such nutrient. There are several means that allow you to increase the number of mitochondria and their power. This is, of course, training. But only if you rest between workouts and are fully restored. A healthy thyroid helps increase the number of mitochondria. With an increase in muscle mass, the number of mitochondria automatically increases. If you want to improve your metabolism, you need to make sure that you have enough muscle mass. Those who use ozempic lose weight, but at the same time they lose muscle mass. This is its side effect. Sometimes someone decides to use this drug for the rest of my life. I would not take it seriously. You may start to lose weight.  and then suddenly you start losing mitochondria intermittent fasting can also stimulate an increase in the number of mitochondria I want to say something else there is an amazing analysis that allows you to look into the mitochondria it is called metabolomics and find out if we are getting enough fuel for the mitochondria If you train it is very important to get enough fuel to power this mechanism one of the best types of fuel for mitochondria is meat in meat there are all the cofactors vitamins of group B microelements and most of the proteins that are necessary for nutrition and strengthening of mitochondria hardening when you plunge into ice water or take a cold shower has a curious effect it forces mitochondria to produce a huge amount of energy from the food you ate there is evidence that resveratrol can stimulate the growth of mitochondria If you have insulin resistance and it probably has 90% of people this can greatly affect your mitochondria because of this you may not be able to use glucose And if you continue to eat glucose you cannot Burn ketones, that is, in order for you to start burning fat, you need to cut carbohydrates. Another topic is growth hormone. Growth hormone helps reduce insulin resistance. It also helps build muscle mass. It helps burn more fat. When you run at full speed for 10-15 seconds and then rest for 4 minutes. Perhaps you do not burn many calories, but your growth hormone will increase after a day or two when you sleep, and therefore you will burn fat during sleep. That's why you should not look at burning calories as a mechanical process, because there are other factors here. Another big typical mistake of those who train to burn calories is that they spend a huge amount of energy in the gym, but at the same time they eat too many carbohydrates, as a result, they burn all the sugar. They experience a feeling of hunger, a craving for sweets, and they constantly replenish carbohydrates by snacking and they never really lose weight, because their body runs on glucose, and they immediately replenish it. So, if we talk about losing weight, then training provides 15% of the result, while diet provides approximately 85% of the result, no matter how many calories you burn, wouldn't it be wise to focus on burning fat calories rather than speeding up your metabolism to burn more calories from sugar and then eating sugar again is illogical. But if we're talking about training and we want to burn maximum calories through training, then we need to train with the highest possible intensity for you and engage the maximum number of muscles in the upper and lower body. I recently did metabolomics, I do a lot of things, I was overtrained, so I reduced my activity, started sleeping more and the state of my mitochondria improved. I think that you need to follow metabolomics to have very healthy mitochondria, you should watch this video.