I'll reveal the secret to how to get rid of your porn addiction once and for all.  This could save you years of suffering.  Porn addiction destroys not only your sex life, but also your ability to feel emotions, joy, and pleasure from anything. Original Dr. Berg dietary supplements are not available on OzOne or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Porn addiction is not about sex or pleasure.  It is associated with dopamine.  Pornography is now the number one cause of erectile dysfunction in men under 40. Erectile dysfunction is not just the loss of an erection, it is also a loss of libido, loss of the ability to experience orgasm, a feeling of emptiness, a need for stimulation, and the need to receive it.  So, in a circle again and again and again it's a trap.  So pornography not only disrupts the functioning of the genitals and deprives people of the sensations of sex, it also destroys relationships.   The porn industry doesn't sell sex, it sells dopamine hits.  People have one big misunderstanding.  They consider dopamine to be a pleasure hormone.  But this is not true.  It is a neurotransmitter.  It is similar to a hormone, but it works in the nervous system. Dopamine is directly linked to the anticipation of future pleasure. It's a desire, it's a strong pull, it's the gas pedal, it's an exciting neurotransmitter.  It makes you strive for something in order to survive.  There are things that give a feeling of pleasure, but dopamine is not one of them.  Pornography takes control of this entire system, and this is the basis of bad habits and addictions. There is a so-called cooledge effect.  In male mammals, interest in this partner decreases after mating.  But if the male then meets a new female, the desire immediately returns, and pornography uses this as a weapon.  That's why their websites have endless sidebars filled with similar autoplaying videos. There is also the phenomenon of moving from watching softcore porn to hardcore porn, hard porn, and then to extreme porn.  And the reason for this is this.  Every time after a strong surge of dopamine, its receptors lose sensitivity. Over time, fewer and fewer dopamine receptors remain.  And the feedback system requires the body to produce more and more dopamine, because the cells are not receiving it. The situation is very similar with insulin resistance. When you eat carbohydrates for a long time and in large quantities, the level of the hormone insulin increases, and the insulin receptors behave the same way .  They lose sensitivity. The body, compensating for this, produces more insulin.  So, over time, dopamine levels increase dramatically, stimulating anticipation and strong desire.  A kind of obsession with watching more and more porn.  And with insulin resistance, it is an addiction to sugar.  At the same time, the feeling of pleasure becomes weaker and weaker.  And the person moves from soft porn to extreme.  He needs more and more to get the desired sensation or satisfaction. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  How did our ancestors live?  They got food maybe once every 3 days, but now there is food everywhere.  24/7, 7 days a week. Everything is easily accessible.  Unlimited carbohydrates and junk food.  What was it like for your ancestors with partners?  Finding a partner was not easy.  Now you can get three at once, although they are fake, but every 3 seconds you get new ones, scrolling through the page of a porn site.  The porn industry has researched all of this.  They have accumulated a lot of data. They know about the transition from softcore to extreme porn.  They know how it affects dopamine.  And how to use this to create a dependency?  The problem is that it reduces sensitivity to dopamine.  Interestingly, 98-99% of all porn is free.  At the same time, the porn industry makes billions of dollars in profits from the 1-2% of people who pay for porn.  Those who pay for porn have already lost their sensitivity to dopamine.  They now need extreme hardcore to get any stimulation. After all, their dopamine receptors have practically disappeared.  Excess dopamine in the body leads to so-called excitotoxicity. Excess excitation is toxic to neurons.  Nerve cells can even die.  Let me give you one example.  Let's say you turn on a flashlight in a dark room. Now you can probably see my face. If I take a flashlight and shine the light directly into your eyes, like I am now, you will squint, won't you?  Because the light is too bright, there is too much of it.  When I squint, I protect my eyes from bright light.  This is an adaptation mechanism.  The same thing happens with cells and dopamine.  The receptors seem to squint, not letting dopamine into the cell.  This is called down regulation.  When you have a relationship with a real person, it is slower and more unpredictable. Porn quickly brings you to the peak.  And for a person, unfortunately, this is a trap. Images from the internet are copied into his mind and remain there, keeping his brain in a state of constant high dopamine. Real life cannot produce such an effect.  Now I will reveal the secret of how to solve this problem.  The good news is that weakened receptors can be restored.  And what is this secret remedy? Boredom.  When people first start watching porn, they may do it out of boredom.  But she can also help.  I'm not talking about a passive and bored attitude towards life.  No, I mean actively using the state of boredom in relation to the screaming dopamine inside you that persistently urges you to watch porn.  Personally, I hate sku, for example.  I am constantly busy with something to avoid boredom.  It's real torture to just sit and do nothing. But I want you to use boredom as a weapon.  Imagine porn as a person screaming.  You can give in to it, you can yell at it back, but the best thing to do is to enter a state of boredom.  And the more obsessive this urge is, the more you relax and begin to feel bored deliberately.  You are aggressively bored.  With insulin resistance, you starve yourself and stop eating carbohydrates. And you have to do something to avoid the dopamine surge.  Boredom is the best method to give yourself a dopamine fast.  Why? Because dopamine is activated by excitement and anticipation, and the absence of all this lowers the level of dopamine.  When you have this craving, desire, or impulse to watch porn, don't fight it.  Don't argue, don't try to distract yourself or avoid it. Just sit down, get comfortable, watch that momentum grow, and turn on the boredom.  This way you will restore your receptors.  You will see this momentum first increase and then decrease.  And turn on boredom at every such impulse.  Each time it will become easier and easier for you to do this. Why?  Because dopamine will be normalized, and obsessive thoughts will become less frequent. In parallel, bring the environment in line with this.  Don't take a phone into the bedroom that tempts you. Block these sites on all devices.  Don't go on social networks where there is any porn. You do the same thing when you have a sugar craving.  Don't buy junk food and bring it home to tempt you.  Remove any irritants from your environment .  We need to get rid of the constant stimulation of dopamine.  And a couple more extremely important things for normalizing dopamine.  Dream.  Sleep more.  You can take a nap during the day.  As an option.  Sleep is great for restoring dopamine receptors.  Regular exercise also normalizes dopamine. Especially resistance exercise.  And also a low-carb diet.  Why? Because carbohydrates also create dopamine surges. So switch to a healthy keto diet, drink more zinc.  Zinc is perhaps one of the most important trace elements for dopamine.  And also magnesium. Spend more time in the sun and fresh air. Keep yourself busy with productive activities. So, addiction to porn is not related to sex.  This is a violent takeover of this system, dopamine, and the solution is not to increase stimulation, but mainly to use one emotion.  Boredom is the best emotion not for life in general, but in this situation, to cope with screaming urges.  I would like to offer you a free document.  My daily actions in the form of a checklist.  I do all this every day and feel 18, even though I'm 60. I give it away for free. There is a link below.  Go ahead and download.