You have food cravings on keto and you don't know why. Here's the thing: It usually takes 3 days to switch from sugar to fat, provided that you eat very, very few carbohydrates. If you're on Keto and eat a lot of carbohydrates, instead of 3 days it may take 5 days, 2 weeks or more. So, the fewer carbohydrates, the faster you reach ketosis. Start burning fat. So, the number is too many carbohydrates. You need to eat 30 to 50 grams of carbohydrates per day, not in one meal. For some, 50 grams is too much, especially if they ate a lot of carbohydrates in the past and have very strong insulin resistance, pre- diabetes, or diabetes. So, if you consume 30 grams or less, everything will be fine. So, the most typical reason for food cravings is excess carbohydrates in the diet, and the two main signs that you are in ketosis and everything is working are the absence of food cravings and a feeling of hunger. I always advise both fasting and following the Keto diet, because every meal stimulates insulin in  to some extent, even if this food is in line with the Keto diet. That is, when we eat, we always stimulate insulin to some extent, so be sure to eat not three times a day, but two, then if meals are spread out over time. For example, let's say you have breakfast at 8 a.m., skip lunch, and have dinner at 8 p.m., then your fasting window is 12 hours. But this is not long enough, that is, it is better than three meals. But it will be better if you move the meal closer to dinner to reduce the interval between meals and increase the fasting period. As for the amount of food, this is not as important as the purity of the meals. In other words, if you take 2,000 kilocalories per day and divide them into small meals instead of eating all these 2,000 kilocalories in one meal or perhaps in two but with a small interval to fast longer, this will be much worse. It is much better to reduce the time between meals and their purity than to stretch out meals all day. Number three snacks between meals.  This is a little different, someone thinks Well, I'll eat just a little bit of this yummy, it's suitable for ketosis, I eat just a little bit and eat a small Keto cookie to survive until the next meal, this negates the whole purpose of fasting, it breaks the fast and you know that this will slightly raise insulin, you need to understand that food makes us hungry, it seems stupid, but every time you eat, especially just a little bit of something that does not give a feeling of satiety, in an hour and a half you are hungry again, so do not snack between meals, eat these so -called Keto snacks not between But during meals or immediately after as dessert, number four, excess protein is more than 230 g of protein for the average person is too much, anything beyond that usually turns into glucose or is lost in the urine, people do not realize that protein as such is not burned as fuel, but it can break down into glucose if you eat too much of it and this glucose can serve as fuel So if you ate  450 g of steak in a restaurant, then in the morning you will be very hungry number five is too late dinner This disrupts the entire fasting cycle If you go late in the evening in the morning you may have a craving for certain things very well If you can have dinner at 6-7 o'clock in the evening and after that do not eat anything, this will be ideal, then things will go great for you Because you will be hungry before bed, you will be hungry all night and you should not be hungry in the morning If in the morning you are hungry Then probably you ate a lot of carbohydrates in the evening number six too much food during some holiday you eat food you fill your stomach even if this food is summer compatible you will be hungry the next day because this is a lot of stress for the digestive system and many extra calories will turn into glucose because there are too many of them to be absorbed and burned as energy and also on the sixth point how much you need to eat The fact is that this is individual you need to find your golden mean you need to eat so much that your stomach is not completely full For many hours in advance So by the next meal you don't even  you are hungry and you may not eat because if you stuff your stomach with so much food, it simply overloads the system, but at the same time there should not be so little food that it cannot support you, because you need enough food to get the necessary nutrients, experiment, then you will understand how much protein you need, how many carbohydrates, and how much fat you need, then number se stress, stress releases glucose, because of stress, cortisol increases, and it releases glucose, which causes blood sugar to rise, stress is one of the hidden reasons, number in lack of sleep, if you noticed on those days when you did not sleep, you have a craving for something you should not eat, this is pain, stress for the blood sugar regulation system, because lack of sleep increases cortisol, number de Keto desserts I think they have their place, someone can eat them, they can be eaten at the beginning, but later on there are too many Keto desserts, this is not ideal, especially because they are not part of a steak or some kind of salad, this is solid almond flour. And usually people do not eat almond flour, or you use  Oils with sugar alcohols and they cause a lot of digestive problems. So I advise not to eat Keto desserts regularly. Just from time to time, say on holidays. But if you don’t have problems with them, you can eat them, but an excess of Keto desserts, especially with sugar alcohol, can cause hunger. After all, some sugar alcohols have a glycemic index that is not exactly zero, for some it is slightly above zero. For example, xylitol. Personally, I add a tiny packet of xylitol, quite a lot, to my coffee in the morning and all this throughout the day. I drink a cup of coffee like this, a little bit, it is strong, but I don’t add a lot of xylitol. If you eat a lot of almond flour, you know that it contains a lot of oxalates, this can increase the risk of kidney stones. If you have a predisposition, oxalates can irritate joints, causing a feeling like you have arthritis. This is not a very common occurrence, but it happens. The last point is sugar. It is found in many products. Firstly, for example, yogurt has a lot of sugar, even yogurt without additives. Kefir has too much sugar for some people and this can put them out of lytosis. A  There are also so -called Keto-compatible products, but they are not Keto-compatible. Read the ingredients, see what's inside. Some companies add maltodextrin, dextrose, sugar, wheat, tapioca. They tell you that it is theta-compatible, but this is not true. One of my patients actually drank Gatorade and thought that it did not contain sugar. But in fact, it does. Someone might drink coconut water, and it has a lot of sugar, and someone might not understand that honey has little sugar. How is it different from sugar and agave nectar? Even worse than sugar. So, these are all the reasons why Dide is on a Keto diet. Look at them to understand what you need to change. I invite you to a program on healthy keto and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn't matter if you are just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. A huge number of video tutorials are available. There are videos on what exactly to eat, where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how you need to eat. I will also tell you what you need to avoid in all the details. When you are trying to lose weight, you often encounter  With barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, and eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also about nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge about how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right to acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.