I like to find effective ways to improve life and health without spending a lot of money and today's video is just about this. Unfortunately, our environment is heavily polluted, we simply bathe in various chemicals and among the toxins that affect us are metals, including heavy ones, these are substances such as mercury, lead, cadmium, arsenic and these elements accumulate in tissues and are able to penetrate from the blood into the brain, they can harm the heart, the digestive system, neurons and red blood cells, leading to anemia, they can attack ATP, leading to fatigue, they affect some proteins, blocking some of them, for example, those responsible for hair growth and baldness, one of the side effects of these metals is that they create a lot of free radicals and oxidation, forcing our antioxidants to work in an enhanced mode, but not only this, these metals can block the so-called endogenous antioxidants, our body already has a very powerful detoxification system, it is inside us, the same thing with immunity, it can cope with many things, but people often only sterilize their environment, forgetting about the immune system  The system also refers to metals. Of course, it is better to avoid them. But you also need to know how to strengthen and this is a very smart strategy. The secretion of detoxification enzymes. Here I mean glutathione. They also help break down various substances and protect the body from oxidation and damage by free radicals. But the problem is that these metals block these systems like antibiotics, which weaken the immune system. I mean chemicals, polluting waste from water, air, food, and also some fish, shellfish, and crustaceans, which contain a lot of mercury. The younger you are, the more harm all this can cause. But fortunately, there are natural remedies that you can use. They not only remove toxins by chelation, that is, by binding to the metal to remove it from the body. In addition, they are also able to activate, as if turning a power knob, your detoxification enzymes. The genes that are responsible for detoxification are activated by the things I will talk about. This is great because the plants that will be discussed are easy to add to your diet. They are very cheap and can become part of your healthy diet. You don’t even need to buy supplements. Just add them to your food and first Our list contains sulforaphane, there is a lot of it in broccoli sprouts, but even more in microgreens. Not broccoli, these are the same sprouts that have grown a little more. I advise you to grow them yourself. I will also have videos about this. If you buy broccoli microgreens, ideally you should take the one that grew in the soil. But even in broccoli sprouts there is a lot of sulforaphane. So, you don’t need a lot of broccoli sprouts. Add a little to your salad several times a week. The fact is that sprouts at 20:40 50 even 100 times more nutrients than adult broccoli and to get the result you don’t need a lot. The following is a very powerful plant that is also classified as a spice, this is cilantro, another name for it is coriander. People have been using cilantro for a very, very long time; it was even found in the tomb of a ham. According to one serious study, it has a powerful anticonvulsant effect and it helps with seizures. Cilantro is used in many recipes in Thai cuisine in salsa in  Some Indian dishes in guacamole. So I advise adding it more often. It works as a powerful chelator and at the same time has almost no side effects. As an antioxidant, it reduces the number of free radicals. It can also activate your detoxification genes to remove metals and other poisons. We also have garlic, which is rich in allicin. Garlic is a very powerful chelator; it also seriously activates detoxification genes. Turmeric and the curcumin it contains are also present. And of course, colorful vegetables can also help to completely hide from metals. Of course, you need to live somewhere on an island, but at least you can eat more organic foods and install a good water filter. This will help at least reduce the amount of poisons. I hope the information from this video was useful to you. Since we are talking about detoxification, which is important. If you want to be healthy, there is another very useful video on my channel. Watch it if you haven't seen it yet.