You may never have bloating again after watching this video People know that some foods cause bloating like beans, legumes, fruits in general, sugar, especially lactose in milk, excess fiber, especially if there is a lot of bran and other types of fiber. I note that people with irritable bowel syndrome should never eat bran, otherwise your stomach will literally twist. Let's say you eliminated most of the foods that cause bloating, but it hasn't gone away. Now there is one fundamental principle that you need to understand to get rid of bloating. And I'm talking about bile now. Bile is produced in the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and it has three main functions. I'll give a visual demonstration so that you understand everything about bile. Bile is a dishwashing detergent. That's what bile is. Here we have a little fat. And here is soap, a detergent. If we mix them and shake well, as you can see, emulsification occurs. An emulsion is formed. What is emulsification? Emulsification is the breakdown of something into smaller droplets, and when bile is added, that is, a detergent.  The fat is broken down into small particles, increasing its surface area, and the pancreas secretes the enzyme lipase, which breaks down the fat completely. So that it can be absorbed in the small intestine, that is, the first function of bile is to help absorb certain things in fats, very important things, fat- soluble vitamins, vitamin A, D, E, K1, K2, and other things such as omega-3 fatty acids, which are very important. This is the first function. The second is that bile helps get rid of excess cholesterol. Bile is the main factor regulating the amount of cholesterol, because there is cholesterol coming from food, and there is cholesterol produced in the body. Bile is needed to prevent cholesterol from accumulating in the body. That is why one of the causes of high cholesterol and high lipids is a deficiency. And the third action of bile associated with bloating is an antimicrobial effect, in other words, it kills microbes in the small intestine. Normally, there should not be many microorganisms in the small intestine. Especially those microorganisms that release certain gases, hydrogen and methane. With an excess of hydrogen or methane, you will have bloating, this is called small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome and what's interesting is that research shows that after gallbladder removal, the risk of developing small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome increases. With a lack of bile, something else happens in the small intestine: there is a tendency for undigested fats to accumulate, and this forces the intestines to try to digest them. The transit time of food through the gastrointestinal tract is lengthened because food no longer passes through it so easily. And this is another reason for bloating because the fermentation processes take longer. In addition, bile helps lubricate the intestines. That's why a lack of bile can cause constipation, and its excess can cause diarrhea. With bloating, people usually take medications, sometimes enzymes, sometimes probiotics, and sometimes even antispasmodic drugs. But what they really need is bile salts. If you are looking for a good supplement that contains not only purified bile salts but also additional components, enzymes that enhance gastric acidity, herbs for thinning bile, and since bile is very important for digestion and is stored in the gallbladder, it is not at all an extra organ that is not particularly needed.  Sometimes they say if you have had your gallbladder removed or just a bile deficiency, then in addition to bloating, all sorts of other things can happen, I will now tell you more about this here. What are the symptoms of a lack of bile? Hypothyroidism can develop. Why? Because bile is necessary for the conversion of T4 to T3, the active form of thyroid hormone. And if something is wrong with the liver, say, it is fatty or scar tissue grows in it, it may turn out that you are not converting from T4 to T3. On the other hand, let's say your thyroid, on the contrary, processes it and you have Graves' disease, this is hyperthyroidism. An excess of hormones can be a contraindication to the use of bile salts because they will accelerate the thyroid even more if the cause of this is excess bile. That's why I am talking about symptoms, because if you are trying to understand whether a lack of bile is the cause of bloating, you will also have other symptoms of this deficiency, then fatty stools that can leave marks on the toilet. Why? Because there is still fat left in it that was never digested.  Lack of bile, a couple more points that are not on the list. First, the color of the stool is pale or even gray. This is a severe deficiency of bile. Another absence after eating is because you are not absorbing nutrients that should cause satiety, even if the food is rich in nutrients. The fact is that you are not absorbing these nutrients. We have already talked about bloating and about the small intestine. Next, discomfort in the right side. I mean the place on the right under the ribs, here, the small intestine, here is the gallbladder. The sensation can radiate to the trapezius here or to the right rhomboid muscle and to the right side of the neck. Because there is a nerve going from the gallbladder through the diaphragm here up. Next, high cholesterol. I already said, gallstones, what kind of stones are these? This is an overconcentration. Next, a deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins. Vitamin A deficiency. You will notice this in your vision. It is difficult to see in the dark while driving at night. You can notice this in your skin. Low vitamin D. It can manifest itself in many ways, such as lower back pain, inflammation, you easily get sick. There may also be a deficiency.  Vitamin E also shows up a lot in the World Cup. It manifests itself in muscle weakness after training, recovery takes a long time, the skin looks bad. Vitamin K1 deficiency often causes bleeding. With vitamin K2 deficiency, calcium can accumulate on the teeth in the form of tartar or in the joints. The last symptom is a deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids. People take cod liver oil and fish oil to get omega-3. They are important not only for the heart but also for cognitive function and mood. They are anti-inflammatory. And even if you take them regularly, the problem may be that you are not absorbing them due to a lack of bile. Let's talk about the causes of bile deficiency. Gallbladder removal is an obvious reason because now there is nowhere to store bile between meals. All that remains is a tube leading from the liver, where bile is made, directly into the small intestine, and bile flows for now, and this is no longer under your control. But I must say that there have been many reports of people's gallbladders growing back even from a small remnant. This happens; it can grow back if you have it removed. And now I'm not kidding. Next, low-fat diets.  When you go on a diet low in fat, especially saturated fat, it does not stimulate bile production and gallbladder contraction, which is another reason for bile deficiency. This is why vegans are more prone to gallstones. Because they simply lack bile. After all, they do not eat saturated fats and animal products. Antibiotics. Why do antibiotics provoke bile deficiency? But why do we have primary bile? It is made in the liver and stored in the gallbladder. And there is secondary bile, which is produced by microorganisms in the intestines. If they are not there, then secondary bile is not produced, but it is also needed for normal functioning. This explains why diarrhea can also cause a loss of this microflora, and this can be followed by a lack of bile. The question arises, say, for example, that you have done colon cleansing many times. It produces a lot of waste. The microflora needs to be restored, and it may be worth adding bile salts. After all, if you remove a lot of microorganisms from the intestines, you will lack both the microflora itself and the bile it produces. Other points include high estrogen when taking birth control pills or Hormonal therapy or immediately after childbirth. This is why pregnancy increases the risk of gallstones due to the estrogen situation and how it affects the liver. High insulin from excess carbohydrates and frequent meals can be depleted of pro-inflammatory fats can greatly disrupt the production of bile. Fatty liver disease. Or it could be liver inflammation or even cirrhosis. Why? Because bile is produced in the liver. If the liver is damaged, bile is not produced. What is the plan? What to do about all this? Try to eat enough fats. I mean healthy fats, not omega-6. Eat omega-3. Eat enough saturated fats to activate bile. No fat-free diets. No need to rely on fats, just don't avoid them. Probiotics or foods that help replenish intestinal microflora, for example, fermented sauerkraut. Third, intermittent fasting can help because, firstly, it lowers insulin. Secondly, you allow the body to reboot and accumulate concentrated bile in the gallbladder. If you eat often, the gallbladder will not have time.  Increase the concentration of bile necessary to influence food and extract fat-soluble nutrients. Fourth, limit carbohydrates; this will lower insulin. Fifth, take purified bile salts. Take them after meals, one or two pieces, sometimes three. This will greatly help you replenish your bile reserves. If you want to better understand the functioning of the gallbladder, there is a link to my course on this topic below. Are you sure that everything is fine with your gallbladder? And if there are stones in it, do you need to remove it? And if the gallbladder was removed, how to eat properly to avoid complications? How to deal with constipation, colic, bloating, and nausea. I will talk about this in my course on the gallbladder; sign up at the link below. See you there. M