Today I have a very interesting video about the prostate and the most important nutrient topic. I was inspired by my new favorite book called Soil, Grass, and Cancer. I found this book. It was very expensive, almost $250, and I couldn't find a used one. But it's full of amazing information about nutrition, and all the chapters are very different. The last chapter was about insulin, I made a video about it. And this chapter is about the relationship between zinc and the prostate gland. There's some cool data here that I want to share. I think first it's worth discussing the misunderstanding of what the prostate gland is. Few people know what the prostate does. They only know that with age, it increases in size, and this affects urination. In half of men, after six, the prostate increases in size. So, we know that with age, it gets larger. And this affects urine emission, the strength of the stream, libido, fluid retention in the bladder, and urine accumulation in the kidneys. I think it's important to better understand how the prostate works to understand why this happens. I mean, it's strange that with age, so many men begin to have problems with the prostate, and the larger it is.  the higher the risk of prostate cancer, but the fact that the prostate has enlarged does not mean that it is cancer. Let's start with where the prostate is located in the front of the pelvis. There is a small bone called the pubic symphysis. The prostate is located directly behind this bone. The prostate is also located directly under the bladder. A tube comes out of the bladder and surrounds the prostate, and the prostate is about the size of a walnut. So, it is not that big, but it can become larger. And directly behind it is the rectum. That's where it is. And what does it do? The prostate is 70% glandular tissue and 30% muscle. It does two things: it secretes a certain fluid. More on that later. It also acts as a pump. During ejaculation, it pushes this fluid through the same tube that urine flows through, and then out. Sperm are produced in the testicles. Their development takes about 60-70 days. Sperm travel through a thin tube up to the prostate, where there are additional glands that produce fluid, combining with the fluid.  The prostate gland forms a mixture called sperm. The function of sperm is to ensure the function of sperm, and sperm is essentially just male genetic material that combines with the genetic material of the ovaries and forms the human body. For this, sperm need nutrition, which is fructose in sperm. Certain enzymes are needed to pass through the uterine lining, and many other factors are needed to increase fertility outside the body. Sperm live up to 5 days. On the other hand, women have an egg, which is inactive but is activated when a sperm penetrates. This is a brief description of the function of the prostate in relation to other factors. What is curious about the prostate gland in terms of nutrition is that this gland has the highest concentration of zinc. The concentration of zinc in the prostate is 100 times higher than in the blood. If a blood test for zinc is normal, this still does not say anything about what is happening in the prostate. I want to share a couple of points from this book. It talks about the connection between zinc deficiency and what happens to  The prostate enlarges. There is a study linking to it in the description. It describes the zinc level in a healthy prostate, which is 744 mcg, and a prostate with mild hypertrophy, that is, an enlarged one, has less zinc, mcg. People with chronic prostatitis were also tested, and their zinc level was 470 micrograms. Remember that this should be compared with a healthy prostate, which has 744 micrograms. Then there is a discussion of the connection between prostate cancer and zinc levels. Apparently, in a prostate affected by cancer, the average zinc level is 273 micrograms. So, we have a connection between zinc deficiency and inflammation of the prostate gland, an enlarged prostate gland, and a tendency to develop prostate cancer. Very interesting. Here is another point I want to discuss: there is a very potent form of testosterone called DHT, and testosterone can be converted to DHT with the help of a certain enzyme called p-alpha reductase. There are certain medications that suppress this enzyme to reduce DHT and reduce male-pattern baldness. prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction because an excess of this hormone DHT leads to unwanted effects, but it is interesting that zinc is a natural inhibitor of this enzyme. It is also amazing that we know that people with low testosterone usually have a zinc deficiency. So, zinc is the most important trace element for maintaining high testosterone, maintaining fertilized sperm, and maintaining a normal prostate size. And now it will be even more interesting: where does zinc deficiency come from in general? Let's discuss the reasons why they don't eat enough red meat. Think about what they are saying now from all the irons, especially to men over 50: don't eat red meat, red meat is harmful, they don't distinguish between red meat by quality, they lump all red meat together, making no difference between processed meat and organic grass-fed meat, they lump it all together and tell you to give up red meat, they say limit foods with cholesterol, which is the raw material for the stomach, and what do they advise? Eat more plant foods, be sure to eat more whole foods. cereals which contain a lot of phytic acid. This is perhaps the main factor that interferes with the absorption of zinc. 2 billion people on the planet have a zinc deficiency, possibly because they consume too many cereals. Another interesting point is that with aging, the strength of stomach acid decreases, and we need acid to absorb zinc. If you have weak stomach acid, zinc will not be absorbed. Not to mention that when taking antacids, you will have a zinc deficiency. If you drink diuretics, this medication is depleted. Zinc deficiency. Alcohol is another common factor causing zinc deficiency. Sugar consumption is a zinc deficiency. Frequent meals, for example, evening snacks in front of the TV cause insulin resistance, which can also deplete one thing. If you do not get enough zinc, this will affect your libido, testosterone, sperm count, prostate size, and ultimately, urination. The best source of zinc is crustaceans and mollusks like oysters. Red meat is second, and to be final  Honestly, I have a Bath with zinc microelements, but I must say that taking zinc does not guarantee a cure for an enlarged prostate, low testosterone, or reduce the risk of developing prostate cancer or any disease at all because many factors play a role: your diet, how much alcohol you drink, how much stress you experience, and many other factors, including your medications, etc. Now that you know a little more about the relationship between zinc and the prostate, watch another interesting video about zinc. Here it is.