 Lespropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropropro DrBergStore.com Hello, we are going to start with the question of our amazing Victor Rina. Why do you do that? Why do you have a lot of research? It rarely shows the deficit of any nutrients. We are going to ask you, friends, and answer questions in the social media. Spрашивает Tim Rina from YouTube. Do you need to take BAD with magnesium? I have a deficit of magnesium, but when I take it, I always have a heart. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. Right. It's right. First of all, it may be in a wrong way. It's a first thing. And you know what? Unfortunately, many products of magnesium and even some of the pills have a maltodectin in the form of a stabilizer, but they don't tell you that. And even they even lost it on the label. They say, what do you think? It's one thing that might be a problem. But also, I think, when low pressure is to get more salt. Add the salt. Add the salt. That's what I would do. And it should all be stabilized. It's kind of a myth that everyone is so afraid of that everyone is too much salt, that now they are not enough. Yeah. Now. Now. Now. I have to have people to focus on the correction of the sugar in the blood. When I was practicing, almost all of them were eating too much sugar, drinking too much wine, or they had problems with the sugar in the blood. I don't know exactly what the mechanism that works, but it's just a observation. If I do normalize the sugar in the blood, the sugar in the blood. So something you could try. Okay. Lame, next question is not for you. The question is, is Nolan's YouTube. How do you reduce the size of the prostate? Well, the question is to avoid anabolic. It's the one that helps growth. There are hormones with more anabolic effects, and the big one is insulin. So you want to reduce the sugar in the blood and eat реже. Next one is estrogen. Now, when you eat milk, I'm not talking about cheese, I'm talking about cheese, I'm talking about other chemicals. I'm talking about milk. I'm talking about milk. I'm talking about milk. People have noticed that prostate usually increases from milk, because in it is a hormone growth. In the traditional cultures, people never used to eat milk. They never used to eat milk. They never used to eat milk. Now, you do see that fermented milk, yes, but not sour. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. It's milk. Today, there are many plastic, and it is like estrogen. So, look at how much water you drink. The water is going to filter, to remove the chemical and plastic. It's really hard to do. Start eating more healthy food, also, and there are also natural natural resources for reducing the cost. Also, one of the things that I want to say, many men think that they are in the toilet because of the increased prostate, but in the same way, not always. The reason is just in insulin resistance. This is why I have a lot of people. I did a video on this. The best way to correct this is to stop eating at night and not eating. And you will have big changes, if you do it. Very good. What does it do with Anaseus YouTube? What does it do with the eyes? What does it do with the eyes? So, typically, this is the effect of the vitamin A. There is a lot of a cinc that can block the ability to absorb the vitamin A. So, it's not a problem with a cinc or vitamin A. I had a very long eyes. But it was a problem with a cinc and a vitamin A, but with a problem with a sugar in the blood and a lot of milk. And as soon as I fixed my diet, this problem disappeared. However, I guess, this is an ideal example of what you do. If you don't have vitamin A in the body, which I don't recommend, or have more food with vitamin A, it probably won't help if you don't have a diet in the whole. So, if you don't have a diet, if it doesn't help, you have a vitamin A, a liver, a liver, a liver, a liver, a liver, and a lot of milk with a cinc. So, look at this, it helps. And now, subscribe to the channel and press the bell, to be able to click all notifications. If you don't have any notifications, YouTube can't remember about new videos. This simple action will help you to continue to develop the channel. Now. and the other side of the body. 68% said that they only have the results of the blood. 28% said that they don't reflect the results of the blood. And 10% said that they are not the exact same, as doctors say. Who's the right, Doc? This is interesting. What's interesting. You go to the doctor, you send the doctor on the analysis, the doctor is looking at different diseases and diseases. He doesn't look at the vitamins. He doesn't look at the nutrients. There's a problem. If you look at the results of the blood, there are no symptoms of the blood in the blood, especially the symptoms of minerals, like a kaly, magni. 99% of them are in your cells. And the serum is not the effect. You can see that. So even if you're in their blood, you're in your blood, and you think that you're in your blood. It's a kind of a kind of a sort of a sort of a sort of a light in terms of nutrients. And if you're in your blood, if you're in your blood, you're in your blood. Now this isn't just seeing. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. We need to find out. and even this analysis is only a precursor. When you look at the level of vitamin D in the blood, you don't look at the level of the cells. You look at the level of the cells that only becomes active. If you have a problem with activation of vitamin D, and it is a lot of people, you can say, you can say, you can do it in the normal way. No, it's not in the normal way. This is a topic that I love to discuss, because it's interesting, and many people have a lot of the deficiencies of nutrients, and they even don't know about it. Very good. It's a question Channel 4 Lin Sramble. I read this article in the different ways, but today I'm going to be able to do it. So, how much of your glycinaat magnius should be able to receive, to receive RSN? Well, let's say that, if you eat something, which is a magnius, let's say that. One cup of a cup of 350 mg. It's if you have a pорошon. And then... So that would be enough. That would be enough. That would be enough. If you need to solve problems with a child, or a child, than you need to take more. Or a migraine. But the point is that, typically, one cup of a cup of water. I drink it evening, after lunch. And I drink it one cup of water. I dissolve it and drink it. It doesn't dissolve it? It doesn't dissolve it? It doesn't dissolve it? It still doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Just mix it and drink it. It's enough. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. We have more than 100 classes. Conspectы списки – всё, что нужно, чтобы вы точно разобрались в этой теме. Записывайтесь на курс по ссылке внизу.