Let's talk about the pros and cons of carb loading before a sports competition and many athletes practice this, especially in sports that require a lot of endurance for more than an hour and a half. They can load up on carbohydrates a couple of days before the competition. They load up on different carbohydrates, sugar, all kinds of jellies, which often contain malt, dextrin, or dextrin, a synthetic sugar, protein bars, energy bars, and so on. The goal is to increase glycogen stores in the muscles and liver. Glycogen is a stored glucose molecule. This is how it works. Glycogen stored in the muscles gives the muscles glucose, and glycogen stored in the liver releases glucose into the blood, which is delivered to the brain. The amount of glucose that can be stored in the liver and in the muscles is very different. The liver can store 100 grams of glucose in the muscles, 500 grams, and carb loading is done to avoid fatigue for longer. But if you look at the type of fuel burned, namely glucose, because they are not adapted to If you look at the amount of glycogen stored sugar, it will be only around 1,700 kilocalories, maybe 1,900, but a maximum of 2,000 kilocalories of stored glucose will provide energy for 90-120 minutes maximum. If you adapt to burning fat, your energy reserves become practically limitless. Even a person without excess weight has about 100,000 kilocalories of energy in the form of fat, and only 1,700 kilocalories in the form of sugar. The difference is colossal. More and more athletes are adapting to burning fat because they see that by using fat reserves, they get advantages that they did not have before. This is the first disadvantage of carb loading: limited energy reserves. 2. Sooner or later, you will hit a wall when you run out of sugar and hypoglycemia begins. This is called a bank. Weakness will occur. You will be tired both physically and mentally. This will force you to eat and drink sugar during training. I remember when I was twenty, I ate a lot of sugar. I was working out and hit a wall. Yes.  so I could barely drag my feet I know what it's like then I threw in sugar and continued so 1 minus limited reserves 2 minus the bank 3 minus with carb loading a lot of gas appears bloating and abdominal pain occurs because excessive fermentation occurs in the stomach and it will occur already during the workout itself the next minus is diarrhea this is one of the side effects but diarrhea is a big problem because because of it the body loses water and electrolytes including potassium magnesium calcium and also sodium it is very dangerous to exercise after diarrhea because electrolytes give energy to the heart if you do endurance exercise with barely noticeable amounts of the main electrolytes then you are at great risk 5 fluid retention with carb loading you retain fluid each molecule of glucose holds three to four molecules of water so you can potentially carry two and a half liters or eighty-four and a half ounces of water right inside the body next 6 blood pressure when there are carbohydrates in the body is retained by 3 and water and because of this the pressure can jump but this  It could happen for another reason if you eat so many empty carbohydrates like sugar, then the body's potassium and magnesium reserves and other electrolytes are depleted, and an imbalance between sodium retention and a calorie deficiency can cause high blood pressure, and so 7, and this is just one of the advantages I want to mention as Lucy, in general, this is an advantage, and this applies to elite athletes. Elite athletes have three times better insulin sensitivity than non- athletes. Apparently, insulin resistance does not manifest itself so seriously in elite athletes. If you eat all this sugar, insulin rises and insulin resistance can occur. Apparently, it does not occur in elite athletes, so this is a 1+, and so far this is the only advantage I have found. Training counteracts insulin resistance. insulin resistance is actually prediabetes. The study I quote says that this only applies to elite athletes, not to lower-class athletes or just those who regularly train and practice carb loading. Only elite athletes have inflammation and leaky gut syndrome. 8, sugar.  It oxidizes, it can affect the eyes, the heart, the kidneys, the nerves, and can keep the body in an inflamed state. That's what's important: joint inflammation during a sports competition is definitely not needed by anyone, or muscle inflammation, and this isn't widely known. If you consume empty carbohydrates for carb loading, the body develops a deficiency of potassium, vitamin B1, magnesium, and even calcium. These vitamins and minerals act as antioxidants and counteract the negative effects of elevated blood sugar, and the more carbohydrates you eat, the more vitamin B1 you need. There are many symptoms of vitamin B1 deficiency. The first symptom is lactic acid accumulation during training, which is definitely not needed. Excess lactic acid is a byproduct of glucose metabolism. If you train a lot, use a lot of energy, eat a lot of carbohydrates, and replenish reserves, many things can happen. 1. lactation doses, 2. neuritis, nerve pain, 3. cognitive problems, especially stress and anxiety. If you do carb loading, you need to simultaneously do vitamin B1 loading, as well as potassium and magnesium loading, and calcium, of course.  I don't recommend carb loading, but if you do it, you need to take everything else into account. Potassium is very important for regulating heart rate and for energy production, as is magnesium. Magnesium is needed to make ATP. Without these electrolytes, the body will not be able to produce the energy needed for competition. I'm not even talking about electrolyte support for the heart. I'm talking about energy production in general. Considering all these downsides to carb loading, I don't think this one advantage of reducing insulin resistance is worth it. I also think that now you should watch my video about vitamin B1. Check it out, it's interesting.