Hi, in this episode we'll talk about carbohydrates, which are even more harmful than sucrose. The idea to make a similar video came to me during one conversation. My interlocutor was eating popcorn and he sincerely believed that since it's a carbohydrate, and not sucrose, then it's less harmful than sucrose, which means you can eat popcorn regularly without fear. I'll look at the biochemical finders of Lindax, what is the glycemic index? This is a scale showing how quickly a certain carbohydrate is broken down, absorbed, and increases blood glucose levels. Of course, its excess leads to fatty deposits, excess cholesterol, and triglycerides. This is what this index means, and the higher the index, the more harmful the food. Take a look. The glycemic index of table sugar is 63. The index of rice is approximately sixty-nine. Popcorn, depending on its type and variety, has many, and we'll add to it no Yandex in the range from 75 to 95. The index of bread robot ranges from 75 to 80. 5, depending on the variety, for example, peeled flour in There is no fiber in refined grains, it is also a carbohydrate, but it can suppress or slow the rise in blood sugar. The potato index also makes a difference, because the longer you cook it, the more sugar molecules are broken down, the higher the position on the glycemic index scale. Raw potatoes are at the very bottom, but who would eat raw potatoes? They are fried, boiled, and instant potatoes are generally at the very top. Maltodextrin probably has the highest index, and it is added to many products. These starch-containing products are more harmful than sucrose, since their glycemic index is higher and they cause more harm than just because there are some units of sucrose. But there are other carbohydrates, which does not mean that it is healthier. You need to understand the glycemic index, and lastly, you need to focus on those carbohydrates found in vegetables. At home, there is fiber that nourishes the intestinal flora, which helps supply the body with fuel, because the body cannot digest fiber, but bacteria can, that is, fiber feeds these bacteria, and they give the body rest. Beneficial butyric acid, which helps regulate sugar in  Blood, so this helps with blood sugar. Vegetables have a lot of fiber, little sucrose, and a lot of nutrients. So we focus on fiber in vegetables. We don't eat fruit, there's too much sugar and starch there, we don't need it at all. Thank you for watching. Many people really need this information, so wait for the share button and let's spread this video.