Today I'll tell you about the amazing immune properties of garlic, which are especially relevant in winter. Garlic has been used for I don't know 4,000 years. It has been used to treat diseases such as arthritis, diabetes, colds, Molyneux, tuberculosis. The list goes on and on. Louis Pasteur studied garlic for its antibacterial properties and ability to kill pathogenic bacteria. During World War II, when the Russians ran out of antibiotics, guess what they used. Garlic was even called Russian penicillin. Garlic has proven itself as a means of preventing infections. Garlic ranks first among natural remedies with a powerful anti-cancer effect. This is confirmed by a project at the National Institute of Oncology, which studied the effectiveness of vegetables in cancer prevention. I want to share some interesting data from a book called Modern Phyto Medicine. This is an excellent textbook on the use of plant-based chemicals in medicine. I'll tell you about an extremely informative chapter about garlic. This is what needs to be taught in medical school. Unfortunately, in medical school, or in preparatory courses, which I also took and also graduated from. Chiropractic college is not the same as MI-2, but there you also need to learn a lot.  The amount of information, although you know the words "learn" is not quite suitable, you are literally stuffed with tons of information and you have to chew it and swallow it and somehow pass the exams, so unfortunately, the process is not aimed at understanding and assimilating the material because there is simply not enough time to absorb all the information, evaluate its usefulness and reliability, instead, you rush at full speed to cram and like a parrot repeating information to pass the test and only after graduation can you rethink everything, truly study, apply the information, make sure of its value and truthfulness and take your time at your own pace, study what interests you, but now I want to share valuable knowledge that you can immediately apply in your life to protect yourself from pathogens, most of the studies were conducted in Petri dishes and this is called in vitro, that is, the studies were not conducted on a living human body, but look what was discovered, one of the first studies was that a Petri dish was filled with pathogenic E. coli, then garlic powder was added to the stick and it was noticed that within 12 hours all the E. coli was  dead then they took another petri dish with E. coli and added freshly grated garlic to it, grated it directly over the dish and within 12 hours all the E. coli were dead in another experiment it was discovered that garlic kills antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, a deadly microbe that is very difficult to kill, so garlic easily killed this microbe another study showed that garlic kills anthrax within three hours, anthrax is a deadly pathogen and the consequences are very devastating, but garlic took and killed it, it was also discovered that garlic has a powerful effect against viruses, fungi and parasites, and then several interesting studies were conducted on the smell of garlic, the particles that separate from garlic and form the smell, the smell of garlic gives off a milder compound called allicin, this is one of the chemicals in garlic that not only works wonders against infection but also thins the blood, prevents blood clots, regulates blood sugar, fights cancer, lowers blood pressure, it was found that the smell of garlic, even without contact with bacteria, kills them only  Imagine if you eat garlic in the winter, the smell of garlic from your mouth will repel germs, you will kill germs in the air simply by exhaling garlic particles. Apparently, garlic has developed this defense mechanism for its own survival over the centuries. Like many other herbs and vegetables, such as onions, horseradish, and many cruciferous vegetables, garlic has the ability to bind to organ phosphates, which are part of pesticides, and remove them from the body. Phosphates have a very destructive effect on the immune system, they reduce immunity and make the body extremely susceptible to disease, and garlic helps neutralize these chemicals and protect the immune system. Perhaps you are aware that when a virus affects the body, complications usually occur in people with a weakened immune system, due to the presence of metabolic syndrome, and from severe stress. It is a strong immune system that helps cope with the infection. This is rarely emphasized, but it is often forgotten. One of the pressing problems is the quality of garlic. Did you know that 80 percent of all garlic in the world comes from China, and the problem is that in China, garlic is treated with bleach and various substances are used.  to make garlic look white without brown spots or other imperfections, also sometimes garlic is grown in wastewater and additionally generously sprayed with chemicals, so when buying garlic, make sure it is grown locally in a good region. Also, many are interested in mentira van im black garlic if it has any advantages and once again yes, fermented black garlic has more antioxidants and nutrients or can you ferment garlic yourself, for example, in honey. Honey is of course not suitable for grandfather, but I take the garlic out of honey and rinse it, it is already fermented, I eat a clove every day during the winter. This is an excellent way to ferment garlic to allow microbes to break down certain compounds to facilitate its absorption and enrich the garlic with additional nutrients and phytonutrients. One more thing, can you heat garlic? What about garlic powder? Important phytonutrients in garlic can withstand temperatures of 100 degrees Celsius or 212 degrees Fahrenheit for at least 20 minutes, that is, these substances can withstand heating, and so now that you've learned about the power of garlic, let's talk about the benefits of apple cider vinegar here.