Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz.  Please, Dog. True or false?  The best way to find out if you have enough testosterone is to get a testosterone test. This is logical, of course.  And now questions from the audience. Sandra from Facebook, does eating pineapple help reduce inflammation? There's an enzyme in pineapples that people take for inflammation, and it works well.  I just know that it's a great, common remedy.  In particular, it accelerates healing after surgery. So it's not a bad tool.  It can be taken to improve the condition. Great.  Tera from YouTube has a question we get asked a lot.  Is healthy chum salmon suitable for those in menopause? Yes, definitely. What is the alternative?  No more carbohydrates .  I recommend healthy chum salmon. Excellent, Tera, there you have it. Sarang from YouTube writes: "I had my gallbladder removed, and my digestion is terrible. Please help ." Yes, usually after this people don't have enough bile.  Sometimes there is too much bile, but the problem is that there is no sac where the bile is concentrated.  So you may have several problems.  The first is the inability to properly break down fats and extract fat-soluble nutrients from food.  But bile has another function. It kills germs in the small intestine, preventing SIBO, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. So, if I were you, here's what I would do. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. If you have diarrhea, I would not take this remedy.  But if there is no diarrhea, then diarrhea is sometimes a sign of excess bile. I would take bile salts after meals. This might help.  Take this tea on an empty stomach sometimes and see if your digestive problems go away.  Then you will break down fats, and it will be easier for the pancreas to continue this process. Great.  Now let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question. How quickly they dealt with him, and then we'll talk to Lewis.  So, Lewis, we'll talk soon. And the quiz question was: true or false?  The best way to find out if you have enough testosterone is to get a testosterone test. 85% answered that it was a lie, interesting, and 15% said that it was true. This is another incredibly interesting answer. I don't even know why they do this. The question is what is normal, what is considered a normal level.  Did you know that the normal level is considered to be the average value of all people? This is the norm.  That is, your testosterone level is compared with the level of all sick people.  Wait a minute.   Should n't we consider the normal testosterone level to be the level that was there when your grandfather or your father was alive 40 years ago?   There is a lot of plastic around us, hormone disruptors that mimic estrogen.  Because of this, testosterone levels in many people are literally scraping the bottom.  And they tell you that you are normal, because your level is the same as everyone else's.  The problem is that this is not the best way to determine what is considered a normal testosterone level.  I would look for data on what the normal level was for your ancestors.   I will say right away that it is much higher than what is indicated as the norm today.  And it’s not just with testosterone.  It's beyond my comprehension .  We should make a video about this.  And now we have Lis on the line with us. His wife has been helping him live a new life for 8 months now using your information. Dog.  So, Lewis, ask Dr. Berg one question. First of all, thank you for everything you do.  My question is this.  I am on a keto diet, taking dietary supplements such as nutritional yeast, MCT oil, cod liver oil D3, K2, B vitamins, magnesium glycinate, trace elements, colostrum, kefir, and roiter yogurt.   Is there anything I need to add or adjust to better manage epilepsy and mild auras?  And now I feel better than when I was taking the medicine. Much better. Great.  Fine.  Yes, I think there are a couple of nuances when it comes to epilepsy. And, you know, one of the principles is this: the deeper the tytosis, the better the situation with epilepsy.  Therefore, the traditional teto diet used for epilepsy is slightly different even from the one I recommend.  This diet, in its original form, has much more fat compared to protein.  This increases the ability to produce more titons. How else can this be achieved?  You can do a little more intermittent fasting, you can add fat, you can exercise to go deeper into titosis and help your brain.  There are other things that can help you. You can start drinking silicon water or even taking silicon baths, since silicon is an excellent metal healer, especially aluminum and so on, and this improves brain health.  What you really need to do is eliminate the chaotic signals that lead to epilepsy.  I think you are doing the right thing.  We just need to continue making small improvements and see.  This is where I find a lot of great ideas. I find people who try to use something that has been undervalued or that few people know about or even that everyone rejects.  I study the great results people get from using different products. This way you can understand what works. I do this all the time and will be making new videos about it to help you. Thank you very much and have a great day. Thank you too.  Thanks for the great call, Lewis, and best wishes to your wife for helping you.