The worst pain I've ever experienced in my life was from a kidney stone. It was a long time ago, when I knew nothing about health or diets. One night, at about three o'clock, I was awakened by the most intense pain I'd ever felt, deep in my body. I got up, went to the bathroom, and just lay on my side. I lay there for about half an hour and waited for the pain to go away. It was visceral pain, that is, an internal pain, the source of which is difficult to find. It seemed to be somewhere specific and at the same time everywhere, but it was extremely strong. I felt nauseous and turned inside out, and I didn't understand what was happening to me. It was as if something inside me was clamped in a vice. There was enormous pressure and pain in my back that I couldn't get rid of, no matter how I lay down. It came and went in waves. I felt better, then worse, and I just wanted to fall asleep because I was incredibly tired. I didn't want to take pills, at least at first. Then I was ready to give everything for painkillers. I didn't want to see my wife, but in the end, I needed to understand what was happening. I woke up Karen, dear.  take me to the hospital she asked maybe I was tired in the morning but I said no I need it right now I'm dying she took me to the hospital and I'll tell you when your kidneys start to hurt you're definitely not laughing pain from a kidney stone can occur in different places in the lumbar region of the back usually because the kidney stone is on one side it hurts either on the left or on the right it can radiate to the side or groin or lower abdomen the pain can be higher and resemble the pain from gallstones but it's kidney stones that hurt it can cause nausea and even vomiting kidney stones are interesting because the kidneys themselves don't have pain receptors pain receptors are in the ureter this tube that comes from the kidneys it's somewhere 4 millimeters in diameter my stone was 10 millimeters try to take the stone and put it in a tube that is much narrower than it and not just stone on stone with jagged sharp edges I know about this because a month before this incident I was jogging and when I  I came home and needed to go to the toilet and I peed blood. This sharp-edged stone was moving up and down my kidney and tearing everything inside. It seemed like it should have spurred me on to do something, to go get checked out, but I knew little then and ended up doing nothing about it. I thought it would go away on its own, but in the end, the insane pain from the kidney stone woke me up and forced me to do something about it. We arrived at the hospital and at three in the morning there was a line. I went up to the doctor and said, give me a painkiller. It hurts a lot. They injected me with morphine and the pain subsided. I began to massage my stomach area and it brought some relief. I think I then kind of pushed the stone back into my kidney and it gave me relief for a couple of days. Only a couple of days later the pain returned again and this time it got even worse. But I think I drank a diaper and the pain went away. After that, I made an appointment with a neurologist. They did an ultrasound for me, then a CT scan and they found a stone in my kidney, almost 10 millimeters in size.  In diameter, it was located at the beginning of a small tube called the ureter and could not pass through it, while it interfered with the flow of urine, which went back to the kidney. and the flow and pressure caused incredible pain and in the ureter, the interesting thing is that its diameter is only 4 millimeters, but sometimes huge stones up to 20 millimeters in diameter can pass through it. It is not yet known why this is so, but the ureter has its own peristalsis, there is contracting tissue, it is similar to the colon, where there are waves of contraction and relaxation that help push the contents through it, but my kidney stone did not move anywhere, it only caused constant pain. I went to lithotripsy, this is when the stone is sounded using ultrasound, then for some time you will have to urinate sand. I went to the procedure and began to learn what needs to be done to prevent kidney stones and today I will tell and recommend you what I learned from my own experience. The most common type of stones are calcium oxalate stones. This is a combination of calcium and so- called oxalates. The body itself produces oxalates and we also get them from food. Apparently, one of the main reasons for the formation of kidney stones is the body's inability to excrete  Oxalates you should also know that 80 percent of oxalates are produced by your body and only 20 percent come from food, but you should avoid foods rich in oxalates, such as salads and tea. The southern states of the United States form a belt called the kidney stone belt because people there very often have kidney stones and this is associated with the fact that they drink a lot of sweet tea. Tea contains not only oxalates but also sugar, which can worsen the situation with kidney stones. Spinach has a lot of oxalates in almonds and almond flour, there are also a lot of them, as well as in almond chum bombs, which many see in Kyiv. There are a lot of oxalates in chocolate and in potatoes, beans, and salad. I have a separate video. I will leave a link about why kidney stones form. There are many theories. Some say that it is due to excessive protein consumption, but opinions differ on this topic. Some say that it is due to excess vitamin C, but there is conflicting data on this too, especially  If you get natural vitamin C from food, but as it turns out, synthetic ascorbic acid, which is part of the vitamin C complex, turns into oxalates, so not everything is clear here. There is also a theory that stones are caused by excessive calcium consumption, but if there is enough calcium in the diet, it will not go to the kidney, and if you have a calcium deficiency, then there will be a lot of calcium in the kidneys, but this is also ambiguous. There is also a hypothesis that if you eat a lot of salt, this contributes to the formation of stones. Well, here, too, not everything is so clear. There is data that high-fructose corn syrup causes kidney stones. There is a lot of information about this and the connection is very plausible. There is also information about costs. If you have citrate, you don't have enough. Citrates prevent calcium from binding to acid. Salads and lemon juice, which contains a lot of citrate, reduce the risk of stone formation. There have been reports of people drinking a glass of lemon juice every day to dissolve kidney stones and the results were good. But today I will tell you about the most important things to do to prevent kidney stones if you are going to them.  predisposed you need to know that kidney stones are formed from urine that is highly concentrated this is called supersaturation because the urine becomes over concentrated and together with calcium and oxalate me it begins to crystallize based on z information the most important thing to do is drink enough fluids if you drink two and a half liters of fluid every day you will absolutely not allow stones to form because stones cannot form in unsaturated urine sometimes when you tell people to drink two and a half liters a day they scratch their heads asking how much is that a little more than 10 glasses about ten and a half 1 glass is eight ounces that is about eighty- four and a half ounces let me show you what 8 ounces look like that's 8 ounces you need ten and a half of those I'll show you another example a smaller glass that's what it looks like eight ounces ten and a half of those glasses a day it would be good to add lemon juice and what if you drink mineral water how many bottles do you need to drink a day to get two and a half liters you need to drink three three  bottles, that is, a little more than three bottles a day, this was the first tip, the second tip, add lemon to the water, the more the better, at least a tablespoon a day, but if you are predisposed to stones, then more is better. I also add apple cider vinegar to the lemon, about a teaspoon, sometimes a drop of stevia to make a sweet drink. Next, you need to avoid foods high in oxalates. I have a good video on this topic in which I explain everything in detail. I will leave the links below. Further, it is unlikely that you will encounter this anywhere else. I strongly recommend doing this if you are predisposed to kidney stones or if you already have a stone and you are trying to pass it through the ureter. Massage your stomach with your fingers. Just massage the front of your stomach in the area opposite the kidneys and on both sides. What will this do? If you have a small stone, it needs a little help to pass it, and there is no hospital with painkillers nearby. Start massaging this area and the stone can pass straight into the bladder. I am saying this because I have had several patients who did this and only this could  To help them, massage where it hurts and on the opposite side to affect both kidneys. 5 It has been proven that a high-carbohydrate diet increases the risk of kidney stones. That is, you need a low-carbohydrate diet because carbohydrates and high blood sugar increase calcium levels in the kidneys. Not to mention that soda with high-fructose corn syrup increases the risk. The most important nutrients for preventing kidney stones are vitamin D, magnesium, and potassium. Here's another important video on this topic that you should watch.