Today I will show you a unique way to get rid of very stubborn belly fat, we will discuss the differences for women and men, I will say that it is better to use exercise, diet, or something else for most of you, this is probably new information that you have not heard about yet, so take notes. Here is what I think is very important before rushing to solve the problem, you need to understand this problem a little better. So, belly fat is called differently: central obesity, visceral fat, abdominal obesity, belly fat has many different names. So, this type of fat is very different from superficial fat, that is, subcutaneous fat, which is located directly under the skin. Belly fat or visceral fat is the so- called ectopic fat. That is, it is located outside the fat cells, this fat is located in the internal organs, especially in the liver. In other words, if you have belly fat, you have fat in the liver and it is extremely important to get rid of the fat in the liver to get rid of fat. Natalia, people make a lot of mistakes trying to achieve this. The gym, spot exercises, body lifts, crunches, for weeks and months without achieving any changes. They go on a diet, but often the diet  It does n't work either. Unless it's targeting the liver. Here's a picture of what's happening here. The liver is filling up with fat. Fat spreads across the waist, filling the space around the visceral organs. These are all the organs in the abdomen. This is ectopic fat. But what's really going on behind the scenes is the hormone insulin. insulin is a fat-storing hormone. It also doesn't allow you to lose fat. The pancreas produces a lot of insulin, leading to insulin resistance, which makes it very difficult to lose weight. Because the body produces a lot of insulin, and insulin screams, storing fat, storing fat, storing fat, and then ectopic fat essentially creates insulin resistance, and it's a vicious circle. You may know that carbohydrates, particularly sugar and all that, increase insulin, but there's also something called oogenesis, which is the process of creating sugar in the liver. With insulin resistance, the liver creates sugar, and not necessarily from the sugar you eat. The liver converts other things into sugar. It's like a vicious circle, because the liver creates sugar, and it then turns into fat, adding fat, and I have to explain how to fix all this. we will discuss six factors one of the solutions is not to do a liver cleanse it will not work and yes, exercise can help but it does not burn fat directly It is rather a way to spend energy to reduce stress and exercise is a way to improve sleep After all, insulin increases not only because of carbohydrates stress activates the hormone cortisol and cortisol is like a sugar hormone it causes the release of sugar cortisol is called glucocorticoid look at synthetic versions of cortisol such as prednisone which are used in medicine for inflammation side effect serious weight gain especially in the waist do a search for the phrase excess cortisol production you will see a picture of the stomach Why Because cortisol converts various tissues including muscle into fat So let 's discuss this point reducing stress but by increasing sleep time with the help of exercise about which I made a whole video of aerobic exercise can you see No you can't see I will write here aerobic What is it This is walking long walks the best remedy for stress or physical work around the house is a very important remedy for stress because it switches attention you need long walks of low intensity they do not necessarily help burn  fat, but they will help burn adrenaline and cortisol that appear in the body due to stress. Reducing stress will improve sleep and you will burn a few calories too. I will tell you a little about burning calories and what I mean by this. So, the body's energy station is called Hon, here it is, and the purpose of the mitochondria is to take our calories and use them to create chemical fuel. ATP is something like the body's battery, and the mitochondria creates these batteries. This is what the mitochondria does: it extracts energy from food and with its help creates ATP for use by the body. It is interesting that the body does not accumulate ATP, it stores it. We do not have large reserves of ATP at one time. We have very little of it. So, here's what you need to know: how can we increase the production and burning of ATP? That is the question. The answer to it is related to training. Training is an important factor, especially if you understand that if you compare a person's condition when he is at rest and when he is training, we will see that ATP production can increase several times during an intense workout. So, I advise you to do Intermittent intense training, they are called high-intensity interval training, and also walking, and there are various reasons for this. First, you need to start using ATP energy because you need to burn off belly fat. And for this, you need the right training. You need high-intensity training. The body is suitable for sprinting uphill, training on a stationary bike, training with weights, any training that greatly increases the need for energy, then the body will use its reserves. And this is fat in the waist area. You need to know a couple of things about training: do not allow the trainer because overtraining increases stress. So, it is extremely important to train intensively. Perhaps three times a week, perhaps twice a week. I have recently been running uphill for training. I run extremely intensely uphill. I think I will eventually run twice a week, not three times a week, because my body does not recover. I see this on the device. I will talk about it in another video. It is very easy to allow overtraining. My results are much better if I give my body a rest between. High-intensity training stimulates growth hormone, the main fat burner, but only if you get enough sleep. You need to write this down here. You cannot see sleep here.  You need to sleep more, it’s not visible there either, I’ll write here, sleep is very important for reducing stress, stress and sleep are on different scales, so to speak, sleep will help you a lot, because sleep is a kind of base. If you don’t sleep because of stress, good luck with losing weight. Why? Yes, cortisol will not allow you to use fat, especially removing fat in the waist area, this is very important, so I devoted more time to this. Well, okay, number two, here’s what happens in the liver: your liver is fatty, so fat flows out of it, so you need to use up the fat that is in your liver. There are two ways to get into a state of so-called ketosis, this is a type of fat burning. After all, when the body burns fat and when we eat fat, fat turns into a more convenient form of energy, the so-called ketones, so the body creates ketones. It can also run on fat, but ketones are a more convenient fat fuel. So, there are two sources of ketones. The first is your own fat, the second is fat in food, and the point is that in order for you to be able to use any of these types of fat, you need to cut down on carbohydrates. So, cut down. Carbs are important and you probably know this, you need to cut carbohydrates, cutting carbohydrates will force the body to burn fat from the food you eat or your own fat. Let's discuss. Do we need to burn calories from the fat we eat or do we need to burn our own fat stores? Well, that's an easy question. We need to burn our own fat stores. So yes, it's true that the calories obtained from fat on the Keto diet are much higher than on other diets. But if you are trying to lose weight in the waist area, then a significant increase in fat in the diet will not help you, so I advise especially in this situation not to add additional fat to the diet. No need to cut fat, but don't Add a lot of fat. Don't add MCT oil. Add Keto bombs and Keto desserts, don't do this, otherwise the body will use them as fuel and not its own fat. Some people recommend eating more fat so that they are more full and can do intermittent fasting for a longer time at the beginning of the program. But if you are trying to quickly get rid of fat in the waist area, you don't need to add a lot of fat to the diet unless you want to maintain weight. So, we need to cut fat in diet, but not so much that the diet becomes low-fat. I would eat the fat that is contained in regular protein products, in products that naturally contain fat, be it meat, eggs and all that, do not eat Malozhitomirskaya and this fat pours into the abdominal cavity. This means that you need to do something to remove this fat from the liver and heal the liver, make it very healthy. If it were healthy, it would cope with excess fat and there would not be such severe insulin resistance, because insulin resistance is prediabetes, metabolic syndrome, this is accompanied by many problems and, undoubtedly, a lot of insulin and a lot of fat in the waist area. Everything we can do for the liver is very important. So, what can we do for the liver? Well, we have already cut carbohydrates and some can lose 50% of the fat from the liver within two weeks after starting a low-carb diet, but there are three important remedies that you can take additionally to help the liver heal. First, apple cider vinegar. It significantly improves the situation with insulin and helps fatty liver. It greatly increases the effectiveness of insulin and it performs its function better in the body. Take  a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar add 300 grams of water I also add lemon and possibly electrolytes I drink This one or two or even three times a day can cause very significant changes I take apple cider vinegar from fr tea because it is not diluted and strong enough excellent company the second very important remedy is milk thistle milk thistle is an amazing thing it is such a prickly plant with purple flowers that turn into little white things at the end of the seeds like parachutes and when the wind blows they fly Everywhere in the fields at least in me they are everywhere Ropsha is a completely unique plant you can buy milk thistle seeds in tablets what is unique about it is an incredibly powerful protective agent for the liver in fact it is like an antidote for snake venom from mushroom venom the most poisonous mushroom is death cap and the antidote milk thistle is amazing poisoning with paracetamol it helps protect the liver of those who drink but also milk thistle is very important for fatty liver to eliminate  fat from the liver to reduce liver inflammation and to protect the liver from cirrhosis, milk thistle helps with problems with gluconeogenesis when the liver produces much more sugar due to insulin resistance, milk thistle helps the liver in many ways and helps to remove fat from the waist area, link to the study below, milk thistle is definitely a third remedy, berberine, there are several studies that the combination of berberine with milk thistle is a good idea, berberine is like a natural metformin, no side effects, but of course this is not my Statement I also do not make any statements about milk thistle, I will just say Read the study This is simply amazing research on mice, you can apply this to people If you want, if it helps mice, it may help you too, berberine is an excellent remedy, together with milk thistle, it is useful for diabetes, prediabetes And it helps the liver with excess gluconeogenesis A few words about people who are trying to lose weight, they go through such a cycle throughout the year, it is like a behavior pattern, they go crazy on Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year  Then they make New Year's resolutions and start all over again. I think that emotions and reason have swapped places. People are overwhelmed by the idea of ​​birthdays, holidays, dinners in restaurants with friends. I see in that their mind, their intellect, has given up. People don't learn from their mistakes. You see, they follow the same behavior pattern over and over again. They eat what they know is bad for the liver and drink alcohol knowing that it is bad for the liver. But they still do it, succumbing to emotions. I advise you to look at all this from the outside and reevaluate your surroundings, the people around you, just don't get caught up in your habits. If you have belly fat, you need to realize that this is not some trifle, this is a pathology, it leads to diseases, inflammation, and problems in the liver. You don't see what's inside. But this is an unhealthy condition. So, usually, people with belly fat cannot afford the luxury of maintaining bad habits because they simply act incorrectly. They should focus on changing their habits. This is the main thing they need to focus on because the habit persists and the whole cycle continues.  repeats for example personally I needed to hit rock bottom Before I changed everything I'm a bad case I ate the worst food almost until I was 30 I ate junk food not just Little by little I ate huge amounts of junk food I drank coffee by the basin drank chocolate by the cup I never ate or other vegetables None of this I ate exclusively junk food for many years until I hit rock bottom And even when I hit rock bottom I felt terrible for many years before I said you know It's not worth it and now my liver is like a barometer if I break the program my body reacts badly to it if I drink a little I just start to chop I think this is good because I would never in the world take care of my health if If I didn't have problems with it So I have a lot of personal experience and Yes it is a fact that I gave in to such emotions but I dealt with it But some people need a little more time to learn from their mistakes and number five is omat one meal a day intermittent fasting If you don't do this if you continue to eat often and snack the rest is unlikely to help Probably this  One of the most important, in fact, is the most important action. After all, when you don't eat, you force the body to live at the expense of fat reserves. This is real fat burning. You can achieve deep ketosis by combining a low-carb diet and training. You can start with more than one meal a day. You can start with two meals, but try to have little time between them, say, have lunch late, dinner late, and if you want to reach a new level, don't eat if you're not hungry. This means that perhaps you will eat once a day and you will, as if with a vacuum cleaner, suck out all the fat from your liver. Changes will occur very quickly. This is very important and this way you can really speed things up. And mat is the foundation and the beauty is that when you don't eat, your body eats. You don't have more than one meal a day. You create a lot of health when you don't eat in many ways, especially due to the fact that you remove all the fat from the liver. As for the low-carb diet, the ketogenic diet. I didn't say what you need to eat, but you can find out from the video. Follow the links below and about what foods are on amat. What foods help correct the situation.  With fatty liver, I'll tell you about a couple of interesting nutrients, one of them is creatine and the other is carnosine, and both help get rid of fat in the liver, and both help increase energy levels for training, and both help mobilize fat using mitochondria and effectively produce more ATP, and these two substances. Creatine and carnosine are found in the highest amounts in red meat. So, I highly recommend eating red meat several times a week, steak and all that, made from high-quality, completely grass-fed red meat, or steak, because it has many factors, it has a lot of nutrients, it has practically no carbohydrates, and it contains carnosine and creatine, which can help you. Links to research are below. I don't think they should be taken as dietary supplements. Just eat red meat. Then number six. You need to remain very conscious and not give in to these emotions. And what doesn't work? Remember your past experiences and just don't repeat them. Stay conscious and, so to speak, in the present moment, so as not to give in to all this. I think this is also very important, because  This will help you stay on track, because by doing all this you will see that it works and you will want to continue to achieve success and what you like. For me, this is getting better every day. If you retreated, okay. Fix it, become better at what works, eliminate what does n't work. This also applies to this point. After all, so many people either forget what they did or simply ignore it. They simply slide into this situation so much that goodbye to reason and health. I also think these actions will really take you to a new level. If you want to remove belly fat. Call it what you want. Central fat, visceral fat, whatever you like. So, if you want to receive the latest information from me, subscribe to the newsletter. For example, you can download free materials from the link below and then you will receive information that is not always available on YouTube, certain things. So, follow the link below and see you. I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos are waiting for you. A special diet and exercises for effective training. Sign up.  to the course at the link below. See you there.