Diatomaceous earth has been around for many millions of years. It is a powder made from fossilized diatoms. What are diatoms? Are they algae or phytoplankton? For millions of years, this phytoplankton dies, turns to stone, and is deposited on the bottom of lakes. Diatomaceous earth is unique in that it contains a lot of silicon. Silicon, under the influence of oxygen, turns into silicon dioxide. Silicon dioxide is very useful for the connective tissue of joints and bones. Calcium itself cannot form bones without silicon dioxide. Therefore, for bone mineralization and for the prevention of osteoporosis, patience is needed. Silicon dioxide is also necessary for ligaments and tendons. With it, nails become stronger, and without it, they become brittle. Hair splits without silicon dioxide. Skin loses strength without silicon dioxide. If you have wrinkled or flabby skin, silicon dioxide can be useful for you. The aorta and other vessels require silicon dioxide for strength. Silicon dioxide can prevent aneurysms. It is also needed for the formation of strong trophies.  There are different types of collagen. Silicon dioxide stimulates the production of type I collagen. I'm there. Avaya earth has other interesting properties. It can help get rid of parasites, worms, pathogens, even E. coli because it helps clean out and expel these organisms from the gastrointestinal tract. 3. What it can help with is the binding of aluminum. Usually, diatomaceous earth itself contains aluminum in its structure, but it is tightly bound to silicon dioxide. Even various clays, minerals, for example, contain aluminum in a bound state, but when taking diatomaceous earth, aluminum does not enter the body. On the contrary, it will back up aluminum. It has a strong affinity with aluminum; it will bind it and remove it from the body. If you take diatomaceous earth, it doesn't matter as part of a detox or if you want to strengthen something in the body, start with one teaspoon per glass of water per day, and over the course of three days you can increase the dose to two teaspoons per day. It is important to take it on an empty stomach because a strong acid is needed to absorb this microelement, and many people have low gastric acidity, making it very difficult for them to extract dioxide. To enhance absorption of silicon from diatomaceous earth, it might be helpful to add apple cider vinegar to this water or take a few tablets of betaine hydrochloride along with this earth. Hydrochloric acid helps convert silicon dioxide into a more easily absorbed form of silicic acid. If you want to strengthen connective tissues, you can take silicic acid as a supplement. But as I said, taking diatomaceous earth has other beneficial properties. To find out how else you can help your body and improve the condition of your hair, I suggest taking this course. I invite you to my course on health diagnostics by hair. Dry, brittle hair or oily hair and dandruff, hair loss and baldness, premature graying are signals that indicate problems within the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause. Sign up at the link below. See you there.