Of all the types of nuts, walnuts contain alpha-linolenic acid, which is a precursor for omega-3 fatty acids. Alpha-linolenic acid has its own beneficial properties: it prevents peeling skin, dermatitis, and hyperpigmentation of the skin. It is also known that it prevents skin atrophy and, of course, transforming into a more powerful form of omega-3, it brings many other benefits. It helps the heart and brain, reduces inflammation. The list is very long, but you need to understand that only part of the alpha-linolenic acid is converted to omega-3 in children. 10 to 21 percent is converted to omega-3, and only five to nine percent is converted to omega-3. There is a study showing its benefits for the cardiovascular system. Seven out of eight studies demonstrated benefits for endothelial cells inside blood vessels. However, not many people participated in these studies. There is a connection here, but the benefits for the heart have not been fully proven. Changes in the size of low-density lipoprotein particles from small to large were also found. Walnuts are also rich in vitamin E and polyphenols, but they contain little lysine and a lot of arginine. Arginine can help increase the synthesis of growth hormone. It promotes the removal of excess ammonia from the body and thus participates in the urea cycle. Arginine also helps form nitric oxide, which is beneficial for blood pressure and the cardiovascular system. The problem with walnuts is that many people eat them raw, and they contain a lot of phytic acid, more than some grains. In addition, they contain enzyme inhibitors, which can lead to bloating. The solution to these problems is soaking them in water for a day or two. This will remove the phytic acid and enzyme inhibitors. Then dry them in the oven at a low temperature or in a dehydrator. The problem with phytic acid is that it blocks some minerals such as zinc, iron, and magnesium. Our body can handle a certain amount of phytic acid, but if there is too much of it, it can hinder absorption. Minerals and digestion in general. Enzyme inhibitors can block pepsin, which is involved in the digestion of proteins in the stomach. They can also block amylase, which is involved in carbohydrate metabolism, as well as trypsin in the small intestine. That's why if you eat too many nuts, you may experience bloating and constipation. But after sprouting, problems with nuts become much less. Lately, I've been eating these sprouted organic walnuts. It's a very good brand. I eat them at the end of meals and they are quite tasty. Unlike regular walnuts, they don't cause bloating. They are sprouted for two days. I'll post a link below when I come across a good, high-quality product created by someone and I recommend it. One note: I advise you to take pure nuts. I think they also have a version with honey, but I don't recommend honey. If you have n't seen my video about pistachios, look here it is.