I'll tell you about some products a7 that can lead to a fatal outcome. You need to know about them, and so number one is green potatoes, but fortunately, we don't eat potatoes at all, so there's no need to be afraid of this. Well, for those who are not naked, you need to avoid green potatoes. The green pigment, which is a combination of chlorophyll and solanine, indicates the presence of a nerve toxin. It is very toxic at a dosage of 3 to 6 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Potatoes contain approximately 30 to 50 milligrams of this chemical, but it is the green part of the potato that is dangerous. Therefore, if you are not naked, for some reason, go ahead and cut off the green parts of the potato. I found that the average American eats one potato a day, and since many do not eat potatoes at all because they are naked, which means that other people, in an attempt to compensate, eat quite a lot of potatoes, most likely not raw, but in the form of chips or French fries. Solanine is a natural pesticide designed to protect  Potatoes, when ingested, can cause nausea and vomiting, internal bleeding, paralysis, coma, and potentially even death. The second point is a spice called nutmeg, a poisonous substance found in nutmeg. Nuts are called spicin in the world, and even two milligrams will cause fever and headaches. Asymmetries of tenths of a gram can even lead to loss of consciousness. Eating a whole nutmeg can cause nutmeg psychosis. Nutmeg mimics psychoactive substances used in certain medications. There was a case where an 8-year-old child ate two nutmeg nuts, and boomer, so be careful, do not use them in large quantities. Next, I'll talk about green raw almonds. They are very bitter. Raw cashews contain some cyanide, but almonds should be bitter, and you'd have to eat quite a lot to seriously poison yourself. About a thousand nuts, one and a half kilograms, most likely, no one would eat that much, but even smaller quantities of these nuts will contain a small amount of cyanide, so instead of bitter almonds, buy sweet almonds.  If you fry them, there will be practically no cyanide left. Cyanide can cause convulsions, respiratory failure, and even death. However, for every poison, there is always an antidote. The antidote to cyanide is kabbalamin hydroxide, a pharmaceutical vitamin B12 that combines with cyanide to form cyanocobalamin, a type of B12. Thus, cyanide turns into vitamin B12, but I do not recommend getting it from cyanide. I think this is not particularly healthy and an activity. Cyanide destroys cell membranes and prevents oxygen from entering the cells. The next product is undercooked red beans, and they always need to be soaked for at least 5 hours and then cooked over high heat for at least half an hour. If you do not cook such beans long enough, the toxicity level can potentially increase fivefold. The chemical in raw red beans is called fg, and I will not give the full name. All you need to know is that this substance binds red blood cells and white blood cells, forming thrombus-like clots. Side effects include diarrhea and abdominal pain. vomiting and even death, however, there have not been any cases of death among people, but it has occurred among rats. If you give a rat one percent of this substance, it will not last even two weeks. Therefore, do not feed pet rodents, hamsters, and undercooked red beans and, of course, naked. You will not consume too many legumes, so do not worry. Let's move on to the next product, brown rice, and which Nadena also does not eat. Brown rice contains arsenic, which can lead to heart disease, bladder cancer, and many other diseases. Arsenic is contained in brown rice because the land on which it is grown was previously used to grow cotton, which was generously sprayed with arsenic. Until recently, arsenic was used in insecticides and pesticides. Thus, the soil is contaminated and poisons enter some plants, especially brown rice. In brown rice, the amount of arsenic is more than one hundred sixty-two times higher than the permissible level of carcinogenicity. Another problem with arsenic is that it was previously added to chicken feed to increase weight gain for nutritional efficiency. What is this?  the situation when the chicken has become so fat that it no longer eats and does not feel hungry and all because of arsenic as far as I know most companies have stopped adding arsenic to feed but I could be wrong maybe there are still producers who still use it especially for turkeys in 2011 they stopped using arsenic but before that it was used actively from 1940 to so unfortunately we have all been exposed to arsenic but of course if you eat organic chicken then everything will be fine one of the symptoms of arsenic poisoning are white horizontal stripes on the nails this is a possible sign of excess arsenic by the way there is an antidote for arsenic one of them is blue-green algae as well as selenium and zinc they are part of the enzymes that help remove arsenic from the body next we will talk about raw hamburger with blood sorry I know it's disgusting but there is a problem if you buy low-quality meat in the store then you can also get E. coli there is a very toxic form of E. coli called dvora then knowing taxi gene E. coli which can cause serious Kidney damage such as loss of kidney function, sepsis, which is a systemic infection, coma, and even death. So, here's why you need to be careful. First, the quality of the beef consumed should be high, and the second meat should be cooked to such a degree that there is definitely no E. coli left in it. But it's still more important to choose high-quality beef. Then, even in meat cooked rare, if it is high-quality, there most likely won't be pathogens such as salmonella and E. coli. Where does E. coli come from in cow intestines? Cross-contamination sometimes occurs during meat processing. Then, the next product is cherry pits. Cherry pits contain hydrogen. Many will be surprised who eats cherry pits. I eat only the berry itself and, of course, naked. I don't eat cherries at all, but just in case, if you swallow several pits, you know they are slightly toxic. One red cherry pit contains 3.9 milligrams of hydrogen cyanide. One black cherry pit contains 2.7 tenths of a milligram. One Morello cherry pit contains 65.  The toxicity level of milligrams of hydrogen cyanide ranges from 0.45 to 3.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. For example, a person with lungs weighing 45 kilograms is 0.45 times 45 kilograms, which equals 20 milligrams. So, if you accidentally eat one Marilla cherry pit, which contains 65 milligrams, you can be seriously poisoned. Symptoms of hydrogen cyanide poisoning will include, of course, abdominal pain, nausea, headache, and other more serious, fatal symptoms. This is a list of foods to avoid. Next, watch a video about the healthiest foods to eat. Here it is.