Today we will discuss what will happen if you completely deprive the large intestine of fiber, which is necessary for intestinal cells. After all, we all know that fiber is vital, it is practically considered a nutrient. But there is a lot of misunderstanding on this topic, people have a lot of questions, and we will raise these questions. What type of food is our body best adapted to? Are we herbivores and should eat plants, or are we predators and should eat meat, or are we omnivores and should combine plant and animal products? We will briefly consider this question because I will build on it in the rest of the story. If you take a cow, she is a herbivore. Cows are not adapted to eat meat. Their body is adapted to eating grass, of course, they are more often fed grain than grass, and this seriously affects the health of the cow. I mean, I have my own cattle. I participated in a study where I compared a diet with cat grass and a diet with grain. This is very interesting. If you look at the pH level in a cow's stomach, when feeding grain, it is 10 times more acidic than when feeding grass. Usually, the pH in a cow's stomach should be  6.4 is almost 7, almost a neutral environment. Well, in a cow that has started to eat grain, the pH changes, it becomes ten times more acidic, about 5.3. And when the pH decreases by an entire value, say from 6 to 5, this is a decrease in the difference. A 10-fold difference is a big problem in our time with grain-fed cows. They often develop a disease called subacute rumen acidosis. This is a situation when their microbiome creates a very acidic environment, which causes inflammation. It is already a known fact that the composition of the meat of grain-fed cows causes inflammation more actively. In other words, the balance of mega-6 omega-3 acids is severely disrupted. With grain feeding, it is eight to one, that is, there are very few omega-3 acids. With grass feeding, it is three to one, which is much better. In the study in which I participated, my beef was almost one to one. That is, it is definitely not inflammatory meat, but anti-inflammatory, since there was very little omega-6 acids. You need to understand that the grain contains a lot of omega-6. This also explains that in any study, meat in general is most likely The meat being studied is not entirely grass-fed, but grain-fed, which sometimes causes inflammation. I wanted to draw attention to this point because it is the cow's diet that determines the healthiness of the meat. If you take a dog or a cat, and not predators, wolves also eat meat, but it is known that not only it, but also that they find grass, acorns, and such things, but in general they are predators. Cats and dogs have very high stomach acidity in the range of 1.5 to 2.2, like the acid in a battery. People also have quite high acidity, although not as much as dogs and cats, somewhere between one and a half and three. Such strong acid in our stomach seems to hint that we should also eat jam. Humans are omnivores designed for mixed food and animal food, and you can put a person on a purely plant-based diet and he will be able to live, maybe not as well as we would like, but a person can also be put on a predator's diet and he will also survive. I say all this because there are misconceptions about what people should eat. I like to ask for comparison. What kind of food would be the worst possible for a person? Well, it just so happened that  This is exactly how we eat now, this is the Hell diet, which stands for the American diet. It includes animal and plant products, but the plant part of this diet actually consists of grains. I want to draw attention to Plants. Grains are plants. But if you eat mainly them, and this is how a typical American eats, he gets 65 percent of all calories from cereals. Of course, refined ones. However, whole grains are not much better. Gluten and other antinutrients include phytic acid, which blocks zinc and other minerals, tannins, oxalates, and anti-nutritional factors. Yes, plants also contain some antinutrients. But I think if someone starts eating grains, they will begin to develop intestinal damage, and because of this damage, any food with fiber will become a problem. That's why, with intestinal damage, it's not a fact that you can digest only vegetables, fiber, and greens, so you shouldn't rely on them. This is also the question of fiber. The problem is in the fiber itself. I think the problem is in the antinutrients that accompany it. Of course, we need fiber for the microbiome. Now let's move on to what I wanted to discuss.  The microbiome and what it feeds on. If you look in textbooks, they usually keep silent about one key function. They do n't say much. They say that the large intestine is needed mainly for the reabsorption of water and for the formation and accumulation of fecal matter. And what do microorganisms do? Fermentation, and through fermentation, they produce something. During the fermentation process, short-chain fatty acids are produced that nourish the intestines. They also produce vitamins, some acids, secondary substances that are beneficial for the immune system. The length of the small intestine is 7-8 meters, the large intestine is about one and a half meters. And when the microflora in it does not receive fiber, it can feed differently. It can even ferment proteins. This is how it can ferment collagen, cartilage tissue. And so you know, collagen is part of the bones. When eating a carnivore diet, only meat, without plants, intestinal microbes adapt to digesting protein. This explains why many predators do much better with a meat diet. Microorganisms are amazing, they adapt to different diets. But I note that you will not kill your microflora if you simply  You won't be eating plants for a while. I want to point out an important point. When you eat grains or meat from animals that ate grains, your intestines will most likely become inflamed, especially if you are predisposed to this, and this will greatly complicate digestion. In general, I think many people have this to varying degrees with any plant. Some have no symptoms, they have few of them, and some have seriously affected intestines. Some easily digest plants, leafy salads, and so on, in large quantities, like me. People on the other end of the spectrum get bloating and constipation when eating plants, and they should give up plants for a while. And there are people in the middle. They can digest plants, but only in fermented form. I'm talking about sauerkraut, kimchi, pickles, and marinades. What kind of products are these? This plant, for example, cabbage, but it is fermented and it has a lot of microflora that can be beneficial for your intestines. Why is it known that the more diverse the microflora, the better the digestion, the stronger the health. This is an excellent product. It contains a prebiotic, there is already broken down fiber, there are many very useful  microorganisms, they can settle in the intestines. What is good for it, I don’t know if it is possible to develop them and thus increase their number, but these bacteria themselves provide a lot of benefits. In addition, fermentation provides additional vitamins: vitamin K2, vitamin B12, biotin, other B vitamins. Some very useful acids. Another advantage of fermented foods is that during fermentation, the amount of antinutrients in the product immediately decreases. Oxalates, lectins, phytic acid, and tannins are reduced. And other substances in these products become more bioavailable, for example, proteins. Here are a couple of tips, if possible. Choose completely grass-fed animal products. More grain means more inflammation and other problems if you are a vegan or vegetarian. Do not eat grains. Eat other plants, for example, vegetables. If you have severe digestive problems, you will have to eat only meat for some time, but strictly completely grass-fed. Why is it that you will not get harm from omega-6 from the grains that this animal ate. If you have minor digestive problems, fermented vegetables such as kimchi and sauerkraut may help you. Add them to your food. If you have problems with No, it might be more beneficial for you to combine completely grass-fed animal products with plants, but not with grains. I hope this video has cleared up some of the confusion. There's still more to say about this. If you haven't watched my video about the microbiome, it's a very important and interesting topic. I'll post that video here. Watch it.