In this short video, I'll talk about the relationship between the middle back and stress levels. They are connected. We have a sympathetic nervous system, a mechanism called fight or flight. When it is activated, you experience stress. The question is where exactly it is located in the body. It is located in the middle of the back between the first and twelfth thoracic vertebrae. Nerves are located on both sides along these vertebrae. The sympathetic nervous system is also located there. Another location for the fight or flight mechanism is inside the adrenal glands. But that's not what we're talking about today. In the middle of the back, if you have stiffness, pain, or spasm in this area, you will be in stress mode. When you are in stress mode, you may feel stiffness and your back may hurt. In addition, if you eat something wrong, spasms in the digestive system and bloating may occur. This is another cause of back pain that keeps you stressed. It can ruin your sleep and prevent you from relaxing. So, here are my three effective recommendations against stress. First, go to Hero practice for correction of the thoracic vertebrae. When I was in ninth grade, my mother took me there.  I had a chiropractor practice, I knew nothing about it, I lay down on the couch, he straightened my back and it was like a religious cleansing, an incredible lightness appeared, the stress instantly went away, I asked if he liked what he was doing, he nodded and I realized that this was my thing, then I decided to become a chiropractor. If you have never been to one, find a good specialist, get an adjustment and you will understand what I mean, old man, go for a massage of the middle of the back. The third recommendation is to do a special stretch. I have a good one, I will leave a link to it, it includes stretching the middle of the back up and down, it is called the cat-dog method and gasku, they are very simple, but after them you will feel real relief from stress. There is another technique that I developed myself, using my massager, you need to place it on your back, rest it against the back of a chair and then slowly move the massager down, stretching with its help and this is an excellent stress reliever. This can be done lying down, the main thing is that you understand that the middle of the back and stress are interconnected. If you feel stressed or have problems sleeping, try these techniques, it should help. I invite you Adrenal body type is the most common type due to stress. During the course, I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of adrenal body type GO. Stress is closely linked to immunity, so a unique new course on how to strengthen immunity awaits you in the package. I'll tell you how immunity works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course.