Hi, I'll tell you how to check if you have adrenal fatigue. Let me remind you that this is not a diagnosis of adrenal disease. I'm just showing you what to look for, which may be a symptom of adrenal problems. For an accurate diagnosis, you need to go to the doctor. Let's get started. There are several symptoms associated with the work of the adrenal glands. You have difficulty falling asleep, say at 9 you are already exhausted, but if you do not go to bed and do not fall asleep by 10, you will begin to become more alert, it will begin to go away on its own, and then you will definitely not fall asleep. It's already midnight and you are still on edge. You missed a wave and have to wait an hour and a half for a new one. Maybe you wake up at 2 o'clock or wake up in the morning completely exhausted. These are symptoms of adrenal problems. During the day, you want to sleep, especially an hour after lunch. You are exhausted. You need to take a nap, but at 2 o'clock in the morning you have no sleep in either eye. Any pain, for example, plantar fasciitis is inflammation in the feet or fibromyalgia. You do not have enough hormones that suppress inflammation.  and as a result, your whole body hurts, your mind is foggy, you have trouble concentrating, incoherent thoughts, you enter a room and don't remember why everything is in a fog, you're reading a book but you don't understand anything, you're intolerant, people start to get on your nerves, you're irritable, you enter a room, you see that something is wrong and your attention is focused on it, everything else passes you by, breathing problems, two things: first, it's hard for you to climb the stairs, your legs get heavy, the second option is that at night you don't have enough air, this is a symptom of problems with the adrenal glands because your page is too alkaline, not too acidic, but too alkaline, hence the breathing problems, nasal sinuses, they can be blocked because of the adrenal glands, they can also cause allergies, libido can decrease, and finally, you feel dizzy when you get up, let's say you're lying on a massage table, you lie there for 34 minutes and then measure your blood pressure, then you get up and measure your blood pressure again, this is a test of the adrenal glands, the so-called Raglan test, yes, you measure your blood pressure while lying down, lay quietly for a few minutes  We measured it, stood up, and measured it again. Normal blood pressure is 120 to 80. Let's say you have this pressure, and when you stand up, this first upper number is called historical pressure. It should rise by 6 or 10 points. Normally, with adrenal fatigue, it will decrease or increase too much. This is a simple way to check how you adapt to pressure changes and overloads. This is how you need to conduct this test, but there is one nuance. Let's figure out why we need the adrenal glands. These are glands that ensure survival. They help cope with stress. They help the body adapt to stress. When you stand up, this stress is associated with gravity, and the body adapts. Blood pressure increases to adapt to a change in body position. If you don't do this, the brain will not receive enough blood and you will faint. This is why you feel dizzy if you stand up too abruptly. So far, everything is clear. This is a good way to check the body's adaptation. Another way is to run up the stairs. If you quickly start to get out of breath or your legs become heavy, this indicates a problem with the adrenal glands. Some may fall.  They faint if they get up too quickly. This is what happens. The adrenal glands have an outer part, this glandular tissue, it is attached to the kidneys. They also have an inner part. The adrenal glands are the only gland consisting of two parts: an outer and an inner part. The outer part is glandular tissue, it produces hormones, but the inner part is nervous tissue. Perhaps you didn't know that there are only nerve cells here. So here we have two parts, and the inner part is nervous tissue that secretes hormone-like substances called neurotransmitters: adrenaline and norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, and GMK. All of these are neurotransmitters, and adrenaline is a stress hormone. Adrenaline helps the nervous system trigger certain processes. For example, if you run away from a tiger, the vessels leading from the heart expand, and the lungs must open. Think about it. People are even given auto-in-vector with adrenaline so they can breathe during an allergy attack. Sometimes they give an adrenaline injection into the heart to improve blood flow. In other words, the inner part of the adrenal glands is involved in the stress response. They adapt the body to stress. If you're wondering what it's called, I can tell you the sympathetic division. It's the sympathetic division of the nervous system that's responsible for the fight-or-flight response. You've probably heard this before. Let's go into more detail. For example, you see a lion chasing a zebra. The lion attacks, kind of hits, and the zebra runs away. It tries to hide. They're both in a fight-or-flight state, just on opposite sides. The lion is trying to get dinner, and the zebra is trying not to become dinner. Both of them are in a stressful situation. One is in danger of starvation. If the zebra doesn't eat, it could die. It's a matter of survival. For the zebra, running away is also a matter of survival. This is the fight- or-flight response. Our body has a system, but tigers aren't chasing us anymore. We experience stress because of news, other people's media, we're scared of financial disasters, we experience losses, physical injuries, a lot of different types of stress, a lot of anxiety. This kind of stress is equivalent to physical injury. You see, so in a nutshell, if you suspect you have adrenal fatigue, get checked as I said above. Measure your blood pressure when you're lying down and then when you get up, will it rise by 6 or 10 points? If not, then something is wrong with the adrenal glands. I have a lot of videos about what to do with adrenal fatigue, but here I just told you how to check for it. In the second part, I'll tell you something else about what happens to the adrenal glands and also tell you about a very simple way to relieve adrenal fatigue. I invite you to my course. The adrenal body type is the most common type. Thanks to such a thing as stress, during the course I'll show you how to remove stress from the body, get back a beautiful body and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package you'll find a gift. A unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system. I'll tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I'll give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I'm waiting for you on the course. One of the problems with adrenal burnout is a swarm of thoughts in your head, trying to analyze everything. Here's an example for you. My God, how many calories are there? John's wife is completely fed up with him at work.  It's a nightmare, my video editor is taking too long. I know it's hard to stop this swarm of thoughts in my head, but you have to be aware of what's going on. I have enough space, my attention is directed inward. The best and simplest thing you can do when you're stressed is to create this space. How do you do this? Go outside, into nature, take a walk, eat, and direct your attention to something else. Do this for an hour or more. This switch will have an excellent therapeutic effect on your adrenal glands. Calm down. You'll come to your senses faster than if you go to the gym and stare at the screen while running on a treadmill. Yes, you've worked out, but it has n't given you any space. You need to relieve yourself of the burden of worries throughout the day and switch your attention to something in the distance. That's all. I hope this helps. See you again.