Let's talk about how to get rid of terrible fatigue in the mornings. I woke up tired for many years. 15 years of constant fatigue in the mornings. I didn't understand why it was like this. It was a terrible feeling, like a helmet was squeezing my head. There was a fog in my head. Only around 11:00 could I really wake up. So, you could say I'm an expert on fatigue. But if you apply what I'm about to say, you can easily get rid of fatigue and wake up fresh and rested. Most often, you wake up tired because of what you eat. There are other factors, but diet is the main thing. What you ate yesterday will affect you today. This is especially true for large amounts of carbohydrates, starches, and sugars. Why? Because in this case, the body runs on glucose, and the brain is very susceptible to the development of so- called insulin resistance. What does this mean for the brain? It means that there is not enough insulin in the brain to deliver glucose to the nerve cells. That is, the brain cells experience energy starvation. And this makes the brain very unwell. It feels tired and foggy, you will not be focused. When I was probably 30 years old, no less, somewhere  At 28-29 years old, I decided to change my carbohydrate breakfast to a protein one and, as if by magic, the helmet was removed from my head and I became curious. Why did this happen and I began to dive deep into studying the ketogenic diet. The changes came quickly. When you go to a cafe or restaurant for breakfast, they usually serve orange juice, cereal, pancakes, muffins, carbohydrates, sugar. I know that many people wake up grumpy and tired. And it's not just fatigue, it's a mood. If other symptoms confirm this, yes, if you wake up feeling hungry, if you really want something, you wake up in a grumpy mood, if your head is foggy in the morning, it means your blood sugar has dropped. The worst thing you can do is eat carbohydrates to raise blood pressure to correct the situation with low sugar. You will feel better only for a moment, but then it will only get worse. The more carbohydrates and sugar you eat, the more the body protects cells from this. And the more it resists, this is a vicious circle. It is best to skip breakfast altogether. If you reduce carbohydrates during the day, then the next day, maybe after two days, hunger in the morning will disappear, the craving will begin to go away. Because if Deprive your body of carbohydrates and sugar. The body will begin to burn fat, its own fat, as well as fat from the diet, if there is a choice. The brain prefers to burn ketones. This is a product of fat burning. If you wake up with a headache and a feeling of bloating, this may be due to going to a restaurant the night before. Eating the night before has a huge impact on how you feel. Today, my wife and I used to go to Taiwanese restaurants and Chinese restaurants, and we liked them. We ate a lot of rice, carbohydrates, and monosodium glutamate, which is a flavor enhancer. At the time, I didn't realize the connection, but I always woke up with bloating, swelling, and a feeling of irritation in my head, which awakened a craving for certain foods and wanted to go to a restaurant again. You know, once, for a year, I ate a bucket of Ben and Jerry's ice cream before bed. If you wake up feeling nauseous, have a headache, and bloating, this is usually the cause. Being active in the morning indicates that something from the food affected the liver. If you have liver problems, the body will be very active. A couple of things that will help you wake up rested are to practice intermittent fasting and  Skipping breakfast, I would do this: the first meal at noon and the second at least 5 hours before bedtime, or even earlier. If possible, there will be a significant improvement in sleep cycles if you don't eat before bedtime. Test it yourself. One day, eat right before bedtime. And for the next last meal, somewhere around 4-5 pm, and after that, no crumbs, and see how well you sleep. People have temptations, certain cravings, habits that they constantly succumb to. To strengthen willpower, you just need to avoid these things. It takes time, but you need to start. If you constantly give in to the body and bend to its desires, it will weaken your willpower. Never ask your body what you want today, it will not give the right answer. For example, I adhere to this position with my body: I ​​will give you the food you need to survive and be healthy, and I feel my stomach growling, but I do not give in. I will feed you when necessary. You need to constantly remind your body who is the boss. What happens to people under the control of food is incredible. They are completely uncontrollable, they just allow the body to dictate what to eat at any given moment. This is a trap.  from which you need to get out and start controlling your body and with intermittent fasting, hunger immediately goes away. A couple more factors affecting fatigue in the morning if you sit in front of the computer like I do most of the day or look at a mobile phone for a laptop, the following happens: electromagnetic fields (MF) affect the body. I bought this device for detecting MF and noticed that the back wall where the bed is located has an increased background and the electromagnetic field extends 2.5 m from the wall. I slept in this electromagnetic field and then called an electrician, we demolished the wall and dealt with the wires and how well I began to sleep after that. This is one thing, there is also blue light that is harmful to vision and a mobile phone leaning against your head is harmful to the brain, there will be fog in the head and there is also this thing that I hate with every fiber of my being. Unfortunately, I have to use glasses while reading. But using them only makes it worse, so I take them off for half a day and go for a walk. I look at objects at a distance to improve my vision. It may seem that this is fatigue, but maybe it’s just the glasses that tire the eyes and head. Physical exercise.  They are very important for getting rid of adrenaline, stress, and cortisol accumulated during the day. This helps increase stress resistance and helps you sleep better. High- intensity interval training three times a week can significantly improve sleep, as can long walks, hikes, or even better, physical work around the house outside. This is very beneficial for sleep and well-being upon awakening. Jet lag in this situation has a simple solution: when you fly somewhere, take about 30 or 40 thousand units of vitamin D. This will reset the biological clock in the brain. Temperature is also an important factor for sleep. It is best to sleep in a cool place; this will improve the quality of sleep and well-being upon awakening. A mattress is a good factor; you realize that you spend a third of your life on a mattress. So, buy a good mattress. An open window, as much as possible, will help improve your ability to sleep. You also need to breathe through your nose when you sleep. I have a very interesting video on this topic. I will leave the link here. Go and watch.