In this video we will talk about fatigue that does not go away despite rest no matter how much you sleep, you are overcome by fatigue in medicine this is called myological encephalitis Elite Although this term is absolutely unnecessary for you We will focus on what is chronic fatigue syndrome There are other symptoms associated with it, there are certain delayed exacerbations, say, a lunge, you tense up or you had some kind of nervous stress, and after an hour, something worsens, perhaps some pain or inflammation appears, this is one symptom, usually a person has problems with sleep, mood swings, irritability, cognitive problems, clouded consciousness, difficulty concentrating, attention deficit, sore throat, enlarged lymph nodes, this is a clear sign That this is related to an immune problem or maybe muscle pain, so the cause of this fatigue may be Lyme disease, by the way, It's amazing how often people are bitten by ticks these days. About a month ago, I just woke up and felt a slight itch. I looked, she told me, a tick, where did it come from? Because of these damned ticks, maybe  serious health problem in the future If you suspect that you have Lyme disease there is a link below I will explain what to do this is one possible reason for the symptoms mentioned in diabetes can also cause Some of these symptoms as well as low levels of vitamin D But as a rule, the most common reason is the activation of the Epstein- Barr virus, many people become infected with the Epstein-Barr virus at school or college And then it goes away, but when it goes away, it goes into hibernation and it can come back to come out of hibernation when a person is stressed, the problem with stress is that because of stress, the thymus gland decreases And this is a kind of training camp for leukocytes and cells and stress paralyzes the immune system greatly increasing the likelihood of activation of the virus So you need to ask yourself a very important question When did you have this fatigue that does not go away after rest and what happened right before it was it related to some stressful event stress is a very common cause or was it related to the fact that you were in the forest or somewhere else and you were bitten by a tick Or for example It lasts a very long time and you eat a lot of carbohydrates or Let's say this happens in winter in January. And you don't take vitamin D and don't eat foods rich in vitamin D. These are just ideas, but let's say the cause is the Epstein-Barr virus. Here's a remedy called astragalus. Take six grams of dried root. It's a very effective remedy. Cook over low heat for 30 minutes. Let it cool. You'll get a very thick tea. Drink it once a day. Astragalus is not only a very powerful antiviral agent, it also reduces stress well. Also, take vitamin D, 30,000 IU per day, and take zinc, at least 100 mg per day. That's what I recommend to put this nasty virus into hibernation and regain your energy. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.