Hello everyone Today we will start with a wonderful quiz question for our wonderful viewers It's your turn, doc Which of the factors of premature aging is the main one Dear viewers, we are waiting for your answers And now questions from social networks A second Steve, I must clarify this question I meant which of the factors preventing premature aging A is clearly the main one This is a modified question, not the one I sent Well, okay, fine I don't want to promote aging Well, okay, this Downton Rambla asks whether carotenes and the enzyme Q10 work together to strengthen heart health He has shortness of breath after training I think we are talking about a basket Let's see, it says carotene Well, okay, kerosene works great Although no Yes, carnosine is found in red meat and also coenzyme Q10, these two factors really help supply muscles with energy In short, the answer is yes, another factor is creatine, this is another Factor in general, yes, this is a good idea this will allow muscles to receive more energy you breathe during training Perhaps you have a deficiency of something of this and  Also, vitamin E is a note for you. And if you feel that your muscles are weak, then you have a salt deficiency. You need more sodium. Someone from Rambler with Nick super 9 asks, excellent. What is the cause of plantar fasciitis? How can I get rid of this terrible problem? I think there are a couple of possible causes. After all, it could be, for example, due to flat feet. Do you have inflammation somewhere else in the body? Do you have an old injury to one of your ankles that could increase the pressure on the other? Have you had a neurological procedure removed? What is causing you? Now you limp. If you have gout, fasciitis can cause many disorders. To get rid of it, I advise stretching the front of the leg. If it is a systemic disease, then I advise completely eliminating seed oils. Get more omega-3 from fish oil. Or better yet, from cod liver oil. Also, take more vitamin D3. Good. I hope this helps. Someone writes: 7 God, how do you read this? Be wary of working with seeds because they seem to contain biofel, which can lower testosterone levels. Have you heard of this? I think we are talking about the seeds that are sold in paper bags in stores. Yes, I don’t know if there will be much harm from touching them, but I will talk about the chemicals of khat. We have been talking about them for thousands of years, and all these poisons accumulate in us. And then one day someone says, “Oh, sorry, this used to be considered safe, but now they consider it dangerous.” Sorry, but 100 years have passed, they did this with a spendthrift. You know, they were once considered safe, so did doctors, or so did our Ministry of Health. But I think we get the most from water, so it is very important to buy a good water filter. I will release a video about this probably next weekend. In it, I will talk about three water filters that remove eternal chemicals. I 100% think this is a good solution, and celiac disease. Please advise the best diet and baht for these diseases. Hoy thanks you. I would switch to a healthy diet, because peripheral neuropathy is associated with insulin resistance, and to eliminate it, you need to cut carbohydrates, and the nutrient benfotiamine will speed up  Getting rid of it is a form of vitamin B1 benfotiamine take it one capsule four times a day and there was another question was peripheral neuropathy and what else I already deleted the question so as not to read it again, but it seems there is inflammation in the intestines a low-carb diet should help eliminate inflammation in the intestines I think you will kill two birds with one stone I hope this helps and our viewers have already answered the question that Victory asked So which of the factors prevents premature aging 65% answered that it is exercise 15% said stress reduction This is good 99% said reducing carbohydrate and sugar intake and 10% said the optimal amount of sleep who is right, well, right I all looked at what has the greatest and most powerful effect on this premature aging and this is essentially chronically high cortisol levels chronically elevated cortisol Why And the fact is that the harm from cortisol is twofold firstly, it deprives us of quality sleep And it converts protein in the body collagen in the body sugar Yes, and with this the blood sugar level and problems arise with this So What else does cortisol counteract vitamin B1, potassium, calcium, and vitamin D? So stress is the main thing. What destroys the body and causes aging is what ages you prematurely. Steve, you need to eliminate stress from your environment at any cost. I'm sure it's very easy these days and you'll be fine. Lori, go away. Sorry, I decided to joke with my wife. It often helps.