Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog.  What types of fuel can cancer live on? Well, friends, Doc has touched on this topic many times, so it will be easy for you to answer this question.  Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there. Original products in the CIS can be ordered only at drbergstore.com. And now questions from social networks.  writes Trishensrambla. I have extremely low DHA levels. I take dissolvable tablets.  We hope they help. They checked my other hormones too.  Some of them are a little out of the ordinary.  What do you think about normalizing DHA levels?  What is DGA?  Dog is a precursor for certain hormones, sex hormones. You need to know that men can take more of it than women. If you are a woman, take it in sufficient quantities, but do not go to extremes, as it can increase androgen levels. So, DGA is a precursor.  If you have little of it, of course, take it, and you will probably feel much better, because it is raw material.  Cholesterol is also a raw material for hormones. Therefore, a low- cholesterol diet sometimes lacks the raw materials for hormones, and this harms them.  So it's good that you discovered this.  It would be interesting to know what happens when you normalize it.  But if you are a woman, take it little by little and get tested again.  Very good.  Now let's chat with someone in person.  We're talking to Danil, and he has a question. Danil, please ask Dr. Berg one question.  You are on air. Hello, Dr. Berg. Can you help with an injury? It's a serious injury and I've had a heart murmur for the last 6 months. Thank you. So, the first question was about injury. I fell off a roof and over the years there have been attempts on my life. Clear.  You had an injury, and now you have both. Clear.  And you have problems with your heart rhythm, right?   Yes. This is atrial fibrillation.   Do n't know.  Nobody examined me. Clear.  So, I'll start with a couple of points about atrial fibrillation and arrhythmia. I think taking high doses of magnesium glycinate for months would help you a lot.   This will help you replenish the key electrolyte needed to maintain a normal heart rhythm. Additionally, magnesium glycine may help you cope with the effects of trauma, both physical and psychological. After all, trauma increases cortisol levels and activates the sympathetic nervous system.  Magnesium is a key ingredient, and hashwagandha is needed - it is an adaptogen.  I have a lot of videos, try to find them. You said you fell. If you fall on a certain part of your body, that injury can sometimes linger in your body.  I showed methods of physical work with this.  Let's say you fall and hit your tailbone on concrete, the force of the impact is transmitted upward into your neck.  And there are many methods to release this tension.  I have worked extensively with physical trauma in my clinic for 30 years.  I made a lot of videos about this.  I think taking high doses of magnesium will help you quickly solve your heart and arrhythmia problems .  But potassium is another important electrolyte. Sodium is also an electrolyte, but it is easy to get, and most people are deficient in magnesium.  And the last thing I want to say. This is what I discovered in myself.  I was developing arrhythmia, and I get a lot of potassium, but I had arrhythmia.  I bought a P tester, a Market Riffield electromagnetic field tester .  This is a device for measuring electromagnetic fields.  I walked around my whole house with him.  And guess where the strongest MPs were?  In the wall, right behind my bed. That is, when I went to bed, I was penetrated by a magnetic field with a radius of 2.5 mt, because the wires in the wall were laid incorrectly.  I called an electrician, he took apart the wall, fixed the wiring, and suddenly my arrhythmia completely went away. What a coincidence. So, if you spend a lot of time in the EMF, say, near a computer, it affects the electromagnetic fields of the heart. Thank you very much for your question, Daniel, and we hope your condition improves.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Written by Zoya Anna Strumble.  When I wake up in the morning, my stomach starts to churn.  The heart beats quickly and the blood sugar level rises sharply.  What could cause this? Thank you. This is interesting, because many health problems appear early in the morning.  This is related to our circadian rhythms. And early in the morning we have the lowest magnesium levels.  You see, we're talking about magnesium again. And this is associated with many problems. If the sugar level is high, this is the dawn phenomenon.  And in the vast majority of cases, high blood sugar in diabetes is not caused by a person eating sugar, but by the liver producing too much sugar.  Why?  Because there was a malfunction in the body. insulin resistance is so high that a signal is sent to the liver: “We have little sugar, we need to produce it.”  And it produces it from protein, ketones, and fat.  This is probably the cause of many of your problems.  You need to follow a healthy keto diet for many months to fix this.   In the meantime, long walks in the morning after sleep will probably help you.  This way you will burn off this sugar and it will be much easier for you.  Best of luck, Zoe.  Hope this helps.  Let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  What types of fuel can cancer live on?  75% answered: "Sugar or glucose", 20% said empty carbohydrates and 5% said glutamine or fructose.  What do you say, doc? I have studied this topic in depth.  For quite a long time I rejected what I am about to tell you. I just thought, "No, this can't be, it's impossible."  But I kept reading the research. I'll be releasing a video about what foods to eat if you have cancer.  What dishes are useful in this case? Here's what I found. Most types of cancer feed on glucose and glutamine.  They are glutamine dependent. It is an amino acid.  It's hard to avoid unless you're on a low-protein diet. If you start cutting carbs, cancer goes after glutamine.  If you cut down on glutamine, it will be taken for carbohydrates. So, in general, there are such types of cancer, but there are also types of cancer that are capable of switching to lipids and eating them, and these are fats, right?   There are also types of cancer that can feed on branched-chain amino acids , and other types of cancer, especially in the later stages, because they have no other choice, change their biochemistry and eat cetons.  I know I'm going to get some horrible comments, but just wait for that video. Take a breath, read the data, form an opinion.  It's sad to admit, but some types of cancer can have tones in their later stages.  So, before you say, "Oh my god, what should I eat now?"  Please understand that I am not talking about cancer prevention now, but about cancer that already exists, its stage and type.  I'll post a great document for you to download. Everything is logical there.  Because depending on your situation, you need to eat this and not that.  And you need to switch between diets every few days.  Then you will have a chance to survive, because you are not letting the cancer run wild. You can also take certain supplements to block the production of various things that cancer needs, thereby enhancing the effects of the diet.  Stay tuned for more data on this.