Hello We have another issue of answers to questions no matter what I say this is not a diagnosis by phone or online Ask a doctor before using Steve You probably think that this is what I have here Yes I thought, well, I learned what not to do you should not try to catch a wasp's nest in a glass jar without protective equipment So I thought I caught all the wasps But I missed one and it stung me right in the eye what a pleasure a wasp sting I don't even know if it's a wasp Apparently a wasp It would be better if they stuck a needle in my eyeball because the degree is like conducting poison with some kind of pain enhancer for nerve endings it's just that I've never had such severe pain I applied ice But it didn't help at all it was definitely this bumblebee or whoever it was that brought it to my consciousness never do that again So you know Steve you learn a lot on the farm that's for sure I won't forget your lesson So we have accumulated a lot of questions on social networks let's start with YouTube shares what do you recommend for cleansed Pulse is usually best treated with potassium. If you take potassium, your pulse rate will decrease. Vitamin B1 can also reduce the purity of your pulse. Perhaps you just need more potassium. One of the causes of potassium deficiency is the consumption of empty carbohydrates. Sugars lower potassium levels and bind it so much that your pulse becomes higher and higher. Very good. Barbara asks. Recommend the best supplements for asthma, vitamin D. I just interviewed an amazing researcher, Bruce Hawley. He is a pioneer in vitamin D research. He said, based on a lot of his research, that if mothers took enough vitamin D in the first trimester of pregnancy, and during this period the lungs develop and much more. If there was enough vitamin D, we would never have asthma. Jim from Ramble writes well that he has tingling in his toes, peripheral neuropathy, but he does not have diabetes. What can he do? The same remedies are benfotiamine and alpha-lipoic acid, the dose indicated on the can. But four times a day, this should help a lot. Well, very good. Let's move on. Shannon asks. Can you share your thoughts on the carnivore diet? In my opinion, an excellent diet. Especially for those who have any intestinal inflammation, leaky gut syndrome, Crohn's disease, even autoimmune diseases. But this is one of those diets. Try it and see how you feel. I don't use it. I don't have problems with vegetables. But someone does. So this is an individual diet. Is there a way to follow it with health benefits? I think you need to sew it yourself. I agree that you can't put everyone on the same diet. There are different conditions and situations. So find out what suits you and follow this. Great. KTI with Yuba. We hear a lot about parasites. She doesn't mention whether she has them or which ones. How do you understand which parasite remedy is generally better? I prefer walnut extract and wormwood extract in combination with both. This is an excellent parasite remedy. It is quite powerful. So don't overdo it. Don't take it for a long time. It will definitely get rid of parasites and worms. Excellent. Good. Next question: Alice, my feet itch, they peel and become dry very quickly. In some places, the skin becomes rough. No, because I'm fasting and not eating. By the way, I also have sugar, tingling in my legs. This is what is happening to me now. It's called paresthesia. In fact, there could be several things at once, but I think most likely you need more bile salts. You have something with your gallbladder. Usually, it's a matter of bile sediment. If you take them, they are good for the gallbladder, including on an empty stomach. This will improve the outflow of bile through the ducts, the tubes that go from the liver to the gallbladder, and you can hope that bile will stop getting into the tissues and causing this itching. Usually, it's a matter of digestion. Well, good luck. We were worried about Rud. She writes that 2 months after cataract removal, her eye is still cloudy. Will any nutrient help her? I have a video about this. You need ethyl carnosine in drops, but they come in two types. Watch this video and try to find the right type of these drops. The eyes need various carotenoids for their protection. Lutein and xanthine, if you take them, this will probably be beneficial. Yes, I think that today during this live broadcast, We will do more than once  Let's touch on this issue. I won't post everything at once when answering other questions, so don't turn it off to find out more. It seems I have n't read Shera's question from Yuba yet. What do you recommend for a rapid heart rate? We've already read it. Potassium helps. It regulates the heart's function. It seems to calm it down, just like magnesium. But potassium is especially important for the heart rate. That's what I recommend. Thank you for explaining it all again. Bernice is asking. Can you please advise what to do with resistant hypertension? I would focus on two things, first, three, or rather, your diet shouldn't have a lot of refined sugars. That's the first thing. Switch to healthy ketogenic foods. That's what I recommend. Vitamin D in large doses is excellent for hypertension, just like potassium. But one dose of dietary supplements contains about 99 mg of potassium. That's nothing. It won't do anything. You need at least 1,000 mg per day, and generally 4,700. So, eat something that's high in potassium. In short, I think these two things will help you a lot. In fact, doing these three things, I think  You will achieve great success. Good job, Lemart from YouTube. Can I take Tutkun Drome for leaky gut, and not just for the gallbladder and liver? Tutkun is good for the liver and gallbladder, but I don't know. Is this remedy suitable for leaky gut? The problem of leaky gut is much more effective. Vitamin D and glutamine will be much more effective. If you take glutamine in the form of Bado for a month, it should perfectly repair the intestines, if not giving it to him again with unhealthy food. I already talked about this. Zinc carnosine seems to help with this too, but watch my recent videos about leaky gut syndrome. This is very important, because here's what happens here: if there is a hole in the protective barrier, and through it, something enters the body through the immune barrier. Bypassing, so to speak, border control without a permit stamp from the Border Guards, then the immune system mistakenly marks the particle that has penetrated, like Potodeyevo, it will be marked as a foreign pathogen, and you will develop an allergy to eggs. Yeah,  curious We have interesting questions Here is the first one I ask you doctor So True or false You can take 10,000 IU of vitamin D every day for 5 days or you can take 50,000 IU once every 5 days in both cases the benefit will be the same I'm curious Well, let's get back to our friends from Rambla Carly 408 Can I take your natural B1 in the morning with other dietary supplements and in the evening benfotiamine with other dietary supplements Can I take benfotiamine constantly I like the effect of both of these dietary supplements Yes, yes, the beauty of benfotiamine is fat- soluble B1 unlike water-soluble natural B1 that's how it strengthens the mitochondria you will be better metabolized Sleep will be more energy it is a lot What does it affect and many have a deficiency I like the effect of both of these forms of vitamin B1 in addition to them I also take I have chewable tablets of nutritional yeast Steve loves them and I take nutritional yeast in flakes I sprinkle all salads not enriched with nutritional yeast and how does it taste They are like Parmesan I feel good this yeast relieves stress This is what I sprinkle on salads I find them strangely tasty Or maybe not strangely a pleasant nutty taste Thanks to them I have ice cream asks is it dangerous to take vitamin for those who have had blood clots especially if you are taking a blood thinner You should not take vitamin K1 otherwise it will get worse If you have a problem with blood clots you need to talk to a doctor After all, blood clots have a cause and I would correct your diet Because there are things that increase blood clots There are such foods but there are also natural remedies for blood thinning One of them is garlic vitamin E Another one is quite a lot of such remedies Vitamin K1 promotes blood clotting So if you have a problem with blood clots Talk to your doctor Do not take too much K1 But if this problem is not a problem understand that natural K1 that you get from food will not create a problem with blood clots it only normalizes blood clotting very well I suggest returning to our quiz We have not yet answered the first question True or false can you take 10,000 IU of vitamin D every day for 5 days, or you can take 50,000 IU Once every 5 days, in both cases, the benefit will be the same and we'll see 8% said true And 52% of the majority said False This is a very important question This is a complete lie If someone got distracted Come back because This is a very important point I will also record a video where I will tell you more about this based on the data of Dr. Bruce Holisal about this a month ago I understood that there are two systems for delivering vitamin D one system for bones and calcium and the other system for everything else including the immune system organs and so on And these two systems are not connected The type of vitamin D that delivers calcium to the bones has a half-life of about 2 weeks maybe 3 weeks If you are only interested in calcium and bones, then take large doses of vitamin D once a week or two, but perhaps you don't even need that much, but if you are interested in all the other cells of the body, their half-life is only one day one day So if Don't be in the sun or don't take vitamin  D Daily, then most likely there will be a deficiency of vitamin In these areas of the body that need vitamin D3 So Here's why it is better to take vitamin D daily, this is important information, this is very important information Especially because now it is essentially impossible to get funding for vitamin D research, researchers are not given money After all, I think These people know that it works great and do not want to focus on it, they do not want it to work, because this threatens many interests, because vitamin D is an essential nutrient and most people do not have enough of it. So this is important to know, because its importance is downplayed, supposedly it does not work, there is no need to worry, it is enough in food, they all most of the studies are focused on bones, on the skeleton, on calcium, the immune system or something else, for example, in many studies that were conducted in relation to the immune system, inflammation, what is outside the bones, vitamin D was given to people once a week or once a month, of course, there was no effect And why doesn't it work, but it was not taken every day, so I will record this video, I think it is very important to know about all this, watch it on Dr. Berg's website, someone wants to chat in person  kti states kinky wants to ask you a question Katie are you on the air Yes good morning Dr. Berg I have been looking everywhere for grass fed beef I even went to a butcher shop 45 minutes away from me and they said that they have it in very small quantities the thing about organic products in our stores is very small if it is not possible to find such products then do I need to take any additional vitamins do I need to do a detox because of all this because of the chemicals in our food What should I do Where do you live I live in Redcliffe state ntu good that for nose good excellent I think come to my farm I pour I think that I am sure there are farms in your area Where you can even buy a quarter of a cow carcass Put it in the refrigerator Well okay I think you can buy grass fed meat online from different companies say in the US I would order from them and they will send grass fed meat I think if you stay in touch to learn more about In the coming week you will find out I will tell you about many good  suppliers if you do n't have any and what nutrients products are needed. What can I do to compensate for this? I'm working on this and on different recipes. This will be great. As for grass-fed meat, it has a completely unique composition. It is very rich in nutrients. It has an excellent ratio of omega-3 and omega-6. So, maybe you should switch and eat a little more fish and seafood. Okay. This will be good. I also don't know if you have a Farmers' Market, but I know there is a lot of grass-fed beef in these markets. These farmers may not have a certificate, but I would still buy from them. Okay, thank you very much.