Hi all.  Let's start with the quiz question. Please, Dog.  Why do our genes deliberately make us vulnerable to certain diseases?  Let me give you an example. Some people, myself included, say that when I looked at my DNA, I learned that I have genes that make me predisposed to some kind of disease, to inflammation. that I can't absorb vitamin D. This is strange.  Why do our genes, which are supposed to make us healthy, make us susceptible to certain diseases?  That is the question. Interesting, friends.  I'm sure you can find the answer.  And now questions from social networks.  asks Hella 1 2 3 4 Srambla how to compensate for low levels of thyroid stimulating hormone with a partially removed thyroid gland. So, the pituitary gland tells the thyroid gland to release its hormones.  And if there is no connection, because the thyroid gland is missing or part of it is missing , then the pituitary gland begins, so to speak, to raise its voice and increases the level of thyroid stimulating hormone. So, if the thyroid gland is partially removed and the thyroid stimulating hormone is too high, then obviously the thyroid gland is not getting it.  In this case, there may be a deficiency of thyroid hormones.  And there's a whole story here.  You need to go to the doctor, get tested and have your hormones compensated.  If you have high levels of this hormone, you may even need to take thyroid hormones. I recommend taking armorthyroid.  I think it is better than synthetic hormones or other natural thyroid hormones, and this is not only T4, but also T3.  After all, thyroid hormones are a group of several hormones, including calcitonin. But Synthroid only contains synthetic T4.  What about the rest? Additionally, you may benefit from selenium, which helps convert T4 to T3, and you may benefit from a pituitary support supplement. Standard Process has a range of products. I don't use them myself anymore, but I sometimes recommend them.  If I had this problem, I would take teretrophin PMG and pitut trophin PMG from Standard Process.  Great.  Zoani from Rambla needs help.  Is there a connection between a slightly protruding belly, a rapid heartbeat and frequent bouts of weakness?  Thank you. I think there could be many reasons for a rapid heartbeat.  I don't know if there is a connection with the stomach. Attacks of weakness can obviously be related to blood pressure.  I would check the pressure.  After all, the heartbeat can clear up to compensate for low blood pressure.  Again, I would look for the root cause of what you are eating.  Are you eating enough salt or are you eating too much salt?  I don't know.  What about electrolytes?  Are you getting enough potassium? Potassium reduces heart rate and normalizes blood pressure.  It depends on the pressure itself.  What about the adrenal glands? Is there a problem there? Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Also, a B1 deficiency can activate the autonomic nervous system, and this can cause the heart rate to increase.  Then you need B1.  To identify the cause, you need to know all the relationships.   That 's why I made 5,700 videos so you can find out all this.  Wow!  Asks Angelits from YouTube how best to deal with temporomandibular joint problems. This is often due to improper occlusion of the teeth.  You need to go to the dentist to ensure that all your teeth are in alignment.  Often people go to the dentist and then their teeth don't quite fit together correctly. This can disrupt the functioning of the jaw and can cause serious harm to it. I am not a supporter of frequent manipulation of the jaw joint.  After all, it is usually a secondary joint, and the problem with it is caused by some other problem, such as an upper neck injury. And, oddly enough, digestive problems can affect the gallbladder.  This can affect the phrenic nerve, which runs up into the neck and can cause referred pain in the jaw.  If you have a problem with your jaw on the right, try this.  Massage the gallbladder area, take some tutka and see if the jaw pain goes away. Great.  We wish you good luck with this. Let's see what viewers answered to the quiz question, which was: "Why do our genes make us vulnerable to certain diseases?" 75% answered: "Because genes are influenced by environmental factors over generations. 15% said it was to improve mitochondrial efficiency. And 10% said it was to help the body better cope with new diseases and bacteria." This is something incredibly curious, at least for me. And that's why specific genes in the immune system have been discovered that increase the risk of developing type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, Hashimoto's disease, and other autoimmune diseases. And I'll wait a minute.  If the body's purpose is to survive, why does it engage in this madness, exposing itself to autoimmune diseases?   This is some kind of nonsense.  And then you find out that there was some benefit to having this gene like this in the first place. Steve, let's imagine that you were transported back to the time of cavemen, to the Stone Age.  And there you are, drinking water from the stream.  There are many microbes around you that are no longer there today.   The immune system would have to adapt to this.  I would have to create more inflammation, be stronger, be more alert and hyperactive. But today we don't need that.  So if you're doing something like eating inflammatory seed oils , overeating, eating frequently, and you have increased inflammation, that's going to make the threat worse.  And these genes are activated more strongly than others and can cause autoimmune disease. But if you take vitamin D, imagine how much sun people received in the Stone Age.  Unlike us, and how much vitamin D they had, they may have even had to change their DNA to reduce their sensitivity to ultraviolet light. After all, most modern people have genetic problems with the absorption of vitamin D. Probably because in the past there was an excess of it, and this was bad. But today we need vitamin D to regulate the immune system and compensate for the hereditary resistance of the immune system. If we don't get enough vitamin D or sun, then essentially our genetic vulnerabilities are amplified and can cause autoimmune disease.   That 's why Dr. Caimbra developed a protocol to induce remission of autoimmune diseases with high doses of vitamin D3, and it does so in nine out of ten cases.  Why don't people know about this? Because this is competition for pharmaceutical giants. Eat. Just understand that whatever our body does, it does so for a reason.  And take this into account.  It might be a good idea to take a DNA test to find out what diseases you are predisposed to and how you can change your lifestyle to avoid them. I've made a lot of videos about this already, but it wouldn't hurt for you to take a DNA test to find out your weak points.  Great.  We have one more quiz question, and I'm just going to read it out.  Why aren't GPT and Google chat reliable sources of health information?  And we don't have much time left, so maybe, Dog, you can give our viewers an answer right away. I recently had a lot of arguments with the GPT chat because he was completely wrong.  If you go into incognito mode in your browser, type in GPT chat, and start asking health questions, all of his answers will be completely wrong. And the reason is that neither GPT chat nor Google is capable of thinking.  They get their answers from reliable, trustworthy websites. And they perceive these sites as authoritative sites.  I believe that these authoritative sites are heavily influenced by vested interests and other influential people.  They are extremely biased. So that's the problem.  You search for something on Google or in GPT chat, and they take data from official sources that are completely corrupt, so you can't really trust their correct answers. So, I think in a couple of months I'll show you a better way, and I think we'll solve this problem. You just take Wikipedia data with a grain of salt when you're trying to find something.   It's useful to look at, but I wouldn't rely on it alone, especially if you want results. Because if you take at least such a concept as a general medical consensus, in essence, it is based not on real science, but on what everyone agreed on.  But how often does the general consensus turn out to be wrong? Smoking was once thought to be beneficial because it reduced stress. It turned out that this was not the case.  There was a general medical consensus that we should eat whole grains.  This has now been debunked, and there are many such things, including bloodletting and even the new idea that you need to wash your hands to prevent infection. Oh well.  I think I've said enough about this , and I'm not sure. Do you have another minute, Steve?  It seems there is a minute.  There are still 30 seconds for Dona from Facebook to answer her question.  What is the best way to treat pancreatitis? So, I'll give a short answer.  We are often told that pancreatitis is caused by a tumor, cancer, or something else.  Yes, but it is rare. And what is the common reason?  Well, the tube that goes from the liver to the gallbladder, the bile duct, crosses near the small intestine where a tube from the pancreas crosses.  enters the small intestine and connects with the bile duct. If there is sediment or stones, but usually bile sediment, it can block the pancreatic enzymes, and they return to the pancreas without reaching the small intestine, and cause inflammation of pancreatitis.  So, this is why one of the good remedies for pancreatitis is tutka. Because in reality, it starts in the bile ducts.  That's all.  Until next time.