Today we will discuss eight ways to heal trauma, physical injury without drugs. I discovered a therapy that I had never heard of. Even when I practiced it, it was something amazing. It's a pity I didn't know about this when I was practicing, because how many more people could I have helped then? The main factor in trauma is inflammation. Inflammation is part of the healing process. Without it, healing will be a problem when inflammation becomes chronic. I am an expert in this matter. After all, I have many old injuries. I think that to become an expert in something, you need to achieve good results in it, and in the fight against inflammation, I have achieved something. I want to make a small digression on the topic of inflammation and cancer. The fact is that inflammation is the most powerful carcinogenic factor, which is very interesting. People think that it is tobacco smoke, junk food, but a common feature of many diseases that can degenerate into cancer is inflammation. In fact, cancer spreads to areas where there is inflammation. There is the so-called Warburg effect. Cancer occurs in a normal cell. In a normal cell, something is damaged, then it goes to plan B and switches to a different type of metabolism, which is based on Glucose enzyme so the same thing can happen with immune cells in fact With many chronic diseases The Warburg effect also occurs I didn't even know about it Until recently this is very interesting cancer can be detected with the help of Niro Ney while areas of high glucose metabolism are detected in the body this is how areas of cancer cell growth are detected as well as inflammation and I had a question how to distinguish inflammation from cancer cells I have n't found the answer yet I will keep looking but it is already interesting that a Pet scan detects inflammation So what is inflammation so at the cellular level inflammation is a protein leak from the cell resulting in an increased concentration of protein outside the cell fluid retention occurs associated with the so-called osmotic pressure edema fluid retention is caused by osmotic pressure and it seems the Warburg effect occurs due to osmotic pressure Perhaps this is due to damage to the mitochondria I don't know I just want you to remember this when we discuss different ways to help the body heal from injury and of course inflammation is necessary as part of the healing process but we don't need chronic  Inflammation, after all, chronic inflammation leads to the appearance of scar tissue and fibrosis. And this increases the risk of developing cancer. Take, for example, hepatitis or liver inflammation. What leads to chronic cirrhosis of the liver. The next phase of this is liver cancer. The same thing with the lungs. If inflammation begins in the lungs and from smoking for many years, then scar tissue occurs. Chronic lung disease and the risk of developing cancer greatly increases. The same thing happens with diabetes due to high glucose levels. Inflammation occurs and the risk of developing cancer. It increases with any chronic inflammation, the risk of developing cancer increases. It increases with chronic alcohol consumption, when eating junk food, even a chronic infection can increase the risk of developing cancer, as can a long-term autoimmune disease. So, to heal a physical injury, we actually need to try to get rid of chronic inflammation. When scar tissue or calcification occurs, this area becomes stiff and movable and blood circulation may become insufficient. And the eight methods that I will list allow you to eliminate one or more of the problems that I described. Of course, first of all, you need to eliminate what  inflammation is caused by a bad habit such as smoking, drinking alcohol, etc., it is necessary to identify and eliminate this factor. Many people eat something that they know they should not eat, but they may not even know it; they may not even understand that this food causes inflammation. They may have gas, bloating, or something like that, but they do not know what is really going on inside them. Here, switching to a carnivore diet for several weeks will help, especially with any inflammation in the intestines, or at least you need to go on a keto diet, remove refined sugars and other carbohydrates and get rid of bad habits. So, this was number one and this is the basis of the basics. Number two is alternating heat and cold, for example, a hot cold shower, a sauna or Jacuzzi, and immersion in an ice bath. One thing, then the other. What is the benefit of this? It will increase the circulation of the system, remove waste from the body, stimulate healing at the cellular level. Sometimes periodic additional injuries are needed at the microscopic level to stimulate healing. Number three is an important point of training. This is really one of the most effective ways.  Heal the injury because chronic inflammation is scar tissue. Injury to a body part leads to a lack of movement. When you force the body to move, you trigger all sorts of healing processes at the level of muscle cells and joints. When we stop moving, we begin to die. If you are constantly moving, you prolong your life. Let's move on to stretching. I do a lot of stretching exercises. Stretching improves sleep, increases joint mobility, improves posture, helps remove scar tissue that interferes with movement, which causes inflammation to increase. Next, number five is taking large doses of vitamin D to rebuild tissue in the joints and various other tissues. Then there are the famous omega-3 fatty acids in cod liver oil, in fish oil, and so on. You also need vitamin B3, which comes in two forms: niacin and nicotinamide. Here you need nicotinamide, and a link to my recent video about it so you know what doses are needed. Polyphenols are also needed, which are found in all herbal remedies: curcumin from turmeric, green tea, they are found in the root of stinging nettle. In one video, I I talked about an excellent remedy. This is methylene blue. Methylene blue is the first synthetic drug that was created. Even earlier than aspirin, in the past it was used for various kinds of infections, tuberculosis, malaria, as an antimicrobial agent. It is also a good anti-inflammatory. It is relatively non-toxic if taken in small doses, but methylene blue is remarkable in that it helps at the cellular level, at the mitochondrial level. Number six, I call it the mirror technique. I have a lot of videos about this, they are in several of my courses. You need to work with the side of the body opposite the injury. If it hurts on the left side, work with the right side. If it hurts in the back, work in the front. Yes, it seems strange, but I used this in practice and it was the most successful way to eliminate pain or reduce inflammation. How does it work? It is probably somehow related to the location of the nerves. This method is also suitable for old injuries. Number six, fasting. Fasting is another powerful way to reduce inflammation and pain. The body has to adapt and survive better and turn off the inflammation. Amazing. The last point is shock wave therapy, but it is not shock.  therapy no I am categorically against it I am talking about shock wave therapy with the help of shock wave therapy they crush kidney stones and even gallstones it is called lithotripsy but there are devices whose waves are not focused to work with such small objects in fact I think many professional sports teams use such devices And I didn’t know about it I wanted to undergo some treatment I was simply amazed these waves literally crush concrete it’s not painful they destroy scar tissue they speed up healing there are devices for home use but I advise you to go to someone who knows how to do it knows the right frequencies this procedure stimulates the growth of blood vessels in a specific area It allows you to reverse calcific tendonitis I once shattered my left elbow into 30 fragments doctors had to sew my triceps tendon and you know everything is very bad there but when I had this therapy in this place it was as if a new elbow appeared I just  Holy [ __ ], why did I hear that it really helps with IS? Well, I just wanted to record a video about all the types of therapy that I think help you recover much better from physical trauma. And I also mentioned methylene blue. I think it would be very useful for you to watch this video about it. If you haven't watched it yet, M