There are some very interesting facts about sugar that you probably haven't heard of. So I'll tell you about them. The maximum amount of carbohydrates at which you can enter Titos is approximately 50 grams per day. This could be a little more or a little less, depending on your metabolism. But what does 50 grams of carbohydrates mean? 50 grams of sugar, 50 grams of digestible carbohydrates. This is the total amount of carbohydrates without fiber, or just 50 grams of all carbohydrates. People are a little confused about this. I think it should be 50 grams of digestible carbohydrates, that is, you need to subtract fiber. But there is a huge difference between consuming 50 grams of sugar, which is a carbohydrate, and 50 grams of digestible carbohydrates in general. But you may ask, but if we are not talking about sugars and cannot distinguish, then what kind of carbohydrate is it? And here is the answer to this question. It is starch. Starch is just a bunch of sugar molecules stuck together, but if we are talking about 50 grams of carbohydrates from sugar, it is equivalent to 40 grams of sweet soda, specifically orange soda, in this volume of soda 49. 50 grams of pure sugar. That's it.  How many carbohydrates are in it? If you compare this with 50 grams of digestible carbohydrates from vegetables, say carbohydrates from greens, then you get a little more than 340 grams. We get 42 cups of greens. And this is 3125 grams. If you are on chum and they tell you about 50 grams of carbohydrates. And you get them from orange soda. It will be digested very quickly and there will be a jump in sugar. This will undoubtedly slow down or even stop your progress. But if you eat greens, which have a lot of fiber, it is broken down and digested very slowly, then you will enter Titos much better. So, it's not just about 50 grams of digestible carbohydrates, but their quality. Therefore, I even recommend not including vegetables, especially greens, in carbohydrates. The next moment when you eat sugar, your blood sugar level rises. But if you check your blood sugar level, what sugar are you determining? In this case, in most cases, Sugar is approximately half Glucose and half fructose. This is table sugar, beet sugar, honey, coconut sugar, sugar in fruits. In all of this, approximately  Half and half Glucose and fructose, so when they check blood sugar levels, they only determine the glucose level, because fructose does not raise blood sugar levels that much, perhaps only a little, mainly it is Glucose. Therefore, if you eat 100 g of table sugar, only half of it will go to raising blood sugar levels, and the other half goes directly to the liver. We are talking about fructose and the glycemic index, that is, an indicator of how quickly something raises blood sugar levels. Fructose is very, very low. And for Glucose, it is 100, very, very high. And if you mix them like table sugar, even in honey and other sugars, even high-fructose corn syrup, fructose will lower the glycemic index, because it does not enter the blood as sugar. You might think, “Wow, fructose does not enter my blood as sugar.” Great, then I’ll get tired of more fructose, but perhaps you don’t know that only one organ, the liver, can cope with fructose. From the liver’s point of view, fructose is almost identical to alcohol in some  aspects namely fructose turns the liver into fat fructose leads to the formation of triglycerides and bad cholesterol I am talking about small dense particles of lpnp because of fructose the liver is damaged by free radicals and becomes inflamed as a result insulin resistance begins to develop and this can lead to diabetes much faster than in the case of glucose What is curious is that although fructose does not increase other problems there is another sugar It is called agave nectar in it fructose and glucose are not 50 percent In it the ratio is 80 to 20 80 percent fructose and 20 percent glucose That is, agave nectar has more fructose than anywhere else even high fructose corn syrup What does this mean This means that it creates more problems with the liver than other types of sugar Although we are told that it has a good effect on blood sugar, but now you know why if we look at the website of the sugar producers association it talks about the benefits of sugar and that sugar is not so harmful it says that the molecule  The sugar in fruits and other natural products is identical to that found in refined sweets. Sugar, etc., consumed in the US, is obtained mainly from beets. I think the percentage, please. These beets are genetically modified. Unfortunately, they contain traces of glyphosate. But the process of producing sugar from beets is not as simple as shown on that website. It is not three simple steps. As we are told about sugar production, this is a couple of simple steps. It is a complex process. Sugar beets are washed and cut into small pieces, then loaded into a diffusion column. The beets are separated into juice and beet pulp. By adding hot water, the nutrient-rich pulp is dehydrated and filtered, essentially extracting all the nutrients. Typically, this cyclic process is used as livestock feed. Then the juice is purified with lime and then undergoes a demineralization process to extract minerals, proteins, pectins, salts and coloring agents. There are also steps for the company of crystals. As you can see, this is a complex purification process and the final product is  Glucose in sugar is not the same as what is found in vegetables and fruits, because it is purified, it has been processed, everything that was in it by nature has been removed from this natural product, it has been purified and here is what you need to understand: it is these removed nutrients and phytonutrients in the original natural product that protect us from this sugar from fructose in the liver and in cells; antioxidants protect us from damage by free radicals; it may say that this sugar is the same, but this is not true; it is different; after all, you get a molecule that has been separated from a complex of substances contained in food and in large quantities; our body is not designed to consume sweets in such quantities; your ancestors may have gotten honey sometimes if they were lucky and maybe a little fruit from the trees. But those fruits were far from as sweet as modern fruits, and our ancestors had fruits only in season; they were all year round, so it is very unnatural for our body to eat fruit, honey and other sweets all year round in the past. This was necessary for survival, because sugar turns into fat quickly if you eat a lot of it, and this fat was needed for survival; this excess fat that appeared  on the waist Today we don't think that overweight people survive better, but in ancient times, overweight people survived longer than thin people. So, in those days, it was very conducive to survival. But today it's not so. That's why. Our body loves sweets. After all, they bring pleasure because it is associated with survival. But today, this does not contribute to survival, but hinders it. A little honey or fruit is probably normal, but not in the quantities in which people eat them today. That's what's also interesting. Glucose has a chemical structure that is very similar to vitamin C. They probably didn't know this either. This means that they interfere with each other. If you eat sugar, the body will not absorb vitamin C at the same time. If there is a choice, the body will choose sugar over vitamin C. Another sure sign of vitamin C deficiency is soft gums or bleeding gums when brushing your teeth. This is a kind of mild form of scurvy because vitamin C is needed for the strength of capillaries because there is collagen in the capillaries. And there are a lot of capillaries in the gums. And if you want to know other signs of nutrient deficiency, their  The impact on the body is what this course is for you. Health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in various ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How to safely fix this? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. Over 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.