Let's move on to the next question. Dr. Berg, please. What is the difference between the light we get from the sun and the light from computer and TV screens? Dear viewers, you can answer and we'll return to questions on social networks. Sylvia from Yuba. What time of day is best to take it? Answer. It hardly matters. Take it whenever it's convenient. Boron is a trace element, so it would probably be ideal. If you take vitamin D, take them together so that Boron acts as a cofactor. Boron is an excellent remedy for arthritis and any problems associated with bones and joints, and it is one of the factors of vitamin D. If you take vitamin D for a long time, say more than a year, you may begin to develop a Boron deficiency. If you don't take it and it's not in your food, this is possible. It's not necessary, but it's possible. So we'll see. What about Michelle, also from Yuba? What would you advise a person with liver fibrosis? I have this problem. I would take a special form of vitamin E called tocotrienol. I would take it. It is known that it helps. Vitamin E is applied to scars so that the scar tissue dissolves, and Cirrhosis is scar tissue. So you need a lot of good vitamin E in the form of tones. In addition, the so-called vitamin E can help you. It is very beneficial for the liver. And of course, you need to get rid of the habit that led to this, whatever it was, be it alcohol, junk food, and so on. But the liver is remarkable in that it can literally regenerate even if the liver is 75% destroyed. If I gave you my liver for a transplant now, I could give you 60% of my liver and within months it would grow back for me and you would also grow a new 40% of your liver. That's how much the liver can recover. It's amazing what the liver is capable of. So, this is good news, but don't let it get so bad that nothing can be done later. Okay, YouTube again, debi, something for hypothyroidism and PCOS, I've completely lost my energy. I would be grateful for any help. I recently took a very interesting interview with a doctor from Greece about metabolomics, hypothyroidism, Hashimoto's disease, you should watch it, he really knows how to deal with this. As for the thyroid gland,  I don't have enough data, but most likely it's an autoimmune disease Hashimoto's. So you definitely need to take Selenium and high doses of vitamin D3 are very important, and PCOS is actually related to insulin. So you need to cut back on carbohydrates. I don't know a single woman with polycystic ovary syndrome who doesn't eat or hasn't eaten a lot of carbohydrates in the past. This is polycystic ovary syndrome. Elevated androgens are elevated because of insulin. Very well, so let's see. Azlem from YouTube. Lately, I've been falling asleep after my first meal. If I continue to sit, this is a sign of insulin resistance, or my body needs to rest and digest food after 18 hours of fasting. If you get enough sleep, you sleep at night, and it's not a lack of sleep, but your diet is causing the problem with blood sugar. But if you don't sleep at night, then you probably need more sleep. This is another factor. Some people fast too early and fast too long, and they can't do it properly, so they don't have enough energy, because the body hasn't switched to fat yet. Perhaps that's what I would  I recommend it to everyone. I think you initially had slight or severe insulin resistance. You need to be on a low-carb diet for a long time, perhaps a year, until it is corrected, and then your metabolism will probably become more flexible. You will be able to fast longer. You will have more energy in your cells. You will probably be able to eat more carbohydrates over time. Perhaps you need to change the fasting period. Try this and that. An individual approach is needed here. That is why metabolomics in a pair with someone is necessary because this testing allows you not to force everyone into one framework. Do not impose one diet on everyone, but find out what the mitochondria of a particular person need. Understand how flexible the metabolism is and what is happening there. This way you can much better understand what is best for you. After all, all people are different. Patricia from YouTube asks well. There are a lot of questions from YouTube today. What is the best remedy for a cold or flu? An excellent remedy in this case. NAC is true, I don’t talk much about it, but it is a very good remedy if you take Selenium along with it. And if you add a little vitamin D and zinc, you get a very effective remedy. It reduces the duration of a cold and helps to avoid it. However, yes, selenium has actually been forgotten somehow.  and this trace element is essential for the immune system, it has an amazing effect. So this remedy will definitely help well, and again a question from YouTube asks: Can a malfunctioning gallbladder affect heart health? Yes, yes, such a connection exists, and that's why these organs are located nearby, and when stagnant, the organs begin to enlarge, the gallbladder begins to overflow, or bloating occurs, or the pancreas begins to enlarge and press on the heart, and a feeling of skipped heartbeats may occur, because pressure on the heart affects the heart pacemaker. So yes, such a connection definitely exists, I read about it on this topic. There is a lot of data. There may be cardiac symptoms that are associated with it's interesting. Okay, the next question is from the NCI. If I don't have a gallbladder, is it useful for me to take tutkun and why? I think so. I think it's useful, but perhaps you also need regular bile salts immediately after eating. Tutkun is good if there is sediment in the bile ducts. If there is no gallbladder, it may be useful. But it may not be. After all, it is essentially synthetic bear bile. So it helps very well if the bladder is clogged, you will probably be fine if you take regular ones.  bile salts but take them after meals Okay then you will have the bile salts you need for proper digestion of food now we will answer the quiz question number d but this is not true or a lie this question What is the difference between the light we get from the sun and the light from computer screens and TVs 25% answered that blue light from screens is harmful 15% indicated that screens do not provide vitamin D 25% said that sunlight contains red light and the entire spectrum Good answer 10% said I think there is no ultraviolet did anyone answer correctly doctor Yes in sunlight many frequencies are perfectly balanced Light contains what protects us and gives us vitamin D but as for computer screens and TVs they emit harmful blue light which has a slightly shorter wavelength and high energy the matter is aggravated by the fact that we are very close to the sources of this light and also sit in front of them for a long time all this is very harmful to the eyes So I am sure that all of you are now sitting in front of a computer like me so that this compensate so to speak balance need to be in the sun more For example, I made a mistake I just sat at the computer for decades as a result I now need these glasses Unfortunately, I did all sorts of eye exercises and all that didn't help Here's what is dangerous about blue light in particular Well now we'll move on to the third question and then someone will ask us a question live So Doctor here's the third question So True or false Vitamin D accumulates in the body Dear viewers, is this true or false and now let's move to Massachusetts where Janice is calling us Janice, you can ask Dr. Berg a question Hello thank you for your work Hello It seems I always have a hard time getting enough protein I donated blood for general health and hormonal balance I am postmenopausal and one indicator I had was low it is alkaline phosphatase this indicates a possible deficiency Protein and zinc obviously I don't get enough protein I always have this problem I am on a very clean diet no sugar and bad white foods as I call them and I like to fast intermittently 18-19 hours how do I get enough protein alkaline phosphatase I have no more 55 Clear And what kind of protein do you eat? It's something like red meat. What kind of protein do you eat? Yes, I eat red meat, fish, chicken, and it's good. And how are you with your energy levels? It's not bad, but for me it's also a matter of hormones. It happens in different ways, but overall it's not bad. So, there's another way to get alkaline phosphatase. It can be obtained from cheese made from raw milk. In America, we are not allowed to buy such cheese unless it is damaged. This enzyme is destroyed. The same applies to milk. If you eat cheese from raw milk, you might be doing much better. Something else that's important in your case is that you definitely need to get enough cholesterol. It's necessary for all the hormones that you need more of now. After all, the adrenal glands have partially replaced the ovaries. Don't think that you get enough cholesterol from red meat, fish, or even butter. This is not true. We get a very small portion of cholesterol from all of this. There are better sources of cholesterol, such as egg yolks, perhaps you need to eat more of them, as well as shrimp. Seafood is rich in cholesterol, and you need them.  I would also do this experiment to get better. You go once a day or twice, and you go twice. Yes, then if possible, increase the amount of protein in both meals a little and see how you feel, and perhaps for comparison, about once every 3 days. Add a little more protein in the form of breakfast just to understand. Is this really what you need? Clear. I would also make sure that you have enough collagen. You can add, if not tablets, then collagen powder to every meal every day, because 30% of protein is collagen, and we get little colon from meat if we don’t eat chicken with skin and all that. So this is also necessary. And how many egg yolks a day can you eat? Three? I think three yolks are enough. Yes, but eat the eggs whole. I think this should solve the problem. But if you have problems, call again, because there are many factors and ways. Well, thank you very much. Please, a question from Janice. Let’s ask a third question for today. Although no, we have already asked it, then we will return to social media. Oh, and let’s see if the viewers have already answered our third question. The question was simple. Vitamin D accumulates in the body. 75% said  that this is true 25% said that it is a lie Recently I thought that this is true I thought so and then Dr. Bruce Hollis did a lot of research and did not find it in the body, it does not accumulate and this explains a lot. This explains its deficiency in people, especially in winter, and this also explains why people need to get more sun every day. I think you can even look at how our ancestors lived. They spent a lot of time in the sun, and in the Eighties, people began to be afraid of the sun. They began to convince us to use sunscreen and stay out of the sun. This is also why this has changed the intake of vitamin D so much. Well, I think we need more sun. I think we need more vitamin and I would not go out in the sun. In fact, you just don’t need it. You’ll get burned or turn red and then get out of the sun. The point is that we need vitamin D and unfortunately, it does not accumulate in the body. M clear rud from YouTube. I had to give up chum salmon because of constipation problems. But my weight is normal. I’m now on a low-carb diet instead of a no- carb diet. Is this normal? I don’t know. Maybe it’s normal. It depends on your mitochondria.  from the flexibility of metabolism from the body's ability to metabolize and burn different types of fuel. And the vast majority of people have the wrong fuel, that is, a large amount of carbohydrates, they simply overload the body, they simply do not break them down, and in this case there is a plan B, the body begins to focus on glycolysis, this is one of the ways of breaking down glucose, the problem is that this system does not allow you to get a lot of energy, that is, you can get a couple of ATP molecules, unlike 36-38 ATP molecules when the mitochondria is working, that's why if you want to understand whether your mitochondria are working, look at your energy level, is it consistently high or not, because mitochondria create energy. So look at this, I know this from myself, I ate the wrong food for many years, I had energy because my mitochondria managed to cope with this for a time, and then my energy level began to decline, but I did not know what the matter was and continued in the same spirit until I turned 28 last year, but in the end I figured it out and corrected the situation perfectly, that porridge with  YouTube asks Is there a natural way to eliminate a hiatal hernia? I think something can be done. I have a video about an excellent method. You can press your hands under the rib and, as it were, Up on each side to return everything to its place. You also realize that sometimes a hernia occurs due to a lack of cocaine, because it is difficult to get from regular meat. There are only 1-2 of them in meat. If you do not eat very tough meat. But people like tender meat. Use high-quality organic collagen powder from grass-fed feed to strengthen your connective tissue. I will also talk about connective tissue. And recently I made a video. About fascia, this is an amazing tissue. It covers the entire body. If people have problems with any joints, they stretch them, work with them, as I did in my practice. But today I would stretch the fascia instead, and it covers not only the joints, but also everything else and provides their stretching. About the World Cup, I will also make a video and you cannot imagine what a relief it is. For example, you have a problem with your right knee, with your right ankle.  Did I pronounce your video about radiola correctly? Yes, radiola helps with oxygen. Will it help if I have low hemoglobin levels? I don't know. You should check your iron B12 and stomach acid levels. Radiola helps with stress. It's an adaptogen. It adapts to stress. I think Gando is another adaptogen. So I'm not sure. Does it affect hemoglobin well? Next, a subscriber asks. Is it safe to drink apple cider vinegar for a long time? Can it negatively affect the stomach? Only if you have inflammation in the stomach or if you have an ulcer? But usually, understand that our stomach should be from one to TX. It's like battery acid. So, the stomach is reliably protected and you're not drinking pure apple cider vinegar. But diluted in water, you dilute a tablespoon of vinegar in a glass of water. You're not drinking battery acid. Yes, the mixture passes through the esophagus. When you drink it, you just need to watch. Does it irritate you? I haven't seen many problems with apple cider vinegar. A  There are many benefits from it, that is my answer.