Let's talk about the four main beneficial qualities of pistachios. I know that a pistachio is not actually a nut but a fruit seed, but today we will talk about nuts because it is more familiar. Pistachios have many advantages, but we will highlight the four main ones. First, among all nuts and seeds, pistachios contain the lowest amount of oxalates. Almonds have the most oxalates. Therefore, if you are prone to kidney stones, eat pistachios as a salad or as a card. If you have already had kidney stones, pistachios are your nut. 2 + they have a lot of potassium. We always need a calif. A lot of potassium. Mountains of potassium. A large amount of phosphorus. If you have ever heard of ATV, this is the body's energy currency, which is produced in the mitochondria. It stands for adenosine triphosphate. Phosphorus provides energy. Zinc is necessary for more than two to three thousand enzymes. Sing is very important. I have a bunch of videos about it. By the way, let me leave a link below if you have n't seen my videos yet. Rock star ratings are among the most important micronutrients.  Microelements for the body, vitamin K1 helps with heavy bleeding, B6 is very important in many biochemical reactions, it can also help with edema, especially during pregnancy when there is a problem with swelling, it can help B1 is one of my favorite vitamins, it reduces anxiety, improves sleep, removes the constant swarm of thoughts in the head, helps with stress and much more, and also eat a pistachio salad, which is important not only for a developing child to prevent developmental defects, but also for adults to prevent breaks in chromosomes in DNA and also helps restore DNA, because there are shortages of a robe in it, there are flaws, vitamin E, vitamin E is an important antioxidant, but that's not all, it is very useful for muscles, for hormones, for endocrine glands and skin, as well as vitamin C and chlorophyll, which makes the plant green, so pistachios are green, they have a lot of chlorophyll, chlorophyll is an excellent healer, especially for internal skin, for example, with irritation inside the esophagus in the intestines, it is very important and in the center of the chlorophyll molecule, magnesium, so pistachios have a lot of magnesium, which is useful Cisco for many things, not only from  Muscle spasms, stress, you are for sleep, but also for energy production, maintaining heart rhythm, it is one of the key electrolytes 3 plus is a good source of amino acids and healthy fats. Pistachios contain alpha-lipoic acid, an omega-3 fatty acid, it is converted into active forms of maiden and drink, but still, pistachios are crap, namely alpha-lipoic acid at the cursor of the active form of various omega-3 fatty acids, they contain many other fatty acids useful for cognitive function, the cardiovascular system, the immune system, and so on. They also have low carbohydrates, which is ideal for heta, high in fat, low in carbohydrates, moderate protein, and finally, antioxidants. The body produces antioxidants should they come from the diet. These two sources create a network of antioxidants that protects the body from environmental influences, that is, deductions and sports, their radicals, as well as from free radicals. We insert them into the body itself during the metabolic process. Antioxidants can significantly reduce complications and some diseases, such as diabetes, which leaves a lot of free radicals and inflammation. In general, these are important compounds, the benefits of which come from  Beyond vitamins and microelements, they contain carotene, a provitamin, and who knows what cafe rolls are made of, vitamin E, and much more that can help even with macular degeneration. These are the four main benefits of pistachios. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.