Let's talk about the difference between folic acid. I mean the synthetic form of vitamin B9 from the natural form of B9. Is there a difference? Many pregnant women take prenatal vitamins that contain a lot of synthetic folic acid. There is a lot of data that this helps to avoid things like neural tube defects, spinal cord not completely closed by vertebrae, and this is indeed the case, but more and more people are learning that they may have a mutation in one of the genes associated with vitamin B9. I think this is worth discussing. There is one very common problem associated with the gene. Its name is now on the screen. This gene affects the enzyme that converts folic acid into the active form that the body needs. Therefore, if you have a problem with the gene, your ability to obtain the active form of B9 is significantly reduced. If you take synthetic B9 folic acid, this can create problems because folic acid may not be absorbed and accumulate in this form. This is probably not a problem. If you do not drink it in large quantities, but if you have a mutation there, you will have a deficiency per day, and this is a fact.  In this case, you need to find a balance and get exactly as much B9 as you need. The fact is that vitamin B9 has many functions. It prevents the onset of cancer because B9 helps protect DNA from problems with the genetic code. If you have the right amount of B9, it protects DNA from damage that could potentially cause cancer. Vitamin B9 is also involved in the creation of new cancer cells. It seems like a contradiction, on the one hand, it prevents the appearance of new cancer cells, and on the other, it helps these cells grow. But from what I have studied, it follows that the second only happens if you take too much folic acid. This complicates everything because due to the mutation, you need more than the usual norm, but too much is harmful. The solution to this problem is to take a type of vitamin B9 that no longer needs to be converted. It does not need that enzyme, and the mutation is no longer a problem because the body can use B9 in this form immediately. The name of this substance is also long, but in essence, this is a form of B9 that is easily absorbed and requires an enzyme like synthetic folic acid. Some studies claim that with this mutation, you also need to take synthetic folic acid.  acid to prevent neural tube defects because no one has studied What is the difference between synthetic folic acid and methylfolate is a fact such studies and will not be because conducting them on people is too dangerous too unethical So all that remains is to rely on common sense if you just compare these two forms of B9 with each other, a more effective method to get this vitamin In sufficient quantities will be taking methylfolate Another point if you have such a mutation, then According to studies, taking excessive amounts of folic acid during pregnancy can increase the risk of autism in a child by 17 times and synthetic folic acid is not able to correct this mutated gene, it can even block the natural form of folate, increasing the risk of cancer Given all this, how can you guarantee that you are not taking too much synthetic B9 Unfortunately, it is added to foods It is one of the vitamins that are enriched in cereals, all children and adults eat them, it is added to bread, pasta, cereals, heterozygous and cookies in energy drinks there are a lot of synthetic vitamins, as well as fortified nutritional yeast Therefore, I always recommend taking not  It is very important to eat foods rich in natural vitamin B9. Dark greens and the latter are such products. If a person has such a genetic problem and takes a lot of folic acid, for example, for anemia or for other reasons, this can create a masked B12 deficiency. Because B9 and B12 work together, this can already lead to problems. Another substance whose level can increase is homocysteine. Homocysteine ​​is a harmful compound that can increase the risk of heart attack and stroke. It also affects the inner lining of blood vessels, which is called the endothelium. It inhibits the action of nitric oxide, which can lead to high blood pressure and other problems not only related to the heart, but also in other areas. If nitric oxide is not enough, you can even develop erectile dysfunction. Today we talked about only one vitamin, but I have a large course in which we analyze them all in detail. I invite you to health problems begin when there is a lack of important vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in different ways, from chronic fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity.  How to safely fix this? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when? Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes, and lists. Everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.