This is a very important video about how to stop frying your brain with a cell phone. I've already talked about this in other videos, but I decided to record a series of videos. And so-called magnetic fields. To explain everything very simply, this will be a fairly short video. I'll show you what I do to minimize invisible radiation. So, what is a magnetic field? What does this mean? There is an electric field, there is a magnetic field, there are other energy fields, radio waves, and even microwaves. Microwaves are created not only by microwaves, as many people think, but also by other devices, including your cell phone. The problem is that now this is not regulated by safety regulations. Something similar happened when people at some point started smoking, and smoking was actually even considered useful. We also had DDT, and it was considered useful. We also had Asbestos, which was considered safe, and sugar was once considered useful. And years later, Oh, we haven't been doing safety testing long enough. Sorry. Now we are introducing regulations. Unfortunately, little safety testing is being done now. So, let's start with electric fields. All these little electrons are moving along the wire, that is, electricity flows through the wire. current and the pressure that pushes this current is called voltage, this is the pressure from the energy source, the higher the pressure, the higher the voltage, the stronger the electric field in the wire, let 's say you are trying to sleep at night and next to your bed there is a light source, a refrigerator or some other electrical devices, someone may think that if you turn off the lamp, the electric field disappears. I will demonstrate that in fact it does not disappear. Unless you pull the plug of the lamp from the socket in the wall, because even when the light is off but the plug remains in the socket, if you remove the insulation from the wire, it turns out that it is under voltage, that is, the voltage in this wire creates an electric field. Unless you pull the plug from the socket, there are sockets with a switch, they insert it into the socket in the wall, and they insert the plug of the lamp into it and you can turn off the device at the level of the socket. To reduce the electric field around the wires near your head. When you sleep, there is also a magnetic field. A magnetic field occurs when current flows through the wire and the field sometimes extends one and a half, two and a half meters from the source if it is a strong magnetic field. Magnetic fields only arise when current flows through the wire. The device is set to electric. It is connected to this lamp. Now let's turn off the lamp. Look, the level is still high. The field from the wire is still strong because the wire is live. So, unplug the device near the bed with an outlet or pull the plug out of it. Next demonstration, I switch to Magnetic fields. For a magnetic field to arise somewhere, there must be current. So, we turn on the lamp. Now the lamp is on. As you can see, the level is high. Now I'll turn off the lamp. Now I'll take a measurement near the same wire. It's not very strong, if it exists at all. Why? Because a magnetic field only arises if current flows through the wire. If you switch to an electric field, it is strong, but a magnetic field is weak. So, electric fields are associated with voltage, the pressure that pushes electrons, and a magnetic field is associated with fields that extend beyond the wire. It is not voltage that creates it, not this force, but the movement of electrons along the wire. Let's move on to so-called radio waves or microwaves. They are emitted by routers, cell phone towers that send signals to mobile phones. If you  Hold your phone near your head, near your brain, you are exposed to microwaves, and possibly magnetic and electric fields. I'll show you. This is with a mobile phone. Now switch the device to radio frequencies. I bring it to the mobile phone. The level pulsates because the cell tower periodically sends signals. Now I'll call from the phone. I'll call Jared. You see what pulsations there are. All these microwaves pass right through the brain if you hold the phone near your head. In the future, I'll make more videos to show. How to identify other sources of invisible radiation with this device. I like the Trifield TF2 electromagnetic field meter. I have others, but this one is very simple and very accurate. And I'll show you what I found. My electrical cables, my computer's uninterruptible power supply, my monitor, my Wi-Fi devices, my printer. All these devices envelop our body in these frequencies. If you sit at the computer for a very long time like I do, it's not useful. You need to identify the sources of radiation and minimize their impact. This device allows you to measure radio frequencies, electric fields, and magnetic fields. It's very, very simple. I'll just make more videos about it.  If you want to buy such a device, you can see the link below, this is not an advertisement. I do not receive anything for this. An excellent device. You can walk around the house and find the sources of what affects you. Let's go back to the mobile phone. What to do with this? There are a couple of solutions. Firstly, you can turn on speakerphone so as not to hold the phone near your head. But here's what I found. Look, I have these earbuds. Here they are, I plug them into the phone, and the radio frequencies are still selected on the device. You see that it does not respond to the headphones. Earbuds are the best solution. Headphones and a microphone. They are called anti-radiation headphones with air tubes. Here are headphones with a microphone, AMP protection. You can look at them at the link below on Amazon, but I do not receive any commission for these. I just want you to know about them. The beauty is that there is just a tube. Between this sound source and the ear, they are located at a distance. The wire with electric current is not inserted directly into the ear. I do not recommend Bluetooth devices that are inserted into the ear. Sound transmission is not ideal, but you can use them; you just insert them into your ears. The problem is that the plug does not fit.  to AI Therefore, you need an adapter, so I have an adapter below, there is a link to it, a 3.5 mm plug is inserted into it, and the adapter itself is inserted into the iPhone, and now I can keep the radiation source here and it will not irradiate my brain. I give presentations all day long in Zoom, and for this purpose, I also have an adapter. This is what it looks like, there is a USB connector, I can connect it here and connect it to the computer, and now I can communicate with people in Zoom and I no longer need to use over-ear headphones, which make my head very tired. I have much more energy when I bought this adapter and these headphones. I highly recommend them. If you talk on the phone a lot, I recommend them to your children if they use Zoom and are homeschooled. In addition, the younger the children, the more sensitive they are, especially if electromagnetic fields affect the brain. This is bad. Try it. Write in the comments and wait for more information. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.