Hello everyone. Today we will start with a quiz question. But this is just a question and not true or false. I ask you doc, what are two ways to increase the absorption of turmeric? Dear viewers, can I ask godmothers? And now a question from viewers on social networks. Eric writes to my mother, 78, and she has a problem with an ulcer. Now she takes medications. She also takes vitamins and ideals. How can I help her get rid of her ulcer problems? Yes, one excellent remedy against Helicobacter pylori is sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts. She needs to regularly eat broccoli sprouts and take zinc carnosine. Zinc accelerates wound healing. Zinc helps heal organ damage and the gastric mucosa. It is interesting that not all of us have this bacterium, but most of us, I think 80% have it. Usually, it does not bother us, as if it does not touch us, it waits for the body to become unhealthy. And then it begins to change its attitude towards us. It becomes unfriendly and begins to break down something and release ammonia into our tissues. Somehow, it understands that  Because of the ammonia, our Pash increases and becomes more alkaline. And in such an alkaline environment, she feels great. I think if the stomach is very acidic, as it should be, this keeps her in check. However, to survive better, she secretes Amic and suddenly the Pash of the stomach is no longer normal, because of this, digestion worsens, ulcers appear. But otherwise, everything is fine with you, great, let's move on to YouTube. Richard asks. What are the signs that indicate that someone is following Keto incorrectly. Look at the benefits. I apologize. See if you are getting the benefits. This is the most important thing: if the craving for food has disappeared and you are no longer so hungry and can go a long time without food. This is an excellent sign that you are burning fat. The opposite situation is that you need to eat quickly. I think this is the best sign. There are others, but this is a good sign. In the beginning, you can check ketones in your urine. This is a good sign, but very soon you will begin to use more ketones and will lose less of them in your urine. Then you need to check the level of ketones in the blood. Okay, let's continue the topic of ketone. Ben wants to know if ketone can reduce ringing. I think this might help in my ears, but there are other remedies for tinnitus. I talked about vitamin D. I have a video about this. Vitamin D helps normalize calcium crystals that form in the ears. Because of them, a high-pitched sound can appear in the ears. There may be problems with the nerves due to a deficiency of B1, but watch my recent videos on this topic. Okay, Halita from Yuba also asks what I should do to improve my sleep. I assume he doesn't sleep. Well, I don't know anything about your situation, but stress is an important factor. I wouldn't eat a lot in the evening. The room should be cool. I would also do some stretches before bed. I would take a long walk to lower cortisol. I would exercise or do physical work to get tired. You can take many remedies in the evening, especially magnesium glycinate. It greatly improves sleep. Let's move on to the audience's answers to the quiz question about what sounded like what are two ways to increase the absorption of turmeric? 95 sza with black pepper. 5% said with black pepper and something.  Are there any winners? Yes, there are. It looks like everyone won. Wow, black pepper definitely increases absorption because the main key phytonutrient in turmeric that has been thoroughly studied is curcumin, and this is a fat-soluble compound. So you can add coconut oil to the dish and other dishes with turmeric, even in a dietary supplement. Black pepper increases absorption by 21 times. If you add fat or consume turmeric with food, it will absorb even more. Turmeric or curcumin is not very bioavailable in the body in such quantities. Perhaps this is not the best idea because in the plant world, turmeric acts as an insecticide. So we take curcumin in very small doses to achieve a harmonic or adaptive effect to become stronger. It also has antimicrobial properties, and microbes in the intestines can eat it and convert it into other substances that can help, say, with inflammation. So curcumin has many beneficial properties, but I think its bioavailability needs to be slightly increased, but don't think that you need more, it's not always better. I once grew turmeric in my greenhouse And so I dried small turmeric roots I literally chewed them like carrots I thought The more the better No, it's not better I felt really bad I decided not to do that anymore its taste is very, very not rich but bitter caustic this taste is meant to repel insects I'm sure someone likes it but it has a certain aroma but the taste if you overdo it Oh God you'll never want it again