Hello, I'm Dr. Berg. Today we'll talk about Helicobacter pylori. This is a bacterium that causes a lot of digestive problems. It's usually asymptomatic and doesn't show any symptoms until it's activated. More than half of the population has this bacterium, but it may not cause any symptoms. This bacterium is very insidious because it makes holes in the stomach and intestines and it survives. It's difficult to live in such an acidic environment. It can't live at a pH of one to three. That's why it's necessary to maintain high stomach acidity. So, it penetrates the mucous membrane and lives where the environment is no longer so acidic. Then it does one thing to neutralize stomach acid. That is, it lowers the acidity of the stomach in order to survive. Unfortunately, it's quite dangerous. Here are the symptoms and activity: brain fog, fatigue, gastritis, which is an inflammation of the stomach, ulcers, abdominal pain, and decreased neurotransmitters. Because you can't digest proteins. If you do n't have acid in your stomach, you won't be able to break them down to get the amino acids from which neurotransmitters are produced. Reduced absorption of elements, especially iron, which leads to them and strong acid in the stomach is needed for their absorption, as a result, potassium, magnesium and iron calcium pass by, this causes their deficiency and, of course, bloating. If you think about it, if you have a hole in your intestines or in your stomach because of this bacteria, think about what can happen - leaky gut syndrome or the proteins you eat will get into this hole and allergies will begin. Suddenly you are allergic to something you never had an allergy to. Here is another problem with histamine itching. My allergies cause a lot of problems and this affects your mood because neurotransmitters can create the appearance of other symptoms and you will do the wrong thing. But here is what I would do if I were you. Of course, doctors prescribe a couple of very strong antibiotics and also proton pump inhibitors. They act like antacids. The problem is that resistance often develops to them and you will have to re-select new medications. I will give several solutions as an example. Discuss them with your doctor as an alternative to try to help. The body can cope naturally with these natural remedies, which counteract Helicobacter pylori and help suppress this number one microorganism. Lactic acid bacteria are found in all fermented foods, sauerkraut, salted and pickled vegetables, and kombucha. They are very necessary. There is also sulforaphane, a natural substance found in broccoli sprouts and other cruciferous vegetables. It suppresses this bacterium. There is also mastic, which is a type of resin from trees growing on the islands in Greece. It is sold as a dietary supplement and is very effective against Helicobacter pylori. There is also lactobacillus gosari, a special bacterium that kills this bacterium. It can be found in dietary supplements. All this will be in the description below the video. You can read about garlic and onions, they kill this bacterium, and finally, horseradish, personal horseradish, I can't stand horseradish. If I had the chance, I would drink it in tablet form in a concentrated form. I would take it. Of course, you need to start with small doses, then you can increase and I think you will get great benefits from these natural remedies thank you for watching and leave comments if you like my videos click the subscribe button and you will receive notifications about new videos thank you very much