 fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem fem Hello, everyone. Let's start with questions in the social media. John Desythuba. Why are your BAD and здоровая Keta not! How can they be removed? That's why it is a result of estrogen. It is usually because of plastic and chemicals, which are emitting estrogen, maybe because of the products. So there are so that you need to be a product or a product or a product. And, возможно, you may want to increase the testosterone with the following protocol, to restore balance. But there is no way to be a pillu. You must understand, what is happening. Even in the cells, you have an essential ingredient called the romatase. He turns into estrogen. You might have a statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute about the hormone-related disorders, my previous video about estrogen and how to normalize it. Very well, we hope you have a good time. For men it's not a good question. Now the question of Victorina, right or a lie? The RSN, the recommended days of the normal normal, is designed to ensure optimal dose of vitamins for the best health. It's true or a lie? statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute statute It's a bit of a dent. It's a bit of a dent. It's a bit of a dent. It's a bit of a pain. Oh, I haven't taken any drugs. Can you recommend anything? So, it's been discovered that the microchip Helicobacter pylori leads to the form of a disease. And this microchip is a habit of the body of most people. This microchip comes out of the cage, when the environment becomes very pleasant for him. It's a moan, a moan, a moan, a moan, to be able to survive better. Because the cellulite is very cold, like a generator, and this microchip can't live in the cellulite with normal acid. So, we know that pH of your cellulite is not quite a bit of a acid. It's the first thing. But now you can't increase his acid. Because you have a gastritis, a red and, you know, a disease. So, what do you do? There are a couple of methods for a disease. One of them is called carnalzinecinco. It's a strange method. And also vitamin U. The word U means a disease. It's a old name. It's a old name. It's a long name of the vitamin, which have been discovered in the capuches. So, in capuches, there is a substance. It's called S-methylmethionin. It's natural. It's a natural method, which helps to do it. It's a natural method. So, you can try to eat a capuches or just a capuches, to improve the condition. And then... When the blood is healed, I think we need to increase his cellulose. The blood can be in the hospital, but you need to change the environment around him, to improve it. Very good. It's a share of Facebook. How to measure the testosterone level? So, you can do an analysis of blood. There is an analysis of the body and the body of the body. I would say that the body of the body is important to the body. But also, an analysis of the blood, which is related to the blood. It's an analysis of the body. It shows, you know, the blood is broken from the body. Because if the blood is broken, it is not broken from the body. His level is increased, and it may become a problem. So, there is... So, when you check the testosterone, of course, the body of the body, but again, you have asked the body of the body. So, I will answer it. So, I will answer it. So, I will answer it. I will answer it. So, I will answer it. So, I will answer it. So, I will answer it. So, I will answer it. So, I will answer it. And, you know, what is that. So, I got an statute of normal temperatures? So, normal temperatures are got high temperatures? So, normal temperatures are got high temperatures? So, I got high temperatures? So many temperatures are got high temperatures? No, I'm sorry, as all the others, congratulations. We already received answers from the audience on the victorine question. The truth or false? The RSN, the recommended days of the normal normal, is designed to provide optimal dose of vitamins for the best health. And 100% of the respondents said that it's false. Good. If it was not 100%, I would have fallen from the stool. Those RSN already 100 years old, they are completely used. They are designed only to provide doses, which prevent serious diseases, which are caused by the deficit. Not only the disease, but the deficit. For example, Magni. RSN Magni is a very severe deficit of Magni. It was a very severe deficit of the result of the result of the RSN 1997. It was not designed to provide optimal dose of the best. It wasn't designed to provide any therapeutic effects. So, in reality, these norms are based on the average weight of people. The RSN is a very severe dose of the RSN. The RSN is a very severe dose of the RSN. If you can see these doses even on my weight, 88 kg, it will be a very severe dose of my RSN. My RSN is a 600 mg. But it's even not a therapeutic dose of the dose. So, for many people, this will be going to be the question of the question, which was asked for many people. Many people, they are taking Magni and... Well, they are feeling better, but not much. They are still a nervous system, a nervous system, a spasms and a sudden in their feet, a mercerous arrhythmia, and so on. If you would take, maybe you took, maybe 250-300 mg a day, and took the dose to 600-700-900-1000 or 1200 mg, probably, you would have to be more than enough. You would have to be the need of the needs of all biophilies and saw the huge changes in terms of the lungs, in terms of the lungs, the nervousness, the muscles, the pressure. You think, it doesn't work? No, you are not taking it. It is very valuable information, because I have a lot of information, because I have not only about Magni, but also about vitamin D, and especially B1. RDSNB1 1,2 mg. Are you serious? It is not even for one small receptor, not talking about the defecit. If you have problems with the digestive nerve system, головокружение, при вставании, so-called SPOT or other problems with it, because of diabetes, and you only take the RDSN, it is a no effect. It is a no effect. It is a no effect. It is a no effect. It is a no effect. It is a no effect. And Magni is a very important nutrient. If you are checking the level of Magni, you will not know anything, because the majority of his blood is inside the cells. It is 99%. You have a low-fat deficit, and in the blood is normal. And then someone says, you just need to do an analysis on the level of Magni in the eritrocytes. Right? So, you know that in the eritrocytes there is no mitochondria. So, the majority of Magni is in mitochondria, but they are not in the eritrocytes. So, this is an analysis is useful. So, for an analysis on Magni needs to be either a biopsy, or to do an injection Magni, and then to do an injection of Magni, in the period of Magni. No one will do it. No one will do it. It is a good thing. It is a good thing. It is a very difficult thing. So, anyway, this is a interesting information, which people in the same way do not know. Because we cannot be able to test the level of Magni. You have to go to the symptoms. The symptoms of Magni, the symptoms of Magni, the symptoms of Magni, or the symptoms of Magni. What type of Magni is your? From this time, is the reason of the excess weight and your bad mood. You can go to the test of Magni, find your type of Magni and get recommendations on him. statute got many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many