Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question.  The floor is yours, dog. True or false?  Usually the symptoms are early warning signs.  A general question.  We are waiting for your answers, friends.  And now questions from social networks. Susan from Facebook.  Can a hiatal hernia interfere with food absorption and weight loss?  Possibly, perhaps.  Depends on its size. But I think it usually just causes discomfort. If you have a hiatal hernia, you can take betaine hydrochloride to increase the acidity in your stomach.  And you can massage under the ribs on the left and right to reduce the hernia. I made a couple of videos where I show how to do this.  Maybe it's worth filming another one.  Doc, could you tell me what a hiatal hernia is?  What does it mean? We have a kind of protective layer of fascia in the area of ​​the diaphragm just below the stomach.   A weak spot may appear in the wall of this fascia, and then a protrusion from the stomach outward appears in this place. This hernia can be in the lower abdomen.  It can be in the abdominal area in different places.  The tissues seem to bulge through the fascia.  Oh, okay.  Rutsrambla asks whether proctolytic enzymes, sorry, protolytic enzymes, help get rid of inflammation and reduce joint pain. I think we are talking about protyletic enzymes.  Yes, that's right.  Teri knows what a dunce I am and spells it for me, but I still sometimes read it wrong. So, what do these protein enzymes help with ? For inflammation and pain in joints. And there is evidence that they will help.  I think so too, but I haven't studied this in depth and don't know in what percentage of cases or to what extent they can help.  You can try.  I know that there are certain enzymes in silkworms that help reduce fibrosis, scar tissue in the body, and inflammation.  There are many anti-inflammatory enzymes, but I have nothing more to say about them. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Okay, let's see what the audience answered to the quiz question.  And it sounded like this : true or false?  Usually symptoms are early warning signs. 73% said it was true, while 27% said it was false.  Symptoms are not such signs.  Who is right? Not everyone is like that.  This is a lie.  I'll explain. Many symptoms are compensation.  If you hit Steve on the finger with a hammer, it would obviously hurt.  It's a kind of instant warning sign.  But the symptoms of many problems are late warning signs. They don't appear right away.  Let's say, symptoms of hypertension appear after 10-15 years. Symptoms of fatty liver and liver cirrhosis may appear only when 3/4 of the liver is destroyed. Let's take diabetes.   It may take 15-20 years before you find out you have diabetes.  So the symptoms of colon cancer will only appear at stage four.  So symptoms don't always warn you of what's going on. And people also ignore symptoms when they appear.  And by the time someone develops the four main symptoms of diabetes, problems with vision, kidneys, heart, brain, dementia, by the way, it also develops for a long time.  I've had diabetes in my feet for about 15 years now, so I can't even rely on a diabetes biomarker.  After all, doctors always check blood sugar. blood sugar.  How can anyone eat as much sugar as the average person does?  And this is from 15 to thirty teaspoons of sugar per day.  I'm talking about sugars, hidden starches.  How can you eat so much sugar and still have normal blood sugar levels?  The problem here is insulin.  The hormone insulin works unnoticed and is rarely tested. He's like a vacuum cleaner.  removes sugar from the blood so that it remains normal, compensating for the huge excess of sugar in food.  So you can't rely on symptoms.  Yes. Ask yourself, where does this sugar go?  It goes into the stomach, into belly fat.  This is a symptom.  With diabetes, the pancreas compensates for all of this, but eventually it gets tired and says, "I've had enough, I can't patch any more holes in your diet."  And then insulin decreases, and blood sugar rises, because nothing controls it.  And hello, diabetes.  Horror.  By the way, about the pancreas and symptoms.  Pancreatic cancer is asymptomatic, often until the very end.  So someone says, " I have a little pain here," and then finds out they have 4 months left.  Is there a general approach we should follow?  Maybe not in this particular case, but if we choose not to ignore the symptoms, what can we do to try to stay one step ahead of such terrible diseases? Well, I've tried to get this point across 57,000 times in many of my videos. The best approach is to eat and live in a way that avoids these problems. This is what I recommend doing. If you have bad habits, especially in eating, if you don't sleep, don't exercise, lead a sedentary lifestyle and feel fine, you don't have symptoms, you are taking a risk and waiting for it to happen to you.  Why wait at all? You need to know about this.  lead a healthy lifestyle to avoid this.  After all, you can’t always rely on symptoms.  And if symptoms appear, don’t just manage them with pills.  You have inflammation, here is a pill, you have high blood pressure.  Doctors manage warning signs and mask them.  What about the root causes? What is diabetes?  This is excess sugar in the blood.  Do doctors focus on this? No. They give you candy just to keep your sugar levels up.  This is, I don’t know, maybe I’m weird, but in my opinion, this is ridiculous. No, it's not about you.  Very curious. We continue answering questions from viewers. Elizabeth from Facebook.  Is there any remedy that can help with spotting? Yes, it is a condition where you stand up and either feel weak or have difficulty bringing your body upright due to gravity.  You are fine when you lie down.  This is because the autonomic nervous system is not functioning and cannot quickly pump blood to the brain.  This usually happens after certain things that I won't even name here due to censorship.  But the solution is to take therapeutic doses, high doses of natural vitamin B1. Take natural B1 to eliminate the spot and restore the normal adaptation mechanism of the autonomic nervous system.  Keep in mind that magnesium is a cofactor for B1.  So perhaps you should take magnesium along with B1. Great.  And the last question about pancreatitis.  I saw someone on YouTube just asked, "Do you have any videos about chronic pancreatitis?" Answer: "I don't have a video about this, but pancreatitis is rarely caused by tumors, cancer and things like that." It most often arises from a blockage in the small tubes in the bile ducts.  The bile ducts from the gallbladder and liver enter the small intestine and join with the pancreatic duct, uniting. And if there is bile sediment, and in people too much bile sediment often gets there , this is cholestasis.  All of this can get into the pancreas and cause pancreatitis.  In this case, you need to take one good remedy: tutka. It is a bile salt that liquefies bile, allowing bile to flow freely.  Just search the internet for information on oce and pancreatitis.  You will see that this is an excellent remedy for pancreatitis.  Well, there you have it, Dr. Berg's personal video in answer to your question.