Today we will talk about the best products for arthritis. We are talking about osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and any other type of arthritis. The first thing you need to do is find official dietary recommendations for arthritis online. There are many different official websites, but we will probably go to one of the most authoritative sites according to Google, the Arthritis Foundation website. On this site, you need to look at all the products that this foundation recommends. So, we will not use a list of what you need to eat. We need a list of what to avoid. Because usually, if there is a general opinion in medical circles about what needs to be done, we need to do the opposite. Here's what we are told to do: firstly, a diet rich in whole foods, fruits, vegetables, fish, nuts, legumes, whole grains. And of course, avoid saturated fats. There are a couple of points with which I agree. Number one is fish and, of course, vegetables, but with some caveats, which I will also say. If you have arthritis, you have inflammation and you need to get rid of inflammation. If you eat a lot of fruit, you have a lot of sugar, and this takes you out of ketosis and increases inflammation. Of course, we are told that fruits contain a lot of antioxidants.  Yes, that's true, but fruits also have a lot of sugar. This site also recommends nuts because they have antioxidants. Well, I recommend only one nut if you have arthritis. It's walnuts. It contains Al, alpha- linolenic acid, and it converts to EPA and A. This is an omega-3 fatty acid. Not much is converted, but other nuts have a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, and they can increase inflammation, especially if you eat nut butter. What about legumes? Are they good for arthritis? They also have a lot of antioxidants. The problem is that they have a lot of lectins and oxalates. These are antinutrients that can worsen arthritis. In addition, legumes have a lot of carbohydrates, and they can greatly disrupt digestion. I would even say that in many cases, arthritis is associated with inflammation in the intestines. The next product recommended by the Arthritis Foundation is whole grains. Whole grains have a lot of antioxidants, but they also have a lot of carbohydrates, they have a lot of gluten, they have a lot of oxalates, and all this aggravates arthritis.  but the big problem with grains is that they are very high in omega-6 fatty acids And this brings us to the next question of what we are told to avoid We are told to avoid red meat eggs and dairy products Let's discuss these three types of products for ease of understanding you need to know when we eat the meat of animals that were fed grain we get a completely different ratio of omega-6 and omega-3 is red meat harmful It depends on what the animal ate And what about chickens chicken is probably one of those foods that has the most omega-6 fatty acids in chickens from the farmer's market the ratio of omega-6 and omega-3 is much better in them there is less omega-6 because they are raised on free range I hope that's why they eat more insects and perhaps less grain in pastured organic eggs the ratio of omega-6 and omega-3 is also much better And dairy products what are they made from cow's milk from cow's milk you can make a product of pum fermentation for example kefir from milk from cows grass-fed from feed without additives kefir from whole milk I think it will improve the condition of the intestines and relieve arthritis if you find cheese from the milk of cows from grass-fed raw milk, such cheese is made in Europe. It is much better than cheese in the USA. So, I repeat, it all depends on what the animal ate, the same with fish. Farmed fish and commercial fish differ greatly in the ratio of omega-6 and omega-3. In other words, you need fatty commercial fish such as salmon, sardines, cod liver. It is sold in cans. Commercial cod liver and cod liver oils are good because they are very high in omega-3 and also very high in vitamin D and vitamin A, unlike simple fish oil, but fatty fish is very important. And in fish, farm-raised fish. Nothing good. Seafood is a good source of omega-3. Omega-3 reduces inflammation. Pastured organic eggs are a good source. Not only omega-3 but also vitamin D. The problem with vitamin D in food is that  It is very difficult to find foods that are high in vitamin D. Vitamin D has a very powerful anti-inflammatory effect in arthritis, so you need to eat foods that contain it. Take pork, for example, when pigs are free-range and go out in the sun. They have much more vitamin D than pigs that are always indoors and cannot go outside. Fermented vegetables are useful for arthritis, especially sauerkraut. Cabbage juice is very good for the intestines and it is good for arthritis, but vegetables in general are like a lottery. Sometimes they help with arthritis and sometimes they aggravate it. It all depends on the degree of inflammation in the intestine. After all, many people with arthritis have some kind of inflammation in the colon. If they eat more fiber, even if it is vegetables, they may get worse. Some people with arthritis will feel great if they eliminate all fiber and switch to a carnivore diet with a lot of saturated fat and protein. And of course, here's what to avoid: avoid sugar, refined grains, avoid whole grains, they contain gluten, which very quickly turns into sugar, avoid Trans fats, anything that says hydrogenated, even if it's partially hydrogenated, avoid these. Seed oils are very harmful for arthritis. These include soybean, corn, canola, cottonseed oil, even peanut oil and safflower oil. These are all seed oils. Our bodies are not designed to consume such refined, concentrated oils. We are very susceptible to oxidation, and these oils can cause a lot of problems, especially with arthritis. Coconut oil and grass-fed butter are much better. You can use lard or lard for cooking, and of course, avoid canned foods. Unless it's sardines or cod liver, they're fine. Another interesting product to avoid is protein powders. Protein powders or other types of low-fat protein powders are difficult for the liver to process, and they can exacerbate arthritis. This is especially true for whey proteinuria. You need a natural source of protein. There are a couple more points. If you're on a diet, you'll notice that oxalates in food are causing arthritis exacerbations. Foods high in oxalates include spinach.  Rhubarb, chocolate, kiwi, almonds. But I think if you follow the advice in this video, if you have arthritis, your inflammation will be greatly reduced in a couple of days. Intermittent fasting is very important, because the more often you eat, the more problems it causes when interacting with food in the intestines. This is a natural remedy for inflammation. It's not just what we eat, but how often. This is very important for eliminating inflammation. If you don't know what to cook for ketosis, the book "Keto Menu for 2 Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of ketosis and fasting. Follow the link below.