Today I will tell you about nine facts related to fascia that will simply amaze you. I have undergone a lot of training in the anatomy and physiology of the body. Fascia is called a special passive tissue that, like packaging material, wraps around different parts of the body. Fascia is a matrix, a tissue that surrounds every muscle in the body. I will give an example: I take this dumbbell and start lifting it like this, let's say I don't know. I will get tired 20 times. Is n't that how I spend a lot of energy when I do this now? Attach the fascia to the dumbbell. This is what I do: I lift the dumbbell, but I spend much less energy because now I use the free energy of the rubber band. Thanks to this, a lot of energy is transferred. Running, jumping, and so on are not limited to contracting and relaxing muscles. We load the tendons, ligaments, and fascia and then release them. The fascia is responsible for posture. Have you noticed that some older people look straight at the ground while walking? But this can be completely prevented if you know how to maintain and restore the health of the fascia, which I will talk about at the end of the video. Fascia is also responsible for the shape of the body. In addition, in its properties, fascia is similar to liquid crystals in liquid crystal displays. It can repeatedly reproduce similar shapes that are capable of changing and adapting to environmental conditions. The small cells that make up fascia or collagen are called fibroblasts. These cells can migrate and move around the body like spiders. We have billions of them throughout the body. They essentially form the so-called ground substance that provides lubrication and movement. Further, fascia is closely related to the immune system. This is why fascia can hurt, for example, with fibromyalgia or plantar fasciitis. Over time, this injury becomes chronic. This is why myofascial release and other techniques such as massage and trich therapy are very important, especially if there have been injuries. When you stop moving, collagen becomes viscous, it becomes rigid, the fascia sticks together and becomes rigid. And when you move, this tissue impedes movement and greatly limits it. You might think that maybe I have a tense muscle. No, you have tense fascia and all parts of the fascia are connected from head to toe. It helped me.  To understand why the techniques I used when I was practicing were effective, for example, I found that if a patient has a coccyx injury, he gets the most relief when I work with the back of the neck and the back of the head. Relieving tension in the back of the head helps with coccyx injuries. Why does this help? Because all parts of the fascia are connected. In fact, I worked with the fascia and stretched it, making it more spacious. Here is another example of patients who could not raise their shoulder. I laid them on their stomachs, and if the restriction was in the left shoulder, I worked with the gastrocnemius muscle and the Achilles tendons of the right leg, and this always liberates. For example, if a patient had pain in the right shoulder, here is the gallbladder area. I said that this is due to the phrenic nerve. Apparently this is so, but I think the fascia also plays a role, because it surrounds the phrenic nerve, which goes up to the third cervical vertebra, where the fascia is attached. And when I relieved tension here, the tension went away from here in the fascia. There are a lot of tiny nerves with their help, the body determines the position of the fascia in space, therefore, the fascia is very important for a sense of balance and coordination. There is an amazing ability, it can change its physical properties, it can become very rigid, then very elastic. If you sit all day and do not move at all, the environment sends a signal not to adapt, tense up and hold the body in this position. This often happens in nursing homes. A person sits in one position all day, the body takes this shape. The fascia reacts to structural changes in the body. Unless you have been injured, that is, having received an injury, you begin to walk or move somehow differently, since you spare one side of the body a little. So the secret to restoring the fascia is related to performing dynamic movements in different directions so as not to repeat the same movement over and over again. After 30 years, my only workout was cycling over and over again, my lumbar muscles, hip flexors became terribly tense. After all, I repeated the same movement over and over again. Below I will give links to the exercises that I do myself, but you can find many more videos. I want to show you the general principle of action, and to this program I add something else: large doses of vitamin D3. I take it daily.  50,000 every day if you take large doses of vitamin D, be sure to take the cofactors vitamin K2, magnesium, zinc and B6. This will prevent any problems that may be due to large doses of vitamin D. And if you want to know more about vitamin D and cofactors,