Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz, and then we'll answer questions on social media.  The floor is yours, dog. What one keyword would lead to the immediate elimination of chronic diseases if understood in healthcare?   I think I know the answer, but I won't tell you.   A Facebook user asks how to get rid of intestinal parasites. Wormwood extract and black walnut shell.  Take both of these remedies.   By doing so, you will create an environment that will force the parasites to leave your body.  Excellent question, James YouTube.  What natural products or supplements would you recommend to improve natural killer cell function and increase white blood cell levels?  She wants to strengthen her immune system.  So she mentioned two cells that have a couple of responsibilities. One of them kills cancer and the other one kills viruses.  So they are very important. And with the help of certain nutrients, the functioning of these cells can be improved.  I made a video about it.  Zinc is essential for this purpose, as is vitamin D. These two nutrients, if you have enough of them, greatly improve the function of these two cells.  And you need to know what suppresses these two cells. This is the so-called stress. The more stress you have, chronic stress, the worse these cells function. So, do your best to reduce stress in your life, and this will strengthen your immune system. Okay, let's talk to Poonam. She has one short question. I'll turn on the sound now.  Ask Dr. Berg Punam one question. Hello, Dr. Berg.  I'm a big fan of yours.  Thank you very much.  I am 47. I have insulin resistance. This year my cycle has increased to about 3 months. I lost 13 kilos, but gained back about nine.  And I feel like I'm at a plateau now.  I have been thyroid-free since I was 21.  I take 20 mcg of synthroid every day. I also take 5 mg of amladipine, 20,000mg of vitamin D3 with K2. These are your vitamins.  I also take magnesium, zinc, and fish oil.  Sometimes I drink apple cider vinegar from time to time. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. I used to do a three-day water fast, but now I find it difficult to fast for more than 16 hours. A month ago I took a course of antibiotics due to the removal of a cyst in my mouth. Now I have a very healthy diet.  I eat three tablespoons of chia seeds with Greek yogurt, kimchi. I eat carbohydrates once or twice a week. I walk about 7,000 steps a day. I do strength training three times a week for 30 minutes. But due to stress at work and the need to communicate with people from different regions, I sleep 6-7 hours most often . Okay, let's give Dr. Berg a chance to answer your question. We don't have much time, but thank you, Poonam. Yes, you have given me a lot of great information.  I will try to answer your question as best I can. Based on this data, I think you need some advice on how to overcome the barriers you are facing.  You are doing a lot of things right and that is wonderful. I think, given your age, you are now going through what is called menopause, and at the same time, estrogen and progesterone are greatly reduced .  A lot of things happen, but when estrogen is low, two important changes occur.  First, insulin resistance is becoming a much bigger problem than it used to be.  What this means is this: You need to be even more strict about your diet than someone who is younger.  How sad.  I'm sorry I had to say this.  Next, you are already taking 20,000 E of vitamin D. Excellent. You have also ruled out problems with vitamin D activation, since you are taking magnesium.  Great. But obviously you have trouble sleeping because of your schedule.  This is probably the main problem that is currently preventing you from overcoming this barrier. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.   If I were you, here's what I would do. I would approach this even more strictly, cut out carbohydrates completely and switch to a root diet.  And do everything possible to solve your sleep problem, even if it means sleeping during the day as well. After all, when you don’t sleep well, problems with blood sugar and hunger begin.   It is very difficult to maintain low stress and cortisol levels.  Especially during menopause, if you don’t sleep at least 7-8 hours.  So I think that's where you need to focus your energy.  I'll be releasing a detailed video about sleep soon.  See if you can solve this problem. Well, I think it's best to wish you good night, Poonam.  And look Poonam, if you answered our quiz question correctly.  What one keyword would lead to the immediate elimination of chronic diseases if understood in healthcare? 45% answered that the word was fasting. 20% said it was insulin.  20% said: "Wait a minute, I've been told insulin twice. That's all nonsense."  15% wrote that it was stress or cortisol. I think there's a typo here.  Oh well.  So we got a variety of answers, including fasting, insulin, and stress, which is related to cortisol, I think.   Are you ready to hear it?  You better sit down. Steve, are you sitting? Yes, I've already sat down. Fine.  There is one word that would change everything completely if it were fully understood. This word is so important for our health that it is impossible to create health. If you do not apply the correct definition of this one word, and that word is food. That's the problem with defining the word food. There is a real biological definition of the word food.  What we eat to sustain life, repair the body, and support tissue growth. This is the real definition.  But there is a legal definition of food or meal, created by the Food and Drug Administration, which the junk food industry uses to produce fake food.  You won't believe it when you hear this, because they, hell, they did n't even define the word food.  Essentially, they're saying, "Food is food."  If the labeling and packaging requirements are met, it can be considered food, as long as it hasn't rotted, spoiled, etc. They have different laws on this matter. In essence, they define the word food or meal without defining it. And this gives the food industry complete freedom to produce whatever it wants.  which only imitates food.  Look at the ingredients in ultra-processed foods. None of them meet the definition of the word food.  After all, most junk food is industrial starch, and that is a filler. It will not support your life.  Are you the only one on life support?  And even then, not for long.  But the repair and growth of an organism cannot be ensured by something that is essentially made from the substance that glues wallpaper to the wall, that is, from corn starch. This is the main component.  It contains synthetic high fructose corn syrup, glucose, synthetic sugar and oxidized seed oils.  They cannot be eaten.  They are so refined and oxidized that they damage the body.  So there are also dyes and flavors.  All this deceives the body so that this food seems real to it. Steve, if I mix cornstarch, high fructose corn syrup, maybe add food coloring, and give you that mixture, you won't be able to eat it unless you add flavoring.  So, yes, you'll have to trick your brain, because it tastes like crap. And you also need to add monosodium glutamate to it so that you never reach satiety and cannot limit yourself to one serving.  That's exactly what they do. I don't think, I don't think the junk food industry will change that definition anytime soon.  So I think the best thing for you to do is ask three questions before you eat anything.   Will this help me maintain my life, repair my body, and grow?  If not, it's not food, don't buy it.  If enough people do this , the market will change. He will have to replace this so- called food with something.  After all, producers do what makes money.  And if we don't buy it, they'll have to change.  I don’t see any other way, and this is just my opinion.  After all, these people have a lot of money to conduct various campaigns.  As I can see, it is very difficult to get them to change some of the ingredients they use.