You know that you can extend your life simply by improving your sleep. If you sleep less than five hours, the risk of death increases by 12 percent, so it allows you to very accurately predict mortality from all causes. I'm not just talking about the quantity of sleep but the quality of sleep. So let's talk about how to improve the quality of sleep. Three main problems: you can't fall asleep, you can't continue to sleep, or you wake up too early. If you wake up at two in the morning, the reason for this is too high cortisol levels. I have another video about this, but this video should basically help everyone. It is controlled by an incredibly tiny structure in the brain called the supra he osmotic nucleus. You can show off your erudition at a party. The size of this supra he osmotic nucleus is about a quarter of a square millimeter. This nerve bundle is incredibly small, about a quarter of a millimeter. It is very, very tiny. There are two of them, this pair, and they control the clock in the body. They control the circadian rhythms of the body. The main hormone that helps with this is called melatonin. Melatonin starts this entire process, and the most powerful factor controlling the supra he's magical core is the cycle.  and light and darkness, so the real problem with our sleep is that we live in an excess of artificial light. Firstly, our light is artificial fluorescent light, and in addition, we have too much light. The light is on 24 hours a day. If you live in a city and the light in the house may be on constantly. We are always in the light when we sit at the computer and wherever we go indoors there is light and perhaps you watch TV in the light and all this light blocks melatonin. The production of melatonin is triggered by darkness. This is one important fact, but there is another type of melatonin. It is outside the melatonin- producing gland, which is called the pineal gland. That is, melatonin is also produced by all cells that are outside the pineal gland, and the production of this melatonin is triggered by light, but not just any light, but infrared light. This is light with a certain wavelength. There is a spectrum of light. It starts with ultraviolet light, then comes visible light, and on the other hand, there is infrared light, and in sunlight there is more than 50 percent infrared light, so it is very important to be in the sun so that infrared light increases the level. Melatonin has many other functions besides its effect on sleep. Melatonin is the most powerful antioxidant, so it brings many other benefits. It gives energy, protects against various diseases, even cancer. But melatonin also improves sleep, so let's see what you need to do to improve sleep. Number one, if you want to reset your circadian waves, it is very important that light hits your eyes and body in the morning when you wake up. This sends a powerful signal to the supra he osmotic bucket, which prompts it to work properly. It is best to leave the house in the morning when the sun rises and expose your eyes and body to sunlight. Of course, I'm not saying to look directly at the sun, just stay outside for at least half an hour. This is the best way. If it is not available, you can do bright light therapy. Let bright light fall on your eyes and body for about half an hour in the morning. This can be done in winter, but even on a cloudy day, you will still be exposed to enough rays, and even in the forest, we are exposed to a significant amount of infrared light. Because infrared light penetrates through the crowns and branches of trees and reaches the ground, and it penetrates several centimeters into the body through clothing. It gets directly into the body.  In the body, we are talking specifically about infrared light, that is why people who spend more time in the sun sleep better. We are simply trying to synchronize our body with nature. We need to get up with the sun and go to bed with the darkness. That is what we strive for in the late afternoon when the sun sets. Ideally, being in the rays of the setting sun would be very, very useful. If possible, you can also be irradiated with red light. Red light therapy is infrared light, but not necessarily right before bed, but at least 2 hours before bed or at some time during the day. This can greatly increase the level of melatonin, and it will provide you with energy. So, perhaps, you shouldn’t do this right before bed. Or you can just be in the sun during the day. Because, as I said, the sun’s rays contain more than 50 percent infrared light, so a lot of sun gives us a lot of melatonin. It improves because melatonin increases. And something else: in the evening, say, at 7: 8-9:10, don’t sit with the light in the room. Turn it off. If you watch TV, dim the lights in the room or just light candles.  And if you have a fireplace, let it burn instead of a lamp, it will give you a lot of infrared light. Candles, fires, fireplaces, they all emit infrared light, it's so pleasant, the yellow -orange flame feels like heat. The second most powerful stimulus for the small nucleus that controls circadian rhythms is exercise. Regular exercise significantly improves sleep cycles. This is number 3. Number 4, the room should be cooler because if the room is hot, sleep will not be as good. I sleep at a temperature of about 20 degrees. Number 5, magnesium is a very good remedy. There are many remedies, but magnesium is very good to take before bed. Below is a link to a good product with magnesium. Magnesium helps relax the whole body, relax muscles, it helps to plunge into a very good sleep. There are other remedies such as vitamin D, zinc, there are herbs that reduce stress, such as hashva gando. There are many remedies, but these five points are the most important for improving sleep and prolonging life. If you haven't watched my video about melatonin and you will be very interested in watching it, here it is, take a look.