Hello, this is another video about the ideal intermittent fasting scheme for maximum fat burning. I am often asked what the ratio of time between eating and fasting should be to lose maximum weight. One study says that the best fat burning and reduction in insulin occurs with cycles from 18 to 24 hours. Let's take a closer look. Here we have a whole 18 hours of fasting. Let's say you eat at noon and then at six in the evening, this is a 6-hour clean window for eating. So, after that, you fast for 18 hours. You will definitely lose weight. This is a very effective approach. Now let's assume that you eat once a day and at noon, you get a fasting cycle of a whole 23 hours. The optimal ratio is somewhere in between these options. Many people follow intermittent fasting and eat once a day. Almost one hundred percent of the people I spoke with on Skype eat once a day and they are doing very well. But if you are a beginner, eat three times a day and move breakfast to later and later times until you can do without breakfast. If you are not hungry in the morning, do not eat.  So there will be only 2 meals left, then you need to move this meal from noon to 1 and this one from 6 to 5 so that there is a 4-hour window. You and I are the optimal option at 4:00 between meals. If you want, you can gradually move to this option. I would do this if I needed to lose a lot of weight and the stronger the insulin resistance, the more damage is done to the body, the more severe your diabetes, the more desirable it is to move to this option. But let's say you have lost weight and reached your goal and you are happy with everything. If you have not had problems with blood sugar, you can stay here. Maybe you don't need this. But another advantage of a longer fast is that with a four-hour window, autophagy begins. Many people watched my video about it. With autophagy, your cells are like a self-cleaning furnace. The cells are cleansed of all the accumulated nastiness. All the garbage is processed. We take the trash and throw it away. Intermittent fasting can increase out of a due by five times. It is very strong and stimulates, which in turn is very beneficial for health, unlike diabetics, whose cells are very  It's clogged and because there's no self- cleaning, there's waste in the cells, they have a lot of problems with the eyes, retina, kidneys, and heart. Autophagy is very beneficial for the body, especially with diabetes or pre-diabetes. By the way, regarding diabetes, if you consume more vitamin B from nutritional yeast with diabetes, it will reduce mitochondrial damage and there will be less waste in the cells. Just a small note. If you want to go all the way to the bottom of a single meal, you can go even further and do high-intensity interval training and workouts during the fast itself. You can somehow combine it with a single meal afterward. This is the next level because this way you will increase growth hormone and lose much more weight. Additional sleep will also help you achieve your goal. Don't overdo it with training. You need to recover. Some people train six days a week. I recommend twice a week. If you train correctly and really hard with a trainer, do it twice a week. Although if you're 20, you can do it more often. But if you're 3450, twice a week is the optimal training frequency, and on the other days, just walk around, it will be great. Consume no more than 20 grams of carbohydrates per day.  Eat vegetables and potions, I repeat, no more than 20 grams of carbohydrates, taking into account greens and vegetables, if you follow this scheme, you can lose a lot of weight, I think you will be satisfied, thank you for watching, thank you very much for watching, share this video, let people know