I have a question for you. Where do you think there is more vitamin A? 85 g of beef liver or 18 kg of carrots. If you thought that beef liver is the best, then you guessed right. Yes, it is true that raw carrots contain a lot of provitamin A beta-carotene, but the active form of vitamin A is Retinol. Unfortunately, nowhere is the difference between provitamin A and its active form retinol emphasized. If you look at the tables in different studies, the products are mixed up. There may be beef liver, carrots, or potatoes right there, all in one list, and it's difficult to understand. You need to understand that carotene must be converted into Retinol, and the conversion percentage is not that high, somewhere around 3%. I recently had a genetic analysis done to look at my genes and identify taci or problems with them. There were several, but it's interesting that I have problems with Dene bco-1, which is responsible for converting beta-carotene into Retinol. In fact, I also found out that my conversion is 48 percent worse than these three.  percent That is, I convert about one and a half percent, this would be a problem. If I ate differently, this is not a problem for me because the solution to this genetic problem, as well as the problem of conversion, is to obtain retinol from animal products because the sources of beta-carotene are plants, and the sources of retinol are animals. The best sources of retinol are beef liver, cod liver, cod liver oil, egg yolks and butter. Nothing bad. This is a good nutrient, but if you think you can get vitamin A from it, good luck to you. Since we're talking about carrots, let's talk about whether you can eat them on a ketogenic diet. On this topic, I made a short clip now. Let's compare carrots with carrot juice, and both have approximately the same amount of carbohydrates, but their hormonal effect is different. If you eat carrots, they will not activate insulin as much, you will not have as many problems with blood sugar as from carrot juice. Why is it all about the digestible carbohydrates in carrots? 17.4 g of carbohydrates, but also  10.4 g of fiber we need Subtract fiber from the total amount of carbohydrates, resulting in only two teaspoons of sugar. How much fiber is in carrot juice? Only one g. If you subtract 1 g of fiber, 17.4 - 1 gets 16.4 g of carbohydrates. This is a little more than 4 teaspoons of sugar, almost twice as much. Although carrots have a high glycemic index, due to the huge amount of fiber, this sugar is much less of a problem. This is called a glycemic load. We take into account the fiber content, which reduces the effects of sugar. So, carrots can definitely be eaten on theta, but carrot juice should never be consumed. What's also interesting about this carrot juice is that the label says 180 percent of the recommended daily intake of vitamin A, but it doesn't say that in fact it's not vitamin A. Yes, in theory it is vitamin A, but in fact it's only beta-carotene, which must be converted into Retinol, the active form of vitamin A. Since this conversion works poorly for most people, you'll be lucky if you can convert at least  3 percent of this is real vitamin A, so if you're hoping to get vitamin A from carrots, don't bother. What's interesting about this carrot juice is that the label says 13 servings of vegetables in this bottle. According to them and the recommendations of the US Department of Agriculture, you can drink vegetables. They state that the recommended daily intake is two and a half glasses, which is equivalent to five servings of vegetables. This is the same glass, and you can drink two and a half to get five servings of vegetables, but they don't tell you about sugar. This juice has a lot of sugar, but real carrots have a lot of fiber and less sugar. Don't know what to cook on Keto? The book "Keto Menu for Two Weeks" will help you. A diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes from available products. The basics of keto and fasting. Follow the link below.