Today I will give you extremely valuable information that will make it much easier to get rid of addiction to alcohol, nicotine or drugs. I recently came across this information from Dr. William Kaufman. Alcohol and nicotine addiction, eating disorders, anxiety. All of this has a common denominator deep in the mitochondria, the power plants of the cell that allow the body to extract energy from food. Behind all of these problems is a deficiency of one substance, and this is nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. It not only helps produce energy in the body, but also does a lot of other things. It is involved in five hundred chemical reactions, you cannot live without it. You may have heard of supplements, but I do not recommend them. I recommend a precursor, and this is vitamin B3, niacin. Niacin is known for helping to lower cholesterol and increase HDL, but it does much more. There is serious research on this topic, but doctors will not tell you about it because it goes against the medical approach to drug therapy. When someone starts smoking, drinking, or taking drugs, it deals a huge blow to the body's ability to  Produce niacin and niacin, but what should people with niacin deficiency do? This can't be corrected with diet, so it won't work to correct the situation. You need niacin in very large doses. Niacin, that is, vitamin B3, can help calm the central nervous system, but various chemicals, drugs, and alcohol all compete with niacin, so they prevent it from working, and you need to increase its production to overcome the many problems that accompany addiction. People with addiction experience energy hunger because their neurons don't work, and along with this, all sorts of problems arise. Even if you successfully overcome some addiction, this compound is very important. In order for you to feel well, there are six main symptoms of niacin deficiency: fatigue, muscle pain, weight gain, problems with sleep quality, clouded consciousness, and low endurance. Taking niacin in large doses, and I'll name them soon, you can recover much easier both mentally and physically. There are forms of vitamin B3. I recommend just niacin. One of the problems with niacin is that it causes redness of the skin. People are afraid of this if you don't like it.  You can find niacin without flushing. But if you want to reduce withdrawal symptoms, cravings for an addictive substance are easier to cope with and feel better. You need niacin in large doses, and this is from one and a half to 3 grams, not milligrams, but grams. I would take niacin in 500 mg tablets, it is very inexpensive, $10 per can. Start with a small dose and then increase it over the course of a week or two, bringing it to one and a half grams of niacin and see how you feel. There are also clinics where patients with addiction are administered niacin intravenously. So, is it possible to take it as a supplement or its version of niacin? Yes, but it will be more expensive and not. Evaluate its functions and benefits. There is still a lot of information. I will make a video about this, but you can also do something else to increase niacin. In addition to the described intake of niacin, intermittent fasting and a healthy version of the ketogenic diet, exercise, etc. will also help. If you need information on what you need to eat, watch this video.