What you eat and especially drink at night plays a big role.  There are seven nighttime drinks for diabetes, prediabetes, insulin resistance (which begins to develop 15 years before prediabetes), for blood sugar levels, for quality sleep, so you don't have to run to the bathroom at night.  When a person has problems with blood sugar, they cannot easily go from one meal to the next.  His fuel comes from the food he just ate.  After a person has dinner, he will have to spend 12, 13, 14 hours without food.  And during this time, a lot can happen.  The first thing to know about this is that blood sugar levels drop at night. The body protests, it constantly tries to stabilize blood sugar. It does this with the help of cortisol, the stress hormone.  The body uses it to raise blood sugar.  Also, adrenaline is not a hormone, but a neurotransmitter.  But it is he who will wake you up.  If you don't sleep well, it puts a lot of stress on your blood sugar.  Blood sugar problems cause poor sleep, and poor sleep causes blood sugar problems.  It's a vicious circle. Of course, many people get up at night to pee, and if your sugar levels are high, you will lose water because your body wants to get rid of it. Then you will become slightly more dehydrated, which will increase your blood sugar levels, and the whole process will start all over again.  There is even a so- called dawn phenomenon.  This is when cortisol, the stress hormone, rises in the morning, peaking at 8:00 a.m.  It is at this time that diabetics have the highest blood sugar levels, even if they did not eat sugar yesterday, the drinks I will tell you about will help correct this problem.  Now to the drinks themselves. The first is a mixture of apple cider vinegar and cinnamon.  Add one to two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to the water.  Then add a pinch of cinnamon.  This drink will help the body regulate blood sugar levels and improve sleep.  The second is chamomile tea.  Firstly, it helps you sleep better, and secondly, it affects blood sugar.  It lowers cortisol, it protects the cells of the pancreas that produce insulin.  Number three.  Golden milk.  It is a mixture of turmeric and ginger.  It is made in the form of lats.  We combine one of the best herbal remedies, turmeric, which contains the active ingredient curcumin, with another plant, ginger.  This mixture has a wonderful effect.  It should be drunk at night.  Fourth.  Aloe juice.  This juice can improve digestion and help with ulcers.  Some people apply it externally to heal wounds.  It can also help the cells of the pancreas that produce insulin.  Fifth.  Tea with barberry.  The berberine in barberry works very similarly to the common diabetes drug metformin , but without the side effects, which is remarkable.  Sixth.  Electrolytes. Mainly potassium and magnesium.  Magnesium can significantly reduce cortisol levels. It will help with stress, with sleep and will help stabilize blood sugar.  And potassium is another interesting mineral. We need a lot of potassium, about 4,700 mg.  Rarely does anyone receive that much.  Potassium and magnesium are physiological relaxants. Potassium slows down the pulse if it is too high. Potassium is also needed to help the body store glucose in the liver and even in the muscles.  Potassium, in principle, helps with stress and also improves sleep.  And seventhly, this is actually also an electrolyte.  Salt.  You can simply add salt to the diluted electrolytes and you have a great sleep drink.  How exactly can sodium help blood sugar? By the way, diabetics are advised to avoid salt.  Low sodium levels increase cortisol.  I have found that putting a little salt under my tongue or dissolving it in a glass of water at night helps me calm down and sleep better.  It can lower cortisol, which in turn balances blood sugar.  Sodium also helps hydrate the body to avoid dehydration.  This will prevent the increase in blood sugar levels, which I already mentioned. If you think about it, sodium is an essential mineral that helps nerves and muscles function, helps with dehydration, and also lowers cortisol. It supports the adrenal glands.  I told you about drinks you can drink at night.  Try them and write if they helped you.  Thanks for watching and see you soon.  Sugar steals your energy and health.  It's time to break free. 8 weeks, 100% support, and you won't recognize yourself in the mirror. Join Dr. Berg's Sugar-Free program .