I want to share with you some great new data on how to reverse diabetes by getting rid of fat in the liver. Of course, the authors don't write, "Reverse diabetes 5." They call it diabetes remission. But this is interesting information. So, there is a huge amount of data that indicates that insulin resistance starts in the muscles and then spreads to the liver, but there is conflicting data, since other data indicates that it starts in the liver and then moves to the muscles. But the important thing is that if you eliminate insulin resistance, you can eliminate diabetes. But if you have a fatty liver, you will never be able to eliminate insulin resistance. You may feel a little better, but you need to remove the fat from the liver. How is fatty liver related to diabetes? Wow, one of the functions of the liver, in addition to the detoxification function, is to store glucose in the form of glycogen. Usually, some glycogen reserves are found in the liver and also in the muscles. Glucose from the liver goes to the brain and other organs when we don't eat. And when we exercise, glycogen from the liver serves as fuel for the brain when we don't eat. And when we exercise, glycogen in the muscles generally supplies energy.  Glucose only powers muscles, but insulin resistance deprives you of this. Therefore, training is not going very well. You have low endurance, you get very tired, especially during training, and over time, insulin resistance in the liver develops into diabetes, and diabetes occurs because fat comes out of fat cells, this is ectopic fat, then this fat accumulates around and inside the pancreas. This cell of the pancreas regulates insulin levels, and the work of beta cells is disrupted and diabetes occurs. It was stated that this cannot be reversed. But this is absolutely not true. The disrupted work of beta cells can be restored. We are not talking about type 1 diabetes, I am talking about type 2 diabetes, and to reverse it, you simply remove fat from the pancreas and allow its cells to recover, but for this, you first need to put the liver in order, remove fat from it to reduce insulin resistance. And this, by the way, can happen in six days, but the pancreas is needed for 8 weeks. What I really want to say is that if you have diabetes, pre- diabetes, or insulin resistance, you need to focus on  Removing fat from the liver is your main goal. During this process, the pancreas will also lose fat and the function of the beta cells of the pancreas will begin to improve. The question is how to do this. How do you do this? Switch to a low-fat diet and exercise more. What is the best thing to do first? I need to explain something because many people don't know that the brain can work on two types of fuel. It can work on glucose and it can work on ketones, but ketones have a bad reputation among people. For example, if you stay on a keto diet for a long time, ketocidosis develops. This is a very serious pathology. So avoid ketones. This is a complete lie. This is acidosis, which occurs with type 1 diabetes. If people believe this nonsense, they are left with only one type of fuel. Glucose, he tells us. The brain prefers glucose. And you only need this fuel. If you only know this, God, you will have a hard time coping with this problem. Let me say a few words about dipoglycemia, which is low blood sugar. Let's look at all the symptoms associated with the brain. Hypoglycemia is a problem with thinking, memory, and learning new things. Imagine how many schoolchildren have low blood sugar, and at the same time they are trying to study. Headaches, fatigue, blurred vision, dizziness, and all these problems with the head. Hypoglycemia originates in the liver. Why? Because glycogen stores are not replenished due to a fatty or dysfunctional liver. That is, when the liver does not work, glycogen is not stored properly. Glucose stored in the muscles is not available; it is used only by the muscles. Supplying glucose to the brain is a function of the liver. But if the liver is fatty, and many people have it, especially if they are overweight, it does not store glycogen correctly. And the more fat in the liver, the stronger the insulin resistance and the higher the level of insulin in the blood, which lowers blood sugar and causes hypoglycemia along with all its symptoms. If you think that a lot of fat in the liver is needed for insulin resistance, this is not so. I found interesting data: insulin resistance can develop if fat fills less than two percent of the liver's volume. It seems to be the exact number. 1.85% of liver volume causes symptoms of insulin resistance, which in my opinion is very, very little, that is, you need very little fat in the liver for this process to begin, insulin resistance develops everywhere in the liver, in the muscles, as I said, and also in the brain. So if there is excess glucose in your diet, you are literally slowly killing your neurons and this is a paradox, because even Alzheimer's disease and many other brain problems are caused by the fact that neurons do not receive enough glucose, but excess glucose actually kills neurons. So neurons die if they are deprived of glucose and neurons die if they receive glucose, how to understand this, well, maybe the brain is not designed to work on glucose at all. Perhaps when brain cells receive more glucose, the body protects brain cells by developing this resistance, making it difficult for glucose to penetrate, and perhaps the body is trying to tell you [music] there will be problems, and of course we have this mechanism of insulin resistance. The higher the insulin resistance, the less glucose is absorbed.  Neurons, because without insulin, neurons cannot absorb glucose. That's why, in Alzheimer's disease and dementia, they use, in particular, an intranasal insulin spray. insulin is injected into the sinuses, it goes directly to the brain and reduces the symptoms of dementia. This increases the level of insulin in the brain. If you increase insulin in the brain due to the glucose you eat, this only increases resistance. So this is not an option. So, let's step back for a second and look at this problem. How to reverse type 5 diabetes. How to reverse all these cognitive problems that are associated with high blood sugar due to fatty liver. First of all, you must realize that the brain does not prefer glucose. And ketones for the liver to get in order. The body must run on ketones and not on glucose. To remove fat from the pancreas and restore beta cell function, the body must run on ketones. Ketones improve the situation with cholesterol, triglycerides, and other liver lipids. Ketones help reduce the amount of fat in the liver. This is why the ketogenic diet halves liver fat in two weeks due to  What, when you reduce the amount of glucose, the body switches to titons and within six days, the insulin resistance of the liver is significantly reduced and everything starts to work. Also, inflammation in the liver decreases, fibrosis decreases, liver function improves and liver enzymes decrease below, so you can see that I did not make this up, all this data is confirmed by the word. If you put your fatty liver in order, you will put your brain in order, you will get rid of diabetes, to put it simply. What important steps can you take immediately to reverse this? Start a keto diet. Simply put, do not eat any carbohydrates except vegetables. One type of carbohydrate is fiber and vegetables have a lot of fiber and fiber is one of the very few things that do not increase insulin. So you can eat carbohydrates, provided that they are carbohydrates. Rich in fiber and when you eat, I recommend eating vegetables and greens first. This way you will get a lot of phytonutrients and other nutrients that help reduce complications associated with diabetes, and then eat protein. Protein is very important, but do not eat a lot of it. Eat in moderation. I think the best and very simple way to determine how much protein you need is this.  If you are a woman, eat a palm-sized portion of protein. If you are a man, eat twice as much, two palm-sized portions of protein. I think it is better to eat vegetables first and then protein. After all, when people eat protein first, they often do not eat vegetables. Drink one or two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar diluted in a glass of water. This will not only improve digestion, but also greatly improve the situation with blood sugar. In particular, it will increase insulin sensitivity. Apple cider vinegar is an amazing tool that allows you to speed up the process of normalizing insulin resistance. Think for yourself what apple cider vinegar is. It is acetic acid. Apple cider vinegar is a fatty acid. It is a type of fat, although we do not think of it as fat, and fats in general are another thing that does not stimulate insulin. You can use apple cider vinegar for energy production and as one of the means to speed up your progress. There is excellent data that acetic acid accelerates the removal of fat from the liver. I would add lemon to this drink. It will help. Let's move on. Let your appetite tell you. When you eat  During all this, when you switch to ketones, you will lose your appetite and cravings for food and it will be easy for you to follow this program. Just don’t eat if you’re not hungry. Eat only when you’re hungry. Track your appetite because you need to eat less and less often. And you need to give up snacking. You need to eradicate the habit of eating three times a day. It’s not true that this is necessary. It’s not true that we need snacks to avoid a hypo pandemic. After all, any food stimulates insulin. I would eat no more than twice a day maximum. This will greatly speed up the elimination of fat in the liver and the reversal of this whole situation with diabetes will cause its remission. Let’s call it that. And lastly, as a cherry on the cake, regular exercise is needed. Exercise will greatly help with insulin resistance, reduce it, and increase insulin sensitivity. I hope I have shown you a new point of view on diabetes and how to reverse it. You just have to learn how to do it exactly, and you will learn about this from this course. I invite you to my healthy ketone course, it is for those who want Lose weight so that the weight doesn't come back on the course. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already completed this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.