Let's talk about how to wean your husband or wife off snoring. Nothing can be worse for your sleep than if your other half snores all night long. Let's start by determining the cause of snoring from sleep apnea. Many devices have been invented, for example, a mask is a device that is attached to the head and forcibly supplies air for breathing. The problem is that it dries out the mouth and it is also simply uncomfortable with it on the head. There is a device that needs to be inserted into the mouth. They help move the jaw forward to increase air flow and help breathe, but sooner or later you will want to understand the root cause. Let's talk about what snoring is. Snoring is caused by a loss of tone in the structures in the back of the throat, their vibration produces sound. The reason may simply be in an overly thick neck. In 6 cases, there is too much fat and this interferes with the flow of air, this is called obstructive sleep. But in sleep, the cause may also be in the stomach. Let's say you have a lot of visceral fat, a huge belly, and all this fat presses on the diaphragm in the direction of the head, and when you lie down, because of Constant pressure on the diaphragm causes the lungs to receive less oxygen. It is known that people who are overweight snore more often, but there is another functional reason. We are talking about the nervous system that controls tone. The structure in the back of the throat is called the autonomic nervous system. There are problems with the cranial nerves. These are the nerves that emerge from the brainstem. In particular, we are talking about the ninth cranial nerve, the so-called pharyngeal nerve, and the tenth, the so-called vagus nerve. Problems with them lead to a loss of tone in the back of the throat and vibration. Snoring is caused by another nerve, the phrenic nerve, which comes from under the diaphragm and goes up to the neck. This nerve controls the diaphragm and determines the volume of air that the lungs can accept. So, problems with the nervous system can cause serious complications, not only snoring. The volume of air the body receives can decrease due to improperly functioning lungs and the fact that the airways are open or closed. Visceral fat affects the occurrence of snoring. Fat in the neck also affects the nervous system that controls these structures. Vitamin B1, also known as vitamin B1, greatly influences the work of these nerves.  Thiamine deficiency can lead to serious problems with the autonomic nervous system, including the phrenic nerve. Another important factor negatively affecting these nerves is the presence of diabetes, pre-diabetes, or even insulin resistance. These diseases can cause peripheral neuropathy, affecting the feet and hands. The overall functioning of the nervous system is also impaired. Neuropathy is also a common cause of vitamin B1 deficiency. Vitamin B1 is excellent for protecting against diabetes complications. High blood sugar complications themselves affect the nervous system. Additionally, there is a B1 deficiency caused by a high-carbohydrate diet. Not to mention that insulin resistance causes obesity. When you go to the doctor and complain about sleep apnea or snoring, they recommend losing weight. This is absolutely true, because the less fat you have on your neck, the less fat you have on your stomach, the easier it will be for you to breathe. However, simply losing weight won't get you anywhere. Some people snore even after losing weight, and some thin people  snore, so what to do first, start taking thiamine, vitamin B1, this vitamin will help the autonomic nervous system and increase the tone of the back of the throat, vitamin B1 will also help in the center of the brain stem responsible for breathing, it will also help the work of the nerve that controls the diaphragm, and vitamin B1 will also help the work of the cranial nerves, especially 9 and 10, this is perhaps the most important thing to do first of all, you know that a high-carbohydrate diet leads to a deficiency of B1, so the diet will have to be changed, that's why we follow a healthy diet for those who have recently been on my channel, in the description, the link, everything is explained in detail, you should also take up intermittent fasting in combination, these measures will help alleviate insulin resistance, a large part of this problem is the accumulation of fat in the neck and abdomen, another important recommendation is to take vitamin D3, why because 20,000 international units of vitamin D3 will very well help you get into the deep delta sleep phase when you snore or have sleep apnea, you yourself will constantly wake up during the night, some people wake up at 30  Once an hour, due to the fact that the soft tissues in the back of the throat interfere with breathing until it stops, the nervous system comes into play and a person will breathe 30 times an hour, so during the day he feels tired, the brain does not have enough oxygen, this will affect the heart, leading to many problems, but vitamin D3 helps the deep part of the brain that controls circadian rhythms. It also helps the autonomic nervous system, especially the sympathetic division. This vitamin brings many benefits, so some sleep better after a day spent in the sun, so they get more vitamin D. So you can get vitamin B1 from nutritional yeast and vitamin D3 from the sun, but keep in mind that you need to be in the sun for some time. I talk about how much exactly in other videos. The link is in the description. You can take it as a supplement, but it is very difficult to get it from food alone, so it is worth using supplements. And don't forget about healthy ketogenic intermittent fasting. Now try all this and tell us about the results. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.