I've talked a lot about different anti-aging products and how to look younger, but today I want to tell you about how to feel younger. Nobody likes to feel old at any age, but what exactly do I mean when I say feeling old? Joint stiffness, muscle pain, the medical name is myalgia, it's also inflammation in the joints, clouding of consciousness, loss of clarity of thought, mood, far from optimal well-being, can be characterized as malaise or simply as a general painful condition, or the so-called post-exertional malaise, that is, fatigue after any physical activity. As soon as you start to exert physical effort, you feel that your body simply refuses to do it, or you feel tired, lack of energy, and at the same time sleep poorly. If you have something similar, you will like this video. I think many people understand that most of the problems listed are based on their eating style, but there is another hidden reason that I want to talk about. This is a very common phenomenon, especially among people with chronic fatigue. In fact, in about 70 percent of cases, the cause of chronic fatigue is not related to diet, it is related to the so-called Latent viruses are viruses that you once contracted but which currently do not show any symptoms, but they can reactivate and cause any of the symptoms listed earlier. You can exercise and eat right, but still do not feel young and energetic. This could be due to a latent virus that has reactivated again. Among others, herpes viruses most often appear in a latent state. These are the herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2, the Epstein-Barr virus, and the cytomegalovirus. In addition, even HIV can exist in a latent form, as can hepatitis viruses. So, insidious viruses have a survival mechanism: hide from observation, lie deep in the depths, and just wait for the right moment. Wait for the body to flip a switch, and switch number one that triggers more often than others is you ready for stress. Stress makes you feel aged and tired. In fact, this can be a consequence of the reactivation of viruses, which causes an immune response not like a full-blown infection, but enough to make you feel like you Overtired and as if aged, there is an interesting fact associated with these viruses, especially the coat of arms with viruses, the vast majority of people on the planet, I said 87 percent of the population is infected with the herpes virus, as for the Epstein-Barr virus that causes mononucleosis, as many as ninety- five percent of the population is infected with this virus, and since most people on the planet have such viruses and they have periods of stress, it is not surprising that the described symptoms are very common, even coronavirus, its various variations can reduce the number of T-cells, which will lead to the reactivation of some latent viruses, in other words, if a person had coronavirus, this can lead to other problems, a person may experience clouded consciousness, joint aches, inflammation may appear, mood will worsen, and sleep will also be difficult long after the illness itself, the first and most important action in such a situation is to identify what exactly is causing you stress and do everything possible to resolve this problem, write in the comments under this video what kind of stress you are facing right now, therefore, in order to feel younger, it is extremely important to understand this issue, there is another remedy that  I found it and it is very, very effective against all these viruses that arrive in a latent state, but it will not work if you are still exposed to stress and it will definitely not work if you continue to eat unhealthy food, however, this remedy will give a very good effect if you keep stress within limits and eat right. If you do not know what this means, below will be a link to precise nutritional instructions and the most effective herbal remedy that will help deal with these viruses is the root of wormwood, an annual Chinese herb that has been used for at least 2000 years, a very powerful ancient Chinese remedy. It has many beneficial properties, but mainly it is known as an effective remedy for malaria. It has antiparasitic, antifungal and antiviral properties. At least in relation to some of the named viruses, it is not yet known exactly how it works, but it seems that it starts the oxidation process inside the pathogen. There are many studies on this topic. The links will be below, during which fatigue, stiffness, inflammation, mental fog, symptoms that persist long after a person had a latent infection, were studied. There are many good  Olive leaf is one of the herbal remedies that can help, as well as oils and ghana, sage, medicinal garlic, thyme, but annual wormwood is perhaps one of the best. This is the information I wanted to share, but you must make sure that you have proper nutrition and that you are doing everything possible regarding stress. I think no other means will help until you deal with stress. This is a serious dominant factor affecting your health. I have a course in which stress remedies are discussed in great detail. Sign up at the link below. I invite you to my course on the adrenal glands and body type. This is the most common type due to such a thing as stress. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body, regain a beautiful body, and get rid of the adrenal body type. Stress is closely related to immunity, so in the package you will find a unique new course on how to strengthen the immune system as a gift. I will tell you how the immune system works, what reduces it, and I will give you a list of the best remedies for strengthening it. I am waiting for you on the course.