Hi all.  Today we'll start with our wonderful quiz, and then we'll answer viewers' questions that have accumulated on social media.  The floor is yours, doc.  Please. What is the purpose of adding Maltadextrin to junk food ? We are waiting for your answers, friends. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozone or Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Now we answer questions from social networks.  Reina writes from Facebook: "I have SPK. Is strength training recommended for me ?" So, polytestotic ovarian syndrome is a situation where a woman has increased androgens and facial hair appears. The waist becomes fuller, the voice sometimes deepens, and hair falls out due to the hormone DHT, a more potent form of testosterone. So, you need a low-carb diet with intermittent fasting to lower your insulin, because when insulin goes up, androgens automatically go up. This will help you more than anything else.  And I completely forgot about the first question.  The question was about losing weight and training.  What was the question? Is strength training acceptable for people with SPK? Ah, I think it will help a little, but I highly recommend switching to a low-carb diet. After all, if you have SPK, you definitely have insulin resistance, so it needs to be eliminated.  Yes, strength training will help a little, but it will not be the main factor in solving this problem.  And the next question affects both sexes.  Denis from Facebook, please help me get rid of chronic constipation.  When did it start?  Recently or a long time ago? If it was recently, remember what you did and go back to what was before. Unfortunately, doctors rarely ask when it started, what was right before it. This helps to understand the reason, and then common sense can be used.  But if this has been going on for a very long time, there may be several reasons.  First, there may be atrophy of the colon because you have been eating the wrong things or too often.  I think intermittent fasting is very important for getting rid of constipation . And you know, if you read about constipation, we'll see advice: you need to eat more fiber.  Not necessarily.  Why? First, fiber absorbs water and swells. Everything there is already swollen.  Why increase the blockage in the pipe?  You don't have to do this. I would probably switch to a corner diet. This may surprise many people, but when I started eating more meat and less fiber, of course I cut out grains.  I thought there would be constipation.  No, my bowels started working much better when I started eating more meat.  Meat contains glutamine, which is good for the intestines.  Try it, it might help.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Great.  Now let's see what the viewers answered to the quiz question.  And it sounded like this : For what purpose is Maltadextrin added to junk food ?  65% answered: "It's filler."  20% answered: "It's a flavor enhancer."  10% said it improves texture, 5% said it's a sweetener and it's addictive.  Fine.  Real food, such as protein, is supposed to repair the body.  Some of the protein can even be used as fuel.  And ingredients are added to junk food for a very interesting purpose.  Maltodextrin is added primarily to increase mass.  This is a filler.   Wait a minute .  What are they trying to fill them with?  They try to fill the food with it, because it is empty, and there should be at least something in it.  And maltodextrin has no other purpose .  It is added as a filler.  If it's first or second on the ingredient list, you're actually consuming industrial dust.  It is a kind of waste product from corn processing.  It's absolutely, it's an extremely cheap ingredient.  It costs literally 40 cents per kilo, per kilogram.  That is, it is not something inert, not something that does not react.  It is fatal because the sugar spike from it is greater than from sugar.  And it's not even sweet.  It is added as a filler.  And the real purpose of this is this . How to make food as cheap as possible? Add Maltadextrin. Well, well.  Now let's talk to Farah, who contacted us from Georgia.  Farah, please ask Dr. Berg one question. Hello. I have a kind of compound question.  I'm trying to get back into intermittent fasting, but I'm having a hard time understanding what I can take while on intermittent fasting.  I'm sorry I'm sideways. Can you take the amino acid Ellysin? Will this break intermittent fasting?  And I also can't drink black coffee. What can you add to your coffee to improve it and not break your fast? Very good question.  In fact, any amino acids actually break fasting. You are trying to get great effects when you are fasting and protein breaks the fast. But I understand what you mean.  You are probably trying to supply your muscles with certain amino acids. to prevent atrophy. And glesin is the most important of these amino acids. But here's what I would do. If you're fasting for a long time and you're not feeling well or you feel like you're losing muscle, drink some bone broth. This might be a good solution.  It has very few calories.  He won't break his fast for long.  The same applies to coffee.  I can't drink black coffee.  I need to add cream. So I would drink my coffee with cream, but I would add heavy cream rather than low-fat cream because the insulin spike would be smaller and you're adding so little cream that it would only break the fast for a short time.  So it doesn't matter, because you're just adding a tablespoon or so, right? So this is what I recommend.  Thank you, Farah, for calling us and I hope you enjoy watching the rest of our program.  Ayda from Facebook asks: "What's the best way to deal with hand tremors?" I will create a protocol for this purpose, as there are a couple of causes of tremor.  If you have Parkinson's disease, you have a problem with a neurotransmitter.  And this is the cause of tremors.  This is a completely different situation, but there are natural ways to increase neurotransmitter levels.  I made a video about this .  But let's say you don't have Partinson's disease and you have resting tremor. High doses of B1 will increase acetylcholine levels, which can potentially improve your condition. I have recommended this to many people and it has helped them greatly. So I recommend switching to ketones as fuel for the body plus high doses of natural B1. Try it, it might help.  Excellent, asks Hamiz from Facebook.  What is the single best nutrient or food I should eat daily to reduce inflammation? First of all, it is necessary to find out which of the two causes is causing the inflammation.   Do you use seed oils?   The seed oils release a byproduct similar to molecular superglue, especially when heated.  It's called aldet. Empty carbohydrates, high-fructose corn syrup, and even excess iron can cause inflammation.  But if you're looking for ways to reduce inflammation, there's some exciting new information. This is especially true for joint inflammation.  You may have heard about boss: "To the gut, to the brain."  The brain can fix many problems in the gut, but there is also what is called the gut-joint axis.   We are talking about improving the condition of microorganisms in the intestines that produce and help modify bile salts. Yes, bile salts.  There are receptors for bile salts in the joints.  So if you look at people who eat things that destroy microflora, especially emulsifiers in ice cream, sorbets, sauces, avoid, for example, polysarbate 80, carodin and similar substances, because they are very harmful to microflora. Even after antibiotics, severe inflammation occurs, because they destroy microorganisms associated with bile. So, to reduce inflammation, I would eat fermented foods like kimchi, sauerkraut, and even kefir. This is perhaps the best.  Plus omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil.  But an excellent remedy, for example, for arthritis is tutka. I've been talking about duck here as a remedy for other problems, but it seems its benefits are much broader.  Not only does it help digest fats, but it also protects the nerves in the brain and protects joints.  Take two capsules on an empty stomach twice daily.  I found a recent study that even people with knee pain from bone friction get great relief from taking tutka.