Just look, this pizza is completely legal and very healthy. And I'll show you how to cook it.  This is a great recipe and the best part is in the dough. The dough is made from cauliflower and mozzarella.  It contains no flour, no harmful ingredients, no sugar and no MSG.  So it's a cruciferous pizza.  You don't have to limit yourself to just one piece, it's very healthy and nutritious.  And now I'll show you how to cook it.   Let me repeat once again, you can eat it without restrictions.  It definitely won't make you fat .  Let's get started.  So, the secret of this pizza is in the dough. I have made this pizza 12 times.  At first it was a flop.  So I will help you avoid mistakes.  The dough recipe is very simple.  Two glasses of cauliflower. By the way, this is a cruciferous vegetable.  Kale won't work, otherwise the pizza will be green.  Cauliflower is rich in beneficial phytonutrients that help with anti-aging.  We'll also add mozzarella.  I'll take the organic one.  It's not necessary, but if you can find organic, that's even better.  And let's add two more eggs: organic or farm-raised.  So, two cups of cauliflower, two cups of grated mozzarella, and two eggs.  Let's mix it all together.  You may think that the dough will not work, but I assure you, this is not true. First, take the cauliflower and a grater. You don't need a food processor. And just grate the cabbage. Very, very simple. So, I would advise you to get rid of large, unrubbed pieces. Next, we collect two glasses of our grated cabbage and place it in a separate bowl.  Enough. Looks like I rubbed too much. two glasses or four if you are making two pizzas.  Like this.  Then we take organic grated mozzarella.  You can grate fresh cheese.  Even goat's milk mozzarella will work.  I use this one because I already know there are exactly two cups in the bag.  You'll see now.  So, one glass.   Like this .  And one more. Do you see?   We pour it out. Then break two eggs into a bowl.   It doesn't work.  Like this.  Take two. Well, it's immediately obvious that I'm not much of a cook , but it seems to be working out. Look, I have two eggs, two cups of mozzarella and two cups of cauliflower.  Mix it all together. Strange, huh?   It does n't look like it will make dough, but it will. You'll see. Just don't add salt, because mozzarella is salty on its own. So, I came across a big piece of cabbage here.  You need to pull it out in the dough.  We do n't need him. Mix thoroughly. This is how it should look.  Now I want to show you something. This is what the finished fried dough will look like.  Look, it's crispy, moderately hard. This is what it will look like in the end.  Very ruddy.  Bake for 15 minutes.  The hardest part of this whole recipe is rolling out the dough on parchment paper, you know?  Let's try to shift the mass. Use cheap pizza pans and, of course, parchment paper. If you bake without parchment paper, the pizza will be difficult to remove from the pan. Unless you generously grease the pan with olive oil.  So, the hardest part is cutting out the parchment. according to the pizza pan.  That's how it is.  Now I will try to do it, but we'll see how it goes . There is probably an easier way, but I don't know it. It didn't turn out quite even in shape, so I 'll have to trim it a little. Here.  Ready.  Since our dough contains mozzarella, which is oily on its own, there is no need to grease the pan .  Therefore, we simply put the mass into the mold.   Like this .  It is best to place it in the center. By the way, I'll warn you right away, I washed my hands.  Don't worry about that. Does Dr. Burke wash his hands?  Yes, it washes.  Well , let's get back to our test. I need to spread it evenly over the mold, and then press it with clean washed hands to form a flat cake.   The first important secret is to use parchment. The second one, knead into a very thin layer.   Like this .  I tried different techniques. For example, I removed the juice, since this mass is very juicy. I dried it in the microwave and even in the oven, but this is completely unnecessary.  You see, I still have some room left, so I'm just going to start pressing from the center, slowly moving the mass towards the edges.  Make sure the flatbread is flat.  Like this.  I have already preheated the oven to 230°. She's ready.   Like this . Almost. So, the base is ready.  Very simple. Place it in the oven for 15 minutes, after which the pizza will look just like this.  Well, let's put it in the oven, and then I'll show you what to do next.  So, our base was baked for 15 minutes at 230°. Now we need to add the sauce.  Look, you can use ready-made pizza sauce or tomato sauce for pasta, for spaghetti.  The main thing is that it does n't contain sugar or high fructose corn syrup. This sauce is very good.  It doesn't contain sugar, but it's a bit expensive.  This one will do too.  It also has no added sugar, so it's not bad either.  Look for a sauce that is very low in sugar.  We take the jar and pour it directly into the center.  I once went overboard with the sauce, but of course it all depends on your preferences, so it's best to start with a small amount.  Perhaps I'll add a little more.  Here and here about a quarter of a glass.  We distribute it according to the shape.  Now let's add some more mozzarella on top . I take some cheese and sprinkle it on top. Just don't overdo it. So, sprinkled with cheese.  Now we need to add some mushrooms.  Like this.  I love mushrooms.  We cut them into pieces. Add to pizza.   Like this .  Next come tomatoes.  This is a real tomato.  As you can see, it's not perfect.  There are dents on it. But it's real and it tastes amazing. This is how we lay it out in pieces. Now let's add some basil. I grow basil here just for pizza.  I'll just cut off a few leaves. I usually lay out the basil in whole leaves.   I won't cut it, it adds flavor and aroma.  Okay, we added basil.  The next step is optional, but I usually add some pepperoni. My kids love pepperoni, so that's the next ingredient. Finally adding some pepperoni to the pizza. Super.  Now let's put it in the oven and see what happens.   Are you trying diet again, but nothing helps?  Try a proven technique.  The Theta Menu book is a ready-made meal plan for weight loss and health. Healthy eating, a clear plan, and step-by-step recipes will help you lose weight without stress and stay full.  Start now and feel the results.  Download the book using the link below.