Ashwagandha is a real breakthrough, a qualitatively new level, this is a super adaptogen at its best. Ashwagandha helps adapt to stress. When we talk about stress, we talk about the adrenal glands and the hormone cortisol. The uniqueness of ashwagandha is that it is a cortisol modulator. What does a modulator mean? This means that if there is too much or not enough cortisol, ashwagandha can normalize its level. In many people, with chronic stress, the sensitivity of receptors to cortisol is dulled so much that a lot of cortisol is produced, but it does not produce the desired effect. Thanks to ashwagandha, they work better and it normalizes cortisol so that there is not too much or too little of it. I will tell you why ashwagandha is better than any other adaptogens and give practical advice on how, when and with what to take it and other points. Ashwagandha has been known for a very long time; it has been used in many cultures. The question is what exactly in Ashwa Gandhi works all these miracles. This is a substance that is very similar in its structure to a steroid hormone when  In this plant, stress activates this substance and accumulates in it and essentially helps it survive. And we can extract this substance from the plant and benefit from it. In general, this substance prevents strong surges in cortisol, it clearly improves sleep, increases endurance during training, it is a powerful anti-inflammatory, it helps increase testosterone, it protects the brain from stress, it helps other hormones, including thyroid, and even fights cancer. I will compare the effects of ashwagandha and other adaptogens so that you know how ashwagandha differs from similar plants and is superior to them. First, let's compare it with ginseng. Siberian ginseng is an excellent remedy for mood and physical endurance, but it is far from the ability of ashwagandha to maintain hormonal balance. Let's consider ordinary ginseng, it also improves endurance during training, as well as cognitive function. Ashwagandha is much better at helping with anxiety caused by stress, especially if a person has chronic stress or chronic stimulation of cortisol. Ashwagandha improves bida endurance and cognitive function, but it is much more effective in reducing  Chronically elevated cortisol and stress, we'll discuss radiola. It increases endurance and provides energy, but radiola doesn't necessarily reduce stress or anxiety. Ashwagandha, I repeat, counteracts long-term chronic stress. Holy basil. It perfectly calms the body and helps you sleep, but ashwagandha has many more effects than holy basil, especially since it maintains hormonal balance. And after training, ashwagandha improves muscle recovery. Basil doesn't have these effects. Ashwagandha has matcha root. This root provides energy and improves sexual function and libido. Ashwagandha also causes similar effects, but it largely reduces stress, maintains hormonal balance, and improves sleep. Let's take Rishi flu, for example. It's an excellent adaptogen; it improves cognitive function and immune function, and also calms, but Rishi flu doesn't affect cortisol. To summarize, ashwagandha has a complex effect of regulating cortisol, and specifically helps people with chronic cortisol stimulation, especially with chronic, that is, long-term stress and its consequences, such as  Anxiety So, if you worry a lot, you need to take ashwagandha. It will bring many other benefits. It will help increase testosterone, as I said, and it will greatly help with the thyroid gland. Ashwagandha will also help with hypothyroidism, even if decreased thyroid function is not associated with an autoimmune problem. I want to emphasize that lowering cortisol promotes deep Delta wave sleep. So, restful sleep is another benefit. I myself take various adaptogens. For example, they perfectly stimulate the body and add energy. Many people are so burned out that they cannot stimulate the adrenal glands. They cannot consume anything that stimulates the body, especially energy drinks. But based on my observations of many people with severe prolonged stress from lack of sleep and high cortisol, I see that the adaptogen ashwagandha reduces or increases cortisol. What happens in the body allows the body to recover due to deep sleep, restoration of hormones, an increase in the level of hormones that are suppressed by stress, especially testosterone, and increases human endurance, especially during training. Many athletes take ashwagandha. It increases endurance and improves recovery.  After a workout, taking ashwagandha, you may not feel a powerful surge of energy, you will just feel good, you will be calm and you will have energy to train longer. Ashwagandha is one of my favorite remedies. I recommend it due to its wide spectrum of action on everything related to chronic stimulation of cortisol, including, of course, anxiety, excessive worry and sleep problems. Let's discuss how to take ashwagandha. I advise taking it in the evening because it will help you fall asleep. It is good to take it at the last meal, because many phytonutrients are in ashwagandha, which means they are better absorbed with food. And when it is taken on an empty stomach, some sometimes experience nausea or abdominal pain. In this case, you need to reduce the dose and increase it gradually. Should I take it long-term or in cycles? I would take it for 6 weeks, then a two-week break and take it again for 6 weeks, and so on. Then the body will be able to adapt to it, as well as adapt to its absence and work independently. Also, pregnant and lactating women should probably not take it. Thank you for watching and until next time, I invite you to  Anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be a cause of excess weight. During the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and regain a beautiful body. Stress is closely linked to immunity. Therefore, in the package you will find a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also provide a list of the best products for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you at the course.