Hello everyone Today we will start with the question of our quiz Please doc Why is it extremely important to get enough protein on the teto diet to lose weight I look forward to the answer And now we will answer the accumulated questions sa s tube what protein source is best for a vegan with hashimotos disease not gluten stay away from gluten if you have hashimotos disease There is nothing worse I think I think the problem is that you are not a vegetarian but a vegan So the choice is limited maybe you should eat organic tofu tempeh you need to eat some sprouted beans lentils seeds and all that and perhaps you need to wait When will my interview on this topic come out with one doctor from India because she has many solutions for this situation it is difficult to do but it is also possible Spirulina is a good source of amino acids Spirulina is undoubtedly all this data is on our website asks Christy from Facebook What is the best way to deal with chronic pancreatitis I sympathize with Christy there are several causes of chronic pancreatitis you need to undergo a full examination but I want to name one more reason so that  You knew about it and read about it. There is a small duct that comes from the pancreas and connects to the gallbladder duct. Bile flows into the gallbladder and then into the small intestine. The end of the bile duct is connected to the pancreatic duct. If there is sediment or a stone in the bile duct near the pancreatic duct, bile can enter the pancreas, and it can become inflamed during a long search. I found a remedy that is used for pancreatitis, but it is hidden in a lot of other things. It is here. Read about it. It is purified bile salt. Take it on an empty stomach. It has an effect on pancreatitis, protects the pancreas, and reduces inflammation. Today we have an influx of questions about Hashimoto's disease. I will read two at once. Sani from Tuba. What is the best protein source for a vegan with Hashimoto's disease? Lori from Yutu. Does acupuncture help with Hashimoto's disease and immune problems? I think I have already answered the first one.  Steve If I'm not mistaken Oh Sorry then the question from Sani about protein and I'll repeat what source of protein is best Hashimoto's disease Yes, as I said, I already answered this question and the second question is about acupuncture Yes, acupuncture I apologize acupuncture is very I don't know I don't know you can try I don't know about the results maybe but I don't know take a break from Hashimoto's disease for a while asks Nix Rambla What nutrients are best to take for vegetative dystonia is a disorder of the autonomic nervous system have you heard of this Yes, this is a problem with the autonomic nervous system often due to diabetes because diabetes destroys the nervous system not only the nerves in the feet but also other nerves of the autonomic system that control its functions and therefore diabetics can have gastroparesis, that is, a slowdown in the digestive system they can have many problems associated with the autonomic nervous system and this is the sympathetic system, that is, the mechanism of be or  Run plus parasympathetic rest and digestion, as well as enteral, it is associated with digestion and the vagus nerve. So, the best remedy is benfotiamine. You definitely need to take benfotiamine. I usually recommend taking benfotiamine, one capsule four times a day. Excellent. Let's find out what the viewers answered to the quiz question. Why is it extremely important to get enough protein on a keto diet to lose weight? 72% said it suppresses hunger, 80% said it reduces ILI, and 10% said it increases energy levels. Who is right? The whole point is that in a ketogenic diet, the main emphasis is on cutting out carbohydrates, but at the same time, not enough emphasis is placed on protein because insulin is a hormone that lowers blood sugar levels, stores fat, and fat loss is caused by excess insulin. So, obviously, you need to cut carbohydrates, but there is another hormone that reverses the entire effect of insulin. It counteracts insulin. It is like the opposite of insulin, and it is called glucagon. It is activated by protein. So, what  I'm more and more convinced that it's important to eat enough protein for those who have diabetes and are overweight. Anyone who wants to eliminate insulin resistance is important for healing the body and for satiating it so as not to be so hungry. After all, carbohydrates can be cut, but if you don't eat high- quality protein, you will feel hungry. Don't forget about delicious red meat, which people are afraid to eat, it will help eliminate problems with blood sugar due to insulin. Okay, so go ahead. Monica writes: What do you think about the benefits of taking methylene blue? This is one of the first medications that began to be sold today; it is sold without a prescription. It is also a dye, but its health benefits are very interesting. Mainly problems in the mitochondria. Oddly enough, it seems to strengthen the mitochondria and an insane amount of research has been devoted to it. Some people take it for bladder infections. I take it myself from time to time. It benefits the mitochondria, but it has many other beneficial properties, including reducing inflammation and improving the condition of the mitochondria. We are always improving and many other things. Perhaps that's why it is so important. Excellent. Rita finally got in touch.  So, Rita, ask one quick question to Dr. Ber. Good morning, doctor. I have a question. I have an underactive thyroid and insulin resistance. I did a blood test and tried intermittent fasting. When I eat during intermittent fasting, I just can't stop. I want to eat more and more. And sometimes, if I don't eat for several hours and I need to do some physical work, I'm very shaky and I feel very weak. It feels like my pulse disappears altogether. I'll give you a couple of tips. I recommend watching my recent video with Dr. M about Hashimoto's disease. He conducts a special metabolomics analysis. They create energy and do a lot of things. If the thyroid gland isn't working, there are problems with metabolism, but you need to look into this engine and debug it. You probably have a problem with it. So, I think it will be useful to watch that video. And besides, I strongly recommend at least starting to strengthen your mitochondria with high-quality grass-fed meat, be it beef, lamb, or goat. That's what I recommend. I also recommend a couple of things. You need to take magnesium and the enzyme Q10. All this is very  will help the mitochondria Yes, I think you have some kind of failure in the system that is responsible for digesting food and using it to obtain energy, but I don’t know the whole story. I can’t. I would have to study the whole story. But if I were you, I would do this. It’s not worth treating the symptom once you learn everything about metabolomics. Can I ask one more question, doctor? Yes, of course, a question about training. What’s more important: training or nutrition. Well, proper nutrition is more important. Training can greatly strengthen the thyroid gland. Both work together. Training will also help normalize blood sugar. But the most important thing is also getting enough fuel. Enough protein, because due to a sluggish thyroid, you sometimes don’t digest the amount of protein. I don’t know what kind of white meat you eat. What protein do you eat? I like red meat well. I usually take grass-fed. Oh, good, great, if you eat enough protein and you still have problems with blood sugar. I would undergo metabolomics. Finally, there is an analysis that allows you to get all the biochemical processes and see what happens during the conversion of food into energy. Where is the bottleneck.  Where the breakdown is, this analysis allows you to find out all this. Thank you for the call, Rita. Thank you for taking the time to do this.