Let's talk about the worst drinks that can dissolve teeth. I was talking about dissolving or coating teeth. Mal is a very complex substance. It is the hardest tissue in the entire body. It is harder than bones. If we take bones, the lower jawbone is the hardest of all. The question is, what can dissolve this enamel and cause caries? Only acids and some substances in food. What are we going to discuss? Let's first talk about different drinks that are acidic in nature. When I talk about acidity, I mean the pH scale. This scale ranges from 0 to 14, where 14 is a very strong alkali, and one is a very strong acid, and in the middle, seven is something neutral. The higher the pH value is seven, the more alkaline it is, and the lower the pH value is seven, the more acidic it is. If we are talking about a pH of one, this is the level of battery acid. From one to three, this is the level of hydrochloric acid in gastric juice, and when we are talking about distilled water, it is a completely neutral environment. Seven is mineral water. A little above seven can sometimes reach eight.  even up to 9 because of the minerals and bicarbonates dissolved in it, which are slightly alkaline, let's talk about lemon juice, your lemon juice is from 2 to 3, that is, very acidic, but usually when drinking lemon water, we dilute only a little lemon juice in water, you won't rinse your mouth with pure lemon, although you could, most likely, you dilute a tablespoon of lemon juice in water, and if we add water to lemon, your page rises to about five and a half if we take apple cider vinegar, which is also very acidic, from two to three because of acetic acid, we also don't drink it in its pure form, I hope you don't drink it in its pure form, dilute it with water, and the page becomes about four and a half to 5, depending on whether you took a tablespoon or a teaspoon of vinegar. Next, we have carbonated waters, carbonic acid, their page falls in the range from 5.5 and a half to somewhere around 6, that is, carbonated water is slightly acidic, then coffee, it is acidic, about five, and tea, which is about the same but slightly less acidic, that is, from  Five to five and a half, then beer is acidic, from four to four and a half, soft drinks, for example, cola is about two and a half to three, this is a fairly acidic environment, and when enamel comes into contact with a certain page, demineralization begins, that is, the breakdown of minerals in the teeth, and teeth are 96 percent minerals, this occurs at a pH of about five and a half, but the main question is how long the teeth are exposed to these acids. If you drink apple cider vinegar or lemon diluted in water, or drink coffee for a short time, it’s not as bad as if you do it constantly all day long. So, one variable is the exposure time, the second variable is the acidity level of the substance, but there is another variable that we will discuss, and this is perhaps the most important factor, your saliva. The BH of saliva should normally be from 6.2 to 7.6. On average, it is slightly acidic, but not very much, somewhere around 6 and 7. Saliva contains minerals, sodium, calcium, potassium, bicarbonate, which helps neutralize acids, and there are antibacterial factors. There are immune factors. Factors include cortisol and enzymes. You can drink certain drinks periodically throughout the day, but your saliva is in your mouth continuously. It's always there. That is, your saliva is a much more important factor in neutralizing acids. One of the functions of saliva is to neutralize acids and also reduce the number of bacteria. This is another factor that we will discuss. Oral bacteria. Bacteria in the mouth, when fed, for example, carbohydrates, begin to ferment these carbohydrates and change the pH level in the mouth, and bacteria can keep this page very acidic. Bacteria are usually the primary cause of tooth enamel dissolution. Yes, you guessed it. It is carbohydrates, specifically sugar, that create an acidic environment in the mouth, not directly but indirectly, because bacteria feed on them, which then produce acidic byproducts. So, when you drink diluted apple cider vinegar or lemon water, this is not such a significant factor unless you have bacteria that constantly produce acids in your mouth all day. Therefore, the worst thing you can drink that will dissolve your teeth is something that contains both acid and sugar at the same time. Yes, I'm talking about baking soda, especially For a child or even an infant, the worst thing you can give a child is juice because it is essentially pure sugar with acids, and the younger you are, the weaker your enamel is. Babies are very susceptible to tooth decay because their enamel has not yet had time to gain sufficient strength, so never give babies juice, and especially not sweet soda. I have seen this and I had to restrain myself because sometimes people get offended if I tell them about this. And since we are talking about children, if a child eats things like sour candies, in this case, the candy itself is sticky and contains sugar, and there are very sour candies, these are very harmful to give to a child. Also, sometimes a child sucks on a lollipop, this is continuous exposure to sugar, or lives on gum all day, like I did as a child. And all these sports drinks are water with sugar, energy drinks are also water with sugar, and even dried fruits, all this contributes to the growth of bacteria that will make the page in the mouth sour and in the long run, dissolve teeth. I also forgot to say that soda contains a special type of acid, phosphoric acid. phosphoric acid probably copes with tooth dissolution is better than others because it washes out calcium. I want to discuss a couple more things. First, this problem needs to be considered as a systemic problem. If a person has diabetes or prediabetes or insulin resistance due to consuming a lot of carbohydrates, we are dealing with chronically elevated blood glucose levels, which indirectly enters the teeth through the roots. Because teeth have a blood supply. People often think that the problem is only in the sugar that gets into the mouth, but what about internal sugar? What about the roots of the teeth? If you have high blood sugar, this is also a systemic cause of tooth dissolution, only from the inside. Let's also discuss the fact that teeth are set in gums. They require a large amount of vitamin C because they consist of collagen, and the vitamin C complex helps produce collagen. The connection between the chemistry of sugar and the chemistry of vitamin C is very interesting. They are almost identical. If a person eats sugar all day or exposes the oral cavity to sugar, the body will not absorb vitamin C at this time. If the body has a choice, it will always prefer sugar to vitamin C. In other words, sugar blocks vitamin C. What do you think will happen to the gums? If you take a person with bleeding or  Red and swollen gums are a typical vitamin C deficiency. This is a clinical version of scurvy, or even self-esteem. Gendevit and bleeding gums are symptoms of scurvy these days. It probably happens from excess sugar, which is why vitamin C is not absorbed. Should you worry about drinking water with added apple cider vinegar or lemon? Well, in general, you shouldn't. If you're on a low-carb diet, you can always drink through a straw to protect your teeth. When you drink beforehand, you can always wash them down with water to wash away the remaining acids, but your saliva should neutralize these acids anyway. The average person produces about three glasses of saliva per day. For my friend from Germany, Denis, who is trying to figure out how much is in milliliters, 3 glasses, and a glass is a little less than this mug. This is 750 milliliters or 25 fluid ounces. Now that you know what can harm tooth enamel, I think it's worth learning about the benefits of water with apple cider vinegar and lemon. Here's a video about it.