You know, the worst food for your teeth isn't sugar. Yes, sugar increases the number of bacteria, and they produce more acids that can destroy teeth, but there is an acid that is much worse and that destroys teeth very strongly. And this has nothing to do with sugar. Of course, if we are talking about fruit juices such as apple or orange juice, they are five times worse for your teeth than sweet soda. Yes, it's interesting, and soon I will explain why diet or regular soda. Guess which one is worse for your teeth. Imagine. Diet soda can be worse. I will explain why. Number two, candy, for example, sucking candies such as lollipops. Because of them, your teeth are constantly exposed to a lot of sugar and microbes that produce acid appear. Number three, starch in powder form. Starch acts the same way as sugar. It serves as food for microbes that produce acids. This is modified food starch, modified corn starch, maltodextrin, and they are found in almost any junk food. Then there is liquid sugar, like in drinks with highly formulated sugars. Drinking fruit juice is another matter, especially Pasteurized has a big difference, and number five is actually a sweet soda with phosphoric acid, but imagine that phosphoric acid isn't the worst acid for teeth. There's another acid that's much more dangerous, but phosphoric acid is also harmful because it leaches calcium from teeth. That is, soda contains more than just syrup, like highly formalized sugars. But it also has something else about the World Cup. I'll tell you soon. Number six is ​​chewy marmalade. It sticks to your teeth. That is, this sugar sticks to your teeth and continues to affect them longer. This increases bacterial fermentation, which releases more acid. There are also caramel candies that also stick to your teeth, but gummy bears are worse. There are other factors that people talk about, like acid reflux, when acid from the stomach gets into the esophagus and then onto your teeth, but that's not the acid I'm talking about, the acid that has the worst effect on teeth. I'll just read something off the label on bottles of sweet water. Will I be able to see it?  It says water, sugar, dextrose, and citric acid. This is the worst substance for teeth. Is n't citric acid a natural product? Yes, this acid is found in lemons, limes, and so on. But citric acid is also synthesized. The unique thing about citric acid is that it is a very powerful calcium chelator. In one video, I recommend drinking lemon juice for kidney stones. Why? Because citric acid binds to calcium. So, citric acid is an extremely powerful chelator. That is, it binds to the mineral calcium. If you consume citric acid in a certain amount, it essentially pulls calcium out of your teeth and destroys them. It's interesting that the pH of citric acid is not that acidic. It's not that acidic, so the problem here is not only in the acid. As such, you read the information on juice bottles, ladies. Guess what they add to juices, citric acid. What they add to diet soda, citric acid, and the worst of all, citrate, is riri citrate. It is usually listed as sodium citrate. So, citrate is citric acid, one and the same thing. And this acid  It destroys teeth more than anything else. Normally, the pH in the mouth should be neutral or slightly alkaline, that is, slightly above seven. If the pH drops somewhere to 5 and a half or below, tooth decay and mineral loss begin, and not only calcium, but also demineralization of teeth. What does this mean in practice? This means that after eating, you probably need to take a glass of water, rinse it and spit it out just to clean your teeth from anything, be it sugar or citric acid. I think this would be wise. I highly recommend Skivax. Other acids have disappeared, say, after you drink apple cider vinegar. Read labels to avoid consuming so much citrate from foods. If you take potassium citrate or magnesium citrate, this is different. Here, citrate is already bound to a mineral, so it does not wash calcium out of the teeth. It enters the digestive system and does not create problems. But you need to carefully monitor that your teeth are not exposed to any citrate for a long time. Since we are talking about teeth, I think it would be great to have a good recipe for making toothpaste.  If you want to know it, here is the link