Today we will try to find out why whole grain products are beneficial. Whole grain products are very often recommended as healthy food in almost every diet that can be found on the Internet. They tell you to eat a lot of whole grain products. Let's look at bread made from 100% whole wheat. It is made from whole grain wheat flour, that is, not from refined flour. So what is the difference between refined flour and whole grain flour? Let's look at the essence of the grain: it consists of three elements: fiber, that is, bran, germ, it contains B vitamins, vitamin E and a little protein, that is, nutrients, and the third part is called the endosphere, that is where carbohydrates are located. Refined flour is essentially 100% endosperm. Let's first compare these two types of flour. Here is bleached wheat flour. It was processed to make it white. It says enriched, a wonderful word. Niacin, iron, B1, B2, and folic acid have been returned here. That is, these nutrients have been returned here. 23 grams of carbohydrates are practically nonexistent here. Well, the clients who are here  In fact, they have been added here, now let's compare this with whole grain flour. Here it is, 20 grams of carbohydrates per 30 grams of flour, slightly less carbohydrates and another 3 grams of fiber, that's 17 grams of digestible carbohydrates. It's funny. After all, they often say that whole grain products have a lot of fiber, but here 3 grams per 30 grams is not a lot of fiber. Let's see what nutrients are here. It says vitamin D 0, calcium 0, iron 1 mg, potassium 110 mg. In general, there are not many nutrients. But it's whole grain. So, we have fiber from the shell, the germ is also here, but I don't see any B vitamins. Let's see the expiration date is September 23, 2023, next year. How can this flour lie on the shelf for years and not spoil? It's simply incredible. In addition, many of these vitamins are sensitive to oxygen, they oxidize and are destroyed when the grain is ground, it is exposed to air, light, and so on. Do you think it retains its nutrients? I doubt it. And here, even more interesting, the expiration date  refined flour April 24, it will last on the shelf for another year longer, incredible, yes, it keeps very well, so in our bread composition, let's look at whole grain flour, water, sugar, vegetable oil, here we have wonderful vegetable oil, it's made from plants, let's look at the composition, seed oil, soybean oil, soybean oil, omega-6 fatty acids, so we also have gluten, gluten, and a little vinegar, natural flavors, citric acid, so this is the composition of bread in one slice, 21 grams of carbohydrates and fiber, again 3 grams, again 11 percent, very little, so we have wheat, we have rye, holba, cinema, and also corn, rice, oats, all of these are grains, and even popcorn is considered a whole grain product, we need to figure out what's so useful in these products, maybe fiber, there's not that much fiber, 3 grams per serving, not impressive, maybe vitamins and minerals, in whole grain products there are only about 10 percent of the norm, I wouldn't  I called this product rich in nutrients and another disadvantage of whole grain products is phytic acid, it is part of the hard shell of the grain and blocks the absorption of minerals zinc, calcium and iron. It is interesting, but there is no phytic acid in refined flour. And there will be no such problem. But you have to eat all these synthetic minerals in their elemental form, stones and metals, they are very different from minerals from plants. The next question: Maybe there are phytonutrients, flavonoids or polyphenols, something like that. The trouble is that many of these phytonutrients are fat-soluble and quickly spoil under the influence of oxygen. Then maybe their benefit is in protein. How much protein is there? 7 percent, 4 grams. 4 grams is very little, 4 grams, and this is not even a complete protein. Let's see if there is protein in refined flour. Yes, there is a little 3 grams. Let's check what we have in bread, 4 grams, and again, this is an incomplete protein. So, explain to me what is so special about these grains. Maybe I missed something.  fiber vitamins minerals protein phytonutrients and here's what you need to know about grain product research. There are three important points here, I won't go into too much detail. The links below show the vast majority of grain product studies comparing whole grain products with refined grain products. And of course, whole grain products are healthier than refined ones, but no one has compared whole grain consumption with refusing them, and not just compared the two products. But people who eat whole grain products are most likely more health-conscious, don't smoke a lot, probably exercise, and lead a healthier lifestyle. And most of these studies are simply observational, that is, based on questionnaires, a person is asked to remember what he ate under the king of peas. This is a very unreliable study. In fact, there are a lot of different factors, and the results of these studies are easy to manipulate, giving them any color. So, they have a lot of bias. In addition, many of them are sponsored by manufacturers, so their results are not worth even some studies in the blue zones, areas of the Earth where there are many centenarians, who claim that they live long there because they eat grains, but this is not  It's provable that it could be the fish, or the fact that they don't eat as often, or the fact that they have less stress in their lives. In 2017, a group like Raine, a very large group of independent scientists, studied 9 randomized controlled trials, and here's what they concluded: there's not enough evidence to claim that consuming whole grains reduces the risk of heart disease. It's true that eating oatmeal can lower cholesterol, but it does n't necessarily mean that the risk of heart attack is reduced. Such a conclusion cannot be drawn. But in studies of low-carb diets, I'll leave links below, grain products were excluded from the diet. And in the next video, I'll talk about the benefits of a grain-free diet for the heart, liver, blood vessels, and diabetes. This is confirmed by thorough research. Look, here it is.