Today we will talk about the early recognition of latent cirrhosis of the liver. Cirrhosis is the scarring of liver tissue and there is one problem with it. In the early stages, it goes on for decades without any symptoms until the last stage. That is, you may not know that you have cirrhosis, but there is a symptom that most people still experience: lethargy and fatigue, but there can be many other reasons for this, so this is not an indicator. There are two categories of cirrhosis: compensated, when the body compensates for the symptoms and at this stage they do not appear, and then over time, decompensated cirrhosis develops, in which you begin to experience these symptoms. Here are some symptoms that occur with cirrhosis. Spider angioma is when there is a red dot on the skin from which red webs emanate. Phantoms are small cholesterol spots. Sometimes, in the eyelid area, they are yellow because the liver is not working as it should. Jaundice is when the whites of the eyes turn yellow and the skin also begins to turn yellow. This is due to liver damage. The skin becomes thinner. You no longer produce collagen and your skin becomes thin like There is also such a thing as ascites, a fluid accumulation in the abdominal area. It may look like a fatty deposit, but in fact, this fluid flows from the liver, forming a bulging belly. Then, gynecomastia is an enlargement of the mammary gland. Fingernails are visible; they have a sort of square, expanding shape. Swelling of the lower legs is very common with liver damage. Press your finger on the lower part of the shin and a small dent will remain. This is swelling, redness of the palms, confusion, bruises, itchy skin, itching of the feet. Cognitive problems worsen focus, attention, memory, concentration. If you search for information about cirrhosis, you can find out about the waiting list for a liver transplant, about supportive drugs for other diseases, but no one will tell you what to do to avoid cirrhosis, they will not advise you on what to do with natural methods in this matter. There is a lot of uncertainty that I would like to clarify now. They say that cirrhosis is associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, they say alcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with diabetes.  metabolic syndrome and obesity, that is, it is enough to lose weight and cope with the symptoms of diabetes, but no one analyzes the cause-and-effect relationship of what follows what. I will explain it very simply right now. It all begins with a condition called insulin resistance. It occurs from alcohol, and if you have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and can be caused by unhealthy foods, a high-carbohydrate diet, sugar, and often, and even drugs, both medicinal and narcotic, even viruses can provoke insulin resistance. With insulin resistance, you have high insulin levels, and then inflammation develops. insulin resistance causes a lot of inflammation, and inflammation further aggravates insulin resistance. Then fatty liver and 65 million Americans suffer from fatty liver disease. This is incredible. This is a huge proportion. Then, after fatty liver, scar tissue appears, it replaces liver cells, and this is called cirrhosis. Scar tissue, and that is, we have a combination of fatty liver and inflamed liver, then scarring occurs and the liver stops working, that is, ultimately, insulin resistance leads to fatty liver. insulin resistance is the cause of diabetes, and with  In diabetes, I'm talking about type 2 diabetes. There is always insulin resistance, which provokes it because insulin resistance is caused by long-term elevated insulin. This causes a burnout effect when the pancreas can't cope, after which blood sugar rises. This is pre-diabetes, then it rises even higher, and this is full-blown type 2 diabetes. Metabolic syndrome is essentially high cholesterol, problems with blood sugar, belly fat. All of this is caused by insulin resistance. This syndrome is usually presented as if it is a disease in itself, but it is only a set of symptoms caused by insulin resistance. Obesity is caused by insulin resistance, high insulin levels. Growth pizza causes insulin resistance, which is the root cause of all this. If you notice these symptoms, I recommend that you focus on correcting insulin resistance and seeing how it affects these symptoms. I will give a link in the description to detailed information about this and what needs to be done. Thank you for watching. I want to know what you think about this video. Please leave comments and tell me what you think.