Zinc is a truly amazing trace element; it's involved in so many biochemical reactions, but today I'll talk about the connection between zinc and hormones. Zinc is involved in a wide variety of biochemical pathways. It also significantly influences almost all of our hormones. In fact, it's inextricably linked with all major hormones. Let's look at two pituitary hormones: follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone. They send signals to the gonads, including the ovaries and testicles in men. Luteinizing hormone ( Lg) increases testosterone. Thus, zinc increases testosterone. With zinc deficiency, the gonads shrink, leading to hypogonadism. Zinc can also increase testosterone. Another possible scenario is when testosterone converts to dihydrotestosterone, its more active form, DDT, with the help of a special enzyme called alpha reductase. If there's too much of this enzyme, too much DDT appears, which can lead to hair loss or an increase in prostate cancer. In this case, it can act as a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, limiting the number of accidents in women. Follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, controls estrogen and progesterone. Zinc helps increase both progesterone and estrogen. If there is no estrogen dominance, I will return to this later. Many women experience a serious progesterone deficiency during menopause. Zinc can increase the amount of progesterone and change the ratio of progesterone to estrogen. During menopause, women usually experience a decrease in estrogen levels. Zinc can raise the amount to the desired level. There is also an enzyme that converts testosterone to estrogen, aromatase. If there is too much aromatase, estrogen dominance occurs. This happens in both men and women. One of the reasons for excess aromatase is plastic in the environment. Zinc regulates the amount of aromatase well. That is, zinc helps prevent excess estrogen in both men and women. Growth hormone is the main fat-burning hormone. It is also an anti-aging hormone. It regulates the production of new proteins and helps produce them. So, zinc maintains normal levels of growth hormone, as well as another hormone that accompanies growth hormone. It produces it.  The liver is called IGF-1, and now we come to the thyroid gland. To convert T4, the inactive form of thyroid hormones, to VT3, the active form, you need zinc. You'll also need selenium and iodine, but zinc is very important for this conversion. The pituitary gland and thyroid gland also need zinc to produce their hormones. And finally, where would we be without insulin? insulin is a crucial hormone, but it's important not to have too much of it. Zinc is excellent at increasing insulin sensitivity, reducing insulin resistance by lowering insulin levels. Zinc is an indispensable aid in regulating blood sugar and insulin. In general, zinc is inextricably linked with most key hormones. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.