Today I'll talk about what I think is missing in most Chinese diets, and I'm talking specifically about traditional titogenic diets. After watching videos of other people practicing ketogenic diets and seeing what they eat, I decided to make this video and talk about what I think is missing in many of the diets that are recommended to us. On this diet, the amount of carbohydrates is limited to 20 and 50 grams per day, the amount of protein is moderate, and fat makes up 70-80 percent of total calories. There are also food categories that I think should be included in the diet: vegetables. On typical diets, it is recommended not to increase but decrease the amount of vegetables because they are carbohydrates. However, many eat vegetables, and I'm not talking about these people. There are those who subtract carbohydrates in vegetables so as not to exceed this amount. In my opinion, carbohydrates in vegetables should not be taken into account. The glycemic index of leafy greens and other vegetables is not correct. Firstly, it is mainly fiber, and fiber, although it is a carbohydrate, does not affect insulin in any way. You will not find anyone who would gain weight by eating vegetables and all Many people have problems digesting vegetables. Some vegetables contain a lot of antinutrients, for example, oxalates in spinach can cause kidney stones, arthritis, and many other things. Some are sensitive to this antinutrient and have many digestive problems. I work with thousands of people and this is not a common occurrence. Only a small number of people have sensitivity to conti nutrients. Most people seem to feel fine and should gradually increase the amount of vegetables. I say everyone has a glass of vegetables, which is the minimum amount. They are quite easy to eat if divided into 2 servings. That's why I recommend this. First, the transition to ketosis will happen faster thanks to the amount of macronutrients in vegetables, potassium and magnesium. With ketosis, we are trying to cope with insulin resistance, and this is a big task. When you increase these two elements, as well as other elements and vegetables, you will be able to enter ketosis faster and with fewer side effects. Side effects associated with the transition to ketosis are called ketogenic adaptation and include: fatigue, rashes, and so on. They are easy to cope with if you take more macronutrients.  Microelements, sea salt, and B vitamins. A way to produce more B vitamins is to eat fiber in vegetables. It feeds bacteria in the intestines, which produce these vitamins. You can diversify the microflora in the intestines by eating different types of vegetables and different types of fiber. Some epilepsy studies that are currently being conducted say that when children are put on a whale gene diet, one of the side effects is acidosis. One interesting study says that some genes and the diet added vegetables and this acidity decreased. So, you can generally lower acidity and ketones since they are acidic and also reduce the impact of a surge in uric acid that occurs when you enter deep titos and practice intermittent fasting. Uric acid rises. To cope with this, simply increase your intake of potassium or magnesium and change the pH. These are alkaline elements that will quickly solve the problem. Let's summarize: if you eat more vegetables, do not count them in carbohydrates. By the way, when you count carbohydrates, you count digestible carbohydrates, that is, you read I haven't mentioned fiber yet, and some people consider it indigestible carbohydrates, but the total amount of carbohydrates. These people think that fiber will take them out of ketosis, but this is not true. I recommend not including vegetables in your calculations at all. By the way, don't forget about the benefits of phytonutrients. This is in addition to what you get from macronutrients, micronutrients, and vitamins. I just wanted to emphasize the following: eat more vegetables on the whale diet. I believe this is the type of food that is most often lacking on a healthy keto diet. Thank you for your attention. By the way, while you're here, please write in the comments what you think of this video. Thank you.