Hello, I'm Dr. Berga and today we'll talk about apple cider vinegar and its benefits and myths about it. One of the myths is that apple cider vinegar has a lot of nutrients, none of them, it has minimal vitamins A and C and a low content of trace elements. But apple cider vinegar has something more important, thanks to which it helps with many ailments. It contains acetic acid. This acid and I will explain why it works. Many will disagree, but the human body, I say this based on the examinations I've conducted over many years, is an environment with excessive alkalinity. I'm sure you've heard a different opinion that the body is too acidic, but this is not true. You must remember that each part of the body has a different pH. The hydrogen index is high acidity, and which one exactly can be mistaken. In the case of urine or saliva, the real pH is determined only by blood, but testing this is very difficult, because as soon as you take blood, oxidation occurs and the page immediately changes. This can be determined, but it is expensive. Therefore, the main thing here is the symptoms. If you want to understand, search the Internet and type in acidosis and  Symptoms of high acidity and look at the symptoms of alkalosis of increased alkalinity so you can see the symptoms you have and draw conclusions. So, we are talking about the pH indicator in the blood. For most people, this indicator is excessively alkaline. The blood should be slightly alkaline, but here it becomes too alkaline. That's why apple cider vinegar works so well. It changes the acid-base balance, and even a slight change has a huge effect. Because pH is very important. It promotes the transport of trace elements, activates enzymes, stimulates the thyroid gland, accelerates metabolism, and much more. Let's take a closer look at this acetic acid and the pH indicator of acetic acid is very acidic. Two and a half is almost like your gastric juice. High acidity is ideal for the stomach. People think this is heartburn, and by the way, heartburn, acid belching, indigestion, all this is a symptom of increased alkalinity of the stomach, and the esophageal valve does not close. Many people mistakenly believe this is increased acidity. If you suffer from belching and heartburn, take some apple cider vinegar, you will immediately feel better. This upper valve will begin  Close and the acid will stop penetrating and upward helps with belching, heartburn, indigestion. As we get older, by the age of 50, 60, 70, our stomach's porsche begins to decrease, sorry, increase, and become more alkaline. Therefore, with age, we need acid more for the absorption of protein and microelements. Because with an alkaline pH, which is common, calcium and microelements are not protruding as before, and then what happens is that calcium begins to accumulate in the soft tissues of the body and this leads to calcium deposits. Because of this, elderly people suffer from rigidity from arthritis and bursitis. Calcium accumulation in the eyes leads to cataracts in the joint, arthritis in the nerves, neuritis in the kidneys and gallbladder, stones in the teeth, and plaque. All these problems can be from an imbalanced pH, this is alkalosis, chronic increased alkalinity throughout your body. In such cases, I recommend taking fat-soluble vitamins to remove calcium, for example, vitamins D and CO2, but  In this video, we're only talking about pH, so what causes this increased alkalinity? I'm holding the Ciba Endocrinology Encyclopedia, Volume 4, by Dr. Frank Meter. It's a textbook for international schools. It explains physiology in an accessible way, so anyone can understand how our body works. In the chapter on increased pH, ash is, by the way, a stress hormone. It's said that it's also the cause of increased alkalinity. One of the causes is stress. If you're not living on Earth, it won't affect you. For others, stress is a normal state, and the body becomes too alkaline. The worst thing you can do is start drinking alkaline water. You can drink alkaline water, but you don't need to alkalize it even more. Before eight or nine, this will only make things worse for the body. The body simply won't be able to absorb calcium in the adrenal glands. Due to stress and high cortisol, alkalinity increases, and you lose a very important thing called H+. If you didn't miss chemistry in school, you know that H+ is an acid. In other words, due to adrenal failure, this acid  It is excreted through urine, which leads to increased alkalinity. Look at how strong the impact of stress is on the body with increased alkalinity. Calcium does not absorb this calcium, it accumulates and clogs everything, but it is not absorbed, and now your left eye starts twitching. Have you noticed that when a person is stressed, their eye twitches, but do you know why? Because the pH has changed and the person does not absorb calcium, this leads to a calcium deficiency? You can take calcium, but if the arable land is normal, there will be no result. The eye twitches. Drink apple cider vinegar and boom, the pH drops, the acidity rises, calcium is absorbed, the twitching stops. For the sake of courtship, apple cider vinegar is the best thing that activates calcium and eliminates these cramps. Neuralgia and neuritis are especially severe migraines. Arthritis, which catches this joint, then that one. Give it apple cider vinegar, the pain will go away. This is stress that leads to increased alkalinity. You lose acid and you lose potassium. Yes, I started talking about calla lily, it’s just that this is also a very important topic. Increased alkalinity leads to potassium loss, and potassium loss further increases the body's alkalinity. This is the interdependence. Someone says, Katie, apple cider vinegar and coli will increase, but that's not the point. Apple cider vinegar doesn't increase potassium levels in the body; it stops its loss. The acidity increases, and this has a beneficial effect on the heart. Look here: this is what a deficiency of coli leads to: high blood pressure, constipation, weakness, fatigue, and rhythm. You've probably heard that apple cider vinegar can help with high blood pressure, constipation, weakness, and arrhythmia. The point is that it helps retain potassium in the body. All this is due to a chain reaction when bringing the pH to the desired level. Some drink a lot of protein drinks or consume a lot of protein, for example, on the Atkins diet or on a high-protein diet. One of the products of protein metabolism is a substance called guanyin. This chemical substance has a very, very high alkalinity, which can lead to nervous system pain, neuralgia, and severe arthritis. Even if you're on a keto diet and consume a lot of protein, you may feel stiffness in your joints and  If you suffer from arthritis, drink apple cider vinegar. It will help remove guan idli. Apple cider vinegar is a kind of antidote that cleanses the body of the product of protein metabolism when there is too much of it for the liver and the body as a whole. This acid, apple cider vinegar, helps the absorption of trace elements, mobilization of the ring, and also the absorption of proteins without consequences. It supports the immune system. I'll tell you exactly how you've probably heard that people take vitamin C for colds or viral infections. It's not vitamin C itself that helps, and in most cases, people take it all day long. They take the so-called false vitamin C, ascorbic acid, which is not a complete vitamin complex. Again, many will disagree with this. Synthetic vitamin C is made from ascorbic acid and corn starch. There is no vitamin C in corn or corn starch, just like there is no ascorbic acid. How can you mix something that doesn't contain vitamin C to make ascorbic acid and consider it vitamin C? It's a fake. The real benefit of vitamin C and ascorbic acid is that it is Acid for maintaining immunity is much more useful to drink acetic acid. Cold, fever, viral infection, take apple cider vinegar. This is very important. The real benefit of apple cider vinegar is that it oxidizes an overly alkaline body. Next, I will show you how to prepare a drink that I drink regularly. So, here is my recipe for a cranberry drink. It is in my book in chapter ten. It should have been called an apple cider vinegar drink. The recipe is very simple and I advise you to try it. If you want to lose weight, drink it before meals 3 times a day. You will lose weight much more effectively due to stimulation of the thyroid gland and increased acidity of the stomach. If you have a very slow metabolism, then exclude cranberry juice from the recipe. So, take apple cider vinegar, Breck brand, my favorite. Mix a teaspoon of vinegar with water, or better yet, two tablespoons of vinegar with water before each meal. Some people believe that you should not drink water before meals, but this is an acidic drink. It will help balance the acid balance of the stomach. The next ingredient is my favorite lemon juice and Teller Valkein, and this is  Organic lemon juice and it's simply delicious, you can buy it in health food stores. These lemons are grown in soil fertilized with volcanic ash. Add a teaspoon of lemon juice to our drink. You can use any other lemon juice, absolutely any will do. You can even just squeeze a lemon. I love this juice because I'm spoiled. Then take cranberry juice. Be sure to read the label. It should only be cranberry juice, not a mix of cranberry and, say, grape or apple juice. They just don't add a teaspoon. In principle, our drink is ready. I also like to add ginger, and you don't have to do this, but if you want, you can grate it and it will add some spiciness to your drink. You can also add ginger extract. It's liquid, something like ginger juice. With it, the drink will be spicy and tangy. It's generally very useful and a good tonic. Again, if it doesn't taste pleasant, most likely, your body doesn't need it, and if it does, and you'll be drawn to it, it won't be for you. It will only make things better for you. Try it.  Have this drink before a meal and see how much better you feel. Good luck to you and let me know in the comments. See you there.