Today we'll just give me a second oh yeah oh yeah that's right on target a little to the left great a little to the right Well, everything's gotten better Cool thing today we'll talk about fifteen underlying causes of itching that you might not know in medicine the term for itching is prurigo the usual solution is to just scratch the itch is usually associated with some superficial nerve inside the skin that is irritated to some degree the cause can be lice or scabies mites as well as helminths the herpes virus insect bites like bed bugs or even a yeast infection usually in intimate places another reason is poison ivy By the way, I have a terrible allergy to it when in contact with it I start to itch like hell I have to fight the urge to scratch I found that only a hot shower relieves this itch for about three hours and the cause is definitely poison ivy there are also tick bites the tick usually numbs the bite site and you don't feel it right away in the last year I've been bitten by ticks probably 20 times Because I live  In rural areas there were even traces like this, but I got by without balio sometimes. True, I have to examine myself in search of ticks, sometimes itching still appears and it turns out to find them. Another cause of itching is diabetes. But why can a diabetic develop itching due to problems with blood circulation? Especially with the blood flow to the nerve endings, even on the feet, peripheral neuropathy can occur; the blood does not reach the nerve endings, the nerves die. In this case, there can be a variety of sensations: itching and even severe pain; blood circulation can stop; in order for the nerves to function properly, they must be supplied with blood; there is also a condition called polycythemia when there are too many red blood cells. This can lead to poor circulation, which will reduce the flow of oxygen to the skin, and this will cause itching. There is a problem with the parathyroid glands, and they are located on the thyroid gland; they control calcium. If the load on the thyroid gland is too high, excess calcium can form in the blood, and too much calcium will be deposited in the skin, this can even lead to calcification of the skin, which will affect the nerve endings.  It was found that a person with severe skin itching, this itching goes away after the removal of the parathyroid glands, there is also a problem with the kidneys, uremia. When urea accumulates in the skin, this also leads to irritation of the nerves, the cause is advanced kidney disease. The next reason is the liver, such things as cirrhosis of the liver or hepatitis, when the liver, which should produce bile salts, stops doing this. As a result, a thick sediment is formed that clogs the ducts going to the gallbladder, this is called cholestasis. In this case, there is a feeling of heaviness in the right hypochondrium, the pain can even radiate to the area of ​​​​the right shoulder blade and finally, there is so-called dry skin, this also causes itching. The reason is likely that there is not enough bile in the gallbladder to extract vitamin A from food, or you are getting little vitamin A or you do not have enough vitamin D. What can increase inflammation? In my practice, I observed that people with skin itching very often had problems with the liver or gallbladder, this could be irritation in the gallbladder, as well as a lack of  omega-3 fatty acids The fact is that omega-6 and omega-3 compete with each other. The average person has 20 times more omega-6 than omega-3. To fix this, it's very simple: you need to change your diet. There is also one remedy called Tutka, a type of bile salt that thins bile. It was found that it greatly reduces itching in people with cirrhosis. I'll leave a link to the study below. It's interesting that relief after Soil. Neya. Itchy areas occur due to the stimulation of the production of serotonin and dopamine, which provide relief. There are even professional demolition specialists who, for a fee, will scratch your back. It's quite relaxing. In general, I just wanted to talk about the possible causes of pruritic itching. Today I mentioned the gallbladder and liver. I have courses dedicated to these organs. I recommend paying attention to this course. I invite you to my course. Hepatic body type. You have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver, and problems with  If you have digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet and exercises for effective training are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.