Today I will touch on the topic of a chemical called bisphenol A. This substance disrupts the endocrine system. What does this mean? Bisphenol A mimics estrogen in the body and has a cumulative effect; it accumulates over time. It is found in plastic jars, water bottles, and baby bottles everywhere. It's crazy. I'm kidding. We'll cut this out later. By the way, this bottle is bisphenol A-free. The fact is that it has a cumulative effect and the body can handle a small amount. But let's say you are planning a pregnancy or you have just become a mother and are breastfeeding, do not use plastic containers when heating in the microwave; they release harmful substances during cooking. Use glassware, porcelain, or stainless steel. It will be difficult to completely protect yourself, but minimizing exposure to this chemical can also help in this situation by regularly consuming cruciferous vegetables. They have unique properties and fight hormonal disruptors; they help destroy and eliminate hormonal disruptors from the body. In general, pour cruciferous vegetables on bisphenol A can increase androgen levels and cause polycystic ovary syndrome.  Therefore, it is necessary to minimize the impact of plastic. There is also an enzyme called aromatase that converts testosterone into estrogen. This means that there is more estrogen and bisphenol A stimulates the production of this enzyme. If there are symptoms of estrogen dominance, this may be the cause. It also affects the male body, such as breast enlargement, low sperm count, and the like. It is important to remember that infants and children are most vulnerable. And as I already said, this chemical accumulates in the body over time. Therefore, instead of buying water in plastic bottles, install a filter. Instead of buying cans of soda, buy a machine and make your own soda. There is always a solution. Use glass, porcelain, stainless steel, and also start eating more cruciferous vegetables. But if there are infants, small children, or a pregnant woman in the house, I strongly recommend being extremely careful with plastic jars, baby bottles, and cups. Okay, thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new ones.