Let's discuss the best way to recover after a few days before. It may be hard to believe, but some people periodically deviate from the ketogenic diet when they are on vacation, at a party, at a social event, or on holidays, they break the diet. The most important thing is to understand the mechanism, understand what is happening. A surge in blood sugar, then a surge in insulin. The function of insulin is to remove this sugar and hide it. It removes sugar from the blood and places it for storage in fat cells in the liver or stomach. As a result, blood sugar becomes low. When we have low blood sugar, we experience feelings of hunger, anxiety, weakness, how to eat, and irritability. Desire to rint, I have a hard time moving. A whole range of symptoms, but not immediately after consuming these carbohydrates, you will feel good. Symptoms can occur after half an hour, after two hours, after a few hours, or even the next day. If for some reason you are drawn to a certain food on a certain day and just remember what you ate yesterday, there is a high probability that you ate carbohydrates and are now experiencing the consequences of this. Many people ride this roller coaster, and eventually they reach the point where they can no longer go without food for a long time. It passes.  three hours, you need to eat and they feel better and they think to themselves, when I eat carbohydrates, I feel better, which means it's the right thing to do, which means it's beneficial. Nothing of the sort. The body will require carbohydrates when you have low blood sugar, and you should know why it requires carbohydrates because at the cellular level, it lacks fuel, and the body cannot use fat as fuel, so it will be hungry and will show these symptoms in the mitochondria, which are the energy stations of the cell. I'll give an analogy: let's take a carburetor. Let's say you're trying to start a lawn mower, and instead of pressing the ignition once, you press it 31 times, you'll just flood the engine. Usually, you need the right mixture of oxygen and fuel, as well as a spark to ignite it. So, you start the lawn mower, how many times have you tried to start it, it won't start, and in the end, you give up and have to, say, mow the lawn with a hand mower. This is very tiring. The same thing happens in the mitochondria. If you eat a lot of sugar, you flood the engine, the carburetor, and now you can barely move your legs. I forgot to add this.  Fatigue and brain fog simply because the mitochondria have too much fuel and not enough oxygen. Your vitamin B1, potassium, and other micronutrient reserves are depleted. That is, carrying sugar leads to a lack of certain nutrients. What to do about it? First, drink some apple cider vinegar with water, a couple of tablespoons per glass of water. Apple cider vinegar is great for helping you recover from a drop in blood sugar. You can also drink kombucha tea, it helps. Start fasting because your body needs to reboot. You need to give it time to reboot. Fasting is the fastest way to reboot. Exercise will help burn excess sugar, spur the process. Excess sugar is stored in the liver and glycogen is stored. Taking electrolytes, potassium and magnesium, even sea salt and B vitamins will also be very helpful. Here's what you need to do to get off this roller coaster. Because when you practice ketogenic fasting, you're no longer on this roller coaster. You have stable blood sugar, you no longer feel hungry, you have a lot of energy, and you feel great. But I think Sometimes it's good to experiment with deviating from the regime to see how you feel outside of it so you have the motivation to stick to it. I know this personally. It took many years before I finally decided enough was enough. I'm going to stick to it. It's quite a roller coaster, but I had to go through a lot of trial and error to prove to myself that it's much better to stick to the regime. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.