What will happen if you give up bread for two weeks? Let's discuss what's in bread. Bread contains gluten, refined grains, sugar, starch, and sometimes even flavorings and flavorings, restorers for the structure of bread, mold inhibitors, quotes that block calcium and iron, and glyphosate is a herbicide. 1. Without bread, you will bloat less. Why? Because many people are either allergic to gluten or intolerant, which causes inflammation and bloating in the intestines. I'm not even talking about the fact that empty carbohydrates generally cause bloating. In general, bloating will be less. Then, without bread, the levels of zinc, calcium, and iron will increase. Third, your head will start working better: less fogginess and fewer headaches. More clarity. Better memory. Better attention. Less ADHD. This is good. Fourth, your mood will improve. Irritability will decrease because your blood sugar will be normal. Anxiety and depression will decrease. Between what's happening in your intestines, what you ate, and what's going on in your head, there is  5. Your mood will improve significantly. 5. There will be a decrease in inflammation. Inflammation is caused not only by gluten but also by empty carbohydrates and sugar, which increase it. Without bread, arthritis, fibromyalgia, and any other inflammatory disease will gradually begin to clear up. 6. Weight loss and a decrease in belly fat because insulin will be lower. 7. More energy. 8. Fewer diabetes symptoms and a lower A1c, although no, that's not true about the one. It will only decrease in about three months. In two weeks, it's unlikely to change, but blood sugar will definitely begin to decrease. 9. LDL and oxidation in the arteries will decrease, which is great. 10. You will have more vitamin E and B vitamins. Why? Because refined grains and empty carbohydrates deplete vitamin E and B vitamins. What will this give you? Your heart will become more resilient. Angina attacks will be less frequent, and in general, your heart will work much better. There will also be less oxidation in the arteries, which will reduce the risk of blood clots and clogged arteries.  Because vitamin E is the main protective antioxidant, I don't even know if anything else will happen besides these 10 minor changes. Try giving up bread for two weeks and write down what happens. If you don't know what to cook for those, a book will help you: a diet menu for two weeks, a diet for three and two meals a day, simple but delicious recipes from readily available products, the basics of chum salmon and fasting, follow the link below.