Today we will analyze in detail what can break your fast and what may not. The question of breaking a fast comes up again and again and causes confusion in the minds of many people, so I will now try to explain all these subtleties to you as clearly as possible. Let's see if I can. Real fasting, namely its water variety, is when you do not eat but only drink water, nothing else, if you drink vitamins, coffee, or anything else, fasting is broken. You see, dry fasting is when you do not drink water at all, you do not eat anything. This is dry fasting. I want to dwell in more detail on the degrees of breaking a fast because many things can slightly break your fast, but only for about 20-30 minutes. I still advise you to eat something during fasting because these are really trifles not worthy of attention, but you must understand how differently those things that will break it and those in which there is nothing terrible affect fasting. They will break the fast only a little, for a very short time. You also need  Be able to recognize when your ketosis is interrupted, as I see it, this also causes confusion. Ketosis is a state when ketones are produced from fat. If you consume m-city oil or external ketones in the form of a dietary supplement, you will remain in ketosis regardless of what you eat and what happens to your fat. So, you need to distinguish between what it produces and your body, that is, your liver produces ketone from your fat, or you receive ketones from the outside, and your body does not produce its own ketones. I raised this topic because of what interrupts fat burning. If you consume external ketones as a supplement or m-city oil or coconut oil or butter, you will remain in ketosis, but it is not a fact that you will burn fat because your body uses fats and ketones from food instead of internal reserves. So, we have your level of fat burning, then your level of ketosis, and also fasting. The main advantage of fasting is these four points: ketosis, autophagy, insulin reduction, fat burning. They are very valuable individually. Ketosis itself  Helps you lose weight, helps your brain recover, gives you energy. Think about it yourself. Ketones are antioxidants. Ketosis reduces oxidation in your body, which essentially fights the development of many diseases. Ketones also nourish a damaged heart better than glucose. Ketones nourish a damaged brain better than glucose, which means there is benefit both in a state of ketosis and in taking ketones. Autophagy in general. The benefits of autophagy during fasting are enormous. You can process old damaged proteins. You cleanse the body of Candida bacteria and viruses, and this greatly prevents aging. You also process other nutrients. I think I'll make a separate video on this topic. But as soon as you consume carbohydrates, even a little, you will slow down autophagy. Protein consumption will also slow down out of a due. So, real fasting will not replace anything. But if you, say, take supplements, they will have a very slight effect on autophagy. They slow down and only a little because they have almost no calories. You need to look at the number of calories and what they are represented by. Carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. I'll make a separate video about this, but the point is that autophagy is an important effect. Before it, another important effect is lowering insulin. This helps fight fatty liver. It helps improve cholesterol and lipid profiles, and is generally beneficial for the brain. It helps with diabetes, insulin resistance, and many other diseases, including acne. Next, we have a fat-burning effect, weight loss, an important effect of fat burning. I forgot to mention that the feeling of hunger also weakens thanks to all four points. In fact, you no longer feel hunger or cravings for food. Speaking about breaking fasting, we want to know what will least provoke insulin production. The more insulin you have in your body, the more it will break your fast and the less benefit you will get. The simpler the carbohydrates, the higher the glycemic index of this food, the worse the effect. The worst thing you can consume is maltodextrin. Surprisingly, it is found in many so-called " this" products. Next, we have protein. Protein also breaks fasting because it increases insulin, not to the same extent as carbohydrates, but quite significantly, especially if Consume a lot of protein, then calories in general, it doesn't matter where they come from because the calories consumed activate something in the small intestine, which in turn increases insulin, and so here we have calories, proteins, and carbohydrates, something that doesn't affect insulin in any way: fiber, their fats. But if you consume a large amount of fiber or fat with calories, this can slightly increase insulin. But if you compare this list with the first, carbohydrates with proteins act more strongly. Also, understand that when you eat fiber, you don't digest it, and microorganisms digest it, and the effect of what they consume is that you don't digest it, and your microflora digests it, consuming it and secreting a substance called butyrate, which is similar to ketone, and indirectly it will lower blood sugar and insulin. That is, fiber is very good at helping to solve problems with blood sugar and lower insulin. But of course, if you eat a huge amount of fat, they will slightly increase insulin simply because of these calories. I hope you understand everything here, let's move on to the next page. So I've compiled a list of how ketones and weight loss affect insulin and I've already told you about the benefits of lowering insulin, the benefits of ketones and fat burning, and of course about phages, but there will be a separate video for it. Let's take coffee, for example. Coffee will actually have a negligible effect on insulin. It has few calories, almost no carbohydrates, almost no protein. It will not affect ketones or weight loss or gain. If you drink too much coffee, all its caffeine can increase cortisol, which can potentially activate insulin. So, due to stress, you can gain weight because stress mobilizes your own protein, which is then converted into sugar, which then increases insulin. I just wanted to mention this. Next, we have tea. Tea has almost no effect on insulin. It has much less caffeine. It has no effect on ketones for weight loss. Although, in fact, water fasting is just water and nothing else. I still advise consuming something from this because the effect will be very weak, by and large, insignificant, because we are looking at Does this affect insulin? Does it affect titanium? Will this stop weight loss? Next, chewing gum? It depends on what kind of gum you live for. If it's sugar-free gum, it will have almost no effect on ketones and weight loss, unless the composition does not include aspartame or inside a sweet. The problem with sports is that it affects the microflora in such a way that this can cause insulin resistance. There will be a link in the description in case you want to know exactly how it works. Research on mice, of course, does not show on people, but over many years of working with tens of thousands of people, I have noticed that people who regularly consume aspartame almost always have weight problems. This substance affects the gastrointestinal tract, which can cause insulin resistance, which can increase insulin, especially if you use it regularly. So it all depends on what kind of gum it is. If it is thick, there will still be very little xylitol, although xylitol is a sugar alcohol and its glycemic index is not 0, but about 13. It is so little that its effect on insulin and ketones and weight loss will be I wouldn't even bother with chewing gum, of course, if you live on regular gum with sugar, it's already a problem because there will be a lot of sugar in it. Vitamins have almost zero effect on insulin, ketones, and on weight loss or gain, so vitamins are not a problem. I advise drinking them during fasting because you may have a deficiency, and you need to avoid any problems with a deficiency of anything, because during fasting, this can lead to fainting, dizziness, and other things due to a lack of reserves. Then there's powdered greens. There are greens with fiber and there are without fiber, for example, powdered juice concentrate, like grass. Both of these products have a slight effect on insulin, ketones, and weight loss. Even a whole spoon of such concentrate contains less than one gram of carbohydrates, which is so small that there's nothing to worry about at all. Bone broth. It all depends on how much bone broth you eat. Bone broth contains protein, and this protein can increase insulin, but it all depends on the amount. Of course, it's not the same as eating a steak, but it still contains protein, and you remember that carbohydrates, proteins, and Calories can increase insulin, which will lead to a decrease in ketones. As for weight loss, it all depends on the amount eaten and how much insulin is produced. If we talk about calloden, it has a little more protein and, of course, it depends on how much you consumed. Collagen will increase insulin, so this is not the best food when you are fasting. Neither collagen nor bone broth is very useful during fasting. They reduce ketones. Why consume them and how much you eat will determine whether this will affect weight loss. Next, amino acids with branched chains (BC) and the problem is that there are only three of these amino acids. They do not have all the essential amino acids. If you consume only three of them, you cannot build proteins from three amino acids. So, these amino acids will be used mainly as fuel. Depending on what protein you eat, egg, meat, milk, soy, whey, from 16 to 49 percent of this protein is converted into tissue in your body, converted into muscle or other proteins in the body, this is the maximum. In my opinion, 48 percent is an egg. In my opinion, breast milk is 49 percent, this is the largest.  The percentage of protein that goes into body tissue, and I'm not talking about their absorption, but about the fact that they ultimately end up in your muscles during the restoration or rebuilding of certain proteins, from 16 to 48 percent. We won't talk about breast milk, since you most likely do n't drink it unless you're a baby watching my videos. So, from 16 to 100 to eight percent becomes body tissue. This means that from 52 to 84 percent of this protein does not become body tissue. Where do they go? They are either excreted as waste in the urine with nitrogenous waste, or they are used as fuel. You see, they turn into glucose. That is, most of the proteins consumed do not create an anabolic effect. That is, a building effect. They create a catabolic effect. They break down into carbohydrates. The anabolic effect is the conversion of proteins into body tissue. But there is a certain proportion of amino acids that are absorbed, but 99 percent and only one percent of them is lost. That is, 99 percent of them go to anabolism. Amino acids can be eaten during fasting, especially if you  You also train because they won't cause an insulin spike. In fact, most of them won't even become calories because they are anabolic and are converted into body tissue, especially if you don't eat too much of them, but in the amount your body needs for anabolic synthesis. Okay, we've already talked about sports, sugar alcohols, and I'll give you a link to a video about sugar alcohols. I've already discussed them in detail here, I'll tell you briefly. We also have nitrite, which doesn't affect the glycemic index in any way. That is, it won't affect insulin, ketones, or weight loss. However, for some, it causes digestive problems and they may begin to retain water, meaning they can gain weight. But this is water weight, so it's better not to eat too much. We have nitrite, which has a glycemic index of 13. If you consume a little of it, for example, with coffee, its effect on insulin will be low, but it still has an effect. It all depends on your goals, how slow your metabolism is, and what you want to achieve. And there's also nitrite, the most harmful sugar alcohol, its index is higher.  50 stay away from it, there is also corn fiber inulin, I noticed that many have problems with their absorption, I repeat, they may not affect insulin and ketones, but they can lead to water retention. If we are talking about Steven or Velvet, they do not affect insulin, Titos, or weight loss, so you can use them without any problems at all. Fiber as such does not affect insulin, Iquitos. I am talking about fiber from vegetables, not from bran. Bran contains a lot of phytic acid, which can block the action of iron and other micro and macro elements. If you take pure fiber, for example, in the form of inulin or chicory root or corn fiber, which can be gamma, you can gain weight, but it will not be fat, but water retention. This usually happens when you eat some kind of keta dessert, you buy it, eat it, then you feel bloated, thirst appears, you drink water and your stomach swells even more. This is exactly what happens. Some people manage to avoid this, others do not. Okay, okay, what about cream in coffee?  or heavy cream, again, it depends on the quantity, I have no problems with them, especially if they are organic. I prefer heavier cream because low-fat has a little more carbohydrates, but if in small quantities, I would not worry because they have a very slight effect on insulin and ketones. They may take you out of ketosis, but only for twenty minutes, no more. This does not matter much. Next, we have butter and coconut oil, which have no effect on insulin and can increase ketones, but weight loss may not occur because your body uses fats from the diet as fuel instead of its own. I talked about this on the previous slide. Just understand that you can overdo it with fats, so if you are trying to lose weight but to no avail, limit fat. I think the optimal amount that I would recommend for this problem is about 75 grams of fat per day, but you should not cut fats too much either. I think this will be quite enough. Apple cider vinegar will not affect insulin ketosis and weight loss in any way. However, it can help with insulin resistance, normalize blood sugar, that is, ultimately, it can help you with  weight loss and help enter ketosis, but if you drink it, it does not give ketones directly. Finally, lemon juice. Lemon juice has few carbohydrates, so it all depends on how much you drink. If it's 2 tablespoons, I wouldn't worry about it. It's negligible. Sometimes you can drink unsweetened cranberry juice, it has a little more carbohydrates. You need to be careful with it. I noticed that some people who drank it had their weight loss slowed down. If you drink regular cranberry juice with added sugar and other juices, it's already bad. I'm not talking about added juices, although they are bitter, they have quite a lot of carbohydrates, so I would avoid them. But lemon juice is normal. Even if you drink a whole glass, it's 7 grams of carbohydrates, which is very little. It will take you out of ketosis for maybe an hour or two, but this is insignificant. Usually, people drink only one or two tablespoons. I wouldn't attach any importance to this. So, I gave you a lot of information. I hope it's a little clearer for you now. I hope you haven't gotten even more confused. Write what you think.  Leave a comment if you have any more questions. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that it doesn't come back. I'll tell you what's stopping you from burning fat and what exactly you need to do to fix it without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.