After watching one of my videos, someone said, “Well, my grandfather ate bread and sugar and drank alcohol, he drank whiskey all his life and even smoked, and with all this, he lived to be over 90 years old. How do you explain this, Doctor Berg? I thought that if you eat such foods, you will die quite early. The thing is, we all come into this world with different baggage, we all have different genes, and our families have different histories. If several generations of your ancestors really cared about their health, ate right, and ate food grown on fertile soil, then you will probably have pretty good genes, because there were few factors that could weaken them, so it’s quite possible that you will get away with it. There are countries where the population has bones and teeth in excellent condition, for example, in Africa, these people eat food that is grown on volcanic soil, thanks to this, they get wonderful microelements and they have healthy bones, and there are countries where the food is different and many suffer from caries, for example, in the UK, there is a lot of sugar, refined products, and dental problems. The same applies to  USA and so your genes your family history your diet the country where you live can determine your position on this scale but unfortunately the vast majority of people develop metabolic diseases at an increasingly earlier age usually in a person's life there is a point when health begins to deteriorate for me this point came at 28 before that I ate bread a lot of bread ate a lot of sugar I definitely drank alcohol and I had no symptoms at all I felt great it got away with it and I didn't think about it I didn't want to change anything because I was doing well at that time I wouldn't listen to the package or reducing carbohydrates because I wasn't fat I felt great I didn't have any problems this was until 28 and then my health went downhill that's when it started to change and so there are several factors that determine whether it will be at 28 earlier or much later: your genes how good genes you got from your ancestors then epigenetics is the environment what happens around you how you eat the stress level of your life pollution there are many factors in the field of epigenetics which are essentially even more important  I had tremendous stress at 28 years old due to genetic factors. Just before that, I was studying to become a doctor, and this stress was not helpful. The situation was made worse by the fact that I was consuming completely refined empty calories. I did not eat any vegetables or nutrient-rich foods. There is such a factor as your health reserve, and then your attitude. This is another factor that is very, very important. Perhaps this should be at the top of the list. Some people are so cheerful and optimistic that they never get sick, so this factor is also extremely important. So, that's what I wanted to say in answer to this question.