Hello everyone, in this video, Thomas Del Ur and I will tell you about the three most common myths about gaining muscle mass. We will tell you in turn, starting with me. Let's go, thank you, Dr. Berg, and I am delighted that Dr. Bird invited me, and we will give you real knowledge and scientific data. Dr. Berg, do you want to start, and then I will add my 2 cents. Hello, I'm Dr. Burke. In this video, we will discuss the three most common myths about gaining muscle mass. The first myth is that carbohydrates are needed to gain muscle mass. Here's the thing: insulin really helps muscle growth, and insulin is stimulated by carbohydrates. The more carbohydrates we eat, the more insulin we produce, and the more muscle mass we gain. So, it's not really the problem that when there are too many carbohydrates, the body cannot use insulin; it can no longer function, so how many carbohydrates do we need? Are essential carbohydrates sold in principle? Actually, no. To understand carbohydrates, you need to have a good understanding of blood sugar, what is its normal value. A person with normal sugar levels needs approximately 1 teaspoon of sugar for the entire volume of his blood, so  You don't need much sugar, moreover, the body can convert eaten protein into sugar, but on average, people eat from 27 to 31 teaspoons of sugar every day, which is 27 times more than necessary, and as a result, a huge amount of insulin is produced, but it cannot get into the cell, the muscles cannot receive it and do not grow, hence the difficulties with gaining muscle mass on high- carbohydrate diets. What is the solution here, I will hand over to my friend Tom Sok, let's listen to what he says, you have all already said everything, I can't say much about this before, but except to say that before I was one of those who eat a lot of carbohydrates trying to build muscle, being a wall, perhaps you have already seen what I was like before. Now we will show these photos, this is what I looked like when I constantly ate carbohydrates. You will see this is insulin resistance, which Dr. Berg talks about. With an excess of carbohydrates, the body adapts to them, the body has to produce more and more insulin just to cope with carbohydrates, because of this, the body has a very hard time. I will add something to what you said, Dr. Berg, people need to understand that when there are few carbohydrates in our body  or when we are on a ketogenic diet, ketones perfectly preserve our muscles. Believe it or not, when you have ketones in your blood, for example, when you consume a lot of fat and few carbohydrates, the body retains as many carbohydrates in the muscles as they normally need. This is paradoxical, but ketones preserve carbohydrates in our muscles. This means that the muscles are protected from catabolism. Our muscles are protected from destruction. On a low-carb diet, you can start losing muscle mass only if you eat too much protein or if you fast for too long. A strategic approach is needed here. We constantly repeat that you need to combine these fasting methods, but you don’t need the body to start breaking down muscle tissue. The best way to avoid this is to consume a lot of fats. But remember that fats should not be high when there are also a lot of carbohydrates because this will cause an insulin surge and all this fat will go into storage. To your words, I will add that everything is very simple. You need to forget all the common opinions about how to build muscle mass and that you need to stimulate insulin. Instead, you need to understand that it’s all about protein. m top  This translates as "target slaves price in mammals" it transports anabolics in the body it is the transport of anabolics that allows us to build muscle there are many ways to increase MTR content and for the most part this is proper training but you also need to make sure that your blood sugar does not constantly jump back and forth and now Dr. Berg, I will hand over to you tell me about the second myth and then I will tell you about it too thank you Thomas that was an excellent explanation and so myth number two for muscle growth we need a lot of protein because muscles are made up of protein logically true but here is a fact that many do not know and do not understand our body processes protein uses it very sparingly the body does not need a lot of protein and if you follow ketogenic intermittent fasting your content of the so-called human growth hormone significantly increases this hormone is the main guardian of protein in other words it protects against protein loss on average a person needs from 85 to 170 grams of high-quality protein for each meal this on average sometimes a little more sometimes a little less what will happen if you eat too much protein for the answer we will turn to Thomas and hear what he has to say I laughed when you mentioned this myth I've been told too often in the fitness industry that you need to eat a lot of protein, but I've always been a black sheep and said that we don't need that much protein. Thank you, your explanation is perfect. I'll add a few words to it. Elderly people, among many studies, one has put an end to this issue. We need from 50 to 70 grams of protein per half a kilogram of weight, and to be honest, this is the upper limit of how much is needed to build muscle. I hope some will take this into account. When you eat too much protein, firstly, it puts the body into gluconeogenesis. This is when excess protein turns into sugar, which is ultimately stored by the body as fat. That is, it turns out that excess sugar, which we don't need, is processed by the liver as fat and stored as fat. So, excess protein leads to the formation of fat, and testosterone, human growth hormone, and other compounds that the body produces are involved. As you said, all this helps build muscle mass. If there is too much protein, it can negatively affect the kidneys. Of course, for serious problems to appear, you need to go far, but a urine test can show that the nitrogen level in it is elevated, which means that you are removing protein. If you consider  there is too much of it, so you are not only harming your kidneys, but also wasting money if you eat good high-quality protein, organic meat, because you need protein from good sources, complete protein will be synthesized from different amino acids and you will spend a lot of money on this, it will probably be the most expensive part of your entire diet, so do not throw money down the drain, maintain the desired nitrogen balance, to make it clearer, I will give an example, and when you have a positive nitrogen balance, this means that you have enough protein to maintain and build muscle, when the nitrogen balance is negative, this means that there is not enough protein, you still need to manage to bring this balance into the negative, it is desirable that it is exactly in the middle, the ideal nitrogen balance is you get exactly as much gold as you need, protein is measured through nitrogen, if there is too much nitrogen, the body has a hard time, so many studies note increased nitrogen in the urine, that is, too much protein, the balance should be only slightly positive to build muscle, if it is even more positive, it is already too much, and looking at me, you will never believe that I eat only 90 or 100 grams of protein a day, this is not much, I do not eat at all They have a little, but this is a separate topic and we will discuss it another time. Doctor Burke, you have the floor, tell us about the third myth. This was a very good answer, Thomas. Let's talk about the third myth. It's about the body burning more fat when building muscle. This is completely false. Increasing muscle mass will allow you to burn more calories, but you need to understand what kind of calories we burn. Are they fat calories or stored sugar calories? There are many people who have a lot of muscle but they are not that lean. In fact, the question is how to burn fat calories. They are only sugar calories. Let's turn to Thomas for an answer. Let's hear what he has to say. Yes, I'm a perfect example. I had a lot of muscle but I looked so-so when I weighed 127 kilograms. I had a lot of muscle but I wasn't lean and you are absolutely right. The thing is that you need to train your body to use fat as fuel. This requires not just ketosis but also good old fat adaptation. I already talked about this in my videos. Spherical adaptation occurs when the body begins to form mitochondrial  Structure is the ability of cells to use fat as a fuel source. Ketosis is one way. Ketosis is how to prepare the body to use fat as fuel through nutrition. Fat adaptation is the next step. Fat adaptation is when the body is so used to using ketones from fat that it changes its chemistry. The mitochondria, which create energy, change their structure and internal mechanisms to be more susceptible to fat. So, if you have a lot of muscle, this does not mean that your body will burn fat. Muscles absorb fat. This is completely nonsense. Fat does not disappear in muscles. Fat needs to be used. It needs to be engaged. Cardiovascular exercise is still needed. Caffeine is needed. There are many things you need when you need to train the body to use fat as fuel. Of course, having muscle will help you, but you still need to eat right, otherwise you will simply burn calories. In general, it may turn out that you are eating your own muscles. The body is perfectly capable of obtaining energy in the most efficient way at the moment. That is, if it turns out that the body needs to burn sugar, it will simply burn sugar, and when the sugar runs out, it will break down protein, receiving sugar through gluconeogenesis. Therefore, training and intermittent fasting techniques are needed. Intermittent fasting and ketosis are the fastest way to teach your body how to use fat as fuel because there are no other options. This is exactly what we want to achieve. Let it realize it, so stop. I have no choice but to use fat as fuel. Having tasted blood, so to speak, that is, the taste of fat. The body continues to work on it. It likes it. And you help them by consuming a lot of fat and few carbs. Yes, we talk a lot about this. Maybe Dr. Berg and I are like ate records, but on YouTube, we are the main specialists in pelvic floor and fasting, and people expect this data from us. When you talk scientifically in detail, everything becomes more logical. You have a much better chance of achieving muscle without gaining fat with the right approach, combining the ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. Dr. Berg, I hope everything is clear to everyone now. Thank you very much for your answers, Thomas, and thank you for watching.