What happens if you take fish oil containing omega-3 for 30 days? This is what I want to talk about, because omega-3 fatty acids are simply irreplaceable. Our body does not create them, but we need them, and 70 percent of people have an omega-3 deficiency. I will name the reasons for this deficiency. I will tell you what will happen if you start to replenish the omega-3 deficiency. This can be done in different ways. Fish oil. Taking fish oil is one way. I prefer cod liver oil because it contains two more nutrients, vitamins D and A. Fish oil does not have them. You do not need to buy cheaper fish oil because you will get fish oil and the harm from it will be more than good, because fish oil is extremely susceptible to oxidation. But it is best, of course, to eat fatty fish such as sardines, as well as grass-fed beef, offal, and even eggs. It is necessary to mention products such as walnuts, flax seeds, hemp, and chia. They say they contain omega-3 fatty acids. But this is when  The cursors that turn into them contain ALA alpha linolenic acid and it can turn into a play idea whose PPA mainly helps reduce inflammation. Many people have inflammation, it can be in the joints. So it helps with arthritis. Inflammation also occurs in the heart, so it helps the heart. There is a fatty acid diet. It is very useful for the brain. In fact, the brain is 20 percent children. I talked about the gray matter of the cerebral cortex. That's why fish oil has an excellent effect on memory, cognitive function, concentration, learning ability. Fish oil is very useful for children, but many children do not eat fish or fish oil. But it is not for nothing that your grandmother gave you regular fish oil from cod liver, because it is a well-known remedy for many problems. In many northern countries, cod liver oil has been used for a long time during the Long Winters, when there is very little vitamin D. Because, as we know, in winter there is little sun and in winter many become depressed and arthritis can also worsen. And cod liver oil has a lot of vitamin D, or can you eat more fatty fish in winter? It is interesting that liver oil Cod also helps, especially for children, if you can get them to take it for asthma and allergies. The fact is that it reduces inflammation in the lungs, because allergies are a lot of inflammation. In addition, vitamin D is one of the most powerful remedies for inflammation, and vitamin D is one of the most important remedies. That's why people spend more time in the sun and Hast Max goes into remission. So, fish oil with omega-3 is usually taken for heart problems and brain problems, but the benefits of omega-3 are much wider. If you take them regularly, one of the following symptoms may disappear: dry eyes. Vitamin A can also help with dry eyes, but omega-3 also helps. Then there's dermatitis, especially if the skin is flaky and dry. With an omega-3 deficiency, so- called age-related macular degeneration can develop, which impairs vision. I already mentioned different types of arthritis: rheumatoid arthritis, as well as osteoarthritis, then arrhythmia, and hypertension. Another interesting plus is that omega-3 improves the condition of a fatty liver. Taking a certain fat can  Getting rid of liver fat is another wonderful property of omega-3. They increase calcium absorption. Of course, calcium is absorbed even better from liver oil thanks to vitamin D. Vitamin D increases calcium absorption by 20 times. I noticed that with a calcium deficiency, people may have leg cramps and also have difficulty falling asleep. A person may be tired, but his head is restless. And he cannot sleep. Then menstrual cramps are probably due to the anti-inflammatory effect. Also, vitamin D helps absorb calcium, which reduces cramps. Omega fatty acids help with insomnia and even reduce the risk of certain types of cancer. People have a small problem with fish oil - burping, but fish oil is also sold in capsules, that is, all the fat is inside the capsules. If you take capsules, burping occurs. Some people are allergic to fish oil or fish, and someone may be a vegan and does not want to eat fish, but there are supplements made from algae, this is another source of omega-3, because the fish themselves receive  omega-3 due to the fact that they eat phytoplankton, there is also a very simple test that you can take, you just need to put a drop of blood on special paper and send it for analysis in the lab, they will determine the amount of omega-3 in your blood and you will be told the ratio of omega-3 and something else about what And now I will tell you about omega-6 fatty acids, I will give a link to the company that performs these tests, this company does not pay me, I am not affiliated in any way So, the next thing I will tell you is very, very important Look at this graph in front of us soybean oil in front of us omega-6 fatty acids you need to know that omega-6 fatty acids compete with omega-3 fatty acids I think that one of the main reasons for omega-3 deficiency in people is not so much that their diet does not have enough omega-3 fish oil or cod liver oil, but that people consume too many omega-6 acids that interfere with them and cause very strong inflammation, this is soybean oil, corn rapeseed  cottonseed oil the ratio of omega-6 omega-3 fatty acids should be somewhere around one to one, but for most it is somewhere around 30 to one, there are a lot of omega-6 fatty acids by taking the test that I mentioned, you will find out what your ratio is, and the last point about omega-3 fats, if you do not have a gallbladder or you have a bile deficiency and you do not absorb these fats easily, or if you have some kind of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract, you may also need to take a supplement with purified bile salts to better absorb not only omega-3 fatty acids, but also fat-soluble vitamins that you need, and I think that now animals have begun to be fed much more grain and have stopped feeding them grass and hay. And when animals are fed grain, they have much less omega-3 fatty acids than when they are fed grass, and since we are talking about nutrition and healthy food, I want to say that I took part in one very interesting study and sent beef raised on my farm for analysis. I want to show you the results. Watch this video.