What should you do if you are suddenly diagnosed with stage 4 colon cancer?  You are scared, you are bombarded with advice from all sides , you are confused.  Today I will try to make you feel better.  I wo n't talk about statistics, I want to talk about strategies. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. One of the main questions people with cancer ask their doctors is: what can I eat? And doctors usually answer, " It doesn't really matter, but that's very far from the truth. You can feed cancer, or stress it, or starve it. Cancer itself is very sick. It's barely alive. So we need a strategy where everything you do works against cancer."  So we'll discuss nutrients, foods, and also long-term fasting.  After all, not everyone can fast for a long time.  Some have lost a lot of weight.  What should they do?  I have a solution.  It is also important to know the four main causes of colon cancer and understand what makes it unique.  I'll tell you about this too .  Cancer, like many chronic diseases, does not appear overnight; it develops over decades.  So, if you don't have cancer, remember what I'm going to say.  Because this is very important, it will help to avoid cancer.  What makes cancer unique?  Number one, cancer is heterogeneous. What does it mean?  This means that cancer is not one disease.  There are many types of cancer, each associated with different genetic weaknesses, using different energy sources, and having different effects on the immune system.  This is why you can't use just one diet for all types of cancer.  But I'll tell you what to do.  I already said that cancer is very, very painful.  He's barely alive, but we need to know his weak points.  And one big weakness of cancer is that it lacks metabolic flexibility.  What does it mean?  This means that it is very difficult for him to switch from one fuel to another.  That is, it is difficult for him to switch from glucose to ketones or fat.  And the vast majority of people do not have metabolic flexibility.  And I didn't have much metabolic flexibility either.  I had to fix that. We will discuss this too.  It is necessary to constantly keep the cancer under stress, put pressure on it and deprive it of resources so that it cannot grow and take over the body.  Once the cancer adapts to one diet, we move on to another diet. Another unique feature of cancer is that it occurs due to damage to mitochondria. Mitochondria are the power plants of cells. When mitochondria are damaged, a survival mechanism is activated and the body switches to an ancient biochemical pathway called glycolysis.  This is Plan B for supplying the cancer with fuel.  When a cancer cell switches to glycolysis, it cannot create much energy.  And what does she do?  She goes crazy, starts to divide relentlessly, devours a lot of your energy, steals your resources.  This is what happens with cancer.  And to compensate for this, cancer consumes a lot of glucose.  Therefore, during pedscanning, they look for areas of the body with high glucose levels.  Usually cancer cells are found there .  So our goal is not necessarily to starve cancer.  I'll tell you why.  The goal is to stress the cancer. To cause him such stress that he could no longer grow, began to shrink and died.  That's why we alternate diets.  I also highly recommend doing many things at once to beat cancer, not just one thing. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Whether you decide to have chemotherapy, radiation therapy or not, I'm not telling you what to do.  I'm just giving more information. Because cancer is in despair.  He does anything to overcome obstacles.  Chemotherapy and radiation therapy usually kill most cancer cells, but those that survive become stronger and the cancer can come back.  And now chemotherapy won't work anymore.  Let's discuss where cancer comes from.  The first is chronic insulin resistance. Therefore, for example, with diabetes the risk of cancer is higher than with other diseases.  due to In this case, the cells do not respond to insulin, so the pancreas produces more and more of it.  And all this extra insulin acts as a growth factor.  It stimulates growth, in this case the growth of tumors.  When you are insulin resistant, you lose metabolic flexibility.  And to restore metabolic flexibility, insulin resistance must be eliminated. This is why the low-carb keto diet is so, so important.  Number two, chronic inflammation. Cancer moves, it migrates to areas with inflammation. Inflammation is a condition in which there is little oxygen.  For example, if someone is a chronic smoker, they create a lack of oxygen in their lungs due to damage and scar tissue.  Number three. chronic imbalance of microflora. For example, if a person has damaged their microflora with junk food or antibiotics, they will have a higher risk of cancer, because our microorganisms protect us from cancer in many ways, which I will talk about a little later in this video. Number four.  Chronic toxic load.  This could be alcohol, smoking, pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, and many different toxic substances.  But the problem is precisely the chronic exposure to toxins.  The more of these factors you have, the higher your risk of cancer.  Interestingly, all of these factors are the primary causes of mitochondrial damage. You ask: "What if I have heredity?"  Perhaps so, but external factors are also needed to start the process. Just having a genetic weakness doesn't mean you'll get cancer.  I would like to tell you a little about the large intestine, about the cells of the large intestine. The uniqueness of colon cells is that they use butyric acid as fuel.  Butyric acid is a substance that is formed when microorganisms eat fiber.  In doing so, they produce butyric acid, which is the main fuel for colon cells .  Butyric acid strengthens the mucous membrane of the large intestine, nourishes it, and reduces inflammation.  This is where the idea came from that we need to eat more fiber to prevent cancer.  But there is one paradox here. Fiber can make things worse.  It can cause inflammation of the colon. Fiber can cause bloating.  Therefore, those who suffer from bloating, fibrosis, and bacterial overgrowth syndrome do well on the root diet.  That means no plants, no fiber, no nuts, no legumes, no grains, nothing like that.  If you were given antibiotics as a child or were not breastfed, meaning you did not receive the necessary microorganisms from your mother, this could become a problem in the future.  In this case, the microflora is unbalanced and cannot cope with fiber.  And many people don't have the microorganisms to break down fiber.  So two people can eat the same thing, but one feels like she's pregnant, while the other is fine.  It all depends on what microorganisms they have and where exactly they are located. I have made many videos on this topic, I will leave the links below. Here's what you need to know. The worse the prognosis for cancer, the more prolonged fasting you need to do.  After all, during prolonged starvation, cancer cells do not receive fuel and are subjected to severe stress.  I have had people fast for 30-40 days and get rid of cancer.  What can you do?  Follow a fasting-mimicking diet.  It mimics fasting in terms of results.  You get some calories.  from 700 to just over 1,000 kilocalories a day, but you eat little protein, little carbohydrates, and little fat. If you don't have cancer, you may want to consider doing shorter, prolonged fasting cycles of 3 to 5 days periodically.  After all, this is one of the most powerful ways to kill cancer.  Cancer cannot live in starvation mode.  To all this we need to add a couple more very important things. High doses of vitamin D3.  Minimum 30,000m E vitamin D3.  Vitamin D is the most important nutrient for the immune system.  It also improves mitochondrial health. If you can get some sun, that 's great, because the sun gives us not only vitamin D, but much more. For example, infrared light, which also helps heal cells. And you need to get as much oxygen as possible, whether in a pressure chamber or through physical activity, walking. This is very important because cancer does not like oxygen. Now let's discuss diet cycling.  By the way, you can download a detailed description of everything I'm talking about.  So you will have everything in writing.  The first meal could be vegetable soup with a good amount of salt and perhaps olive oil or cold-pressed avocado oil.  This is important.  Your second meal could consist of steamed zucchini, spinach with a small portion of olives or avocado.  And that's all you can eat. Take electrolytes and supplements.  But you can't eat a lot of food, just something. You need a low-fat diet because in the later stages, cancer can survive not only on glucose, but also on fats and ketones.  He also uses them as fuel. That is, this first diet essentially severely limits the resources and food on which cancer can live.  This diet is only for 3-5 days, but you cannot eat fish, meat, eggs, cheese, and certainly no grains or sugar.  After 3-5 days you move into phase two.  The second phase lasts from 7 to 14 days.  This phase helps the large intestine.  In this phase, you eat moderate protein and moderate fat.  Of the fats, you can get omega-3 from fish oil, especially from butter, liver, and cod.  This is possible.  And you will need to add carbohydrates.  All of the foods I'm going to name have something in them that helps reduce cancer.  These are polyphenols and much more.  And all these ingredients will help reduce cancer. Fazari lasts 3-5 days, a little shorter, but now you increase the amount of protein.  Continue to eat fat in moderation.  Why shouldn't you eat a lot of fat? Because any type of cancer in its late stages begins to feed on ketones. But the titons are not made from your fat.  These are different types of tones.  I won't go into it, but don't worry about ketones from fasting .  The main thing is not to eat too much fat.  So, here we come to 170-230 g. Then go for protein in moderation and few carbohydrates.  So the cancer starts to adapt to this, and we change the diet after 3-5 days.  We just alternate and alternate between these three diets. We don't give cancer a chance to adapt. This is our strategy. Key nutrients: Vitamin D3, zinc, omega-3 fatty acids, polyphenols, turmeric, cruciferous vegetables, herbs and spices are also good.  Green tea is very important.  Fermented vegetables, sauerkraut, if you can eat them.  This way we will strengthen the body, mitochondria, and the immune system. We will strengthen muscles and correct fermentation. And I can’t do without a disclaimer: ask your doctor before doing all this.  But I think most doctors would find all this reasonable.  This does not interfere with the treatment they prescribe for you.