I recently had a phone conversation with a woman who was in deep despair. She was crying and was outraged that her husband was losing weight, her friends were losing weight, but she was n't, even though she was eating more healthily. I was doing everything right, but nothing was working. I didn't understand why. Should I go back to a different diet? Maybe it was her. She was very disappointed with what I had to go through and still hadn't achieved results. So, to find the cause of something, you need data. You need to get this data. Compare what a person is doing with what they should be doing and try to understand what's going on. She said, "I'm not losing weight despite having a good metabolism." Then I asked, "Why do you think you have a good metabolism?" She said, " But I eat quite a lot, that's the bell, but I don't gain weight. I just can't lose weight." She has an extra 9 kilograms, you see, because she eats a lot and does n't gain weight. She thinks her metabolism is good. Well, let's try to understand what's wrong here. She has a control test.   The so-called setpoint is an indicator below which the weight does not fall no matter what, it may or may not rise, but it does not fall either. Her body simply likes a certain weight, but she did not understand the very reason for the existence of this point. Therefore, if you start to exercise more or eat less without understanding what is behind the setpoint, you will not get results. So, what is behind it is very serious. insulin resistance is a condition in which insulin stops functioning and the cells no longer let in fuel. After all, one of the purposes of insulin is to deliver fuel into the cells. Fuel and nutrition if they stop getting into the cell, the cells begin to have an acute shortage of fuel. The cells do not receive nutrition, and the excess fuel that you consume is stored as fat. In order to somehow compensate for this, the body begins to produce more and more insulin. The more insulin in the body, the more stable that setpoint is. No matter what you do, even if you exercise 6 hours a day, the excess weight will not go away, it will get stuck at a certain point. We will return to this later. And this does not work, or rather, it worked for the first two weeks and then it stopped. It turned out She consumes whale bombs and uses dairy as the fat in them. We'll talk about this separately. The next thing that turned out is that she said that fasting is fine, but only 12-15 hours. I didn't say that her fasting interval should last at least 18 hours to start to resolve insulin resistance. 18-hour fasting for visible results. If you have serious insulin resistance or a slow metabolism, or you're stuck on the grid, you should start with at least 18 hours. If the interval is shorter, it will take too much time. You see, then it turned out that after two weeks of losing weight, she started her period for two weeks and had huge problems with her menstrual cycle. Dairy products are usually the cause of this. If you consume dairy, especially low-quality non-organic farm dairy. Regular products made from regular milk, not farm dairy, non-organic dairy, result in excess estrogen and other hormones and problems with your period. So, what should you do? First, be very careful. Whose advice do you listen to? Friends, acquaintances, personal trainers, doctors, everyone is saying something to her from all sides.  They throw information at her and she doesn't know what's important and true. They're both significant and false. She's just floating in this ocean of information and doesn't know what exactly to do. I said so. You shouldn't listen to advice under any circumstances, especially when it comes to losing weight. If the advisor or expert has problems with excess weight, it's like going to the dentist with bad teeth. He certainly won't tell you anything good. Go to those who achieve excellent results. They don't necessarily have to have a diploma. When you search for something on Google, you look at 1, 2, maybe 3 pages. At the beginning, there are sites that can be trusted. Medical sites are certified and you can trust them. But I look at this information. It's not particularly effective. It won't work. Searching for facts on the internet can be quite difficult because you don't know who to trust. You can trust those who achieve the best results. Second, I told her to focus entirely on eliminating insulin resistance. She said to me, " Well, how can I not give up whale bombs and dairy products? I couldn't last long without them because then the diet would be completely joyless." I told her, "No, you don't need to now." Think about what will happen in a long time. We have a serious problem in the present. It needs to be solved when we solve it, then we will think about what to do in the long term. Now the main goal is to resolve insulin resistance. This means that the fasting interval should be much longer. This is task number one. The second task is to slightly reduce carbohydrates. Apple cider vinegar will help a lot and it is necessary to increase the amount of fat during meals, but not at the expense of dairy products, because it is because of dairy that you have problems with your period. More fat and food will help you last much longer between meals. There may be too much fat in food and it may turn out that the body will use ketones from fats. We get them from food, they are ketones from fat reserves. This is true, but at this stage we are not interested in this. Our goal is insulin resistance. For this, we increase the fasting interval because otherwise, insulin resistance will not go away, and at this stage, it is much more important than losing weight. We need to cope with the underlying cause of insulin resistance, and for this, the fasting interval should be much longer. To cope with insulin resistance at 12 or  15 hour interval won't work, you need at least 18, better even 20 or even longer. 3 can solve all other problems besides weight, and other health problems specifically for her are periods. If a woman has heavy periods for two weeks, this will completely rebuild all the chemistry in the body, which will simply go downhill, this will cause hunger, she will be irritable, she will sleep poorly, this will become a huge obstacle. I think giving up dairy products in itself will practically solve this problem. Other problems are possible with sleep, but also during sleep, or a thyroid problem, or some kind of inflammation, or an autoimmune disease, or digestive problems. I have a video on each of them. Many videos can be watched and find out what to do, but you must resolve all these problems. Next, these are bombs without dairy products. I already told them. You can eat chum salmon bombs with coconut oil, with nuts, something from this. I also told her and this is very important. To determine whether insulin resistance is present, you should get tested on Yandex. insulin resistance is often not even known by doctors. You just need to find a doctor who knows. Get this test done, it will show how much you have.  Seriously, then you'll be able to understand what's needed to solve this problem. Here's the main criterion that will tell you whether you're on the right path: does your feeling of hunger go away? You understand, a decrease in hunger. If your voice decreases, it means insulin resistance is retreating. If you can't go a long time between meals without eating, it means insulin resistance is still present. This is the best indicator. It's not weight loss, not something like that. It's the feeling of hunger. And I repeat, insulin resistance is a condition in which insulin doesn't enter the cells, that is, it doesn't deliver fuel to the cells, and as a result, the cells are constantly hungry. This will greatly complicate intermittent fasting. Our task is to switch the body from fuel in the form of sugar to fuel in the form of fat, step by step, so that you switch to burning fat. As soon as this happens, you will feel better, hunger will subside, energy will return, and you will begin to lose weight. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.