What happens if you starve yourself for 7 days? It sounds scary and some people associate hunger with death, but in reality, there is nothing more beneficial for your health than what you can do for your health. I think that nothing compares to what you can do simply by fasting. I will tell you how fasting is different from morena and starving yourself, but if fasting really brings more health benefits than anything else, then it would be logical to assume that frequent meals create the most problems. I think that is true. Look at how many people eat often: 3 main meals, snacks, and they sharpen something in the evenings. I think most people eat literally constantly. I actually saw people who ate so often that they had to get up at night and eat otherwise they would have problems with blood sugar. At that time, I did not yet know that problems with low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia) are easily solved by reducing the frequency of meals. I proceeded from the false assumption that you need to eat to avoid hypoglycemia and that some people's blood sugar problems need to be solved this way. In fact, People with hypoglycemia and low blood sugar can easily fix this with intermittent fasting. Okay, how long can a person survive without water? About 3 to 5 days. The world record for survival without food and water is about 18 days, but the lack of water wasn't complete. The guy was thrown into prison and forgotten about, and he had no other liquid except condensation on the wall of his cell. I don't know how much Vladi can form on the wall, but apparently not very much. But he lasted 18 days, and then they found him, so he didn't die. As for surviving without food, one person from the Guinness Book of Records did n't eat anything for 382 days. He drank water, tea, coffee, and took vitamins and electrolytes. He even ate yeast. From it, he got B vitamins and some amino acids. Many people don't realize that nutritional yeast is very rich in B vitamins, amino acids, and trace elements. He lost 276 pounds, which is 125 kilograms. At first, he weighed 200.6 kilograms, and by the end of 1981, he fasted for over a year.  Realize that the average person who is not overweight has enough fat calories to survive for a very long time. He has about 100 thousand kilocalories. If a person weighs somewhere around 70 kilos and burns between one and two thousand kilocalories per day, then his fat fuel will last for about sixty-seven days without food. When you stop eating, at first you experience discomfort on the first day or two. You may feel a little hungry because you are not yet accustomed to fat and have not fully adapted. A slight weakness is possible, but salt, electrolytes with potassium, will save you from fatigue, but very quickly on the second or third day you will find that the feeling of hunger begins to disappear. You will no longer have an appetite. Now about how morena and the body differ from fasting. Many side effects of fasting are caused by the fact that you do not receive nutrients. During fasting, which I recommend, you drink enough fluids and take nutrients. You simply do not eat anything high-calorie. The body begins to hunger when it runs out of fat. If there is enough fat, there will be no hunger because the body burns its reserve fuel, fat.  When there is no more fat, the body begins to starve and it begins to use its muscles as fuel and it also eats its organs, but during fasting you burn only fat, this is the goal of fasting. I think people do not get to burning fat because there is so much food around. During fasting, the body protects its muscles, this is called preserving proteins, the need for amino acids and repair is reduced, the body begins to work very economically, and so during fasting, the main fuel is calories and fat, but when you wash the body with hunger, the main fuel is calories from muscles and organs. When the body is starved, the appetite becomes simply brutal. A person wants anything and eat almost anything, but when you starve, you have no appetite, because you eat, even if you don’t go, you eat your fat reserves, and this is pure energy and you have no money. If you starve yourself, you will be very apathetic, but when you starve, your mood improves significantly, emotions become brighter, a feeling of euphoria arises. One man decided to commit suicide. He decided to commit suicide. His life was going downhill. He had diabetes and a lot of problems, and he stopped eating. He didn’t eat.  Three days, but his plan didn't work. His emotional and physical condition began to improve. He even started searching the internet for information about fasting, and it completely changed his life. Fasting is undoubtedly the most important thing you can do for your health. The opinion is that fasting leads to muscle atrophy, while fasting causes a powerful surge in growth hormone. If you compare high-intensity exercise and fasting, exercise causes a surge in growth hormone only eight times, while fasting can cause a surge in growth hormone 21 times. Growth hormone ensures muscle synthesis, muscle growth, and muscle maintenance. A person is extremely irritable and grumpy during the day, just like people with low blood sugar. But when fasting, people become very pleasant. They feel content and it's very pleasant to talk to them. They don't tend to get angry. Cognitive functions in the brain begin to shrink, the ability to concentrate worsens, and memory becomes difficult for a person to concentrate. But when fasting, something called neurogenesis occurs, new nerve cells begin to grow, including in the brain. Many wonderful things happen. The brain's neurotrophic factor increases, the mind becomes sharper, memory improves, concentration increases significantly, and the ability to create greatly increases.  The level of awareness of how else besides fasting can you achieve at least partially such wonderful results is simply amazing how beneficial the effect of fasting has on every part of the body. If Moritz's body is starved, a person becomes weak and tired, but when fasting, he remains strong and full of energy. This is a sure sign that you are taking enough electrolytes, B vitamins, nutrients and microelements. When fasting, you are still full of energy and can exercise with the same intensity as when you eat. This means that you are taking the right nutrients. When the body is starved, a severe nutrient deficiency occurs. A deficiency of vitamin B1 occurs, called beriberi, with severe side effects. A deficiency of vitamin B3, a kilogram, a rash appears all over the skin, peeling, many problems. A lack of vitamin C causes severe fatigue, bleeding gums, connective tissue is destroyed, joints are destroyed, and also a deficiency of vitamin D, rickets, this is accompanied by severe pain in the bones, osteoporosis, bones are very, very weak and the immune system suffers greatly. You become light.  They are very easy prey for viruses, bacteria, and other infections, but when fasting, the immune system becomes very, very strong. You develop more antibodies and develop resistance to viruses and bacterial infections. Stem cells in the bone marrow begin to restore the immune system. The body switches to processing and self-healing mode. This is called autophagy. The body takes all the damaged proteins that clog everything in the brain, blood vessels, and eyes and recycles them, creating new cells from them. Thus, you are rejuvenated by processing old waste. In addition, through autophagy, you get rid of old dormant viruses and bacteria. Isn't it wonderful? So, during fasting, your antioxidant networks improve. When we don't eat, antioxidants increase. What a wonderful survival mechanism. During fasting, cells become more sensitive to insulin. If you have a slow metabolism, it becomes more powerful and faster. Metabolic syndrome and high blood pressure usually disappear with this syndrome. There is also belly fat. If you don't eat for seven days, you will lose at least 2.2 kilograms of real fat. When you fast, your microbiome  The beneficial bacteria in the intestines become very diverse. These beneficial microbes begin to live longer. Their beneficial properties are enhanced. So you strengthen not only your microbiome but also the walls of your intestines. Leaky gut syndrome, problems of demand, and suit, all this decreases. If there are allergies, they decrease. If there is intestinal inflammation, it decreases. Any inflammation in the body usually goes away during fasting, and this applies to autoimmune diseases, arthritis, bursitis, tendonitis, everything associated with inflammation and pain. If you have pain, it also goes away. The action of the detoxifying enzyme in the liver begins to intensify and the ability to get rid of toxins increases. The ability of cells to withstand stress increases, that is, the stress resistance of cells increases. For example, if a person has cancer and he undergoes chemotherapy or radiation therapy, his cells better resist this toxicity when he fasts. Fasting reduces the predominance of the sympathetic nervous system in fight-or-flight mode and increases the predominance of the parasympathetic, so you are calmer and more relaxed. And as a cherry on the cake, although we will not talk about the cake, by fasting you can even contribute.  Reducing the number of cancer cells If you have a tumor, it can shrink. Fasting is the most powerful anti-cancer remedy you can do, but there is a catch 22 in fasting against cancer. For it to be effective, your body must have some fat, but there are some things you can do if you have a thin or fragile body. Below is a link to a video about cancer. I hope I have convinced you to fast more, not only intermittently, but also to fast for a long time from time to time. You just have to take enough nutrients when you fast. There are links about this under the video. I invite you to my Healthy Keto Course. It is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.