Today we will discuss 12 triggers or causes of inflammation. I have been practicing for 30 years, so I have had the opportunity to observe a very wide range of different cases and different causes, as well as some things that you will not find on Google. Let's start with number one. If you have any inflammation on the right side. I don't care if it is fibromyalgia, shoulder pain, headache on the right, or any pain in the lower part. Then there is probably something wrong with the gallbladder. It is possible that so-called bile sediment has simply accumulated in the bile ducts themselves. Many do not even know what it is and immediately think that they have a gallstone. This is not necessarily a stone. There may be sediment. It actually precedes the appearance of a gallstone. Cholesterol becomes extremely concentrated, which is caused by a lack of bile salts. It thickens and begins to clog. There is severe tension and pressure under the rib cage on the right. This can affect the nerve that goes to the neck and cause referred pain anywhere, right here at the top in the trapezius. The muscles in the back are visible. This pain can go down the arm. It is probably the gallbladder.  bladder or in the bile ducts, there are a couple of quick ways to understand this. Start massaging two or three centimeters below the rib cage on the right and two or three centimeters to the right of the middle. Press on this area. Usually it is blocked. Is this pain another good remedy for this here? This is a type of bile salt, take it on an empty stomach. I would take two capsules in the morning and two in the afternoon. If everything is very bad, you may need to take another type of bile salt immediately after eating. Thanks to this, the bile will become liquid and will flow easier and the pain on the right should go away. But the main thing is that you need to change your diet, which I will tell you about at the end of this video. Believe it or not, this is a very common cause of pain on the right and sometimes on the left, because the ducts going to the pancreas can also become clogged, reflecting pain also in the left shoulder. Number two is vitamin D deficiency. With vitamin D deficiency, there will most likely be lower back pain, but any pain can occur anywhere in the body. A simple remedy for this is to increase the dose of vitamin D3 to 50,000 per day. Many people have vitamin D deficiency and they don’t know about it, thinking that they are getting  enough sun you need to get a lot of sun and a large area of ​​the body to get vitamin D But people do not do this and they do not realize that it is very difficult to get enough vitamin D from food The next reason is some kind of stressful shock situation in a person's life I am talking about some kind of severe loss it can also be chronic mental stress The point is that stress activates cortisol and stress, whether sudden or chronic, can injure the immune system to such an extent that the immune system stops working so that because of stress and the hormone cortisol, which is actually associated with stress, you deprive not only the protection of the immune system but also the anti-inflammatory effect because normally cortisol eliminates inflammation if you have a lot of stress Perhaps you think Wow, my cortisol levels are higher, inflammation decreases more, but this is not true You develop cortisol stops working it's just like with insulin resistance in which there is excess insulin but it does not work many harmful effects of insulin resistance are caused by insulin deficiency many harmful effects of cortisol resistance are caused by deficiency cortisol, so many people use prednisone, cortisone injections, or cortisone creams to combat pain. Here's one good remedy for this. Do everything to reduce stress. Start walking, exercising, and taking large doses of vitamin D. The fact is that vitamin D3 acts in the body like cortisol, but without the side effects of cortisol. I want to say one more thing in this regard. A person could have had some kind of virus in the past, for example, the Epstein-Barr virus or the herpes virus, which went into a latent dormant state, and due to stress, this virus can come out of remission and cause inflammation. This is usually accompanied by fatigue or fibromyalgia. All this starts due to some kind of stress. So you need to eliminate stress and take vitamin D3. The next reason is certain ingredients in restaurant food. Maybe you often go to restaurants without suspecting anything, but you don't know what they feed you there. Many restaurants, especially fast food, serve deep-fried food. Oils in which they use cortisol are used again and again for weeks, if not months. That is, you eat something.  that fried in corn soy or other oil, this oil probably remains in the food and irritates the body, especially the digestive system. And there is also monosodium glutamate, maltodextrin, preservatives, all sorts of chemicals, poor quality food, and all this can affect your digestion. So if you have any inflammation, perhaps you should cook food at home so that you know what is in it and can control it. Many of these oils can be trans fats, that is, hydrogenated oils or oils that are high in omega-6, this is soy, corn, canola, cottonseed oil, they all cause inflammation. Next, we have three things that I think are in the diet of most people. If you don’t believe me, just go to the store and you will see that these ingredients are in a huge variety of products. And we are talking about sugar, we are talking about grains, and we are talking about gluten in grains. And also about the seed oils mentioned in connection with restaurants, but which are also in store-bought products. If you look at what is on store shelves, 8% of all this in terms of calories is  Something that has undergone deep technological processing has more starch in it, such as potatoes, crackers, corn, chips, and so on. But this is fried in seed oils. And so-called healthy Keto snacks can also cause irritation and inflammation. Many of them contain sugar alcohols, which can cause bloating and intestinal irritation. Also, new functional fibers, soluble fiber, corn, tapioca, are synthetic and can irritate the intestines. They appeared recently. I know that many people get bloating from them. So, if something says chum, this does not mean that it is very useful, and it may cause inflammation. Another possible cause of inflammation is visceral fat. The more you follow the recommendations that I give in this video, the less fat there will be in your liver. You can remove 50% of fat from the liver with my advice. Wait for excess iron. Another cause of inflammation is if, due to a problem with genes, your body retains iron and cannot remove it, and you eat a lot of red meat and take iron supplements.  Something else. Something rich in iron, like liver, can cause severe pain and many liver problems. This happens rarely, but it is possible. Most people have no problems with red meat if it is grass- fed. Further, alcohol is not only strong alcohol, but also wine, beer, and other mixed drinks. There are also food allergies to dairy products, gluten, peanut allergies, but there are also food intolerances, for example, lactose, milk sugar. Another reason is frequent meals. Very frequent meals cause severe bloating, the intestines swell greatly. And this is stress for the digestive system. Most problems with inflammation are caused by food, and not just food, but also chami. Eat a lot of snacks. This is bad for inflammation. That is why intermittent fasting is also a great way to reduce inflammation. And lastly, you may have a problem with the vegetables themselves or with what is contained in vegetables, say, with oxalates, lectins, and so on. If you have inflammation in the intestines, you need to try something new. Try to exclude all plant foods and, of course, do not eat legumes either.  Salads, perhaps for a month, or simply. Eat more meat, eggs, fish, and your inflammation will probably decrease significantly, especially if it's caused by the digestive system. So, first, start a healthy diet. Second, intermittent fasting. Third, take more vitamin D3. Fourth, if your intestines are inflamed, take glutamine. But glutamine can also be obtained from red meat and cabbage. These are excellent products rich in glutamine. Here's a story about twelve triggers or causes of inflammation. Dr. Berg's new workshop course is a coach on intermittent fasting and the Keto diet. More than 70 lessons, notes, tables, and lists. And most importantly, Dr. Berg's thirty years of experience can be adopted in 3 months of training. Get a certificate. Become a Keto coach. Help people and achieve great success. Work from home on your own schedule. Do what you love. Sign up for the course using the link below.