Let's talk about what happens if you don't sleep well for two weeks, that is, if you sleep less than six hours or if the quality of sleep is lousy. Some people can sleep less without harming themselves, but most need at least 7-8 hours. What happens over time if you don't get enough sleep? I think this may shock you, because you need to understand that absolutely every cell in the body is connected to an internal clock that controls circadian rhythms. Let's look at it. First, you will be tired, chronically tired, you will have no energy, your cognitive functions will definitely suffer, your memory will not be as good, you will lose the ability to create, imagine, and find good ideas. I know this from my own experience. I need a great night's sleep to constantly create these amazing videos for you. Your concentration will also worsen, your mind will become foggy, your mood will worsen, anxiety and depression will increase, irritability will increase, and your overall stress level will increase. In other words, you will not be happy with your life. Sleep has a huge impact on your heart. The risk of a heart attack increases, the risk of a stroke increases, and blood pressure usually rises when a person is not sleeping. The heart must constantly pump blood around the clock, it never sleeps, but when you sleep,  She can rest a little, but during the day, when you exercise or experience stress, the load on the heart increases, so at a minimum, the heart needs a good night's rest to recover. Hormones and the endocrine system are greatly affected by sleep cycles. Poor sleep negatively affects testosterone, libido, and infertility. Another problem that arises from poor sleep is that if you don't sleep very well, inflammation increases, pain may increase, and blood sugar levels rise. Because when we don't sleep, cortisol, a stress hormone, increases, and this is a glucocorticoid. More sugar is produced in the body, even though you don't eat it. That is, blood sugar levels rise. This leads to weight gain. People don't realize that they burn the most fat at night when they sleep, and if you don't sleep, you won't lose weight and you can gain weight. The quality of sleep greatly affects the immune system. People who don't sleep are more vulnerable to infections because their immune system is weakened. Besides all these little things, lack of sleep is probably not particularly harmful. Now let's talk about what you can do if you don't sleep well. There are many different factors, I'll tell you. about all of them in this video you need a substance called oxygen when you sleep if you have it but also in your sleep then you have a problem with insulin resistance for those who don't know below there is a link on how to eliminate insulin resistance there are plants that produce a lot of oxygen and thus can improve your sleep one of them is scindapsus, I think it's called devil's ivy and the other is spathiphyllum you can keep them in the room and they will produce oxygen improving your sleep this is one of the reasons why you sleep better with an open window oxygen is very important especially when we sleep and is light important when we sleep when we sleep there should be no light at all unfortunately we are constantly surrounded by light and if you live in the city there is more light and people do not go to bed when it gets dark outside in the evening in fact people often go to bed at midnight but what is midnight is half of the night it is not the beginning of the night it is the middle of the night so it is very important not to wait for midnight I know from my own experience if I went to bed after midnight there is literally no need to wait an hour and a half before  How do I get into deep sleep? Because of circadian rhythms, I go to bed between 9:30 and sometimes until 10:30 at the latest. Light is a very powerful factor, especially blue light. Many light sources in your home emit blue light, including computer and mobile phone screens, and blue light blocks the production of melatonin. Red light and infrared radiation increase the production of melatonin. So, if your home is lit by an incandescent lamp, this is very, very good. They give off a lot of infrared light. In addition, infrared light is emitted by fireplaces, candles, and fires. They are great at increasing melatonin levels, and it improves nighttime sleep. Melatonin is interesting because it does not necessarily cause drowsiness, but it affects circadian rhythms, and it should be enough for the sleep cycle to be normal. Apparently, when people take melatonin during the day, they usually do not get tired, but there is an exception. I am one of them. After taking melatonin, I will most likely fall asleep, and so blue light blocks the production of melatonin and worsens sleep, and red or infrared light improves sleep by increasing melatonin I put on an eye mask when I go to bed so that no light gets in and I darken the room well before going to bed because it reduces fatigue and makes immersion easier wonderful sleep what about the temperature is also important the room should be cool 18 19 degrees Celsius 64 68 degrees Fahrenheit the point is that usually sleep is better when the room is cooler when it's hot I remember when I was in college my air conditioner broke it was in the summer I literally didn't sleep for a single minute it was just torture because it was very hot outside and I lived in a tiny room which by the way was in the attic what about liquids should you drink before bed no if there is a problem with the match descent at night I advise you to try to drink most of the water around dinner but not later this way you can avoid night trips to the toilet if you have this problem like some there is an excellent solution to get rid of insulin resistance below there is a link if you get up 10 times a night it will ruin your sleep and what if there is pain or  inflammation let's say in the back when you're trying to sleep the solution to this problem is usually vitamin d3 you need to take about 10,000 international units before bed usually this eliminates any lower back pain in general taking vitamin d3 before bed improves sleep for most people there are people for whom it doesn't help so you should try what about noise you know I use earplugs because I'm a light sleeper probably the reason is that during basic military training I was rudely woken up at 4 am for three months noise is an important factor not everyone can tolerate earplugs I can tolerate it and it seems to work what about swarming thoughts problem solving what to do about it very good solution taking vitamin b1 it helps to cope with this scourge it helps to fall into a deeper sleep that's what I do and it really helps me I am constantly working on a lot of projects and I have a to-do list I have found that it is very important especially before bed to write down on paper everything that needs to be done the next day but here's how I do it I don't make a long to-do list that I have to complete every day I write down maybe three four or five important items in this  I have a list of things I have to do, there is a separate list of things I will take on if I have time, so I actually do what I set out to do, I don’t constantly feel like I’m always behind on things, that I have to deal with all these unfinished projects, what about cramps in my feet, this is usually caused by a magnesium or potassium deficiency, if there is a deficiency, for the sake of it, you probably need to watch what you eat and find out what you are not eating but should eat, then your pulse, if you have a rapid pulse, it greatly affects sleep, it is usually a potassium deficiency, so you need foods rich in potassium, and this is usually vegetables in large quantities, I myself have a very large portion of greens every day, from 7 to 10 glasses, this usually replenishes the potassium deficiency, you can also take a potassium supplement, more information at the link below, there is another reason for a high pulse, an overly acidic environment in the body, I’ll give an example, say in the evening you drink a kombucha drink and it is very, very acidic and you drink a whole bottle, your pulse may start to quicken, this happened to me, so just drink less of it, what about stress, can stress affect  Before going to bed, I think there may be many ways to reduce stress, and of course, exercise is one of the best, but I also want to say that physical labor, that is, when you do some work, is a little better than exercise, because work does not allow you to dwell on the problems in your head. You work with something that is outside of your mind, and exercise is something more organized and leaves more chances to think about problems. But there are many ways to reduce stress. Ashwagandha is a good dietary supplement. Smileys tea and medicinal vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 can be obtained from nutritional yeast. What about digestion? Is this important? Oh yeah, I recently made a video about drinking kefir before bed if you're naked, and maybe it's better to drink kefir right after dinner. Ether contains not only bacteria but also yeast. Beneficial yeast, so ether improves intestinal health and you produce more neurotransmitters, l-tryptophan, serotonin, which is converted into melatonin. So, kefir in the evening is very useful for the digestive system. Indigestion can greatly affect sleep, especially if, say, you ate too late and  ate too much well good night to you I already said a little about melatonin and there is much more to say about it a good natural way to get melatonin is to be in the sun sunlight consists of different wavelengths including infrared waves and infrared waves increase melatonin levels so when you are in the sun and this means not getting sunburned usually the sun does not allow sunburn just being in the sun but even if you have a hat sunglasses and clothes infrared light passes through all this and the skin amazingly and you will sleep better if you have a supply of melatonin stimulants like caffeine if you drink too much coffee or tea or even go chocolate are all stimulants and I drink only one small cup of coffee a day because if I drink more than a cup I sleep worse because of the liver berries caused a lot of harm to my liver and it is not 100 percent preserved so if I drink too much coffee my liver and no longer removes toxins as well the same applies to alcohol it seems that alcohol helps you sleep but in fact  This isn't restorative sleep. What about blood sugar? If it's too high or too low, it can affect sleep. You need to say that your blood sugar is constantly decreasing and decreasing, and for you, these symptoms aren't a problem. I'm talking about a person with low blood sugar and various negative symptoms that can affect their sleep cycles. If you haven't watched my video about cuteness, I don't really recommend watching it. Here it is.