what happens if you basically eat only healthy whole grains for a month if you haven't tried it then try it I did it practically my whole life until I was about 28 that is about 5 years ago I stopped it perhaps it's not the best experiment to do on yourself but I ate a lot of what I considered healthy whole grains and products you know cereal bread pasta crackers and so on let's dive deep into this topic and analyze some of the components of grain products first I want to talk about fiber because I always hear if you eat whole grains you will get 2 3 times more fiber than if you ate refined grains yes it's quite possible that is true but initially there is not that much fiber in grains even brown rice has only 4 percent fiber that's not a lot in one cup of rice four tenths of a gram of fat so there is very little fat also it has about 45 grams of carbohydrates which is a lot and at the same time there is only six tenths of a gram of fiber that's a tiny amount there are also four and  Three tenths of a gram of protein is also not enough, and what about multi- grain bread, it has one and seven tenths of a gram of fat, which is quite little, and we are talking about one slice, 18 grams of carbohydrates, which is a lot, but only 3 grams of fiber and 5 grams of protein. If you take the same celery, for example, it is 50 percent fiber, or a handful of spinach is 50 percent fiber and only 4 grams of carbohydrates, so fiber should be taken from vegetables, they are from grains. The next thing I want to talk about is that no one eats only 100 percent whole grains. They eat products containing whole grains, which contain refined grains and there is refined sugar and a lot of chemicals and much more. I have not yet seen a single person who would take whole grain and eat it. Usually, grain is eaten when it is already turned into flour. No one eats just grain, does not add it to flakes, it can be cooked or soaked, but people do not do this, they add a little perry to this flour and from this flour already When people grind something into flour, it is exposed to air, which destroys it inside and causes oxidation, especially vitamin A and other fat-soluble vitamins are lost, oxygen destroys fat-soluble vitamins, not to mention the fact that the flour that is sold in stores sits on the shelf for quite a long time, the longer the flour was exposed to air, the less nutrients it has, but this is not the biggest problem, the biggest problem I think is that if there is a flour product, if there is this grain in the form of flour, it is even more exposed to digestive enzymes and this causes a spike in blood sugar levels because 80 percent of this grain is starch, and starch is glucose molecules gathered together, if you heat it or grind it or otherwise process it, digestive enzymes will turn the so -called healthy complex carbohydrates into simple carbohydrates in a bundle of glucose molecules, this is no better than eating sugar, and yes, it all depends on the amount, but in this video we are talking about what will happen if you eat mostly whole grains, the glycemic index, which essentially shows how quickly something  The product causes a spike in blood sugar levels in whole and refined grains. It's not very different. It's almost the same. This is just one problem. The other problem is that whole grains contain much more phytic acid than refined grains. What is phytic acid? Phytic acid is anti-nutrition. Phytic acid interferes with the absorption of zinc, calcium, iron, and magnesium. This can lead to various deficiencies, especially in children. More on that later. Now about gluten. Certain grains contain gluten. It's a protein. Gluten has a very destructive effect on the intestines. It can irritate the intestines. It can cause inflammation and leaky gut syndrome. It's associated with loss of appetite, especially with Hashimotosis and other autoimmune diseases. Therefore, if you have thyroid problems, you shouldn't eat any grains at all. There are allergies or intolerances to gluten. Many people are intolerant to gluten. By the way, I was surprised that even some ketogenic foods contain wheat gluten. It's a protein, but it causes inflammation, so you shouldn't eat it. There's also a problem with glyphosate, for example.  Roundup is a herbicide that is almost always used on wheat, although wheat seeds are usually not genetically modified, but glyphosate is still added, and you can imagine how it affects the body. So, if you eat mostly whole grains, then the number one problem is the glycemic index, that is, how quickly they will cause a spike in blood sugar. Now we eat far from the grains that people ate before in the distant past. Now we eat hybrid grains that are high in carbohydrates and phytic acid. In other words, if you eat these grains, your blood sugar will rise, this will affect your mood, anxiety will appear, and possibly depression. A spike in blood sugar will also affect cognitive function between what happens in the intestines and what happens in the brain. There is a very close connection between what happens in the intestines and what happens in the brain. If there is inflammation or bloating in the intestines, this will affect cognitive function and cause mental fog. Now, with the weight from grains, you will gain weight, potentially develop a fatty liver, and carbohydrates will cause a spike in cholesterol. Then, problem number two is phytic acid in whole grains.  Cereals block various minerals, and what's interesting is that you can see the links below. More than 10 million children die each year due to nutrient deficiencies. A large percentage of these children die due to diarrhea caused by zinc deficiency. Guess how you can get zinc deficiency. Firstly, due to the unavailability of animal protein sources, which are rich in zinc. Secondly, due to cereals, due to a diet consisting mainly of cereals, many children under five simply live on these cereals. The phytic acid in them can deplete zinc reserves, which can cause diarrhea in a child and even the risk of death, as well as stunted growth and many other problems associated with delayed development in early childhood. Usually, they try to solve this problem with fermented cereals. I don't know how popular this is. If you ferment cereals for three days, the bacteria that arise from the change in lactic acid begin to produce the enzyme phytosanitary acid, which destroys phytic acid. Therefore, if you ferment cereals, they will contain less phytic acid, and you will better absorb it, and especially zinc and magnesium.  and iron and calcium by the way for the same reason we ferment grains for our chickens we have 16 chickens I soak the grains in water for three days so they get less phytic acid and more nutrients now what do whole grains do to the digestive system gas formation bloating inflammation because excess omega-6 fatty acids irritate the colon can occur in siberian bacterial overgrowth syndrome can cause allergies and even autoimmune disease hashimoto below link to additional information in short grains are not recommended for the digestive some can digest refined grains better apparently because they have much less phytic acid and are easier to digest of course refined grains will cause additional problems so all grains have their downsides if I had to choose between whole and refined grains I would not choose either I already talked about glyphosate herbicide which affects the microbiome recently increasingly draw a link between glyphosate my and celiac disease these are problems with Digestion and other problems are considered and which need to be made a separate video and finally, these grains are additionally enriched despite the fact that you eat whole grain products, these grains are still enriched with synthetic vitamins and they also add iron to the pile, but isn't it the same for which the body can easily absorb because of this iron, these grains can lie like weights in your stomach for a very long time and our body is not designed for the type of vitamins with which grains are enriched, for example, folic acid instead of salads or synthetic B vitamins in an attempt to minimize vitamin loss during the cleansing process. Those of you who are skeptical of what I said and have no problem eating whole grains, try it yourself for a month eating mostly whole grains and then tell us how your cow's. If you haven't watched my old video about how to get rid of bread cravings forever, it's funny, you should watch it here is the link