I have already talked about cryotherapy, cold therapy, and cold showers, but in my opinion, you can get almost as much benefit from visiting a sauna. Today we will talk about what will happen if you regularly visit a sauna for two weeks. I think you will get huge benefits for your health. Staying in a sauna gives a curious thermotherapeutic effect due to the body's adaptation to moderate stress. This is called the hermetic effect. You create stress for the body, it adapts and becomes stronger. There are other ways to create a harmonious effect: a cold shower, bathing in an ice hole, fasting, and physical exercise. But today we will focus on what benefits a sauna can bring. There is a regular sauna with hot air, but there is also a different type of sauna, it is not so hot. It uses infrared radiation, this slightly different infrared radiation is able to penetrate deeper into the body and, in addition, it increases melatonin. But in this video, I want to talk about the benefits of a regular sauna with hot air. Let's start with how a sauna affects your hormones. It increases growth hormone by two and four tenths times. It can increase norepinephrine, an adrenal hormone.  It can significantly increase dopamine, which will make you calmer and lift your mood. It can increase serotonin, which also affects mood, and even increase the level of the hormone prolactin, but there are a few other benefits. 1. A sauna can lower your resting heart rate. The more you exercise or play sports, the lower this value, which definitely reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease and prolongs life. So, the lower your resting heart rate, the better. Secondly, it is beneficial for the lymphatic system, which is like a reserve circulatory system, and the lymph nodes are an important part of the immune system. A sauna helps stimulate this system. Although in a sauna, the heart rate increases as during training to about 120 beats per minute, over time, the body adapts and the resting heart rate decreases, that is, the heart works more actively, blood flow and lymph flow improve. The therapeutic effect of a sauna is similar to the effect of moderate aerobic exercise. This is interesting. After all, you are not running, but just sitting. A sauna helps lower blood pressure. It can reduce the risk of asthma attacks. It can strengthen your immunity and you  You won't get sick so often, and here's a surprising fact: it was established that a sauna reduces mortality from any cause. According to one study, visiting a sauna 4 to 7 days a week reduces the risk of death by 40 percent. In my opinion, this is enough to make you want to go to a sauna. Sauna therapy helps reduce pain and inflammation and can help with skin problems such as tsar. In addition, a sauna helps recover from stress or even after a workout. Sauna therapy can be very useful in terms of cognitive function. It can also alleviate the condition of dementia. Among other things, sauna therapy can increase insulin sensitivity, which will help with blood sugar levels. There are fewer reactive oxygen species associated with oxidative stress. This is a kind of antioxidant effect. The skin probably begins to look younger. This is a combination of the harmonious effect of heat and increased blood circulation, as well as autophagy. Sauna therapy stimulates the process of autophagy, the utilization of old damaged proteins, and this is great. You sweat in a sauna, and you need to understand what happens. You will mainly lose sodium and, to a lesser extent, potassium.  On average, a person consumes 3300 mg of sodium per day, which is about 1000 mg more than the required norm of 2300, of course, without taking into account losses as a result of falling. But on average, a person consumes a certain amount of sodium is usually more than the norm. Much depends on the level of potassium in your body. On average, a person consumes only 2600 mg of potassium, but 4700 is required, much more. If you have enough potassium, then you will not have problems with sodium, but here's what you need to understand: in a sauna, you mainly lose sodium. The sodium level will drop lower and lower. If you had an excess of sodium, you will feel better, but you will need more sodium on a long fast. The same applies to a titrogenic diet. If you sweat in a sauna without replenishing sodium losses, this can cause an electrolyte imbalance. So, when visiting a sauna, take into account the effect of sweating, take electrolytes, you may need a little more potassium and sodium. You need a balance of these substances. Therefore, a sauna brings many benefits, it is worth trying. Since we are with you  We're talking about sodium. I recommend watching this video. Here's the link.