What happens if you drink celery juice for 7 days in a row? Celery contains four fairly powerful substances. However, they usually talk about those components that are not important for health. Firstly, 95% is water. There are not that many nutrients in celery juice. There is B9, but there are only 9% of them. They usually say that there is a lot of sodium in it. About 288 mg of sodium in a celery juice is only an eighth of the daily value. But the amazing properties of celery juice are explained by four natural substances, phytonutrients. There is a book that claims that celery is the most powerful medicine of our time. Let's talk about whether this could be true. The medical media reports on the benefits of sodium cluster crystals. I did not find information about this. But I found a lot about these four phytonutrients. The first of them has a long name, ributyl talit. This is what this substance does in the body: it restores the body after a stroke, reconstructs microcirculation, it has damaged cells, it also has Antithrombotic in onions, in oranges. It's in the crown. It's in basil and of course in celery. In nature, plants usually use adenine to block violet radiation from the sun. It also works as an insecticide. So this is a defense mechanism. When we receive this substance in small doses, it creates an epigenetic effect that benefits us. Apigenin relaxes muscles well. That's why celery juice makes you calmer. And if you have high blood pressure, it helps lower it. It improves sleep. It helps with diabetes. It's even recommended for people with amnesia. It's interesting that the third substance is called cumin acid. It helps with inflammation, ulcers, and reduces blood clots, and also normalizes blood sugar. It can also reduce inflammation in arthritis. And the last substance is ferol. It has antiviral, antibacterial, antifungal properties and also helps with inflammation. So, celery juice is the most powerful medicine of our time. Well, I wouldn't say so, but it's really very good. That's what I recommend to you. I've already done it.  I did this for a week and will probably continue. Buy celery, wash it, only organic, make half a liter of juice and drink it in the morning on an empty stomach. If you want to add something, do not add other juices, add a little lemon. The main benefit is in these compounds, but there may be other useful substances. Try this, you might like it. I have another video about celery. Here is the link to it, watch it.