So what is the ketogenic diet? Let's discuss it. I'll start with the simple stuff, then we'll go into detail. I'll try to keep it simple. It's eating certain foods in certain combinations to make your body work harder, burning fat. Your body produces ketones, and ketones can be used as an alternative fuel. In fact, your body loves to work harder. It's a healthier fuel with less waste. It's more efficient, it contains more energy, and your body has much more fat reserves than sugar reserves. The average person without excess weight has approximately 90,000 to 100,000 calories in fat reserves. Compare that to the same person's body, which only has 1,700 calories stored in sugar. So, what's more logical: for the body to work on the accumulated 100,000 calories or on this small reserve? If you rely only on energy from sugar or on its reserves, that is, on glycogen, you'll start burning fat. You'll be able to go much longer without feeling hungry, and you'll have fewer cravings for carbohydrates. Therefore, one of the advantages of this diet over other diets is You stop feeling hungry and craving certain foods, and you can easily stick to this diet for a long time. If you compare this diet to a low-calorie or low-fat diet, both of these diets are associated with high carbohydrate intake. It is carbohydrates that prevent you from burning fat, so those on a low-fat or low-calorie, but at the same time high-carbohydrate diet will have a hard time. They will depend on exercise. They will constantly lose water weight, but eventually, they will most likely give up. This is why 98 percent of diets fail. They are impossible to stick to for a long time. All because a person is constantly hungry and craving carbohydrates and is unable to stick to this diet because there are always a lot of eyes around him. Here, a person goes into a state of ketosis, that is, he begins to produce ketones due to reduced carbohydrate intake. You should reduce carbohydrates to 20 and 50 grams. The fewer carbohydrates, the deeper you are in ketosis. A ketogenic diet can be considered a fat-burning diet. If you want to lose weight, should n't you burn  fat and so, simply put, you reduce the amount of carbohydrates you do not consume a lot of protein, this is a medium- protein diet, I will explain if you still do not understand, many people think that fatty foods are very harmful, but if you reduce carbohydrates, then there is no threat in consuming a large amount of fat, that is, when you enter ketosis, you simply switch sugar to fat, this takes three days and to achieve this you need to reduce carbohydrates, this forces your body to look for other sources of energy and such a source is your fat reserves. Okay, let's continue, let 's compare the Tetta diet with other diets. You will lose water weight. I don't know. A week or two and you will be inspired. Oh, it worked great. I started losing weight, but this is water weight. Why lose water weight? After two weeks, you will remain on this plateau because you still have not started the fat burning process. When losing weight, there is a big difference between water loss and fat loss. And understand that physical exercise gives only 15 percent of the result, so if you think that you can lose this weight through exercise, the result will be very insignificant compared to the right diet. On other diets, you will  experience constant hunger or cravings for some food and this will make it impossible to hold out for any length of time and this will certainly be a failure. About 98 percent of people suffer and always blame lack of willpower, but think for yourself how you can stick to something if you are constantly hungry, it is simply impossible, and as soon as you consume too many carbohydrates on those diets, your blood sugar will drop due to a surge in insulin, insulin suppresses blood sugar, and when you have low blood sugar, you become irritable, angry, constantly hungry, that's what happens. On the other hand, if you stick to a healthy ketogenic or keto diet, you will burn real fat. Yes, you will lose water weight, but you will start burning fat, and the fewer carbohydrates you consume, the more efficiently you will burn fat. You will lose the feeling of hunger, you will stop craving food, thanks to just these two factors, you will be able to stay on this diet for a long time if you do not have hunger or cravings for food. If you do not have such a problem as low blood sugar, it will be easy for you.  You will become more energetic. In fact, adaptation takes two to three days. Your cells need to get used to burning fat. Therefore, if you take enough electrolytes and B vitamins, you will not have any transient symptoms. But at the same time, you will become more energetic, smarter, more attentive, and your memory will improve. Why is this because your brain loves concrete and your inflammation will decrease. If you have pain and tension somewhere, this will also decrease, your condition will improve, and later it will decrease with. And I would also like to distinguish between two concepts: there is ketosis and there is healthy ketosis. They are different. Healthy ketosis is following a low-carb diet and eating healthy foods rich in nutrients. I usually recommend a diet. They tell you about the quality of food you need to eat. I recommend a healthy diet. There are several reasons: 1. You will start to look better if you are thinner, you will feel better, healthier, but the fact that you are on the same diet and have reduced carbohydrates has a huge number of advantages. Further, I will tell you why the whole point of being in ketosis and using an alternative energy source is  This is to lower and normalize insulin levels. Almost 80 percent of the population has problems with insulin. This is known as insulin resistance. That is, the receptors do not absorb insulin as they should. As a result, insulin does not work and the body has to produce more and more insulin to compensate. This causes a lot of health problems. So, increasing carbohydrates leads to excess insulin. It in turn ends the resistance. Because insulin literally attacks the body and the body blocks the flow. The average person with insulin resistance, and this, by the way, produces 5-7 times more insulin than necessary. Such a huge excess of insulin leads to metabolic disorders. This is belly fat. Problems with blood sugar and cholesterol in people with Alzheimer's disease. High insulin levels and insulin resistance. Then there are heart problems. And only because the inner lining of the arteries is highly susceptible to oxidation. Due to high insulin, arteries literally rust. Plaques, blood clots, and calcium deposits form in the vessels, which can lead to a heart attack and even a stroke. Hardening of the arteries is also a consequence of high insulin.  insulin resistance is also associated with mood disorders, anxiety, depression, and ultimately this will lead to fatty liver and cancer. Because cancer cells essentially feed on sugar. Let's move on to what you can eat. I want to give you an idea of ​​what you can eat on a healthy keto diet. As for calories, take a look at this chart. Carbohydrates account for five percent of all calories. I indicate vegetables separately; they are not included in carbohydrates. In fact, I don't want to classify vegetables with other carbohydrates. The reasons for this are twofold. Firstly, vegetables don't have that many calories. Secondly, I, on the contrary, recommend adding vegetables to your diet. And speaking of reducing carbohydrates, I don't suggest reducing the amount of vegetables. You see, the glycemic response to vegetables is very weak. They hardly cause a spike in sugar and don't really increase insulin. Or forget about fiber. Vegetables are very rich in fiber, although they are considered carbohydrates, they do n't cause an insulin response. So, vegetables make up about five percent of total calories. That's seven or more glasses a day. 7 to 10 glasses a day. And 20 percent of calories should come from protein. That's 85.  170 grams per meal if you have a large build, you can have more, this is just a range of a moderate amount of protein and when I say 85-170 grams, I don't mean 85-170 grams of protein in a product, for example, in meat or fish, I mean the piece of meat or fish itself if you weigh it whole, because if you take fish, for example, in addition to protein, it also contains collagen and so on, that is, 80 grams of fish is not the same as 80 grams of protein, here we are talking specifically about the piece of food itself 85-170 grams and we need about 70 percent fat and it seems like a lot of fat, right? Well, let's look at the plate itself, let's say this is your plate, divide it in half, you fill this half with vegetables, for example, salad, a quarter of the plate with proteins and a quarter with fats, you see, it may seem that 70 percent fat is a lot, but in fact, it's not so simple because per unit of volume, fat contains more calories, that is, calories are shown here, here is the serving volume, and here we have a small amount of carbohydrates, let me  I'll tell you briefly what I mean by carbohydrates. I'm not talking about bread, pasta, crackers, or sodas. We're talking about carbohydrates in nuts or seeds. Look, nuts or seeds contain proteins, they contain fat, but they also contain carbohydrates. These are the carbohydrates you consider hummus. It has little sugar, but it contains carbohydrates. Hummus is also prepared with olive oil and garlic, and the oil contains fat. Berries also have a very low glycemic index, but carbohydrates in berries need to be taken into account. Proteins include meat, fish, seafood, and eggs. Cheese is also included. Of course, meat, fish, eggs, and more broadly, also contain fats. That is, most foods are a combination of all of this. Half of this can actually be some combination of fats and proteins, and you don't eat them separately. Here are examples of pure fats: coconut oil, avocado, but avocado, in addition to fats, contains some carbohydrates. Olive oil is also pure fat. Among vegetables, we have leafy greens, cruciferous vegetables, and other vegetables. Most of them are considered  and as a leafy salad, I recommend eating it raw, but cruciferous vegetables are best steamed or cooked in some other way unless you're making a kiel shake with berries, and that's fine. Ideally, you should eat 7 to 10 cups of vegetables a day. It may seem like a lot, but it provides a lot of nutrients, antioxidants, and many vitamins and minerals. Cruciferous vegetables not only contain a lot of minerals and vitamins, but also a lot of important nutrients that are very beneficial. Next, let's move on to what you shouldn't eat. Let's talk about what you shouldn't eat. You should avoid any grain products, both whole and refined: bread, pasta, cereals, crackers, cookies, waffles, pancakes, and fritters. Even if there's no gluten, these are still grains, so avoid any grains. These include rice, which also turns into starch, and potatoes are also starchy, so exclude potatoes, yams, and sweet potatoes, as well as rice. If there's starch, avoid it, because it will very quickly turn into sugar. Next comes sugar, cane nectar, agave, and honey, fructose, and high-fructose corn syrup should be avoided.  Any sugars are allowed, sugar substitutes such as stevia, monk fruit, xylitol, erythritol, all of these are sugar alcohols and their glycemic index is much lower than that of regular sugar. You should also avoid GMO products. Oils such as soybean, corn, and canola are usually not a threat to you if you eat organic food. Juice, of course, is sugar; it should be avoided. Carbonated drinks that use stevia are acceptable, but juices contain excessive amounts of sugar. Now, as for fish, this is important. Don't eat farmed fish. Commercial fish is much healthier. I've made many videos on this topic. There I explain why organic eggs from chickens raised on natural feed are best. They are more expensive, but they are worth it. When buying organic bacon, you know that pigs were not fed grain. This should be avoided. Choose bacon without sugar and without nitrates. If you eat cheese, sour cream, cream, or butter from grass-fed cows, blueberries are definitely much better. If you drink coffee, try to buy organic because coffee  They treat it with chemicals more than anything else. That's all. In the description below the video, you'll find a very useful document with a list of what you should and shouldn't eat on a healthy Chinese diet. You can download it from the link in the description, print it out, and always keep it handy for reference. Thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the next videos.