I have a lot of videos about Alzheimer's disease, I talked about amyloid plaques, and about falsified studies related to amyloid plaques, I talked about a genetic factor that increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease by 30-50%. If you have a certain mutation called apo E4, with this mutation, the risk increases by 30-50%.  I was finding new data and filming these videos, but I found something revolutionary, amazing, and you should know about it. The better we understand the true essence of the problem, the closer we are to solving it. If you take a match when you are in the forest, light it and set the forest on fire, will you put it out by throwing all your strength into putting it out? The answer is no. As a child, I loved to play with matches. Unfortunately, I paid for it. I remember when I was very little, it seems like it was a year ago, in fact, I was 8. My friend and I were playing with matches. I found matches, we went into the field, and I wanted to see what would happen if you set fire to an empty bird's nest without birds. I just wanted to see what would happen. So I set fire to the nest, suddenly said, " Put it out," but I said no, "Let it burn some more." After a few seconds, the flames on the table spread at breakneck speed. We rushed to the nearest house for water. And when we looked back, the whole field was engulfed in flames. I ran home and told my father that I was setting fire to the field, he looked to the side.  fields And above the roofs the flames were already rising, spreading wider and wider. You can imagine how it was for me, but fortunately for me it started to rain. I was just lucky. It started to rain and put out the flames, but it was scary. I don’t know why I told you this. This is exactly what researchers do. They actually exist. Sometimes, treating Alzheimer’s disease only makes the disease worse. And most researchers assume that amyloid plaques are unnecessary metabolic waste. It doesn’t serve any purpose and you just need to get rid of it. Well, amyloid plaques are indeed associated with Alzheimer’s disease, but amyloid plaques are like matches that start a fire. Trying to remove amyloid plaques is a waste of time. The gene that creates amyloid plaques, this kind of fibrous tissue in the brain that ultimately destroys neurons in the brain, has existed for a very, very long time, somewhere around 400 million years. After all, this gene is present in other species, and it is unclear why this gene remains unchanged for so long, unless you assume that these plaques have some very important purpose. By chance, two researchers (links below) discovered something quite surprising. It turned out that these beta-amyloid plaques are a very powerful antimicrobial peptide, a hundred times more powerful than penicillin. There's something that needs to be clarified here. The immune system has two parts: the innate immune system, we're born with it, it's an ancient immune system. The first line of defense for our army, then we acquire another immune system, the acquired immune system. That's when we develop antibodies, so cells, beta cells, and all that. Usually, the body needs time to form this part of the immune system, but in the brain, there's only the innate immune system. The brain doesn't have this second part of the immune system, perhaps because it's very powerful and can destroy a lot, and the brain is a very fragile thing. And here's what was discovered: it turned out that amyloid plaques are, in fact, a reaction of the innate immune system to a microbe that triggers or provokes this reaction, and amyloid plaques always interact, so to speak, with so-called neurofibrillary tangles. It'll break your tongue, essentially, it's similar to fishing line plaques and these balls work together they catch pathogens and hold them and when the plaques capture microbes, let's say it's some kind of virus, they begin to secrete certain chemicals, including bleach, chlorine, in fact, this instantly kills the microbes, pop and that's it. Imagine a ball of fishing line that is all stuck together and entangled in this pathogen. If we look inside the plaque, we will see a dead microbe if anything is left of it. Because of this reaction, inflammation occurs in the nerves, neuronal inflammation, and now all this associated damage occurs. In fact, all this is a reaction to dead nerve cells, a whole series of events occurs, and Alzheimer's disease is a reaction of the innate immune system to an infection. Usually, this is not necessarily some kind of pronounced infection, usually it is a subclinical infection that develops unnoticed. That's why plaques usually form at about 20 years old. When the first symptoms appear, plaques are already forming at full speed, and then it slows down. The question is, what factor begins to provoke all this? Well, there are several key ones. Pathogens associated with Alzheimer's disease include herpes simplex virus type 1, which is known to cause Alzheimer's disease. These are also spirochetes that cause Lyme disease. There is also the so- called Chlamydophila pneumoniae, a microbe associated with pneumonia, and several others. Regarding genetic predisposition to Alzheimer's disease, the ape-4 mutation increases the risk by 30-50 percent. If you have this mutation, it is easier for the herpes virus to penetrate the brain through the blood-brain barrier, and this explains a lot. In this regard, I wondered if there is microflora in the brain. It seems that for a very long time it was believed that there is none, that the brain is completely sterile. They also thought about blood, but then it turned out that it is full of microbes. Well, there is microflora in the brain, and that is precisely why its purpose is likely to protect us. Alzheimer's disease is very closely related to changes in the microflora in the intestines, but there are no studies on the brain's microflora. Little can be done about this microflora. The most important thing is to do everything in your power.  To prevent this disease, other factors are associated with this, you need a strong immune system, you need a strong, diverse microflora, and you do your best to get rid of insulin resistance, it also greatly increases this risk, more than half of people have insulin resistance, and this alone increases the fire, inflammation in the brain, if you do not follow the keto diet, eat a lot of carbohydrates, then the inflammation in the brain increases, the body must run on ketones, this allows you to bypass this whole problem, I think that if you take action in time, it is quite possible to fix everything for those who are already sick, I think it will be more difficult to improve your condition, depending on the damage. And besides, if you have a problem with apo E4, you definitely can’t drink alcohol, breathe in tobacco smoke, you need to exercise. This will help your genes, you need this diet, you should eat extremely healthy foods with antioxidants, and something else comes to mind, since 95 percent of people have herpes simplex type 1, you need to do everything possible to prevent this damn virus from activating, strengthen your health with all your might. I noticed that after head injuries, after serious losses and stress, Alzheimer's disease develops, I think all these Factors seem to activate what already exists, the herpes virus is activated and this aggravates the situation, address the key factors, you can use epigenetics right now, I have a lot of data on this, adequate sleep, exercise, low stress, healthy food, no chemicals that trigger this process, very low stress levels and high immunity will help keep these viruses in remission, I think this is the main thing, but there is another factor, and this is fasting. Anyone who has Alzheimer's disease should fast, one meal a day, not two, but one. Why? Because you need to fast. Long enough to start the process of autophagy in the body. During autophagy, the body is cleansed, it cleans out old dead proteins. This also strengthens the immune system. It also reduces inflammation in the brain. This will also help increase resistance to pathogens. And about how to effectively start the Keto diet and fasting, in this course I invite you to my new ketogenic course, it is for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does not return again. During the course, I will tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to fix this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved  very stable results, join us too