Hello, Doctor Tag, I want to talk about the most important electrolyte. What is an electrolyte? If you dissolve salt in water, the salt molecule will separate into two elements, resulting in two separate elements: sodium and chlorine. This liquid conducts electricity very well. Electrolytes are essentially elements that help conduct electricity in the body. They help in many ways. Let's look at examples of electrolytes: potassium, sodium, magnesium, calcium, and chlorine. All of these elements are potassium. Potassium is the only electrolyte that is required in very large quantities. I'm curious why. Why do we need so much potassium? It's from 4,700 to 6,000 milligrams every day. This is equivalent to at least 7 dashes. 10 or more glasses of vegetable salad every day. This is a lot for me. It's strange. No one eats that much. Let's dig deeper. Why do we need potassium? The body has something called the sodium-potassium pump. It's built into a small protein connected to one enzyme. It forms an enzyme on the surface of cells in the body. There are 800,000 to 30 million of these tiny pumps. These little ones Generators produce electricity so that substances can pass through the cell, they spend a lot of energy on this work, in fact, a third of all food consumed, 3 of the energy goes to the work of these pumps. There is also another pump in the stomach called the hydrogen pump. The left phase does not scare you, the name is another pump, they were looking for one that helps produce gastric juice necessary for digestion. These pumps are also located in the muscles in the nervous system. Pumps in the nervous system consume about 60 percent of the calories entering the body. In other words, these pumps are extremely important for the exchange of nutrients, glucose, amino acids, macro and microelements and their transport between cells. Potassium is absolutely necessary for the creation of pumps that perform these functions. They give the cells an electrical charge, and there is voltage in the cell that allows substances to enter and exit it and create energy. In fact, all your energy that drives metabolism is partially under the control of this small pump. It charges the cell, gives energy, helps muscles contract and relax by conducting calcium into the cell. It controls the transport of calcium. Wow, it’s interesting if there is a deficiency of some element for these pumps and they do not work, the rings will not relax the muscles, muscle problems will occur. Spasms are due to a lack of potassium, but in fact, due to a lack of calcium, but to fix this, you need not calcium, but potassium. We will return to this. The muscles need this pump. It is needed by the nervous system to conduct electricity. Fluid transport is the transport of fluid. Water balance is also controlled by this pump, as is the general energy level with food. It is very difficult to get it because people do not understand how much they need and do not eat enough vegetables. Because of this, a number of symptoms arise. Pay attention, maybe you have some of them. 1. Fatigue. It can arise due to a lack of potassium. Without it, the electrical charge in the cells will be very, very low. The pump will not be able to work. If the body receives more potassium with food, there will be more energy. But if you decide to take potassium in tablets, one tablet contains only 40 milligrams, but maybe 90. You need 4700, that's a whole pack of tablets. They are not an option. And if you take so much potassium without other elements, an imbalance can occur. It is better to get it from food or food concentrates. Next, we have energy fatigue and muscle fatigue when climbing stairs and  Feel that your legs are very heavy and your endurance is at zero. This is all a potassium deficiency. If the nervous system is tired, there will be no electrical impulses. Arrhythmia will appear. Heart palpitations, heart stopping, atrial fibrillation. This is all a deficiency of electrolytes, fluid, fluid retention, swollen ankles. This is a potassium deficiency. Doctors advise avoiding salt in this case. A big mistake is to increase potassium. Also, the energy level in the cells should be increased so that they function properly. If there is not enough potassium in the stomach, the acid necessary for digesting protein and assimilating other elements is not produced. So, potassium is necessary for the stomach, nerves, muscles, energy, and water balance. For many things, now let's talk about where the deficiency comes from. The first reason is a lack of potassium in the diet. To have enough energy, you need to eat 7 to 10 glasses of vegetable salad a day. I get the required amount with the help of food concentrates. If I can't eat that much, I take a teaspoon of powder from grass juice. This gives me a large amount of potassium and magnesium, and much more to activate the sodium-potassium pump and increase energy. Vomiting and diarrhea also cause a deficiency.  And if you have surgery, potassium drops sharply due to stress, so patients are always given a scalacium IV to replenish the reserve. Stress also reduces potassium. Now I'll take a book, here is my favorite encyclopedia on endocrinology from Seba. So here is adrenal stress, it leads to potassium loss. Due to stress, potassium is excreted in the urine, and so sugar creates a potassium deficiency. Why is insulin a hormone that helps absorb nutrients, but it also causes fat to be deposited? If you have, for example, insulin resistance, glucose does not enter the cell, hence, by the way, the craving for sweets, but insulin only acts as a switch for the sodium- potassium pump to absorb nutrients. If the pump is not turned on, nothing is absorbed. By taking more potassium, you can really reduce the need for insulin. I recommend this for diabetics. It is very difficult to correct diabetes without enough potassium and vegetables. If you have a lot of sugar, this will lead to potassium depletion. Coli will help cope with cravings and reduce the need for insulin. Diuretics for high blood pressure with a lack of potassium. The pressure will be increase and there will also be problems with calcium, which does not go where it needs to, so doctors give a diuretic to get rid of fluid and a calcium channel blocker for high blood pressure, but they do not suggest taking potassium. Many people who consume enough potassium have lower blood pressure. Diuretics deplete potassium without electrolytes. Salt, sodium and potassium always work in balance. I am not talking about salt because the body is more willing to store salt than potassium. Besides, many people have excess salt in their diet. They eat more salt than potassium, so a salt deficiency is extremely rare. Excess salt can deplete potassium. Alcohol depletes potassium, and ketogenic diets are also interesting. Potassium is depleted on a high-fat, low-carb diet. That is why I always advise eating more vegetables on a high-fat diet so that you replenish potassium stores and feel good. When burning a lot of fat, you will also lose a lot of water. You may experience fatigue or constipation. Consuming more potassium from vegetables is not fiber, but potassium. This is what cleanses the body and maintains  The liver is clean and helps the pump work better. I wanted to give you an idea of ​​the most important electrolyte and its role in the body, the role of electrolytes, and tell you where the deficiency comes from and how to fix it. I hope the video was useful. See you soon.