Today we'll talk about what happens to your brain if you give up sugar for 21 days, 3 weeks.  I have a lot of videos about the effects of sugar on the entire body.  Today we'll talk about the brain. This is very interesting.  This video uses data from a study in the journal Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism. The results of a keto diet were studied over 3 weeks.  how it affects the human brain.  In just 3 weeks , blood flow to the brain increased by an incredible 22%.  Some might say it's not that much, but imagine you're an athlete competing in a race and someone gives you 22% more oxygen.  Just think what an advantage such an increase will give during a run.  We are talking about a significant increase in the flow of oxygen and nutrients to the brain.  If you reduce your oxygen supply by 22% during exercise, would you feel it?  Or, say, you're falling asleep and someone reduces your blood and oxygen supply by 22%.   Well , it's called sleep apnea.  You won't get enough sleep and wake up feeling tired, but simply by reducing your carbohydrate intake, you will significantly increase blood flow to the brain.  And something else. BDNF.  will grow by 47%.  What is this? This is brain-derived neurotrophic factor.  It's the protein that tells the brain to grow, repair itself, regenerate, increase connections, and create new nerve cells. It is also considered an antidepressant, helping to protect against depression and also boost intelligence.  3 weeks without sugar and almost 50% more BDNF.  Incredible. What will happen in a month, 2-3 months or a year without sugar?  At the end of the video, I'll talk about the results after one, two, and three weeks, and give you simple tips on how to achieve this.  But before I talk about the benefits of cutting out sugar, I'll first talk about what happens when you eat it, especially in the brain.  I think most people know what is listed here, but many don't know this information.  I've never talked about this in any of my videos.  This is interesting because it is widely known that when you eat sugar, your blood sugar levels rise and your insulin levels also rise.  I think many of you also know that when your sugar levels drop, you get irritated because your brain feels hungry, it doesn’t have enough fuel, and your consciousness is clouded.  When I ate a lot of sugar in the past, I had this problem all the time .  I had no idea what it was like to think clearly and not be in a fog.  And yes, I was very irritable.  Your sleep also suffers, so you can’t get up quickly in the morning and have to spend a long time waking up. Anxiety, attention problems, poor concentration, not very good memory, mood swings.  Typically, you feel hungry again an hour and a half after eating.  How is this possible?  You just ate.   It's illogical, but it's not real hunger. This is a drop in blood sugar.  And it's not that you don't have enough fuel. The problem is at the cellular level.  After all, when the brain begins to depend on sugar, the brain begins to build a barrier to sugar, insulin resistance. And the more sugar you eat, and the longer you eat it, the less of that sugar will get into your cells.  The brain and the entire body protect themselves from this toxic sugar.  For example, diabetics don't get as much sugar into their brains, so they have a higher risk of dementia and memory problems.  So many of these symptoms simply indicate that fuel is not reaching the cells.  The cells are literally starving, not receiving fuel. Despite the abundance of food, it turns out that you eat a lot, but the fuel from the food is not delivered into the cells.  In general, if you eat sugar, you will be hungry often and have strong cravings for sweets.  I was so addicted to sugar that I had to eat half a liter of ice cream every night.  Every evening, literally automatically.  Also, when you eat sugar, afterward you see everything as if in a fog.   It's a strange thing.  If you've never heard that B1 deficiency can be caused by eating too many carbohydrates, be sure to listen to what I'm about to tell you.  This is extremely interesting and it explains a lot of symptoms you may have but don't associate with it.  Many of these symptoms are very common.  They may seem unrelated, but they are all linked to B1 deficiency.  Vitamin B1, or thiamine, is one of the B vitamins. When you eat too many carbohydrates, your body's need for B1 increases dramatically.  You need a lot of B1 to cope with all those carbs.  Let's say you have a car, you put gas in it, you have the perfect gas to air ratio, but the spark plugs don't work. B1 is the spark plug.  B1 is needed for the fuel to burn.  If you put too much fuel into your body without B1, that fuel will not burn properly and energy will not be produced.  Without B1, you cannot produce acetyl coenzyme A, acetylcholine, you cannot produce ATP, and the nervous system will starve.  After all, these cells have a fast metabolism, and they depend heavily on B1, more than many other cells.  This is why, of all the body's tissues, the nervous system and brain are the first to suffer from B1 deficiency. Excess sugar and carbohydrates deprive people of B1, but they don’t know it.  I'll list the bad effects of this, and then we'll talk about the positive effects of giving up sugar. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue.  One of the main victims of B1 deficiency or lack is the autonomic nervous system. It consists of the sympathetic and parasympathetic systems.  The second is responsible for rest and digestion.   The autonomic nervous system is controlled from the hypothalamus in the brainstem.  And without B1, this part of the brain functions worse.  Then this affects the whole body, because the problem is in the brain, and everything else comes from it . Dry eye syndrome occurs.  Why? Because tears do not flow through the tear ducts .  You may think that your eyes are dry due to a lack of vitamin A and that you need to put some drops in, but no.  This is a B1 deficiency, a lack of air.  It happened to me like that .  I didn't know what it was.  Especially when I went to bed.  I just didn't have enough air, I couldn't get enough breath. It's due to a B1 deficiency and I was eating too much sugar.  Bladder problems .  You pee but can't empty your bladder.  Men often blame it on the prostate, but in fact it is a problem of the autonomic nervous system due to B1.  Women experience urinary retention due to bladder problems. They blame structural changes, the uterus and other things.  No.  The reasons are the same .  They can lead to urinary tract infections, and the bladder will simply stop squeezing the way it should.  Heart palpitations, sensation of palpitations, skipped beats and even actual arrhythmia.  Culprit B1.  After all, it works with the nervous system, which controls the entire body, including the so-called heart rhythm drivers and dizziness. Why?  Because the autonomic nervous system controls adaptation to stress. And when you stand up, the blood must quickly rise to the brain, otherwise you may feel dizzy and fall. If it is a severe case, it is called postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome.  And this is a serious B1 deficiency, when the autonomic nervous system does not work.  Many people have this problem to a mild degree, when they stand up they need a break to recover from the dizziness.  I had this happen to me and I didn't know what it was.  This is not normal and it is a problem with B1.  The next point is low stress resistance. How many hot-tempered people do you know?  You said something that seemed to turn them on and they exploded.  They have no patience when there is a slow driver in front of them, they just go crazy.  If such a person worked in a kindergarten, and there were a bunch of children there, and they all had problems with blood sugar, he wouldn’t stand it, although no one else could stand it. Stress resistance depends on the autonomic nervous system, which depends on vitamin B1.  The next point is anxiety.  This is a state where you are stuck in worry and constantly think about problems more than necessary. If someone you know has trouble coping with stress, anxiety, or nervous tension, give them some vitamin B1 or nutritional yeast, which is high in B1.  And in just 3-4 minutes it will have a general calming effect. The person will relax and feel better.  I have used this often in my practice and people have been amazed.  They didn't know it was a B1 deficiency.  They thought they had that kind of character, but it wasn't so. Next.  Insufficient REM sleep. This is the phase when the eyes move quickly. It usually occurs in the second half of the sleep cycle.  And without vitamin B1 this phase will not be complete. Morning insomnia may occur when, for some reason, you cannot sleep all 7 or 8 hours and your voice weakens. This is especially noticeable if you sing or record your voice somewhere, it weakens.  It may be a problem with the autonomic nervous system: dry skin.  The fact is that the sebaceous glands are also controlled by the autonomic nervous system.  This is another point.  Next, digestion. constipation or bloating may occur. The pancreas does not produce enzymes, which leads to bloating and constipation due to incomplete digestion.   The next point is poor bile flow.  You cannot completely digest fats. All valves and smooth muscles in the digestive system are controlled by nerves.  And if this control deteriorates, everything becomes weak, sluggish and stops working.  Blurred vision.  People often think that vision deteriorates with age, but it can also be b1.  And also restless legs syndrome.  I had it because I ate a lot of ice cream and pasta and stuff like that .  This syndrome is simply terrible.  It mostly manifests itself at night as a huge energy in the legs. You need to run to use up this energy.  Just imagine how many different medications you might be prescribed— separate drugs or supplements for each problem—while all of this has one common source, a lack of B1, and behind it lies only excess sugar in the diet.  And it’s also hard to wrap my head around the daily requirement of B1, mg.  This is madness.  This is just a joke.  This figure is only a prophylactic dose to prevent Beriberi.   an extremely serious disease that affects the heart and especially the brain.  We need incomparably more B1, especially considering all the sugar and snacks, just to support the normal functioning of our organs.  And all healthcare is based on this norm. But this information is long out of date.  It's hard to make people healthy when nutritionists and doctors don't understand how much is needed for the body to function properly.   Let alone replenish the deficiency, they do not use sufficient therapeutic doses of thiamine to solve the problem.  With 1.2 mg you will not eliminate any of this list.  This won't work.  So what happens if you don't eat a lot of sugar and get enough B1?  Here's the thing.  You will be calm, you will be focused, you will not have attention deficit disorder .  You will be able to concentrate on projects and complete them.  You won't be too stressed, even if there is a lot of stress around you, you will be able to endure it all .  Stress resistance is indeed linked to blood sugar.  People with low stress tolerance tend to eat too many carbohydrates. When you eliminate sugar from your diet, your body switches to ketones, your appetite decreases, and your cravings go away. Plus, you'll think clearly, your thoughts will be crisp, and you'll sleep great, which means you'll have plenty of energy the next day.  You will truly wake up.  For many, this is a new sensation.  This is all about me now.  And this is how I was before, during the day, when I was awake.  I wasn't feeling cheerful.  My head was foggy, I was half asleep.  Now, if I woke up, I woke up.  And when I sleep, I sleep.  This is really great.  You will be able to digest food, you will have less internal dialogue, and you will have better control over your mind and your brain.  Your stamina will increase. Ketones are a more efficient fuel. The brain works more clearly and better on them. The biggest lie I have is a video about it.  The fact is that sugar or glucose is the main fuel for the brain.  No, that's not true.  The main fuel for our body is ketones.  And I will prove it right now, with just one fact.  If glucose were your main fuel, you would n't be here.  After all, in ancient times, for example, in the Stone Age, how much glucose was available to humans?  People ordered pizza, they had snacks, they had refrigerators?  No, at best they ate once a day.  And for the brain to survive, other fuel was needed.  And that fuel was ketones.  Kens are made from fat.  And that's exactly how we store fat.  Therefore, between meals the body runs on ketones.  It's a survival mechanism.  Sugar or glucose has never been the primary fuel.  They were simply not available.  In my opinion, this is the best evidence.  Since then, our bodies have not evolved to live on pure sugar.  When I say, "Cut out sugar" and go keto, I'm not even asking you to cut out sugar completely.  I say you can eat no more than 50g of carbohydrates per day, and it's a lot easier than it might seem. You can eat carbohydrates, such as berries. They are also found in some vegetables and fruits.  just no more than 50 g. And make sure that these carbohydrates are not in the form of sugar.  Eat whole foods with fiber that is slowly digested.   Did you remember to press the bell?  There is one more hidden ingredient.  Here he is.  This is corn starch.   There are a lot of hidden carbohydrates in food these days. corn starch, modified food starch, maltodextrin or wheat flour.  All of this is industrial starch, but in fact it is added sugar.  If you add up all this starch and sugar, it turns out that we are actually eating a huge amount of sugar.  We want to ensure that our diet contains no more than 50 g of it. This means giving up juices and soda.  You can drink water, tea or coffee.  There is high-quality animal protein, meat, eggs, fish.  You can also eat vegetables, you can eat nuts, you can eat cheese, yogurt without sugar, kefir, butter, avocado, olive oil.  And what will happen if you eat like this? You will have a transition period for the first few days where it may be a bit tough, but if you take electrolytes and B vitamins, this transition should only take 2-3 days.  After this, you will be fully in ketosis.  At the same time, your food cravings and hunger will begin to decrease.  You will notice that you are thinking more clearly and your mood will improve.  This is in the first week.  In the second week, your energy will begin to increase.  Suddenly you will have more energy, sleep better, digestion will improve, and bloating will decrease. You will notice that your skin looks better.  If you have inflammation somewhere, it will decrease. Plus, you won't have constant mood swings anymore.  Your condition will become stable and sustainable. In the third week, all these positive things will increase even more, especially regarding weight loss, cognitive function and your mood.  And feelings of anxiety and depression will go away, your appetite will decrease, and it will be easier for you to not eat anything between meals.  Eventually, you might say to yourself, "Hmm, this seems to be working pretty well. I'll keep going."  And more details at the link below. Sugar is not just a habit, it is a real addiction.  You walk, you feel a rise, then a decline, then again sweets, cookies, cakes, buns and so on in a circle.  Why can't we just stop eating sugar? Sugary foods stimulate the pleasure hormone, but the effect quickly wears off, and the brain requires a new dose.  It's a vicious circle: pleasure, decline, craving again.  We break down, feel guilty, make new promises to ourselves, and everything repeats itself. It's not weakness, it's biochemistry.  And to get out, you need a system.  The Sugar Free Marathon is a step-by-step plan to help you overcome your addiction.  You receive three assignments per week.  They take 15 minutes a day.  Everything is presented simply, without unnecessary theory.  You implement one change after another and see the results.  You are not alone.  The marathon features a live chat, topic-based discussions, and experienced curators who respond daily. Support is one of the greatest strengths of the marathon.  In 8 weeks, participants overcome sugar addiction, lose weight, restore sleep, eliminate swelling, and feel different, lighter, calmer, and more confident.  Sugar has a stronger hold on you than it seems, but you can break out of the cycle with support, knowledge, and step by step. You can join the sugar-free marathon by following the link below.  Start changing yourself from the inside.