What will happen after 14 days, that is, two weeks of daily cold showers? We'll talk about this today and delve into this topic. You may have heard of the Ice Man. He is the author of the book, a YouTube blogger who developed the Wim Hof ​​method. Ice baths and cold showers are used to improve health. I want to talk about the benefits and research related to the use of cryotherapy, that is, cold treatment. Before you turn off the video and say, "No way, I'll ever get under a cold shower," just listen because it can bring real health benefits and you need to start gradually to avoid discomfort. Yes, I'm not kidding. So, you think that going out into the cold in the rain and cold will definitely get you sick. After all, your parents told you not to go out in the rain, it's cold there, you'll catch a cold. Stay home where it's warm and dry. In fact, when the body is exposed to cold, the immune system is strengthened for a short time, more monocytes and lymphocytes are produced, that is, leukocytes that fight pathogens. The production of T-helpers is activated. T-helpers are essentially the main forces.  The immune system also experiences a sharp increase in the number of T-suppressors, which help calm the overactive immune system, preventing excessive damage that it can cause while the immune system is fighting a threat. There is some kind of control system that ensures that unnecessary damage is not caused along the way. The immune system is strengthened by exposure to cold, which is quite illogical, but it is true. Secondly, there is a surge in norepinephrine. Norepinephrine is similar to adrenaline. Analysis of people suffering from anxiety, attention deficit disorder, and depression usually show low levels of norepinephrine. Using this method of exposing the body to cold, you can increase norepinephrine and improve overall mood. This will help overcome depression, get out of the gloomy state of anxiety, excessive worry, and so on. This will help normalize emotions, help with cognitive function, attention, and memory, help you become more alert. Our bodies have evolved over many millennia to adapt to things like cold or hunger. During this process, the body has developed certain adaptation and survival mechanisms to improve health and better survive when exposed to cold, hunger, and the like.  This is called hermetically sealed things. We feg. There, this is when we expose the body to stress and it adapts and becomes stronger. For example, sports have a hermetically sealed effect. Fasting has a hermetically sealed effect, just like a cold shower. Further, a cold shower helps to lose extra pounds. The question is, how is brown fat produced during a cold shower, also known as brown adipose tissue. That is, the sensation of cold is the main factor stimulating brown fat. That is, the colder it is, the more brown fat there will be. What is so important about brown fat compared to white fat or white adipose tissue? Brown fat increases heat, energy, and metabolism. Metabolism will increase. With an increase in brown fat, you will begin to lose weight. Brown fat also causes the loss of white fat, which is the fat reserve in the body. This is cool. 100 grams of brown fat can burn three thousand 400 kilocalories per day. This is more calories than you can eat in a day, so we need more boron in fat. Another reason for its effectiveness in losing weight is that it increases insulin sensitivity. Those who watch me know that with an increase in insulin sensitivity, insulin itself  less is produced because it works more efficiently, insulin resistance decreases and with weight loss, blood sugar levels will improve in diabetes or if you take a cold shower, blood sugar levels will begin to become more manageable and this will help you lose weight 5. A cold shower helps with inflammation, it has anti-inflammatory properties if there is inflammation in the body, and this is an autoimmune disease, arthritis, bursitis, tynda no, a cold shower has a very healing effect sixth, a cold shower expands the overall antioxidant network, more antioxidants, less DNA damage, lower risk of cancer and other diseases 7. neural protection cold shower helps the brain apparently cold activates the regrowth of neurons impressive by the way, by the way, when it's cold you sleep much better, of course, we must not go overboard here we are not talking about freezing, about keeping the bedroom cool, then you will sleep better another plus I forgot to include is improved sleep 8. longevity cold shower stimulates out of a due just like fasting stimulates out of a due out of a de is a state in which the body processes old damaged proteins into something in the body, so to speak, has broken down proteins and enzymes, mitochondria, plaques in the brain, amyloid plaques, and so on. The body processes all this and turns into completely new proteins. Another interesting property of a cold shower is that it helps lower cortisol, that is, it reduces stress. It also speeds up recovery for athletes who need to recover faster after training. Cryotherapy is what you need. My wife and I once went to the Dominican Republic and once wandered into some wilderness and found a small oasis. A small building there were different small baths that looked like mini jacuzzis. Some were very cold and some were very hot. An ice bath, cool, warm, hot, and so on. So, I got acquainted with cryotherapy. Initially, I didn’t see the point. Why dive into a cold bath, but we still plunged into ice water. Then, of course, we went into a warm bath and a hot jacuzzi. I remember an incredible sensation after that. The body felt simply amazing. The sleep was excellent. Then I somehow forgot about it for several years, and here I am finally standing in front of  When you tell me about the benefits of cold exposure and the 10 advantages of a cold shower, imagine how much benefit you can get from just one cold shower. You take a shower every day and you just need to make it colder for a short time and then hotter again. Now I'll tell you how I recommend doing this. Start a warming shower, turn on the hot water, warm up, make it warmer, feel comfortable, and then turn on the cold water. You need cold water, not cool, but cold for about 30 seconds. Anyone can hold out for 30 seconds and turn on the hot water again. This will be your first acquaintance with cold. The next day, increase the time under the cold shower to about 40 seconds, and the next day to 50 seconds, and gradually increase until you can take a cold shower for 5-10 minutes. If you do this gradually, there will be no discomfort, but the improvement you will see will be stunning, and you will finally understand that you should have started doing this a long time ago. What's interesting is that the body has a feedback system, and when exposed to external cold, the body actually heats up from the inside due to improved blood circulation, and when  Taking a hot shower actually cools the body from the inside, so a hot shower before bed is beneficial; it cools the body and you'll sleep better. The body sleeps better when it's cool. In general, this is an easier way to incorporate therapy into your life, unless you want to jump headfirst into an ice hole. I also wanted to talk about infrared saunas, which use temperatures lower than traditional ones ( 50-60 degrees Celsius) compared to traditional saunas, which reach much higher temperatures. This has nothing to do with cryotherapy, but I wanted to point out that the temperature is lower than traditional ones. There's an interesting hermetic effect from infrared radiation, which I'll talk about soon in another video. As you can see, if you do cryotherapy for two weeks, the health benefits will be very noticeable. If you haven't seen my recent video about the benefits of fasting, be sure to check it out.