In Mexico, there is one state whose residents drink an average of 2.2 liters of Coca-Cola every single day. I'm not kidding. It's the state of Chiapas. They even made Coca-Cola part of various religious rites. 2.2 liters a day is five times the average Coca-Cola consumption in Mexico as a whole. And of course, if you look at which countries in the world drink the most Coca-Cola, Mexico ranks first, the United States second, and Brazil third. I also found out that in Chiapas, three percent of infants are already given Coca-Cola. It's obvious that the residents of this state are very poorly informed about what Coca-Cola can do to the body. And in the state of Chiapas, diabetes is the second leading cause of death after heart disease. Why do they have so many people with heart disease? Maybe that's also the reason. Did you know that between 2011 and 2015, Coca-Cola and Pepsi Cola sponsored 95  national health organizations including clinics and medical institutions the task of such support to help fight the obesity epidemic isn't it like putting out a fire with gasoline their PR campaigns public relations companies are just incredible for eight years they sponsored the American Dietetic Association in the field of educational programs and it's just amazing if you sponsor such an organization doesn't this imply some influence on their recommendations or even on their educational programs no they wouldn't do such a thing look at this 2.2 liters of Coca-Cola is 208 grams of sugar and that's fifty-two teaspoons of sugar every day just think about it fifty-two teaspoons of sugar and that's not even taking into account everything else they eat they eat in tortillas and a lot of other carbohydrates probably other sweets juices and all that stuff is only from Coca-Cola it's crazy do they use high fructose corn syrup or regular sugar and this mixture of fructose and glucose in any case included in the composition Fructose does not lower the level of ghrelin, the hunger hormone, so a person does not feel satiated. He can drink a lot but still not feel that he has enough. The fructose part of the sugar has one unique feature from the liver's point of view. It is very similar to alcohol consumption. No cells can deal with fructose except liver cells, and the liver is forced to deal with this fructose, which creates a lot of problems. This is not only a fatty liver, but insulin resistance, which entails a whole series of problems. Then we have glucose. It turns out that we consume cabbage carbohydrates, they deplete calcium, vitamin C, vitamin B1, vitamin D3, zinc, magnesium, and especially potassium. If you drink so many terrible candies, you will deplete your potassium reserves and get so-called hypokalemia. Here are the symptoms of potassium deficiency: 1. rapid pulse; 2. muscle weakness. Due to a lack of potassium, even paralysis of the lower extremities occurs, as well as arrhythmia, high blood pressure, and even constipation. Coca-Cola also contains phosphoric acid, and  They add it as a flavoring and an antibacterial agent, Apple Seni, but the problem is that phosphoric acid is very caustic, it corrodes bones, corrodes teeth, and definitely causes cavities, it also increases the risk of osteoporosis and inhibits the absorption of zinc and iron, this is phosphoric acid, and of course it contains caffeine, approximately 149.6 milligrams, and finally, the composition also contains caramel coloring, you might think that it’s probably not that harmful, however, it creates so-called advanced glycation end products, they occur when you mix proteins or fats with sugars, after which proteins and fats can no longer be used, there is even such a biochemical blood test, glycated hemoglobin is essentially a damaged protein that can no longer be used, this is associated with a lot of chronic degenerative diseases, and it’s also a biomarker of aging, so add this caramel flavoring, I think they extract this sugar from corn and then heat it, and this thing creates a lot of problems, it’s hard to come up with a more deadly combination of ingredients than this, there is nothing at all in this drink that could bring you at least  some benefit and since we're talking about sugar, I have one very interesting video I recommend you watch, here it is