Today's video is for women who have had their ovaries removed. What should you do to prevent the side effects of this surgery? 30 percent of women undergo ovarian removal. I'm very surprised that so many women need it. Sometimes doctors say, "It's okay, you do n't need them anymore." Actually, the larvae are still necessary, and removing the ovaries can have serious consequences. The first significant loss of bone density in the spine. I'll leave links under the video that support these words. Vaginal dryness, depression, anxiety, decreased libido, hot flashes are also possible. But otherwise, life isn't life, it's raspberries. What should you do if your ovaries are still removed? Some tips. Pomegranate seeds can be added to salads or simply eaten. You can buy pomegranate seed oil as a supplement. Pomegranate contains several important phytonutrients. They mimic estrogen, which is produced by the body in a good way. If you have a deficiency or excess of estrogen, pomegranate helps balance it. It helps block bad estrogen, so this is an excellent remedy. Let's move on and not only that, but the oil can also act as a natural replacement for hormone replacement therapy.  Hormonal therapy is indispensable if the ovaries have been removed. Third, tribulus is a natural supplement that increases the level of follicle-stimulating hormone, which is produced in the pituitary gland. This helps replenish the lack of hormones. It is important to know that we have spare organs for producing hormones, for example, the adrenal glands. Their outer cortex also produces hormones, so do everything possible to support them. Tribulus is an excellent option that supports the production of not only pituitary hormones but also adrenal cortex hormones. It can act as an adaptogen during stress, helping to cope with stress and also energize. The next remedy is wild yam. It will help get rid of symptoms by reducing estrogen levels. I want to clarify that it is not necessary to take everything from this list. Choose a couple of remedies for yourself. This will be beneficial. The last main recommendation is the drug, but Ruffian BM G from the Standard Process company. I often recommended it to patients. It is an excellent supportive drug for ovary removal. It is an extract of the glands. Ruffian Angie, look online, you can order it online. Try taking 2 capsules before bed. It is a good remedy for fighting  All the symptoms after ovary removal. Thank you for watching. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This course is for women with menstrual irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. You will find my unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective training. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.