Today we have a confrontation between sugar and wheat, which of them is more harmful, a difficult question, but the indicators are very close, let's start with wheat, an interesting fact about tits and the glycemic index is 72, while the glycemic index of sugar is 59, so the glycemic index of wheat is noticeably higher, we will further understand why this happens, it is important to note that today's wheat is very different from what it was years ago, it was significantly modified in order to obtain a different type of gluten protein in grains, this type of gluten increases the risk of developing celiac disease by four times, the main part of starch in modern wheat is amylopectin, three-quarters of starch consists of this compound, the main danger of amylopectin is that it provokes small particles LDL is the type of LDL that causes inflammation and even blockage, this starch is easily absorbed and broken down very quickly, sharply increasing blood sugar, therefore it has a high glycemic index, this contributes to the development of diabetes, heart disease and other diseases such as fatty liver, it can also affect the intestinal microflora, increasing the amount  Rowkov and Candida increases the risk of Siber bacterial overgrowth syndrome because fungi love this type of starch. Wheat combines carbohydrates and proteins that provoke glycation. During the glycation process, certain proteins are irreversibly damaged. Wheat, as a grain crop, contains phytonutrients, they block zinc, calcium, magnesium, and also binds iron. Let's go back to sugar, or more precisely, to sucrose, table sugar. Table sugar consists of half fructose and half glucose. That's why it has a lower glycemic index. Fructose is very different from glucose. Fructose is not absorbed by all our cells, unlike glucose. Only our liver can digest fructose, and it does not cause a sharp increase in blood sugar. But excess fructose accumulates in the liver. If you have insulin resistance, it begins to turn into fat, causing fatty liver disease. Despite the lower glycemic index, it is even more dangerous for our liver. Table sugar increases the risk of developing gout, diabetes, heart disease, fatty liver, and since sugar is refined, it depletes Calcium can also displace vitamin C, which depletes zinc and B vitamins, especially B1. Let's return to the question of which is more harmful. They're both harmful, but if I had to choose one over the other, I think wheat is more harmful. It contains quotes, as it provokes glycation. It also contains gluten, which is n't found in sucrose. Gluten harms the gastrointestinal tract, causing irritation and increasing inflammation. Please leave your thoughts on this topic in the comments below. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.