What happens if you apply rice water to your hair for 2 weeks?  This is one of the ancient recipes that has been used in Asia for hundreds of years.  I will show you the main mistake people make when doing this, and also how to do it correctly to achieve maximum effect.  Your hair will become stronger and your scalp healthier.  The question is how rice water can provide any benefit at all.  You don't eat this rice or even drink this water. Several ways to do this are described. Some people pour two glasses of water over a glass of rice, stir, and leave for a couple of hours until the rice partially dissolves.  Then this rice water is applied to the hair, but it will not give you anything .  There is a way to turn this rice water into a probiotic.  The interesting thing is that you don’t need to add anything there. Microorganisms are already on the rice. In addition, they are in the air.  And here's how it works. You prepare the probiotic liquid within 48 hours.  Microorganisms eat the starch from this rice and multiply very quickly .  And you apply this probiotic along with all the nutrients in it to your hair and scalp. Fermentation offers many benefits. Yogurts, kefir, cheeses.  All these wonderful products are the result of fermentation.  Let's start with what is beneficial for hair and scalp in rice water.  Rice contains B vitamins, which are vital for hair.  This solution also contains amino acids.  Another interesting by-product of fermentation is called pitera.  Many people apply pitera to their skin.  Pitera is a product for dull hair.  Hair begins to look bright, shiny and healthy.  If you have, for example, dandruff or itching or any kind of imbalance of the microbiome on the surface of the skin, this will help a lot. Sterilizing the scalp or using shampoos that kill the microflora on the scalp leads to the overgrowth of harmful yeast, and friendly yeast is needed to rein it in.  This liquid contains another very important substance - lactic acid.  from lactic acid bacteria. Someone says: “Oh, the body should be alkaline, and everything acidic is harmful for us.” No, this does not affect hair or skin.  The environment on the skin and hair should be more acidic, and lactic acid is beneficial for them.  It reduces dullness and frizziness of hair.  This liquid also contains nutrients such as magnesium and selenium. It also increases nitric oxide levels, which helps deliver oxygen to the hair roots.  In short, it is very beneficial for hair, scalp and skin in general.  And now I'll show you the recipe. Place two cups of rice in a bowl and pour in four cups of water.  I recommend stirring the rice with your fingers to remove dirt and excess starch.  Then drain the water.  There will be two cups of wet rice left in the bowl .  Now add two glasses of clean water.  Stir lightly and leave for 2 hours at room temperature.  Then pour the resulting liquid into a glass jar.  Cover it so that air can still escape.   What will happen is that the yeast bacteria from the air and those that were on the rice will start eating the carbohydrates that are in the rice water.  At the same time, they produce many useful nutrients: vitamins, minerals, antioxidants.  You can ferment this solution for another day and it will still be suitable.  A large number of bacteria will grow there , but over the next 24 hours, yeast will multiply there, producing its own nutrients, which are very beneficial for the skin, as well as for the hair.  But here's what's interesting.  Fermentation can be continued for much longer, for example, a week, and some people leave it for a month.  True, there is a smell that you may not like.  It is associated with the overgrowth of certain microorganisms. There is no need to wait more than two days, but if this happens, the benefits will remain. You can add miata or essential oil to remove the smell.  After two days, you can remove the cloth or paper towel from the jar, close it with a lid and put it in the refrigerator for long-term storage .  Cold will slow down the growth of bacteria.  Apply to hair for 20 minutes.  Then rinse this solution with water and dry your hair.  I recommend doing this twice a week.  If you decide to do just that, you will need four glasses of solution.  This is enough for 2 weeks, for four applications.  This is an excellent remedy for restoring both the hair itself and the microbiome. Alternatively, you can apply this solution on your face using cotton pads.  Apply for 20 minutes and rinse.  Give it a try. I think you will be impressed with the results.  And please write about them in the comments below the video.  I invite you to my course: Health Diagnostics by Hair.  Dry, brittle hair or oily hair, dandruff, hair loss, baldness, and premature graying are all signs that indicate problems within the body.  In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and fix the cause.  Sign up using the link below.   See you.