Let's talk about earwax and the best way to get rid of it. Of course, if you use common sense when cleaning your ears, you should look at the box of cotton swabs and see the inscription: Caution: Do not insert into your ears. The warning is, of course, important. Sometimes people take a cotton swab and stick it deep into their ear, pushing and compacting the wax, and someone even pierces the eardrum, so for them this is what they write. It's a small hole in the ear, about two or three centimeters deep, that's about how much. If you stick something in there, it's better not to go too far. If you need to clean your ears, do it gently, twisting the surface with the swab so as not to push the wax even deeper. There are different tools for cleaning ears, for example, an ear spatula or a scraper, and there are even electronic devices that pull wax out of the ears, and this is all good, but it's worth understanding something important: you can't clean your ears too hard, especially not every day. A violinist's ears are clean, and you will understand why when you learn what earwax is.  Earwax and how it can help. First of all, earwax is nothing. It consists of protein, keratin, dead skin flakes, long-chain fatty acids, and cholesterol. Your earwax is slightly acidic, and most importantly, it contains a huge number of bacteria. There are 10 to the seventh power, that is, about 10 million bacteria. These bacteria are needed for immune protection. That is, earwax exists for a reason. It prevents insects from crawling into the ear. It prevents bacteria from getting into the inner ear. This is one of the main immune barriers that protects us from pathogens. Such bacteria are called sebaceous bacteria. What does this mean? There are several types of sebaceous relationships when one organism benefits from two without harming it. This is one type, and there is another type that is mutually beneficial. This is just an example of a mutually beneficial relationship, but we provide these bacteria with housing. They protect us from pathogens. The same thing happens in the nose. There are beneficial bacteria in the nose and in the mouth, too. If you don't understand this, you can sterilize your ears beforehand, that is, clean them out.  too much of them and it will cause problems the same applies to the skin and if you clean it too hard, a window will form because the beneficial bacteria no longer protect it and it turns red and swells if you take a pill for ear infections all that will happen is the risk of another infection will increase because you kill all the bacteria and create an environment for excessive fungal growth, so doctors usually give both an antibacterial and antifungal agent together the problem is that the bacteria develop resistance and they begin to flourish with the drug and it becomes difficult to kill them, so you need to try not to damage this immune defense I want to mention one more thing if too much wax is produced in the ears it is very similar to sebum which is produced by the sebaceous glands in the same way with excess service which is produced in the ears a similar mechanism takes place here these excesses are associated with increased androgen levels which can occur due to a surge in insulin so your diet directly affects the amount of earwax if you want to know about the best diet for regulation androgens, follow the link in the description, but let's say you want to clean your ears and soften the wax. Here's what you can do: you can put 3% hydrogen peroxide and olive oil in your ear. Why put olive oil in your ears? Because it's called "syrah," a mixture of cholesterol and fatty acids, and you need fat to help the earwax dissolve. Put hydrogen peroxide and extra virgin olive oil in one ear and lie down on the other ear so that this ear is on top and so the liquid can penetrate where it needs to. Lie down for 35 minutes. Then sit down. The liquid may spill out of the ear, so keep a cotton swab handy and then gently clean your ear. Of course, if the earwax is somehow affecting your hearing, it's better to go to the doctor and have him look at it. Or, let's say you have itching or some kind of ear infection. There are natural remedies that you can try. My first favorite remedy is colloidal silver, a couple of drops in the ear. It acts as a natural antibacterial agent in addition to bacteria.  It works on fungus, yeast, and even viruses. Grapefruit seed extract is another good remedy, and the last and best remedy is oregano oil. You can use any of these three. All three together are probably too much, but any of them should work. Just put a couple of drops in your ear. The good thing is that these remedies help against bacteria and without the side effects that medications have in the past. I had another question, but how do ear candles remove wax? I once thought so, and I tried them when I was twenty years old. I would lie down, put a candle in my ear, and light it. And there you are, lying there, the flame is getting closer and closer to your ear. Then the candle burns out. You need to pull it out before the flame reaches your ear. Then they pull the candle out together. It's supposedly gray, but it's not earwax. It can't get into the candle, defying gravity. It's the wax of the candle itself. They are earwax. That's what it is. So, let's summarize. I wanted to talk about the importance of bacteria and the microbiome that lives on the surface of the skin, and that it is not necessary to sterilize them.  Killing bacteria, sometimes you need to clean your ears, but not so often. For those who want to learn more about skin and how to get it in order, I want to recommend my course. The link to the recording is in the description under the video. I invite you to my mini-course: Health diagnostics based on skin. Do you have acne, papillomas, dry skin, dandruff, or other skin problems? These are not just skin defects. Such signals indicate problems inside the body. In my course, I will show you how to diagnose the problem and correct the cause. Sign up using the link below. See you there.