Today we'll talk about what's important to know if you have acid reflux. I have a diagram of the stomach here. It has one valve at the top and one at the bottom. The valve at the top prevents acid and food from getting back into the esophagus. The valve at the bottom controls the flow and rush of the stomach into the small intestine and also prevents bile from getting back into the stomach. Both of these valves are sphincters. These are ring-shaped muscles that are controlled by the autonomic nervous system. Muscle control is a gradual contraction and gradual relaxation of the muscles until they are fully open. The problem with these valves is that they open and close at the wrong time, resulting in acid and bile ending up in the wrong place because the muscles are controlled by the autonomic nervous system. They are influenced by such a thing as stress. There are many digestive problems that can be associated with stress, for example, acid reflux, heartburn, and so on. If you have acid reflux and stress, you need to do something about the stress before your condition begins to improve. These sphincters are also controlled by calcium. Calcium has a muscle contraction function, it helps close these  sphincters often people lack the vitamin that controls calcium, I am provitamin D. If you have a vitamin D deficiency, you will not have enough calcium and the valve will not close completely. By the way, vitamin D in the body also acts as cortisol, it helps manage stress, that is, taking vitamin D can reduce stress and close the valve simply due to the function of vitamin D. Another reason why the valve at the top may open at the wrong time is a lack of hydrochloric acid. This valve has receptors that are triggered by hydrochloric acid. There is a synchronization between the entry of food into the stomach, the closing of the valve, and the increase in acid so that digestion is complete. If you do not have enough hydrochloric acid or the acid in your stomach is not enough, then the valve may not close and this can cause acid burps. What can cause a lack of hydrochloric acid? Firstly, a lack of chlorides, that is, a lack of salt. If you do not eat enough sea salt, hydrochloric acid may not be enough because of this. Potassium is also involved in the creation of hydrochloric acid. Electrolytes are the building blocks needed to create Another reason for hydrochloric acid deficiency is the medication hippochlorite. This is a deficiency of hydrochloric acid caused by antacids, especially proton pump inhibitors. There are also foods that can worsen the situation: gluten, grains, sugar, of course, alcohol, and omega-6 fatty acids such as soybean oil, rapeseed, corn, and cottonseed, as well as, of course, processed foods and fast food. All of this can not only disrupt the functioning of the valves but also disrupt the production of hydrochloric acid. Let me tell you about the importance of hydrochloric acid. It is very important for intestinal hormones. Many hormones produced by the pancreas and the small intestine itself are involved in the digestion process. Without hydrochloric acid, they cannot function. Many enzymes of the upper digestive tract are activated by a certain pH. Hydrochloric acid, as an acid, activates these enzymes so that they can work further. Hydrochloric acid prepares folic acid and vitamin B12 for absorption. 3 Those hydrochloric acid helps absorb minerals. I mean  Calcium, magnesium, potassium, zinc, and iron. Fourth, hydrochloric acid is needed by the so-called intrinsic factor for the absorption of B12. This is another mechanism for the absorption of B12. If you have a deficiency of vitamin B12, you will have many neurological problems and pain from nerve damage. Further, hydrochloric acid is necessary to prevent small intestinal bacterial overgrowth syndrome. It prevents the growth of bacteria in the small intestine. They have no place there. Bacteria should grow in the colon. They are in the small intestine. An abyss of hydrochloric acid can cause this syndrome. Hydrochloric acid is necessary to prevent pathogens, hostile microorganisms that enter the body through the stomach. We need hydrochloric acid to destroy harmful bacteria, fungi, and viruses that are in our food. Hydrochloric acid is also needed to prevent food allergies. Because when we eat proteins, they must be completely broken down into amino acids. If this does not happen, the immune system can react to this and cause an allergy. Now, let's briefly discuss the valve at the bottom of the stomach. This valve is very important. It prevents bile from entering the stomach, and then  and bile in the esophagus can cause irritation of the esophagus as well as hydrochloric acid, because bile, like detergents, can destroy the mucous membrane and cause pain and irritation. Three main problems are associated with this: first, excess fat on the abdomen. Excess visceral fat can cause pressure in this area and, as a result, bile is thrown into the stomach. 2. esophageal hernia. I will leave a link to a video about it below. There I show a simple technique with which you can get rid of it. And finally, if you have problems with the gallbladder, be it biliary sludge or even stones blocking the flow of bile, this can cause a backflow of bile into the system. There are remedies for this, bile salts are purified. So, what should you do if you have acid reflux? First, I recommend starting with betaine hydrochloride. Betaine hydrochloride is a good remedy for acid reflux. It increases the concentration of acid in the stomach. The problem with those who take betaine hydrochloride is that they think that 1-2 capsules with meals is enough for them. Usually, much more is needed: five, six, seven, or even 8 capsules. Especially at the beginning, they are needed.  Drinking it right before meals will improve your digestion and reduce acid reflux into the esophagus. Apple cider vinegar also helps. If you take them together, it's even better. If you took betaine hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar and you feel worse, this could mean you have an ulcer or gastritis. In this case, you need to change your plan of action and start taking chlorophyll or organic grass juice powder to soothe irritation in the esophagus and stomach. The best vegetable and, in general, a product that helps with acid reflux is cabbage in any form, even sauerkraut. Take note. Next, reduce stress and do everything possible for this. I have a ton of videos on this topic. The fourth intermittent fasting. If you often eat six times a day, think about what's happening. You are straining your entire digestive system. Intermittent fasting, eating less frequently, especially 2 or even once a day, is called omate. It will significantly help you with acid reflux. Why will this give the digestive system a chance to recover?  And don't overwork yourself. 5. Vitamin D, I already mentioned it, is very good for preventing acid reflux. 6. Zinc EL carnosine is good not only for ulcers and gastritis, but also for GERD and acid reflux. In general, zinc EL carnosine is good for any inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. 7. Good quality probiotics. If bacteria help you digest food in the lower part of the digestive system, this will relieve a huge part of the load from the upper part, because they are connected. Thank you for watching and see you again.