What actually happens if you completely give up sugar for two weeks, let's get started. The first thing you'll notice is that the shape of your face will begin to change from round and puffy to thinner, like mine was before and after. You see me before and after. My face was round, but now it's not. You'll notice changes on your face and, of course, on your waist. Belly fat will go away because your liver will lose fat. When you give up sugar, your body will be forced to feed on fats because sugar and fat are the only two sources of energy for the body. When the body can choose between them, it always burns sugar, not fat. If you remove sugar, only fat will remain, and the body will have to use up its reserves, and it will start with the liver. The second thing that will happen is that a number of sugar changes will primarily affect four organs more than other organs. Your eyes will have better vision, you will see better. Your eyes are very sensitive to sugar. That's why diabetics develop a disease called diabetic retinopathy. This is the destruction of the retina and the nervous tissue of the back wall. Your eyes will get better, and your kidneys will also get better. The kidneys are another organ that suffers from excess sugar. That's why you may have sugar or protein in your urine because sugar  It leads to inflammation in the kidneys, it rusts the tubules, the blood vessels that pass through the kidneys for filtration, this is called diabetic nephropathy from the word nephron, these are small filters in the kidneys, that is, the kidneys will work better. In our arteries, with excess sugar, diabetic angiopathy develops, and when you give up sugar, inflammation in the arteries, this whole effect of rust, excess glucose will begin to disappear, and since sugar is converted not only into fat but also into cholesterol, cholesterol levels will also significantly improve. In our nerves and brain, when reducing sugar in the diet, the nerves begin to heal. If you have a companion of diabetes such as peripheral neuropathy, in which nerve endings in the feet are destroyed, this disease will begin to recede, and also since the brain consists of nerves, it also begins to heal in the brain. Two main functions will improve: firstly, cognitive function, that is, memory will improve, attention and concentration will improve, you will find that your mood has changed, you will become much happier. One thing I  It's really amazing. This is what I'm trying to understand. Take diabetes, for example. What is diabetes? It's a disease associated with excess sugar in the blood. The approach would be to eat less sugar with diabetes. Well, since diabetes is excess sugar in the blood, why not lower blood sugar? But maybe I'm missing something because if you look for information about what causes diabetes, two reasons are listed everywhere: lifestyle and genes. As for lifestyle, it could be obesity, it could be lack of physical activity, or here's a good option: urbanization. It seems that moving to a big city increases the risk of developing diabetes, but no one talks about excess sugar in the diet. It doesn't fit in my head. Instead, they talk about excess saturated fats, but this position has been completely refuted. I'll leave a couple of links below. Take a look if you still think it's about saturated fats. No, it's about carbohydrates. And if you look deeper, as for diet, they really advise maintaining a high grain content in the diet. They talk about whole grains. But even whole grains are 85 percent carbohydrates. Can you explain to me? I think it's obvious. Why do n't other people understand this? It's true. Just if you have diabetes, give up sugar, the next thing you'll notice is that you 'll get up to pee at night much less often. Why? Because water follows sugar. If you eat sugar, it passes through the blood and is excreted through the kidneys, and as a result, you need to pee more often, especially at night. A simple solution is to limit your sugar intake, and you'll see that you'll have to get up at night less often. I've had patients in my practice who went to the toilet 10 times a night. All we did was remove sugar, and they slept peacefully until the morning. It will take a couple of weeks. But for the sake of normal sleep, it's not so scary. The next thing that will improve is energy, as I said, the body can run on two types of fuel: sugar and fat. When you give up sugar, the body has to burn fat, and there are many more fat calories in the body than sugar calories. I'm talking about sugar reserves and fat reserves. On average, every thin person carries about 100,000 kilocalories in the form of fat. For comparison, our sugar reserves are about 1,700 kilocalories. If we use an analogy, it's like comparing a car battery to a pinky battery. If you power your whole body with a battery, you will be constantly hungry, you will always want something, and there will be energy swings. But if you burn fat, you are no longer subject to sugar swings, and especially to swings in your energy and fatigue cycle. Think about it: between meals, your body must feed on fat. The average person with a normal diet cannot even begin to burn fat because there is too much sugar in their blood. By lowering this sugar and switching your body to fat, you will eat this fat constantly between meals and also during meals. This will give you a huge, stable flow of energy throughout the day, and your brain will feel better. This leads to the next point: cravings for food. Your appetite between meals goes away even if you don't eat during this time, precisely because the body feeds on its own fat during these periods. And since it feeds during this time, it remains full and you will not be hungry. The only way to achieve this is to give up sugar, not eat often, and not snack. How to get rid of sugar cravings: not eat sugar. This process takes about three days and is not that difficult for everyone.  You just have to grit your teeth and do it. We reduce carbohydrates to less than 50 grams per day. This includes fruits. This also includes honey and many other hidden sugars in other carbohydrates such as bread, pasta, cereal, croutons, cookies, waffles, and the like. The average person, at least in the US, consumes on average about 13.5 teaspoons of added sugar daily. For those not in the US, that's 54 grams of sugar. That's added sugar. What about sugar from other carbohydrates such as bread, pasta, alcoholic beverages like wine or beer, soda, juices, and so on. All this adds up to about half a pound of sugar. Daily, that's 275 grams of sugar. That's 68 and 3/4 teaspoons of sugar. That's added sugar. That's just the tip of the iceberg. The body's problem is caused by all the other carbohydrates that turn into sugar. That's why when you change your diet, when you switch, but burning fat, you feel great, the improvement in mood and cognitive function alone will surprise you. You will feel great, you will look better, too. Your clothes will fit better. Your face will become  Less round and you will not be drawn to sugar, this is very important when giving up sugar, inflammation, pain and stiffness will also decrease, blood vessels will become less rigid, this means that the pressure will no longer be so high and the need for medications will greatly decrease, and since anti-inflammatory drugs are now very popular, you can perhaps get off these drugs too because your inflammation will go away. I was talking about inflammation inside the tissues, inside the vessels, inside the eyes, inside the kidneys, inside the nervous system, many things that cannot be seen with the eyes will improve. Inflammation inside the vessels makes the vessel walls thicker. And the thicker the vessel wall, the less space there is for blood flow. And the more susceptible you are to things like blood clots, that is, by giving up sugar, you improve blood flow to the tissues of the body. The seventh point is quite obvious: you will lose weight, but not just weight, but specifically fat. For many people, this is completely new. At first, you will lose a lot of water weight, because, as I said, wherever there is glucose stored in the form of glycogen, three times the mass of water will be stored along with it, that is, stored sugar.  This is essentially a sponge filled with liquid. You will lose at least 6 kg in the first week or two just by giving up sugar, and this is important, but what is even more important is that you will switch to burning fat and start losing weight. Think about all the good that losing weight gives and that you can do it effectively. If you try to go on a carbohydrate diet, it will be very difficult for you. Not to mention that trying to lose weight with all this craving for food and hunger is torture. It will be impossible to hold out for some time. I think some people don’t notice this, but carbohydrates turn into fat and cholesterol. Most of the fat in your liver comes from carbohydrates. I’m not talking about the carbohydrates that are in greens. I’m talking about groups of bread, pasta, starch, potatoes, and so on. Then our skin improves. Acne will begin to go away. Skin problems, for example, red rashes will go away because, in fact, we remove inflammation everywhere, including on the skin. This is one of the things that changes the shape of the face because there will be less inflammation and swelling around the eyes and cheeks, which many don’t notice. cause and effect relationship that their face is swollen due to excess carbohydrates and the last aspect of benefit I will explain in detail I saved it for last you will begin to go away what is the basis of most health problems in people this is insulin resistance let me explain what it is firstly insulin is a hormone that is activated by sugar carbohydrates they go hand in hand when insulin rises - it is always because of carbohydrates And when the body develops resistance to something it rejects this something there is also glucose intolerance this is a form of resistance it's all about the receptors in your body that accept something if you eat a lot of sugar for a long time the body resists and sugar is no longer accepted because the body has created a barrier for it stopped tolerating it the same with insulin if there is too much insulin it is toxic and dangerous for the body so the body develops resistance to it To solve the problem, the composition produces more insulin to push through this resistance we have a situation when a lot of insulin is produced in the body hence all those side effects I talked about Many of them are caused not only  Glucose, but also insulin itself, but at the same time, at the cellular level, we have a shortage of insulin, and this situation also creates problems. Eventually, the pancreas that produces insulin becomes depleted and can no longer compensate for resistance and break through its barrier. It gets tired and stops producing insulin in the required volume. This is when diabetes begins, and when the pancreas no longer compensates and we do not have enough insulin to lower blood sugar to normal. With insulin resistance, you essentially have a slow metabolism. You will have a level below which your weight cannot drop, say, three kilograms. Neither diet nor exercise will allow your weight to drop below this mark. insulin is also needed for other things, for example, for the absorption of potassium, for the absorption of magnesium, for the absorption of vitamin B1, for the absorption of calcium and many other nutrients, even vitamin D. By giving up sugar, you will reduce insulin resistance and increase the absorption of all these nutrients, including amino acids for building proteins. If you have had atrophy that looks like cellulite on your legs.  and suddenly it will start to recede in your buttocks, you will have more muscle, and your body will get into better shape, getting rid of insulin resistance will help with fat in the liver, will help reduce the risk of heart disease, stroke, and even cancer, before you decide to think again. Do you need to do this? I think you need to start right now. I have a very useful video showing where exactly to start. Look, here it is.