Hi all.  Today we'll start with a quiz question and then answer questions on social media.  Please, Dog. True or false?  Getting less than 6 hours of sleep a night can significantly increase your risk of kidney disease.  True or false?  Decide, friends.  A question from someone on YouTube with the nickname Rice and Beans. Can autophagy be initiated during a dirty fast? So, I don't even know what dirty fasting is. Unless we're talking about dirty intermittent fasting.  After all, when they are hungry, they don’t eat anything.  I think I know what I'm talking about .  This refers to intermittent fasting and dirty keto. This is when you essentially just eat protein without worrying about its quality. Dr. Berg's original dietary supplements are not available on Ozon.  and Wildberries sell counterfeits there.  Original SH products can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. Okay, I get it.  And the question is, will this weaken autophagy? Well, autophagy starts rather because you don't eat for a certain number of hours, and you talk about food.  I don't think it will affect autophagy.  These are different things. But I think the answer is no.  This will not affect autophagy.  Great.  This is encouraging. Written by Trish Strumble.  My fasting insulin is 9.7.  This is considered to be within normal limits.  Do you consider this a good level? Unfortunately, there is no real firm agreement on what constitutes a normal fasting insulin level . Some say it can even reach 18 or, it seems, even a little higher. Based on what I've seen, I would keep it below five, maybe seven or five, or even lower.  This is what I advise.  Your level is within normal limits. This doesn't sound too bad, but you also need to consider whether you have other symptoms of insulin resistance. After all, this is the problem that arises from too much insulin.  And then a very strict approach is needed.  But without this information, I would say: “Your level is within normal limits, but I would lower it further.”  Well asked by Abraham Strumble.  What do you think about Ginkgo Biloba? There is excellent data.  It reduces inflammation.  improves cognitive functions, mood, increases energy levels.   That's all, actually .  Very good. Suen from YouTube asks how to get rid of it. No, that's happened before.  Julie from YouTube asks which is better: black seed extract or black seed oil?  Extract or oil? I don't know which one is more concentrated. Black seed oil is very concentrated and contains all the fatty acids.  I think it all depends on this .  If it is an extract and it is sold in capsule form, how is it produced?  Is it lyophilized or heated and refined?  I don't know. If the black seed extract is of very high quality, it may be just as good.  I have never studied this issue.   Both will likely be of great benefit.  After all, black cumin, wow, it has a whole spectrum of beneficial properties that extends from here to here.  I don’t even know if there is a disease for which black seed oil would not be beneficial.   It has a lot of useful properties.  Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Let's see what the viewers answered to our quiz question.  True or false?  Getting less than 6 hours of sleep a night can significantly increase your risk of kidney disease.  98% of respondents said it was true, while 2% thought it was a lie. When I read about this, I thought, "No, lack of sleep, how can that affect email?"  But it does have an effect.  There is serious research.  I was very surprised. I didn't think that lack of sleep affected kidney function, but apparently it does.   So much so that it can even lead to the appearance of protein in the urine, and this is not good, it’s simply amazing. I think the reason is, and this is just my guess, that when we don't sleep, the body experiences a lot of stress and goes into sympathetic nervous system dominance mode. Because of this, we burn more sugar and the body produces more sugar. Blood sugar rises, and we know that this directly harms the kidneys.  This is my guess. But if you don’t get enough sleep and exercise, it may well be that your body can’t repair itself. This is the same as overtraining.  And overtraining increases stress on the heart, kidneys and other organs.  That is why , in order to detect this, it is very important to check blood pressure and pulse.  The pulse should be 72 or slightly lower. I have had patients whose pulse was somewhere around 80, and I no, it is too high.  They trained, their heart rate didn't drop, and then it turned out that they needed to improve their sleep.