I want to give advice on what to do if your guest has arthritis in general. Rheumatoid arthritis is different from rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease, while Stewart's disease is a disease that arises more from joint wear and tear. It's not even really a disease, rather, it's compensation and flax. The body's reaction to wear and tear causes inflammation and narrowing of the joint cavity. But Stewart's disease is not an autoimmune disease. Why are finger joints so often affected? They aren't weight-bearing. That's the mystery. Stewart's disease is also a disease. Here, we need to make a couple of digressions. There is a special type of arthritis called nodular arthritis. Stewart's disease is so named because of the nodular formations. These are hardened nodules located on the finger joints. There is evidence that indicates the autoimmune nature of this disease, and it occurs more often in women, especially after menopause, which indicates metabolic syndrome accompanied by systemic inflammation. There are interesting studies on the topic of increased dysbiosis with Stewart's disease. Dysbiosis is a change in your friendly microflora, and here are my recommendations if you have Stewart Reed: take care of your gut. Eat cabbage. Research has shown a positive effect from cabbage leaves. Cabbage, especially in fermented form, is very good for the stomach, useful for ulcers, and also good for the gastrointestinal tract in general. Cabbage is probably the best choice for those who have difficulty digesting vegetables. Fiber is excellent food for microflora, producing anti-inflammatory substances. Cabbage is an excellent source of EL glutamine, which is necessary for leaky gut syndrome. Moreover, leaky gut and gastrointestinal problems are almost always associated with autoimmune diseases. So, if you have osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, eat cabbage; it can help you. If you want to learn more about how to create a healthy body, subscribe to the channel and don't miss new videos.