I invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn’t matter if you’re just starting out or your progress has stalled. This program can help you. There will be a huge number of video tutorials available on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed. There are a lot of examples of what and how to eat. I’ll also tell you what to avoid in all the details when you’re trying to lose weight. You often encounter barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom. I’ll give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is nutrition. This is an important part of healthy ketogenic diet. You need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It’s not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I’ll give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new  Healthy habits for the rest of my life I want to discuss Why fasting can help lower blood pressure. High blood pressure, that is, hypertension, usually has no symptoms. You won't understand what's happening without a measuring device. If you are already of age, it's a good idea to have a tonometer on hand to measure your blood pressure. There are two types of hypertension: primary hypertension and secondary hypertension. 95% of hypertension cases are primary hypertension and this is related to lifestyle. They say online that the cause of hypertension is excess salt in the diet, obesity, smoking, alcohol consumption, and they recommend following a healthy diet. Great. But if you look at what kind of healthy diet they recommend, that's where the problems begin. Because they recommend fruits, vegetables, whole grains. Where would we be without them? And calories would come from fat. Of course, we are advised to avoid saturated fats. They also advise getting less than 10% of calories from simple sugars. Up to 10% of all calories can be obtained from simple sugars. Wow, that's amazing. How much is that in teaspoons? 12 teaspoons a day. That's 50 grams of sugar. That's how much we are allowed.  considered part of a healthy diet Before I continue I want to state a disclaimer I do not recommend that you stop taking medications without consulting a doctor I am just giving you food for thought in 2015 a study was conducted to reduce systolic pressure people over 50 with hypertension participated it was found that they lived a little longer if they took several drugs for hypertension it seems good but the problem here is that it turned out that this increase in life expectancy is associated with significant risks namely the risk of developing kidney disease increases significantly if something can help you in one thing but at the same time can harm in something else this is not an ideal situation in my opinion this study is also interesting in that not all people with hypertension were selected to participate in it, but only a small category of such people to participate in the study they selected people with the most severe form of hypertension So if you do not have a severe form of hypertension, then the data that people on drugs lived longer does not apply to you because people like you were not studied and in another study 174 people fasted and Yes they were under observation  doctors, but in 90% of cases, the pressure dropped to a completely good range when people fasted. But here's the question why. And here's why. Because fasting is the most effective way to lower insulin, and with high insulin, due to the fact that you have insulin resistance, the blood vessels become very stiff. So, one of the root causes of hypertension is a problem with blood sugar due to insulin resistance and high insulin levels. Normally, high insulin lowers blood sugar. This does not happen with resistance. The point is that with insulin resistance, there is a risk of developing hypertension. That's why one of the factors of metabolic syndrome is hypertension. A common feature of this condition is high insulin or hyperinsulinemia, this is a medical term, but in essence, it is insulin resistance. So, what should you do if you have hypertension? Intermittent fasting. Start fasting immediately. Perhaps this will immediately eliminate the problem, and then, under the supervision of a doctor, gradually. Stop taking medication number two. Add vitamin D. Vitamin D is a very powerful natural remedy for hypertension. Then potassium. Start taking more potassium. If there is a lack of potassium, the blood vessels can become very  So, thanks to potassium, the blood vessels become very, very soft and flexible. I will leave a link below about other beneficial properties of potassium. Then add vitamin K2. Why does vitamin K2 help remove excess calcium from the blood vessels? Thanks to this, the blood vessels become more flexible and elastic, because calcium makes them more rigid. Vitamins D and K2 work together. That's why calcium channel blockers are prescribed for hypertension. Why block calcium because it makes everything very rigid, and K2 counteracts this. Also, add magnesium. Ideally, you need to get magnesium and potassium from leafy greens. Eat a lot of greens, but you can also take supplements with magnesium. For example, magnesium phosphate is an excellent supplement, and you will see how your blood pressure decreases. So, all these nutrients can help you. And if you add fasting with a low-carb diet, together they will reduce insulin resistance. I think this will be an excellent plan to avoid hypertension. I also want to say this: when I was studying this topic, I was amazed at how much information is contained on the first page of Google.  In fact, it's not just on the first page of Google, but on the first five pages of Google, there are tons of links, a huge amount of data, a huge amount of information. In all my videos, I strive to talk about important things, not just something banal. When you conduct research in the field of health and in many other areas, you have to break through mountains of garbage, through a lot of nonsense, to find gold. I just want to say that I spend a lot of time to focus on this and give you only the most important things and not something banal. Well, thanks for watching.