Of course, this is not about you, but let's say you drink liquid candy, or rather, sweet soda, for 2 weeks. What will happen to you? Did you know that the average American drinks 45 gallons (170 liters) of sweet soda every year and only 220 liters of water? In the fifties and sixties, these drinks were poured in much smaller containers. I think the average exchange was 200 ml less than a quarter of a liter. And today, glasses are 600 ml. And even by the liter, we drink too much of all this. Even 300 ml of sweet soda contains up to 10 teaspoons of sugar. Often, it's not even cane sugar, which was used a long time ago when I was a child. I remember as a child we went to stores and bought soda by the case. How much we drank, I drank it without thinking. I drank a lot of sweet soda as a child. I destroyed almost all my teeth. I had holes in every tooth. So it didn't go in vain, and after twenty, I had a lot of problems. Today, soda is a highly functional substance.  On the first pages of Google, we are assured that there is no difference, it is the same thing, but this is false information. Sugar is made from corn starch in a completely different way than from sugar cane. When corn is used to make, say, corn syrup, the fructose molecule is freer, it is not bound, it does not have to go through all the stages like when sugar is obtained from cane, so it is absorbed faster, it creates more problems. Especially for the liver. Here's what you need to know about fructose. In general, the liver has to process fructose. Glucose can be metabolized in very similar ways. So, fructose is better suited for creating fat, and glucose for obtaining energy. High- fructose corn syrup with all this fructose does not really satiate us, that is, we can consume a huge amount of this product without achieving satiety. And this is dangerous. Especially if a child drinks it. Comparably, high-functional and this is very dangerous because it does not contain fiber. Not to mention the fact that corn is probably genetically modified, but we will not go into that now. So, fructose It creates fat, especially in the liver. That's why non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is usually caused by too much fructose in the diet. And when combined with caffeine in soda, fructose can affect blood pressure, the heart, the brain, not only cognitive function, but also mood in general. Phosphoric acid added to sweet soda affects bones and calcium levels. The kidneys don't like concentrated sugar with phosphoric acid and caffeine. Add to this what they serve in fast food restaurants. Where someone eats a hamburger with a BUN, fries, and a large glass of some sweet soda, it's simply a deadly combination. It causes glycation, which will create many problems with blood proteins, the brain, the kidneys, and the eyes. Not to mention increased inflammation and an increased risk of diabetes. Even Harvard University stated in one of its articles that more than 180,000 deaths worldwide are associated with sugary drinks. Even the World Health Organization said that soda is the main factor in childhood obesity. It seems these are words. Margaret Chan, former director of the World Health Organization, of course, the beverage companies didn't like this. It seems they have a good friend, the Central Committee for Disease Control, and with the help of the Freedom of Information Act, documents were obtained that show there is an interesting connection between the American Beverage Association and the Central Committee for Disease Control. They expressed dissatisfaction with the statement of the World Health Organization and wrote to E-mail. It seems something needs to be done about this. They wanted to discuss this over dinner with someone from the World Health Organization, and I want to ask what kind of relationship this is between the government and large food companies. You can find out more about this at the link below. There is an excellent organization that has studied all this and it has many documents about this conflict. It's just surreal. Coca-Cola is conducting campaigns to combat obesity. Why on earth did Coca-Cola suddenly start fighting obesity? They are the ones selling what causes this problem. If you look at the studies paid for by beverage companies, their results are 4-8 times more likely to be favorable to these companies. Although what's surprising here? Between years, this industry spent $30 million on paying lobbyists. Crazy money, but let's get back to the topic.  I got distracted with sweet soda you get a lot of liquid sugar in a short time and this sugar is the perfect food for microbes, yeast, bacteria, and fungi. Many people who suffer from overgrowth of sugar simply eat too much sugar. This amount of sugar can suppress the immune system and make you more vulnerable to infections. According to research, within half an hour after drinking a sweet drink, a weakening of the immune system threatens other troubles and tumor growth can accelerate. And remember what cancer feeds on. It loves sugar. Cancer cells eat sugar. You don't need to feed them extra sugar. Sweet drinks deprive you of vitamin C. They block vitamin C because its chemical structure is similar to sugar. So if you consume sugar, you cannot absorb vitamin C and you deprive yourself of B1 when you consume a lot of sugar and also vitamin D. Vitamin D has an important additional function: it helps regulate iron. And if iron is not regulated, it can lead to increased infection because pathogenic microbes also feed on iron and they can grow thanks to it, just like cancer. I hope after this video you will fall out of love  sweet soda And if you haven't watched my video about what happens if you don't eat sugar for 2 weeks, it's worth watching here