Today we'll talk about why you should eat three to four eggs every day. All these horror stories about the harm of eggs are not worth a damn.  And I'll break my neck to prove it to you.  By the way, I personally eat eggs every day.  If you think that eggs will harm your cholesterol in the slightest, just throw that idea out of your head because eggs never, in any way, create a cholesterol problem.  It's all just propaganda.  I'll provide links to new studies below for anyone who has any doubts.  I'll start right away by explaining why eggs are a completely special product, why they are so different from other types of protein, such as meat or fish.  Firstly, the animal protein we eat is usually muscle.  Muscles contract and relax, allowing movement. But the egg doesn't do that.  An egg is something that is supposed to turn into a chicken.  The difference in terms of protein is this.  Egg white has the highest biological value.  What does it mean?  This means that our tissues absorb this protein better than any other.  Assimilation.  Eggs come first in this regard .  Secondly, when it comes to protein, the question arises: why do we need protein?  In general, we need protein to build muscles, tendons, ligaments, joints, and so on.  Protein is also needed for repairs, because the body constantly repairs protein structures.  Is protein needed for anything else?  Yes, it is needed to create hormones and enzymes so that biochemical processes can take place. But protein can also be used as a fuel source.  Let us compare from this point of view the protein of regular meat and the protein of eggs, animal meat and fish.  I'm talking about muscles. We can only use 10-20% of it as fuel.  Of course, if the meat is fatty, we can use this fat as fuel.  But now I'm talking specifically about protein. No more than 20 percent of it can become our fuel. What about eggs?  Eggs contain a yolk, which contains a lot of fat that can be used as fuel.  When talking about the egg as a whole, 65% of it can be used as fuel.  As for leaner meat, an even smaller percentage of it can be used as fuel. Original Dr. Berg supplements are not available on Ozo and Wildberries.  They sell counterfeit goods there.  Original products in the CIS can only be ordered at drbergstore.com. People who ate rabbit meat during the experiments, which is very lean, became very ill, and some died due to fuel problems.  You can't live on protein alone.  So eggs are far superior to other types of protein. You can eat eggs all your life and be very healthy.  But that's not all.  There's something else in this egg that meat doesn't have.  It has many more protective factors.  What does it mean?  This egg contains many antimicrobial proteins. They are found in egg whites.  What does antimicrobial mean?  These are substances that can kill bacteria. Egg whites also contain substances that can bind iron, but they can also bind vitamin B7 and biotin. You may have heard that if you eat raw egg whites, something in them can deplete your biotin levels. Weightlifters sometimes add a lot of raw eggs to their shakes and drink them.  And some of them develop biotin deficiency.  But if you cook eggs, heat the egg white, this substance disappears.  So you don't have to worry about eggs depriving you of biotin.  But the point is this.  This substance is found in egg whites because certain pathogens require biotin.  And if you tie it up, you can get rid of harmful bacteria. That is, this is another protective function of the egg.  Eggs also contain all essential amino acids, including glycine.  And this is the main amino acid needed for muscle growth.  Eggs also rank second in terms of haline content, a B vitamin. Haline is an excellent remedy for preventing fatty liver disease.  It is a part of bile, which helps digest fats.  Icholine is very useful for those who have problems with DNA, because it helps repair damaged DNA. You may not be familiar with the term methylation. This means that something in the body promotes DNA repair, detoxification, and the creation of neurotransmitters. I say this because many people have a genetic problem with this.  So they can have problems if they don't get enough halogen, enough natural B12, and enough phosphorus.  And all this is in eggs.  So many people who have this genetic problem will benefit from getting enough haline.  Personally, I have found that with my genes I have a hard time digesting haline, so eggs are very beneficial for me .  Eggs also contain very powerful antioxidants, lutein and zeoxanthin.   There are many of them in the retina of the eye.  This is our natural protection against ultraviolet and blue light, which can damage certain parts of the eye. If we take this eyeball and open it up at the back of the eye, I don't know if you can see, at the back of the eye is the retina.  The retina is an extension of the brain.  Its cells receive information and transmit it to the brain. We need super high concentrations of lutein and zeaxanthin to protect these cells and so we can see in dim light.  In general, these antioxidants are extremely important, and they are found in eggs.  They are beneficial not only for the retina, but also for other parts of the brain. They improve concentration, memory, learning ability, and so on.  There's also something interesting about eggs.  These are phospholipids.  I don't want to use complicated terms. Phospholipids improve the condition of membranes in brain cells and other tissues, which ensures excellent cognitive function.  There's also something in eggs that mimics the action of an ACE inhibitor, thereby lowering blood pressure. Eggs also contain vitamin K2, which transports calcium, prevents its deposition in soft tissues, joints, kidneys, blood vessels, and directs calcium to teeth and bones.  This is vitamin K2. Eggs contain an active form of vitamin A, retinol.  It is needed not only for the eyes, but also for the skin and mucous membranes, from the sinuses to the lungs and digestive tract.  Vitamin A is also important for the immune system.  Eggs also contain vitamin D. Before you decide that eggs are a great food and should be eaten in large quantities, it's worth briefly discussing the different types of eggs.  There are store-bought eggs.  By the way, 65% of the eggs consumed are from hens kept in cages.  That is, the chicken is kept its entire life in a very small space, 20 by 20 meters. This increases cortisol.  Don't pay people who do this.  I would not eat eggs from hens kept in cages. Cage-free hens have a slightly larger space, 45 x 45 cm. This is slightly better.  They may or may not have the ability to leave the coop .  They are kept in a very large room.  All the chickens together.  And it's still not very good.  Pastured eggs are much better.  These chickens have at least 3 by 3 m of open space.  I would eat their eggs.  Or you can even buy eggs from farmers at a farmers market.  This is better.  Of course, the ideal situation is to keep chickens yourself.  That's what I do.  Store-bought eggs also contain a lot of artificial colors. The color of an egg is an indicator of how many of these carotenoids it contains. But this color is fake.  There are also organic eggs.  This name does not indicate whether the chickens are kept in cages or not.  This simply means that they are fed grain without pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. It's certainly better if you can find pastured organic eggs.  Wonderful. And this means that these chickens are not fed GMO grain.  This grain was not sprayed with glyphosate.  But there are loopholes, especially if the chickens are fed wheat.  After all, they can spray it with glyphosate and still consider this wheat to be non-GMO.  And don't buy it when you hear plant-based food.  Wow, plant-based as an alternative to what?  I give my chickens a lot of different food.  They just love cheese.  What do n't they eat?  If I give them a choice between grain and meat, they rush for the meat.   These are the kind of chickens we have.  Chickens evolved to eat bugs and such, but not necessarily a lot of grain.  And certainly not GMO corn or soy.  That is, store-bought eggs from hens that are fed a lot of grain and soy, which are genetically modified, contain a lot of omega-6 fatty acids, and they cause inflammation.  There are eggs that contain more omega-3 fatty acids.  I'm currently experimenting with feeding my chickens grain that has much more omega-3 than omega-6.  I'll tell you more about the results of the experiment. Subscribe to stay up to date. Friends, subscribe to the channel right now and click the bell to turn on all notifications.  If you don't select all notifications, YouTube may not remind you about new videos.  This simple action will greatly help the further development of the channel.  And we continue. Now, a couple of tips on what to eat eggs with.  Here are a couple of things to think about.  If you eat eggs with arugula, the absorption of phytonutrients from arugula increases ninefold thanks to the yolk, which is the fat.  And many of the phytonutrients in any green are fat-soluble, so it's a great combination for improving health. I make sure to eat a lot of onions with my eggs.  I lightly fry it.  This improves detoxification processes. If you add black pepper, which I always do, and sea salt, the absorption of carotenoids improves.  Do not overcook the eggs.  Of course, if you eat in a restaurant, you can't control this. I like the yolk to be runny, and if I'm making scrambled eggs, I just fry them until they're barely done, but not overcooked.  It's not that important, but there will be more nutrients if you don't overcook it.  During tomato season, it's a good idea to add them to eggs.  I did this all summer when I had those wonderful tomatoes.  I ate them every day.  Tomatoes contain many excellent nutrients, but the most important one is lycopene.  It is perhaps the most powerful antioxidant carotenoid that exists.  It is very useful for the inner surface of blood vessels, for the prostate, for the eyes.  It is good for the brain.  But I want to emphasize this. If organic pastured eggs are too expensive, and sometimes they are, and you can only afford store-bought eggs right now, eat them.  After all, even store-bought eggs contain enough nutrients, and they are much better than protein products, which often contain added sugars and starches.  After all, it’s not just protein anymore; many other things are added to it. Even regular eggs are healthy. I also add avocado to the eggs.  The fat in avocado is very, very healthy.  And because you eat the whole avocado, you're getting fresh, raw oils, which are fatty acids, which are incredibly beneficial. Unfortunately, most avocado oil is refined, it has been heated, it has become oxidized, unless it is cold pressed.  Even then, you need to check where you buy your avocado oil.  After all, the requirements for it are very lenient now.  So, I recommend frying eggs in olive oil or ghee, but be careful when heating any oil.  But olive oil has a lot of protective phytonutrients, so as long as you don't overheat it, I think it'll be fine. I hope I've convinced you to eat eggs at least once a day. Don't know what to cook for chum salmon?  The book Keta menu for 2 weeks will help you. Diet for three and two meals a day. Simple but delicious recipes made from readily available ingredients.  Basics of ketosis and fasting. Follow the link below.