What happens if you consume just two tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil every day? This is the topic for today. Olive oil has so many amazing compounds you can't even imagine. I add it to a salad. You can do it differently. This is mine. I don't know if it's visible. This is my olive oil. I take it specifically. This is because it's real. I was on a farm in Italy where these olives are grown. It's called Vitoi Resan Meteli. A Tori. Unfortunately, olive oil has often been counterfeited for many years. I had no idea how to distinguish a fake until 5 years ago when I tried real extra virgin olive oil. It was amazing. Before that, I consumed all sorts of fakes. It was simply tasteless. It had no spicy aftertaste and didn't tickle my throat. This indicates that the oil is real. Unfortunately, olive oil is sometimes mixed with other oils like soy or rapeseed. Now they are trying to improve. In general, I visited the farm where they make olive oil. I had the opportunity to test the soil for microorganisms. Their number was off the charts. Also, a lot of work was put into creating this product. It's more than just  organic product advertising and I don't get paid for it. Just when I find a good product and be sure to report it. You can add it to a salad along with balsamic vinegar or apple cider vinegar. I also add a little lemon and sea salt, or you can just drink 2 tablespoons of this oil every day. It's pure fat. insulin will not rise. I'll tell you about the beneficial compounds found in olive oil. I won't give long names because every time I do this, people fall asleep, so I'll show a slide and talk about the properties of the substance. So, the first phytonutrient has quite powerful cardioprotective properties; it significantly reduces blood pressure. There are two different types of blood pressure: primary and secondary. Another name for primary is essential, hence essential hypertension. It's interesting that it has no cause; the cause is unknown, and this is 95 percent of all blood pressure problems; the cause is unknown. Of course, there are many medications that help temporarily until the cause is discovered, and since we're on this topic, you can also add vitamin D and more potassium. Also, limit sugar intake. Because with insulin resistance, blood vessels can harden, and blood pressure  increase, but olive oil extrovert can help here, emphasizing that if you take medications and olive oil at the same time, the pressure can drop too low. Why not take this? It's something to lower blood pressure without side effects and thus reduce the intake of medications. Olive oil also has an anti-cancer effect. It protects the hypothalamus and another part of the brain called the substantia [ __ ], which is associated with dopamine. If problems with this part of the brain occur, Parkinson's disease can occur. Olive oil protects the brain and can protect nerves. Olive oil also has an anti-inflammatory effect. There are many substances in olive oil that help with inflammation and pain. Let's move on to the next phytonutrient. It also has anti-inflammatory properties. It can act as an analgesic, helping with pain. It has an antimicrobial effect and supports beta cells of the pancreas, which helps balance blood sugar. Lower insulin levels. Beta cells produce insulin. The next compound has anti-cancer and anti-arthritic properties. The last three phytonutrients are sterols. Sterol is a compound very similar to cholesterol and also to steroids. The first compound can help with benign prostatic hypertrophy. Olive oil can help an enlarged prostate. This phytonutrient is extroverted and also helps balance cholesterol levels. Especially LDL, I'm talking about small, dense particles. Then there's another phytonutrient, another sterol, which has an anti-inflammatory effect and balances LDL. Another one that can also help with LDL. In general, olive oil has a lot of phytonutrients. I only looked at six of them, but in fact, there are hundreds of natural compounds with incredible properties. By the way, olive oil also contains a large amount of vitamin E. I hope this video convinced you to start consuming more olive oil regularly. It really can help. Now be sure to watch another video about olive oil. Here it is.