I have a question. What will happen to the body if you don't sleep for three days? We'll discuss this after a day without sleep. You will feel drowsiness, irritability, impaired judgment of situations, memory impairment, muscles will be more tense due to stress, and the risk of accidents increases. If you are in the room without sleep, your cortisol will increase, which releases a huge amount of sugar from the liver, which will affect insulin. Your cortisol and insulin will increase, but growth hormone will decrease. This directly affects the restoration of muscles and other proteins in the body, as well as the ability to lose weight. Growth hormone slows down aging, and without it, you age faster than normal. Your appetite will increase. I noticed that when I don't sleep well, I feel more hungry and my metabolism will slow down. I saw this in many people who wanted to lose weight but didn't sleep, and when you don't sleep, your metabolism slows down, mood swings, high stress levels, severe fatigue, hormonal imbalance, decreased judgment and decreased motivation. If you have decreased judgment or decreased motivation, or you are tired, then maybe you don't have enough good sleep. It's not only the quantity of sleep that matters, but also the quality.  If you have similar symptoms, watch my videos on how to improve the quality of sleep after two days without sleep, what will happen if you don’t sleep? The body can periodically switch off for seconds to sleep, this is called microsleep. When I was in training at Fort Jackson, South Carolina, and went through a young soldier’s course there, I literally fell asleep standing in formation because I was so tired. I didn’t even notice how I switched off, I just suddenly woke up. This can be dangerous behind the scenes. After all, you lose consciousness. And when you wake up, you are in a daze and don’t understand where you are. What’s also not useful after two days without sleep, your immunity is greatly weakened and the number of natural killer cells is greatly reduced, which is why the body will not be able to fight cancer and viruses at this moment. You are very vulnerable to diseases. After TH days without sleep, you are clearly not able to think, you will not be able to sensibly assess situations in general. If you are tired, you should not make any important decisions. You are deprived of attentiveness, which will affect the relationship. Because of this, you can quarrel with your partner. You will not be able to remember any details. You will not be able to complete projects. You will be very absent-minded.  and irritability, hallucinations and false perceptions may occur. In general, I wanted to convey to you how important sleep is. You can improve your sleep in many different ways. If you want to know how, I'll leave the links below. If you liked this video, share it with those who might find it useful.