A few years ago I made a video about this common myth about water, as if everyone needs to drink so much water or else they will get dehydrated, and it shocked many people, because everyone knows that 8 glasses of water is like an immutable law, you need to drink at least 8 glasses of water, because the body mainly consists of water, so this video caused confusion, because when a person is told a theory that is opposite to what underlies this idea about water, it really can cause something like confusion. I decided to make this video to tell you about new interesting points about water in general, its ability to hydrate cells. First of all, you need to understand what hydration is. It's just water in our cells. No, it's not like water gets into the cell and leaves it. Water gets into the cell and leaves it through small channels with the help of electrolytes. Electrolytes are a mineral with an electric charge. Their different concentrations inside and outside the cell create a certain flow directed into the cell or out of the cell. A properly hydrated cell has the right amount of electrolytes inside and outside and the right amount of water. A.D. Cellular hydration is an imbalance of electrolytes and fluids. It's not just a lack of water. If you drink too much water, it lowers the concentration of electrolytes and some parts of the body become dehydrated. There is a condition called hyponatremia, which is low sodium in the blood. One of the reasons for this is that a person drinks a lot of pure water without salt, and the water dilutes the cells by 3. This is very, very dangerous. Brain inflammation can begin. A person can fall into a coma. So, water alone does not provide hydration. But on the other hand, I'm not against water. I drink it and I think you should drink it too. But carrying a five-liter bottle of water with you and forcing yourself to drink all day may not be the wisest idea. Especially if you start to bypass the normal thirst mechanism by which the body tells it whether it needs water or not when you don't want to drink. And forcing the body to drink a lot of water can get you into trouble. Especially if you train. There's an excellent book about this. The author is a sports physiologist. It contains a lot of research on marathon runners and even ultramarathoners in terms of hydration and in terms of whether they need to drink a lot of water when they don't want to.  Drinking this can cause a drop in sodium and create a big problem for health and we drink a lot of different liquids during the day which can cause a diuretic effect we lose water causes dehydration if we drink caffeinated drinks like coffee tea and sweet sodas all drinks with caffeine are very dehydrating and of course alcohol too if you remember the case when you drank a lot in the morning you felt terrible and dehydration this explains the headache and dry lips alcohol is a diuretic it also dehydrates us and what about fruit juices do they dehydrate well here are a couple of facts about glucose let's take for example a diabetic person with high blood sugar urinates a lot he urinates frequently and at the same time he is tormented by thirst so the more sugar you have in your blood the more your body excretes water and the more dehydration you have dehydration so fruit juices sweet soda anything that contains sugar are very dehydrating and what's surprising is all sports drinks with electrolytes have added sugar apparently the idea is in  The fact is that if you exercise, you need sugar to replenish the glucose lost during exercise, and this is called hydration. But does it actually hydrate? Does consuming glucose hydrate you? I'll tell you what. Glucose hydrates. Glucose draws water out of cells. Below is a link to an interesting study. The name you see on the screen was studied in the age group from 9 to 15. This study was not related to hydration, but it is interesting because it revealed previously unknown consequences of drinking various healthy sports drinks. It was found that if a teenager or even an adult drinks a sweet soda at least once a day, they gain an extra half a kilogram. Here's what was discovered. I'll just generalize: teenagers who drink sweet soda once a day regularly gain an extra kilogram of weight, and those who drink at least one sports drink a day, a so- called healthy sports drink with electrolytes but with added sugar, gain an extra kilogram of weight. That is, sports drinks increase fat more than sweet soda. This is probably because the bottle of sports drink  A bottle of soda is almost half a liter, so you need to look at the serving size on the label, but few people limit themselves to one serving. They drink a sports drink whole, and it doesn't contain a single serving. Even when people consume electrolyte powders, many electrolyte powders and drinks (I won't name them) contain added sugar, and some of them contain 11 grams of sugar per serving. One teaspoon contains 4 grams of sugar, which is almost three teaspoons of sugar per serving. That's not for the entire can, but just for one serving or one packet of electrolytes. Not to mention what kind of sugar it is. It's probably beet sugar, and almost all beet sugar in the US is pure GMO with traces of the herbicide glyphosate. Even cane sugar, unless it's organic, also contains traces of glyphosate. This is in addition to the effects of the sugar itself, and as a result, a person drinks more water. If you add electrolytes, they also contain glucose, which essentially deprives you of the ability to burn fat. Perhaps glucose.  They promote hydration only when, say, with diarrhea, oral hydration is used, adding glucose to minerals. Since glucose helps retain sodium in the intestines, this is not the same as hydrating the body when you exercise or hydrated when you don't exercise. To be truly hydrated, you need all the electrolytes you need: sodium, potassium, chlorides, calcium, and magnesium. The professor, the author of the book, soaked in water, I'll leave the link below. He provides amazing information about what happens if we drink when we don't want to drink. We have a thirst mechanism. Some will say that we don't really know when we need to drink. We need to force the body to drink so much water. 5-10. But the author of this book evaluated a huge amount of data, studied research that was not paid for by companies like Gatorade, and he found that even marathon runners have problems if they drink too much water when they don't want to drink. I think it's an excellent principle to drink when you're thirsty and never force yourself to drink too much, otherwise the electrolytes will begin to dilute. On the other hand, if you have a predisposition to kidney stones. You need to drink at least two and a half liters of fluid every day, but I would add electrolytes here. Is there a way to know if you are drinking too much water? Sometimes they say check the color of your urine; it should be clear, that's accurate, but I think there's a better and quite cheap way. You can buy urine test strips on Amazon or another platform. They measure specific gravity, so you can get a good estimate if you have mild or severe dehydration, or if you are drinking too much water. This urine test strip measures many indicators, but specific gravity reflects the density and concentration of matcha compared to water. The specific gravity of water is taken as one unit, and the normal density of urine should be from one point two-thousandths to one point three hundredths. So, if the specific gravity of your urine is low, that is, less than one point one hundredth, you have mild dehydration. The closer the matcha indicator is to the water indicator, which is one and three zeros after the decimal point, the less electrolytes you have, and the more electrolytes you need, or the less water you should drink. So, the specific gravity of urine reflects the concentration of particles in it, and when you drink a lot  You reduce this concentration with water. A lot of electrolytes come from food if you eat healthy food, but keep in mind that some foods deplete electrolyte stores, for example, refined sugar, alcohol, and the diuretics I mentioned. But this video is mainly about drinking water. There can be too much water, and you need to find the right amount for yourself. And yes, it's not all clear-cut. If you're training outside, it's hot, and you have a very fast metabolism, then you need to drink a lot of water, but drink it with electrolytes. But for an average person who doesn't train that much, and if it's not summer, it's better to rely on your sense of thirst. I would use this as a guideline and avoid drinking more than your body needs. I think now it's best for you to watch my video about electrolytes. Here it is, watch it.