Is it possible that you are taking contraceptives without knowing it? Today we will talk about soy. What is so harmful about soy? It seems to be a healthy product. It is found in many products. It is good for the heart. It helps prevent breast cancer. In Asia, they eat tons of it. It cannot be so harmful. If you search for research on the Internet, the first five pages of Google will show those who claim that soy is super, as if it were a new miracle product. I would like to share with you information from the book I am currently reading. It is called The Whole Soy Story. The author is Dr. Kayla Daniel. She has a degree in nutrition and is also a practicing clinical nutritionist. Links to her book and all the studies will be below. Here is how things are with soy. The effect of soy is similar here. The concentration of estradiol in soy is a thousand times weaker than estradiol. However, it is much better absorbed by our receptors than estrogen, which means that it can easily bind to estrogen receptors and cause a physiological reaction. Soy really does act on the body like estrogen for those people who say that science has already explained everything, we know that soy is safe, there is no need to think about it, look at this: in Asia they eat much more soy, everything is so, nevertheless, they use it as a seasoning, they have it as a main dish and they usually always use fermented nota mi su tofu and they see it differently than we see it in America, not in the same form as soy protein isolate, hydrolyzed soy protein and refined soybean oil, which, imagine, is in hummus and in salad dressings and many other products, even in oatmeal and even in soda. Seriously, where have I not shoved it? Yes, it is true that the Japanese have a lower incidence of breast cancer, but they are more likely to get cancers that Americans almost never get. If you read the research, I quit, you can see a lot of mixed conclusions, depending on who sponsors the research, let's go through them. In 1994, the American Dietetic Association wrote an article in which it was said that women who want to get pregnant should Eat less salt and eat less than 60 grams per day. Some will say, but this is an old study. Often, older studies are more honest because today they can twist and present the study as it is physiologically beneficial to them. This was tested on animals. Soy can act as an estrogen, which can affect follicle-stimulating hormone, as well as luteinizing hormone. This is a parahormone sent by the pituitary gland to the sex glands. It regulates estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone. If follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone are suppressed, the ovaries will produce fewer eggs, which will decrease fertility. This can also affect the menstrual cycle; it will last longer or may not even start at all. Another study (link below) stated that this negatively affects the ability to give birth in men. This study showed a decrease in sperm production, decreased erection, decreased libido, hot flashes, the appearance of effeminate breasts in men, nipple discharge, and decreased testosterone.  Do you know who eats soy most regularly? Monks in monasteries eat a lot of soy. I think it's because soy helps curb libido. What's also interesting and hard to find information about is that 70 percent of all grown soy goes to animal feed. Who knows what soy does to them? Soy is in dog food, cat food, and even fish food. I say this because I have animals on my farm and it's very difficult to find food for them without soy. The biggest problem I have in my dream is soy-based baby food. That is, you give it to your baby, and thus the baby receives six to nine milligrams of salt per kilogram of body weight per day. This is associated with increased weight. Estrogen is an anabolic hormone that promotes growth. Some baby foods contain so much estrogen that it's equivalent to an adult taking three to five birth control pills a day. Not to mention that many babies are allergic to soy and have digestive problems. As for the protein quality, soy is not the best.  Protein is important, so it's important for mothers to breastfeed their children. Soy is also associated with hypothyroidism, endocrine problems, digestive problems, and so on and so forth. Therefore, you should start reading the labels on products where the ingredients are listed. Even if you buy hummus, if the first ingredient is soy or corn oil, try to find a product without it. Unfortunately, most of it has its own range, and it seems to me that we are conducting a huge experiment. Most of the problems with ancient ingredients manifest themselves many years later. Therefore, it seems important to look at soy from a different perspective, weigh the pros and cons, and decide for yourself. I invite you to my course. If you have a thyroid body type, hypothyroidism or autoimmune thyroiditis, enlarged teeth and thyroid nodules, excess weight is evenly distributed throughout the body. This course will help repair your thyroid, restore energy, and get rid of excess weight. My unique videos, product list, exercises, and special massage techniques for the thyroid gland are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.