Hello friends, I have two and a half thousand videos on my YouTube channel and sometimes it is difficult to figure out where to start because it is not clear where and what, so I decided to create such a video for beginners, a video on the basics, if you are here for the first time, if your friends or relatives recently knew my program, then you should start with this video, and so now I will briefly tell you the essence of ketosis or ketosis, what it means when you burn fat, it breaks down into so-called ketones and the body can then use them as fuel, your body can run on titanium and this fuel source is much healthier than sugar, which most people use, it is pure fuel, it has many other benefits that I talk about in other videos, so ketosis is essentially when you burn fat, healthy ketosis is a type of regular ketosis, but it has its own characteristics. I use this principle: you do not lose weight to become healthy, first you need to become healthy and then you can lose weight. In terms of nutrition, to become a healthy body, you need to get all the necessary nutrients, you need to eat quality food that contains all the necessary nutrients, so I recommend the so- called healthy ketosis.  This is a type of ketosis. The next thing I recommend is the so-called i.g. What is this intermittent fasting? It's not a diet at all. It's a schedule of when you need to eat and when you do n't need to eat. That is, instead of 3 or 6 meals a day or snacks, you need to eat less often. You might ask why, because every time you eat, an insulin release occurs. Too much insulin in the body is very dangerous. Therefore, with the help of healthy ketosis, intermittent fasting, we are trying to reduce the level of insulin in the body not to zero, but simply get rid of its excess. The vast majority of people have excess insulin in the body. It's just that they haven't had this test. Doctors usually check blood sugar and glucose levels, but they don't check fasting insulin levels. I talked about this in previous videos. If you want, you can take a look, but the point is that we are trying to lower insulin levels, and for this you need to eat less often. Let's say you can start with 3 meals a day without snacks, and then switch to 2, also without snacks. This will be intermittent fasting. Some people eat once a day, but the point is to eat less often, not to reduce the number of calories. You will also be eating less often. consume less, but we are not striving for this, but to eat less often, because the body needs the necessary nutrients and a certain amount of calories, we still need what is interesting in intermittent fasting, since you eat less often, the body no longer needs so many nutrients because it begins to store them in reserve and this is beneficial, so with two meals a day, you will no longer need as many nutrients as with three meals a day because the body adapts. Some worry that they will lose muscle mass, so in intermittent fasting, and another interesting thing is that the level of certain hormones increases sharply, for example, growth hormone, and this does not allow you to lose muscle, that is, the body begins to store proteins in reserve, so you will not lose muscle mass, no matter what anyone says, and so to lower insulin, you need to remember two main things: cut down on carbohydrates, sugar, simple carbohydrates, grains, pasta, cereal, cookies, waffles, juices, alcohol. I have a lot of videos on this topic, but now I am talking about it in and the second rule is to eat less often. When we eat fewer carbohydrates and eat less often, our body learns to burn fat. A shift occurs at the cellular level. The body begins to use as  sugar and fats are not fuel, and when there are too many carbohydrates in your diet, insulin binds them and turns them into fat, and now most of the fat in your body is just the result of consuming carbohydrates, they are fats. In addition, people often do not realize that when there is too much insulin, you cannot get rid of fat. If you have such a stubborn metabolism and you can’t lose weight, then you have too much insulin. Is there a way to quickly check this? Of course, just look down if you can see your belly there. Yes, you have excess insulin. After all, the symptoms of high insulin are precisely fat in the waist area: high blood pressure, high cholesterol, fatigue, especially after eating, decreased cognitive function, lack of concentration, poor memory. Also, sudden mood swings, irritability, sometimes depression, grumpiness, this is blood sugar levels. I like carbohydrates, a constant feeling of hunger, especially between meals, when you switch the body to fat burning mode, and it does this between meals, because it didn’t burn fat before, it worked on sugar from your diet, and now when you burn fat, hurray, you no longer feel hungry, and believe me, this system is not difficult to follow.  There is no more hunger, that's why healthy ketosis intermittent fasting is very successful in the long term and you are able to maintain this regime you do not have a constant feeling of hunger if you search for the word ketosis on the Internet you can come across a pie chart on it it will say 20 percent protein maybe 70 or 65 percent in terms of total calories and five percent carbohydrates many people are simply confused because you have to calculate calories convert their grams and so on it will be much easier for example this is important plate half of the plate should be occupied by vegetables and salad like this a quarter of the plate proteins another quarter fats 65 70 percent fat is not too much, don't forget that 1 gram of fat is more than twice as caloric as one gram of carbohydrates or proteins so don't be fooled in fact in terms of volume fat takes up only a quarter of this plate and most of it goes along with proteins so it's not as much as it seems here are also a few carbohydrates everything is actually very simple according to the essence of healthy ketosis and intermittent fasting is not only that Lose weight, but also to improve your health and reduce inflammation, improve your cognitive function, improve your overall mood, and make your body work like a clock. So, here are the basics. Now you can watch the rest of the videos. Thank you for watching. If you liked the video, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos.