What would happen if you gave up bread for 30 days? Yes, this is not the most popular topic. People love bread and when you try to talk about giving it up, they don’t like it. You can face all sorts of negative reactions. After all, we love bread. So I’m not insisting on anything. Just think about what will happen if you give up bread. We’ll talk about this today in this video. There is information that you probably haven’t heard of. So it will be interesting. I advise you to watch. There are a lot of negative things that bread does to the body, for example, it raises blood sugar. In addition, most types of bread contain glyphosate. A herbicide that causes a lot of different problems, but today I’ll talk not about this, but about one component. Lute gluten is a general name for a whole group of different proteins. It’s not just one protein. Gluten is found in grains, especially in wheat, and it is essentially the only type of protein that our body does not completely digest gluten. It is associated with a disease such as celiac disease. The small intestine suffers, its mucous membrane is damaged, and typical symptoms occur. Here are three typical  Symptoms of bloating, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. People with gluten intolerance, as well as people who have antibodies that indicate celiac disease, very often do not observe these typical symptoms, and this is very strange. People think, well, maybe I can eat bread, but there are no symptoms. One of the reasons is that I sent many people for DNA testing, and the vast majority had a genetic problem with gluten intolerance. That is, it is right in the genes. Which means a very high predisposition to celiac disease, but most of these people had virtually no gastrointestinal symptoms, no bloating, no abdominal pain, no diarrhea. Recently, I studied this topic in depth and discovered why they have no symptoms. The thing is that one of the proteins that is part of the gluten complex is called gliadin, and this protein stimulates opioid receptors. So, gluten produces an effect similar to morphine in the intestines and in other parts of your body, masking many gastrointestinal symptoms. In other words, you eat bread and do not feel anything bad as a result, you eat it more and eat it regularly.  Thinking that you are fine, there is no harm, although in fact, the body is harmed. And you do not feel it. Problems in the gastrointestinal tract are usually suppressed. Gluten reduces the speed of passage of masses through the intestines. This leads to constipation, but when a person takes Morphine, this speed increases. Too much morphine can lead to diarrhea, but gluten, which slows down the gastrointestinal tract, and morphine's action, which reduces the transit time, can compensate for each other and there will be no problems with going to the toilet. Gluten is a silent killer. There are many other symptoms that are caused by gluten and they are not even related to the gastrointestinal tract. It can affect blood sugar, cause hypoglycemia and even provoke diabetes. It can cause Hashimoto's disease, hypothyroidism, and even psoriasis and dermatitis. Anxiety, depression, and even autism and attention deficit disorder may occur. Changes in the brain may occur, but some of these changes can be hidden by morphine. The action of opioids reduces the turnover of gray matter and the cerebellum. Gluten also raises prolactin levels, making  painful or irregular periods. And in men, erectile dysfunction is possible. So, as you can see, the absence of gastrointestinal symptoms due to gluten does not mean that it is not harming you in other ways. That is why I believe it is very important to seriously consider giving up bread or grain products for a month. Yes, there are groups and organizations in the world that urge everyone to get up to 65% of calories from whole grains, but this is very bad advice based solely on the harm of gluten. To find out exactly how gluten affects you, you need to do either a small intestinal biopsy. But this is an invasive procedure. I do not recommend either of these options. A blood test for antibodies associated with celiac disease is better if the result is positive. Or you have done a DNA test and it showed gluten intolerance. What makes you vulnerable? You need to seriously consider giving up bread. And what about so-called gluten-free products? Well, that's better than nothing. But you still eat grains. The effect on blood sugar remains. Problems with insulin also remain. Problems with excess weight remain. The problem remains. glyphosate, but the good news is that there are plenty of alternatives to bread. There are recipes that will satisfy your craving for bread. There will be several links below. Also, pay attention. This is the book you are looking for on chum salmon. A holiday is ahead. Prepare delicious and healthy dishes with a book of festive chum salmon recipes: hot and side dishes, salads and appetizers, sauces, desserts and bread, as well as a calculation of calories, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Order the book " Festive Chum Salmon Menu" using the link below.