I was recently in the store wanting to find some food sometimes it's hard to find real food in the store and as I was walking around the store I thought about this Let's ask ourselves the following question What percentage of all these products contain sugar is quite high Is sugar really harmful or empty carbohydrates or starch or harmful seed oils that are high in omega-6 Today I will talk about how harmful different types of products are because you often go to the store and other similar places and you need to eat something So which products are better and which are worse I will pay more attention to distinguishing between sugar and seed oils that are high in omega-6 but before I start Write in the comments what you think is more harmful sugar or seed oils I mean soybean corn rapeseed cottonseed sunflower oil Will I have made a lot of videos about sugar and its harm, that it causes diabetes and so on I also made quite a lot of videos about omega-6 fatty acids and the importance of healthy proportions of omega-6 and omega-3 ideal  one to one ratio If you can achieve this, on average we consume too much omega-6, much more than omega-3. I think we consume about 25 times more omega-6 than we need. Yes, they will tell me that we need them, they are essential, but we don’t need that much, and we certainly don’t need the type of omega-6 that they don’t use. But on average, the ratio of mega-6 to omega-3 is about 15 to one. But this is the US average, this figure is very underestimated, most likely it is much higher. 30, 40, 50, 60. I don’t know, but it is high, and the ratio should be one. These oils, these fats are called polyunsaturated fatty acids. This is a kind of building material for body tissue. Especially for the structural elements of cell membranes and the brain. And when their balance is disturbed, a lot of problems arise, especially in cell membranes. When you eat sugar, I’m talking about pure sugar. For example, sugar in candy, added sugar in ice cream and all that, it also creates harmful effects. It usually doesn’t integrate into  Our cells are like these oils, but it connects with proteins and, so to speak, changes them. This is called glycation, and such proteins become useless. Excess sugar does not accumulate like omega-6 fatty acids, but only turns into fat. So, if we consider one aspect: the accumulation of omega-6 in the body, that is, industrially produced seed oils, compared to sugar, then such oils accumulate in tissues and become part of them for a very long time, about 600 days, and this is a problem. They do not dissolve in water like sugar, they accumulate in tissues. So, sugar can be burned when you exercise. You can burn excess sugar. I want to touch on other points. Can refined oils deprive us of nutrients? They can, especially fat- soluble nutrients. And what about sugar? Does it deprive us of nutrients? I was talking about pure sugar, and the answer is yes, it does deprive us of a large amount of B1. The more sugar you eat, the more B1 you need for its metabolism. If you eat a lot of sugar, you use up B1 and  You will have many symptoms of its deficiency. So, sugar deprives us of B1, magnesium, it causes a deficiency of zinc, vitamin C. The vitamin C molecule is very similar to the glucose molecule. So, if you eat glucose (sugar) together with vitamin C, then glucose competes with vitamin C. The body will choose glucose over vitamin C. If you eat a lot of sugar, especially throughout the day, there will be many problems with gums, signs of clinical scurvy appear: bleeding gums, fatigue. You brush your teeth and the toothbrush turns red because sugar destroys blood vessels, making the connective tissue in the vessels very weak. This happens not only in the gums, but throughout the body. In general, pure sugar deprives us of vitamins. And what about fruits? There is sugar, but they contain vitamins. So, fruits do not deprive us of vitamins, this is their advantage, since raw sugar is much, much worse than the sugar in fruits. In addition, complications or side effects from pure sugar can be countered or significantly reduced if you include phytonutrients in the calculation.  This is why fruits are much better than pure sugar. Because they have phytonutrients that can protect against complications of diabetes. It is extremely unlikely that diabetes can develop from eating fruit. I do not recommend fruits for another reason. They have too much sugar, and this knocks you out of ketosis. But if you eat any whole food, there are protective factors in the whole food, whether it is a starchy product or a fruit. But when you consume oils from seeds, you get an extremely purified, overly technologically processed part of the seed, that is, oil, and you do not get anything else that can protect you from what this oil causes in the body. This is especially true for LDL. They oxidize and affect the inner surface of blood vessels. They cause inflammation. They draw a lot of things out of the body, and something else. How do they extract this oil from seeds? Is hexane a solvent used for this? Does part of this solvent remain in the oil or does it magically disappear? And so these seeds turn into oil after everything that has been done to them and sell it as vegetable oil. It sounds like something very healthy, but it is not, and the amount of this oil in our diet is simply  It's off the charts. Unfortunately, all of this started with a powerful campaign demanding that saturated fats be replaced with unsaturated fats. That's why there are so many of these oils in our stores. You might say we don't use these oils, but salad dressings. Have you tried buying salad dressings without seed oils? What about hummus? Hummus requires olive oil, but it's made with soybean, rapeseed, and even safflower and sunflower oil. And there are all these seasonings, especially mayonnaise, with soybean oil. There are salad dressings. And then there's restaurant food, and it's simple. Yeah, just try to find food in a restaurant that wasn't prepared with seed oils, especially if you eat something fried in a restaurant. Appetizers that are eaten for appetite are full of omega-6 fatty acids. You might not see the connection, but look at how you feel the next day after a restaurant. You might have bloating, heaviness in the intestines, probably from these oils. I won't even talk about fast food restaurants, about all these potatoes, or other examples. Well, what?  deep-fried in a huge amount of corn soybean oil at extremely high temperatures. And how many times do they use the same oil over and over again? I heard that this oil is not changed for weeks or months and all this oil is built into the membranes of our cells. Sugar can at least be burned during training. Yes, sugar causes vitamin deficiency. So they need to be replenished, but I advise you just not to eat it. Look at a long- distance runner, he eats glucose gel packets. There is a lot of glucose or maltodextrin, because of them, the runner loses a lot of nutrients. Of course, he will burn this energy, but he will have symptoms of hypoglycemia. If you are an athlete, you do not need a deficiency of vitamin B1, vitamin C, zinc, magnesium. You do not need a deficiency of them when running long distances. B1 is needed to utilize lactic acid, which is formed during glucose metabolism. And without B1, there can be severe muscle pain and many other problems, even lactic acidosis, which can affect breathing. And in restaurants, if you want to know where there is the most omega-6. Look at the menu for  children you will see food cooked in deep fat fries french fries of course deep- fried corn donuts macaroni and cheese everything is fully processed full of omega-6 fatty acids if you compare seed oil and sugar then omega-6 fatty acids are much much worse than sugar you need to know about one more very important point the ratio of omega-6 omega-3 should be one to one as I already said for the average person it is to one part omega-3 so this ratio is greatly disturbed another hidden source of omega-6 is the grain that animals are fed so when you eat store-bought grain-fed beef or grain-fed chickens or their eggs in such eggs 19.9 parts omega-6 to one part omega-3 a strong preponderance of omega-6 And in eggs from free-range chickens that are not fed GMOs they are not fed Tsoi the ratio is much better one and three tenths parts omega-6 to one  part of omega-3 and people find ways to improve this ratio if you feed chickens fish meal and it has more omega-3 and perhaps give them flaxseed which has three courses of omega-3 then the ratio will be even better 6.6 omega-6 to one part omega-3 which is much better and it can be one to one So in fact it depends on what the chickens are fed If you are looking for chicken eggs I highly recommend taking pastured organic eggs that is from chickens that graze on pasture and of course there is grain-fed beef as opposed to completely grass- fed I have a video about this there is an amazing study that shows the difference between grass-fed and grain-fed beef the differences are huge as a rule in grain-fed beef the ratio is nine to one nine parts omega-6 to one part omega-3 And in grass- fed beef the ratio is 2 to one I sent beef from my personal feed to this study farm and her ratio was close to 1, I think the ratio was one point one to one, which is better than most other farmers simply because my cows don't have the opportunity to eat any grain at all. And often, even if animals are fed grass, they can be supplemented with grain. We need more transparency in what we actually buy, and I think that in the future there will be more and more of it if I pay more for grass-fed food. I want to know that it is really grass-fed. What about other products, for example, nuts. Nuts have a lot of omega-6, but they also have a lot of phytonutrients that can compensate for all the complications from omega-6, whereas refined oils have nothing that can resist oxidation. So, even though nuts have a lot of omega-6, they are far from being as harmful. Again, you need to look at the whole picture to evaluate how harmful a product is in comparison with something else. If you peel nuts and make almond flour out of them, for example, then we will lose some of these protective factors. That is, if we take grains and make flour out of them, then  Even if they are whole, due to grinding, they will oxidize in the air and lose a lot. Well, customers. So, even if the products are made from whole, but purified, the fact that they are purified is still a problem. Another important point in connection with omega-6 fatty acids is the competition between omega-6 and omega-3 fats, they interfere with each other. So if you consume much more omega-3 fatty acids, fish oil or cod liver oil, which you need to eat, and at the same time eat a lot of omega-6, then they kind of cancel each other out. So, you need to reduce omega-6 and increase omega-3. I think it’s best to eat cod liver oil. It’s slightly better than fish oil, but you can also use fish oil. Cod liver oil has something else in it. It contains vitamins A and D. As for other oils, for example, frying oils, you need to use butter or ghee, coconut oil, lard, and virgin olive oil. It’s very important to fry with these oils. I want to touch on this at the last moment, I’m deeply studying the topic. DNA and I read a lot of research reports and Among all that is discovered, there is one common factor, this field of unsaturated fatty acids, they mention again and again in connection with the change in our What other changes in genes are we talking about the fact that the body has a very difficult time converting precursors such as alpha-lipoic acid into DHL or PA, these are omega-3 fatty acids. If we eat walnuts, flax seeds, and all that, there are precursors and it is difficult for us to convert them, while it is difficult for us to absorb some omega-3 fatty acids. So this is another reason why omega-3 fatty acids are so important. You need to consume fish oil or even commercial fish, sardines. This is very important when comparing these two things. We see that industrially produced seed oils with omega-6 are much more harmful than sugar. Although sugar can be burned during exercise, you can take vitamins to replenish them and, of course, they can protect. Even with high blood sugar, I wanted to make this important distinction since you cannot give everything the same importance in terms of how much something  Some things are much more harmful than others. We are pleased to present the Healthy Keto Summit 2020. 13 presentations, 9 hours of invaluable content from leading experts in the field of ketone health and intermittent fasting. Watch online at a convenient time, exclusively in Russian. Take your knowledge of ketone fasting and the functioning of your body to a new level. Who will speak at this summit? Author of books and popularizer of Keto, Dr. Eric Berg, will share amazing information about nutritional deficiencies that arise on Keto and intermittent fasting. We will also be visited by a qualified family physician, known as a nutritionist [music], author of books. And investigator Dr. Eric Westman, head of the Duke Life Style Clinic, will share with us practical knowledge of ketones that he gained working with thousands of patients. Professor Stephen Canany of Shirebrook University in Montreal will give a presentation in which he will share information about the effects of ketones on the aging brain and how ketones help cognitive functions. Cynthia Thurlow, a functional nutritionist who has spoken twice on Tedex. will talk about intermittent fasting strategies and present solutions to possible problems. We invited a doctor of general practitioners working in Amman in the Middle East. He will talk about how it affects the endocrine system and how he uses this diet in his practice. A biomechanical engineer will present his report on the effect of whale on the cardiovascular system and explain in simple terms the latest research results. Dr. [music] will also be there. Stephanie Person, a consultant keto trainer with an army of fans who introduced thousands of people around the world to Keto, will talk about available ways to take your results to a new level. We will have Isiimland, an author of books, a researcher and biohacker from Estonia. As an expert in intermittent fasting training, he will share interesting discoveries on longevity and physique described in his book Metabolic Autophagy. And finally, by popular demand, Nicholas Sakanos from Greece will return to us. His story will simply amaze you. He will tell how he became the first keto athlete in the Ironman competition in Europe and how  He changed his life this is 2020 in Russian is waiting for you. Record now.