Today we will discuss one very stupid advice, you can eat everything. But in moderation. I don’t know who came up with this idea, but the expression “in moderation” means avoiding extremes, consuming something in reasonable quantities, following common sense, maintaining balance. Of course, many say that the theta diet upsets the balance, that it is extreme to reduce carbohydrates so much and that there is no harmful food, you just need to know the limit in everything. We will analyze the reasons why this is very stupid. Firstly, low carbohydrates are actually not so low. If you do not compare this with what others eat, on average, people get 65% of calories from carbohydrates. For comparison, this is only five percent of calories come from carbohydrates. Although, perhaps, this is an extreme, it is really low carbohydrates. But even when we talk about a sense of proportion, it is subjective. Is 50 percent, 70 or 80 considered a moderate amount of carbohydrates? Let’s look at the normal blood sugar level. And this is a good indicator for comparison. The norm is 80 mg per deciliter or 4.4 millimoles per liter. In fact, the norm is a whole range. But this is the average value, but how much sugar is this if you take the whole  blood throughout the body Well If the sugar level is 4.4, then this is only one teaspoon of sugar. In one teaspoon of sugar, there are only 4.2 grams of carbohydrates, and this is very little, given that Nateta allows you up to 50 grams of carbohydrates. It looks like ketogenic diet is a high-carbohydrate diet. If you compare it with blood sugar, there is also insulin resistance, a more scientific name for this is carbohydrate tolerance. If you have, say, lactose intolerance or gluten intolerance. Can you consume milk sugar or gluten in moderation if you are allergic to something? Can you come into contact with this in moderation? Since most people have insulin resistance, when they consume carbohydrates in moderation or much more than 50 grams per day, this causes them a lot of all kinds of problems. The person already has carbohydrate intolerance, he already has insulin resistance. Therefore, it will only get worse for him. More insulin will be produced. He will have more fat in the belly, more fat in the liver, more problems with blood sugar and serious problems with the lipid profile, increased pressure Next on the list Yes, there are people who tolerate carbohydrates well, they are not the majority, but such people exist, it does not necessarily apply to them. Everything I am talking about, they tolerate carbohydrates better, I am focusing on the majority of the population, which is probably you. If you have insulin resistance, and you probably do, your ability to absorb nutrients will be lower, your ability to absorb potassium, B vitamins, calcium, magnesium and zinc will be lower due to receptors associated with insulin, which means that you will not be full because it is the nutrients that create feelings of satiety in us when we eat empty food without intravenous fluids, we do not feel that we are full and continue to eat, and this can lead to overeating. Let's move on to the next point of genetics. When I had a DNA test, I found out that I have a gene that is causing me problems, it is also called the sweet tooth gene, its designation you can now see on the screen. If you have a problem with this gene, I will explain in simple terms, your ability to get satisfaction from sweets is much lower than other people, this means that it is worth you  start eating sweets, it’s very difficult for you to stop, this is what’s been happening to me all my life. If I start, I can’t stop. I remember on Halloween I would collect huge bags of candy and then eat it all in one sitting. There are 38 more genes associated with diabetes. If you have mutations in any of these genes, you are more drawn to sweets. And you have a higher risk of developing diabetes. So, with this genetic feature, you not only want sweets, but you have a much higher risk of tooth decay due to the fact that you eat a lot of sweets. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. In addition to tooth decay, many other health problems arise: heart problems, liver problems, brain problems. The next topic is addictive food. When we talk about moderation in eating, we mainly mean junk food, possibly alcohol, treats and sweets. If you allow me to eat a moderate amount of Daritos chips, I won’t be able to do it. If I’ve already started, I have to eat the whole bag, regardless of its size. Of course, the combination of these incredibly flavorful corn chips with wonderful spices, but  There are no nutrients at all with additives like monosodium glutamate which stimulates hunger and doesn't let you get full, you go for that delicious food. But it doesn't have the nutrients that turn off hunger, so for example, I can't stop. Try just biting off just one piece of a chocolate chip cookie and see what happens. This is, of course, very, very bad advice. There is also the topic of refined foods in general, such as pizza, chips, candy, cookies. There are few nutrients in such foods, so it is very difficult to maintain a sense of proportion. When you eat this, the body simply doesn't get saturated, which brings us to the last point. Any food stimulates insulin, and insulin increases hunger. If you have a small snack, it stimulates hunger and you can't stop. You can't go long without food. Eating becomes an almost continuous process. It's a trap. Once you've fallen, you have to eat every hour and a half, so the idea that you can eat everything. But in moderation, this is stupid in all respects. It's hard to show willpower when low blood sugar makes you eat again and again. The mind switches off. Check it out yourself. Go to the grocery store with your children when they  If they get hungry, walk past the chip aisle or other junk food and see what happens. They will extort money from you. These empty carbohydrates are the only way to burn fat. Reduce your carbohydrate intake to 50 grams or less. This is the only way to switch your metabolism to burning excess fat. This is the only way to make your fat reserves your main source of energy and not be hungry. When you burn fat, hunger goes away and everything starts working. It will be easier for you to follow the program when the need for sugar disappears. When you are full and do not feel hungry. When you do not eat, your body eats its own fat. But only if you reduce carbohydrates below 50 grams. A low-carb diet solves many health problems. If you are new to my channel or have fallen off the diet and want to get back on it, start by watching this video.