awesome recipes scarron and critic hello today is another video from the series about cheesecakes let's say just like some kind of TV series with recipes these are a fat bomb looks like a cheesecake specifically these are called chocolate-nut seed fat bean I'm a fan of adjectives wow let's try here there is definitely salt in the recipe and not but I took salted sunflower seeds if suddenly you want something salty seriously okay you can cut that out that was strange no and the only thing was your laughter listen well I'm just trying to tell the recipe okay with you you won't get bored so I have a question a woman's question but I adore women when such what I said women in general the women's question between men and women there is a big difference we don't cut anything like that you can't skip the thing is that based on my research women's nutrition look I love variety and different products while men can eat the same thing every day I wouldn't say that when addressing very much if you are Italian or a gourmet and write in  In the comments, either this is a general statement, we are talking generally about all women, namely men, and that is why we prepare all these different tetta bombs. More precisely, you prepare them so that it doesn't get boring. For example, I personally could eat the same tetta bombs every day. You eat the same thing every day, exactly like this, every day. I just wanted to point out this small difference. Do you think that if you eat 1 skin every day, all men are absolutely the same, even men? If you are a man and you agree with me, write below. Let's show them the recipe. Put 70 grams of almonds in a blender or food processor. Add 50 grams of pecans. Grind until fine, not into a paste or flour. 85 grams of cream cheese, two tablespoons of butter, 4 tablespoons of any color sweetener, for example, these three, then 60 grams of compatible chocolate drops. Mix well and refrigerate for 10 minutes. Form balls about four centimeters. roll in sunflower seeds bon appétit