Well, okay, first I published a book in which I claimed that it is best to have breakfast, that breakfast is the most important meal, then I changed my point of view. No, no, this is false information, no breakfast, fasting. And now I am changing my point of view again and advise having breakfast, what is happening, listen to me and you will understand everything, because sometimes when you learn new data that allows you to do something better, you need to be ready to at least study them and maybe even try them to understand if it has become better. My goal is not to prove my rightness but to achieve better results. And unfortunately, especially in science, there are scientists who have their own favorite theories and my God, they are very closed-minded and simply cannot change their point of view on their theories. I think this is not necessary, so I will tell you something and maybe your opinion will change too. I am not saying that this is necessary to do this, but just listen. There are different factors. There is your diet, there is fasting, your fasting regimen. Personally, I fast for 20 hours and eat during a 4-hour window, but there is also the time at which you do all this, at what time you go for the first time at noon.  three o'clock in the evening At first I thought that it wasn't that important I thought like this: I go to bed in the evening and when I get up in the morning I'm already starving Why eat? You just need to continue fasting as long as possible It seemed to work well, but recently something happened to me that made me take a closer look at my meal times About two weeks ago I ate very late and ate a lot of protein and that night I hardly slept and then I started thinking Firstly, protein stimulates and wakes up the body If you eat a lot of protein late in the evening it's also bad So I started looking for information on this topic and found That's what early meals are, limited nutrition and on this topic There are quite a lot of serious studies In fact, earlier meals are a little better aligned with circadian rhythms I found this interesting Especially because it affected my sleep In fact, the whole idea is to follow your schedule but shift it to an earlier time and not eat, say, after three o'clock in the afternoon I'll present you with some scientific data on this topic It's very interesting An improvement in the Homo and R index was noted What is Homo and R is an analysis of insulin resistance, that is, essentially An increase in insulin sensitivity was noted. So this is great. Number two, sugar levels improved. In the course of these studies, there are links below. They did not change the diet. They did not change the eating pattern. They only changed the hours of eating and nothing else, and the sugar decreased. Number three, the response of beta cells improved. They produce insulin in the pancreas and they began to respond better. What is interesting is number four, a decrease in appetite in the evenings was noted. You know, many people snack in the evenings. If you really get rid of appetite in the evenings, completely eliminate food cravings, this will be beneficial. Number five, an improvement in insulin levels after eating was noted. After eating, there is a surge in insulin, so these surges have become smaller. That is, insulin control after eating has obviously improved. Number six, increased autophagy. Number seven, I already mentioned this. This is somewhat better suited to the rhythms of the body. Apparently, in the evening, the activity of genes associated with food decreases. It should decrease, not increase. But if you eat too late, these genes begin to activate, and since they are associated with the digestive system, this wakes you up and worsens sleep. In my opinion, this is extremely interesting. So, I eat according to this scheme. 20 hours of fasting, a four-hour window for eating, I will eat at 9 am, this is the first meal, the second meal is at 1 pm, and that’s it, after this time I will not eat anything. This allows you to solve another problem: a small surge in cortisol at 8 am, because of it, many people experience a wave of hunger. I always advised just to endure it. But if you eat at 9 am and then at 1 pm or at 3:00 pm, if you have a slightly different scheme, then you can get more results in moving towards your goal, but the disadvantage of this is this. If you meet with your family for dinner, then this is a problem, the regime will be disrupted. But I’m not even saying that you should follow this scheme. I just urge you to think about it. If you want to achieve a little more, I will stay on this scheme for a couple more weeks. So far, everything is going well, but I’m not yet completely convinced of the benefits of this. I will live according to this scheme. A little more and see what happens. But I like the idea, I like the results already achieved, my sleep is improving. In general, I just wanted to introduce you to this idea. You can follow it or not, it depends on your situation and results. Since we are talking about blood sugar, I recently made a video about  A wonderful spice that can be used to further lower blood sugar. Watch this video.