awesome recipes from korn & eric healthy candies almond joy it's me again with my beloved wife karon hi what are we making karon almond joy candies with chocolate coconut and almonds super these are organic raw candies without sugar the recipe is very simple and quick of course you cook them longer than you eat they are too delicious so it ends quickly it's an addiction I have several candy recipes and during the holidays that's what you need let's go so 4 cups of coconut flakes pour into a food processor now it will be loud so I'll tell you everything right away you need to pour about three quarters of a cup of melted coconut oil in this until this coconut filling can be made in different ways you can in the form of a thick paste I like it more liquid it is much easier to work with and I like it simpler now you need to beat it until it becomes liquid it will not turn into such a liquid not too liquid but not dry with lumps although I don't like when the coconut mixture is too sweet I add  A little bit of stevia is coconut stevia, I'll use it too, it won't ruin the taste, you can use any, it will be delicious, how many drops I added was about 8 drops, okay, I'll turn it on again to mix everything well, these are the ingredients of the candy, it's ready, now let's go to the stove and make chocolate, it's very easy to prepare, you need one and a half cups of chocolate drops of mine, and with stevia from lilies, melt it in a water bath with a full tablespoon of coconut oil, so it will be very easy to work with the glaze, I'll take a spatula, you see, it immediately begins to melt, stir the drops all the time, and it will melt in a few minutes, it will all melt, it will become tender, and it will be easy to work with the mixture, be careful, and if you cook it on high heat, the chocolate will turn into a thick paste at the bottom, we don't need this, if necessary, add more coconut oil to make the mixture smoother, cook over medium heat, not on high, if lumps begin to form, just remove the bowl from the water, stirring constantly, because the chocolate continues to melt, you see what a wonderful consistency it is, even if you don't put the bowl back on  the lumps in the chocolate will melt everything is very simple we are back back if in this recipe and you need to be creative, then at this stage everything depends on your taste I use these molds they are sold in any craft store here is a mold like for Hershey bars or such chocolate bars today I will take this one I tried different ways chocolate on the bottom then coconut as you like today I will start with almonds the secret is in a large amount of almonds and in new almonds fill the small cells with almonds do not overdo it and because you need to leave space you will help to the place for chocolate and coconut but I like when you come across a large piece of almond oda do the almonds let's move on this is a very quick process I scoop up chocolate with a spoon and pour it over the almonds you need to understand that if you use whole almonds like ours ston it will not fill the mold tightly probably my chocolate is already too cool pour the chocolate so that it sinks to the bottom of the mold fill all the cells with chocolate you can quickly and pour everything with icing and then Lightly tap the table so that the chocolate settles to the bottom and don't forget to leave room for the coconut. Once the chocolate is a cell, you can put it in the freezer. Place the mold in the freezer for about ten minutes and then let's get to the box. Let me take it. We took the chocolate-almond part of the bar out of the freezer. 10 minutes passed, everything is frozen. Take the coconut filling, which has this consistency: it's not runny, but flows easily from a spoon. That's what you need. We take a small amount of coconut mixture and put it on top and compact it a little. If you've already filled the mold, there will be a little overflow. It's okay, this mixture is quite thick and holds its shape, but you can just put it on top and wait until it settles on its own. If you're a big fan of coconut and want more of it, then just put less chocolate in. You can take larger molds of different types, for example, in the shape of flowers or something else. We like this. The bars separate well into pieces. You see, the coconut filling has an excellent consistency, it's easy.  It spreads and penetrates into all the gaps. We've finished with coconut, and now we'll put the mold in the freezer for another 5-10 minutes. The coconut will harden and it's ready. Here are the candies. This is what they look like when they're ready. They're so beautiful. You can give them to someone, but it's better to eat them yourself. Everything is legit, they're amazing, they're so delicious that you won't want to share.