Today we will show you a technique on how to get rid of tinnitus and noise or ringing in the ears. This technique was not developed by me but by Dr. Jay Stroydom. I already released a video about this 45 years ago, but many people have never seen it and can’t find it. I want to quickly read you a few success stories from that video. They were in the comments. So, the first one is that I have had ringing in my ears for many years. Today it was very bad and I just found this video. I immediately tried it. Instant relief. The ringing didn’t go away completely, but it got better. The next one is that I have had such problems for many years. I work as a musician with loud bands. I rated the ringing in my right ear at 5 points. Before the experiment, after four repetitions, I didn’t notice a difference, but after 8 repetitions, the noise in my right ear died down a little and its high-frequency component disappeared completely. Now there is hope. Thank you. I have been suffering from ringing in my ears for at least ten years. I swear, it dropped from 7 or 8 points to two or three after performing the exercise three times. And here’s another thing I have  I had been ringing in my ears 24/7 for at least three years. The ringing subsided after 4 times. I will continue. Thank you and the last comment I will read. I could barely hold back my tears. It really helped. I was almost going crazy and panicking, but everything went away. Thank you so much. In simple terms, what is tinnitus? It is the auditory perception of noise when there is no noise. The word tinnitus comes from the Latin tinira, meaning to ring. The English word for noise is from the Latin word meaning nausea, disgust, discomfort, pain, injury, and damage. In the evenings, you may feel terrible because of the constant ringing or sand in your ears. This can develop from a simple nuisance into a serious problem and can literally ruin your life. Okay, I'll tell you about the technique. The source of this problem is not in the ear itself. The cause lies in the part of the nervous system connected to the brain. There are receptors in the ears that perceive sound waves. Your ear then converts these vibrations into electrical impulses, which the brain interprets as sounds of a certain pitch, and there is a main nerve that connects the inner ear.  with the part of the brain that interprets sounds, it's called the auditory cortex, and the nerve is called red, right, the cochlea, you're the nerve, I'll show you how to reboot it and turn off the noise, and I slightly modified this technique, but below is a link from which you can get more data from the developer of this method, you need to tap your fingers, place your index fingers on top of your middle fingers, I'm not showing you the middle finger, and you need to kind of snap them, as you see here at the back of your skull, at the back of your skull, there is a small protrusion, the back of your head, draw a straight line from your ear to the back of your head, this is where you need to tap, do your fingers like this and tap like this, like this, you snap your fingers while tapping on the back of your skull, this is how you send signals to the vestibular cochlea, you're the nerve, which it sends to the brain, apparently there is something like a short circuit or a glitch in the brain's computer, but before you start, please rate your condition on a scale of 0 to 10, where 10 is a huge problem, and 0 is no problem at all, do it right now, write it down  In the comments, after using the technique, evaluate your condition again, showing the result to me and others. So, you have evaluated yourself, then start tapping. Do this: 23 20 damn, pause the video and do this exercise 20 times. The next step is to re-evaluate your condition. The perception of this noise. If you received a lower score, write it down. Essentially, you need to do a series of taps on the back of your head and then re-evaluate the intensity of the noise. All this needs to be repeated about eight times. As you remember, in one of the stories, a person did not see any changes until he repeated this eight times, and so on, 8 times, 20 taps. If you see that this helps you, continue to practice this technique daily, several times a day, until you reach 0. But if you do not see an improvement, the reason may be something else. It does not work for everyone. If the technique does not work for you, I can recommend something else. Find a drug called benfotiamine. I will not name the specific brand. Take one hundred and fifty milligrams 3 times a day. Benfotiamine is a fat-soluble vitamin. B1, which is able to penetrate the brain, sometimes becomes the source of problems, insulin resistance, problems with the nervous system arise because this condition affects the nerves. It can affect the autonomic nervous system, the peripheral nerves of the hands and feet, as well as the nerves in the inner ear. So, benfotiamine can sometimes help the prince of resistance, and this is the real problem. So try this technique and write in the comments about your successes and results. For those who haven't watched my video about benfotiamine or vitamins B1, here is a link to it. Take a look.