Hi, I was recently asked what I think about alkaline water. I decided to make a short video about it. Usually, store-bought bottled water, bottled well or spring water, is already alkaline. The reason for this is alkaline minerals, magnesium, calcium, potassium, and some others. They make water alkaline. Bicarbonates are also alkaline. This water is useful. But when a machine makes alkaline water, it doesn't add trace elements. It separates water molecules using electricity, artificially making water alkaline. Over 29 years of practice, I've seen a lot of people who drank alkaline water. I have a device that measures the pH of urine. I noticed that many of these people have a urine pH of 9. A pH of five or six is ​​considered normal for urine. 9 is already much higher than normal. 9 is already alkaline. The problem is that if your urine has such a high pH. If it is so alkaline, you are deprived of any protection from microbes. As a result, it is easier for microbes to multiply in the body. Because high acidity in urine allows you to kill microbes. So, I know that alkaline water does not change the chemistry of your body's three fluids in the best way.  Gastric juice is supposed to have high acidity, urine should have very high acidity, and colonic juice should have all these fluids be acidic for a reason. An acidic environment in the stomach is necessary for proteins to be broken down. It also helps us absorb trace elements and kills microbes. Alkaline water is not something natural for the body. If you drink it, it can lower the acidity of various body fluids. This can create problems with digestion, in particular with the functioning of the colon and even urine. There will be more microbes in your body. This will also affect the absorption of electrolytes. Electrolytes are needed primarily by the heart. It needs the correct ratio of electrolytes. If you make your pH neutral and deprive the body of electrolytes, this can lead to heart problems. This was a long answer to the question. I do not recommend alkaline water. If you decide to drink alkaline water, drink the one that nature made alkaline, not a machine. Thank you for watching. I want to tell you something. Only 30 percent of people who open this video watch it to the end. And you watched it to the end. I really appreciate it.  I am grateful, thank you very much