Hi, I want to record a short video about the so-called m.p.   The topic itself is quite extensive, so this is just to give you a general idea of ​​​​the electromagnetic field. In short, these are just certain energy waves and they can harm our DNA. Some people are more sensitive to these waves than others. However, your smartphone, the Wi-Fi router that distributes the network in your home, microwaves, Bluetooth devices, a computer monitor, a charger that charges your phone when it is next to your head while you sleep. They all create certain energy fields that can affect the body. Here I have a portable sensor. It beeps like this. It picks up an electromagnetic field. You can buy one if you want. I'll show you a cell phone. You can see for yourself. It works quite actively. Here, the closer you hold it to your head, the bigger the problem. Another problem is that when you search for information on this topic, scientists say it is safe. Asbestos was also considered safe for 99 years, trans fats for 60 years, and smoking was considered safe for about 46 years. It's a matter of time. But in my opinion, the problem is that just imagine if they write that it acts destructively. Imagine how many problems immediately await the manufacturers personally.  I don't want to scare anyone or cause panic, but a cell phone affects energy levels and triples the risk of gliomas and brain tumors if you hold a cell phone to your head for a long time. Therefore, if you use a phone, turn on speakerphone and try not to hold it close to your head. I try to use a headset, although I do n't like talking on the phone. Sometimes I have to, but I don't like it. But be sure to buy an anti- radiation headset. They come in different types, but this one has an air tube instead of a wire through which the signal is transmitted by an electromagnetic field directly to the head. It's a hollow tube and it's much safer and can be found in online stores. Choose those with good reviews. This way, you can reduce the impact of MB on the brain and minimize harm. Here are the MP at home and at work. Be sure to look at the links in the description. We'll measure the MP electromagnetic field [music]. We'll check here. Oh yeah, and the monitor. Wow, I don't think you should sit so close. That's it. Don't put your head close to that thing. Yes, keep your head away from the monitor I'm curious about  What would you like to learn about in the next videos? Follow the link in the description and share your thoughts. I'm interested.