Let's talk about endometriosis, what is it? Very simply, it's when endometrial tissue and partially connective tissue grows and it has immune properties. Therefore, one of the main symptoms of endometriosis is chronic inflammation, pain in the pelvic area, it also affects the menstrual cycle, it is the cause of infertility, painful intercourse, and there are other symptoms. The key to understanding endometriosis is that it is glandular tissue. This means that the endometrial tissue is sensitive to hormones, mainly estrogens. Therefore, women with estrogen dominance have a high risk of developing this condition. Rome, the causes of this problem. Let's start with the most obvious. It's something that you regularly expose the organ to. I'm talking about a tampon, you say it ca n't be. After all, I use natural cotton. Did you know that 94% of all cotton grown in the US is GMO, and the type of GMO used to produce cotton is a version of BT, which essentially turns cotton into an insecticide. What will happen to the body under the influence of an insecticide? Here, everything is limited only by your imagination. This is the first reason and Of course I recommend women to use only organic tampons men will tell us what to worry about did you know that GMO cotton is fed to cattle animals eat this cotton and products from these animals can end up on your plate if it is not organic grass-fed meat grass- fed meat may not be organic after all after grass- fed animals can be fattened for 4 months on grain regular GMO grain So you need to eat organic meat and if possible completely grass- fed this is very important the next most important food group to avoid is dairy products Why is milk intended for babies That is why NM has a lot of hormones for growth and here unnecessary tissue is already growing So you do not need extra growth factors in food to avoid creating unnecessary problems So it is better to give up dairy products If you have this disease or estrogen dominance I want to say this too chemicals such as insecticides herbicides pesticides fungicides mimic estrogens in the body That is why GMOs are a problem And that is why products from  Animals are fed grains from feed, mostly GMO grains such as soy and corn, and if it's not organic grain, you are exposed to the herbicide glyphosate. Glyphosate also gets into dairy products and acts in the body like estrogens. And then there's soy, soy is also an estrogen product. This is especially true for soy protein isolate and soybean oil. I would definitely avoid soy products. As for GMO products, the problem is how to recognize them in the store, because manufacturers are not required to label them as GMOs. But with organic food, you are safe. Furthermore, grains have a strong inflammatory effect and are usually homo. If you eliminate gluten and all grains, your blood sugar levels will be better, and inflammation levels will decrease. Furthermore, a lot of the sugar consumed in the US is not derived from cane. It is derived from sugar beets, and sugar beets are mostly GMOs. As you can see, we are indirectly exposed to many chemicals in things that you may not even consider chemicals. I recommend eating only organic foods. I would also use a natural complex.  Vitamin C and also a vitamin E complex including tocotrienol and tocopherols. There are very interesting studies on animals, not on humans, but still, an improvement was achieved in endometriosis thanks to vitamins C and E. I will leave a link. So this can help especially in the presence of inflammation and these antioxidants absorb some of the free radicals that are formed here. Another important thing is Emen is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent and of course omega-3 fatty acids are very good at helping reduce inflammation. And lastly, the body has an enzyme called aromatase that converts testosterone into estrogen. This can happen in both men and women. So, part of the reason for estrogen dominance may be testosterone, so a good remedy in this case would be taking an aromatase inhibitor and one of the best is stinging nettle root. Taking it as a supplement will probably help you. This is my review and my recommendations for endometriosis. I invite you to my course. Ovarian body type. This is a course for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. This is expressed externally.  In the case of fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen, my course will help you restore women's health. My unique videos, food lists, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.