Today we'll talk about the benefits of energy drinks. In theory, an energy drink should increase brain activity, add endurance during physical activity, and recharge cells, but in reality, most energy drinks cause brain fog, reduce productivity and endurance, and their ingredients deplete cells. The main problem with energy drinks is that the ingredients don't provide real energy. The two main components of energy drinks are caffeine and sugar. Take Red Bull, for example. 250 milliliters contain 80 milligrams of caffeine, 480 milliliters of Monster contains 180 milligrams of caffeine, 480 milliliters of Rockstar contain 160 milligrams. A small bottle of Five for Energy, 50 milliliters of which contains 200 milligrams of caffeine. You know, caffeine isn't fuel, it's a stimulant. It creates a feeling of a surge of energy, but in reality, it just turns on the adrenal glands. The next problem is the crazy amount of sugar in energy drinks. One of these drinks contains about 36 grams of sugar. This is insane. Your blood sugar levels skyrocket.  up and then the hormone insulin is produced which sharply reduces it after that you will be extremely tired irritable and grumpy and you will want to drink more because you need to increase energy with caffeine and sugar this is a vicious circle some believe that since during exercise energy and glucose in the muscles are consumed, they need to be replenished with the help of an energy drink give the body sugar and everything will be restored for the most part the sugar in an energy drink is not just glucose it is fructose like high fructose corn syrup in dextrose artificial corn syrup or in regular qq syrup you get a decent amount of fructose and what many do not understand fructose only gets to the liver it does not get to the muscles it does not get anywhere except the liver so it will not restore muscles will not give energy to cells or the brain but will simply be deposited as fat on the stomach until I forget if you have not subscribed yet click on the red button and the bell icon to receive notifications about new videos that will be released on the channel in the coming weeks I will release some cool interesting videos in addition you will receive a notification about  I live broadcast in which I answer questions, you don't want to miss them, and so for what purpose do you drink an energy drink for energy? The question is, why do you feel tired at all? Are you getting enough sleep? Do you have enough nutrients? When choosing an energy drink, look for these two nutrients in the ingredients. The most popular sports or energy drink contains 270 milligrams of sodium. This is not an element that will give a lot of energy, and potassium contains only 75 milligrams. Our body requires 4,700 milligrams every day, and 75 milligrams does not even come close to covering the daily need for potassium. I won't even mention sugar. These are the main ingredients of the most popular energy drink. Find an energy drink that contains all the electrolytes. Electrolytes are electrically charged elements that help charge cells, muscle cells, and nerve cells. These elements allow electricity to flow through the body. One of the main functions of potassium is to help recharge the cell's battery. All cells hold an electrical charge to maintain heart rate, contract or relax muscles, and also to transmit nerve impulses. The key to this is  Magnesium is an element that maintains the battery's full capacity and prevents cellular energy leakage. Magnesium nourishes the mitochondria, the energy plants of the cell that produce all the energy. Without magnesium, there won't be enough energy. So, if you want an energy drink to be beneficial, make sure it doesn't contain any caffeine or sugar but does contain a large amount of electrolytes. Thanks for watching. If you haven't subscribed yet, click the red button and the bell icon to receive notifications about new videos that will be released on the channel in the coming weeks. I'll be releasing several cool, interesting videos. In addition, you will receive notifications about live broadcasts in which I answer questions. You don't want to miss them, do you? Stay tuned for updates.