I want to give you interesting information on how to stop convulsions and seizures if they occur. What is a seizure or convulsion? It is an uncontrolled shaking of either the whole body or some part of it with varying degrees of awareness. Some people lose consciousness completely, others are partially aware of what is happening. A seizure is a separate episode of such a phenomenon, and epilepsy is a disease in which such attacks are multiple and constant. They are provoked by various factors: fever, head injury, brain infection, suffocation, alcohol or withdrawal syndrome. They are caused by extremely low blood sugar, as well as some drugs and toxins. By the way, I will note that since we are talking about toxins and that they cause convulsions, vitamin B6 is an effective means of reducing toxicity, and of course, types of stress and even high blood pressure can cause an attack of convulsions. There are many theories about the occurrence of convulsions. But it is usually believed that this is hyperexcitability of the nerves. If you read about convulsions on Wikipedia, you will learn a lot of interesting things. A detailed description of convulsions and various medications for them, but unfortunately with a bunch of side effects. A  When you finish reading about the ketogenic diet, you learn that the evidence for the effectiveness of the hetogenic diet is of low quality, but the ketogenic diet can be used for one specific type of epilepsy, namely, epilepsy that does not respond to medication. If medications do not work, you can use the keto diet. In my opinion, this is very interesting. This is an excellent marketing strategy for the ketogenic diet as a backup method in case medications do not work. The truth is that there is data showing that the ketogenic diet is very effective and eliminates seizures in 50-70 percent of cases. Many professional doctors in different hospitals use it. But there are several major differences between the ketogenic diet used in the treatment of children and the keto diet that is currently being used. Perhaps you are eating the main difference that I see is that they use. Especially for children, perhaps the dirtiest keto diet possible, its components are very unhealthy. Dirty ketogenic diet implies the use of any available type of food, regardless of their quality. The main thing is that the diet should be low in carbohydrates. The ratio used for epilepsy  The ratio of fats and proteins is slightly skewed in favor of fats, approximately four to one, there should be four times more fats than proteins. With this approach, the degree of ketosis will be deeper, and the deeper your ketosis, the better the results for the brain. I will say a few words about ketones because ketones are a real solution to seizures and many other brain problems. What is ketone? It is a product of fat breakdown. Some call it an alternative energy source. Although this source is not an alternative, it is the main source of fuel that our body is designed for. Glucose. Here is an alternative source. If you do not agree, then how do you explain that our body is adapted to store and use much more fat than glucose. If glucose were the primary source of fuel, we would not be here now. Many years ago, people did not have buffets. There were not as many different snacks as there are now. We had to hunt for food. It happened that they did not eat for several days. That is why our bodies were originally adapted to use their own fat reserves and produce ketones. We have only a limited amount of glucose stored in the liver in our body. It will last for about a day, and everything from a survival point of view. Fat and ketones are really the main source of fuel to which we are adapted. But we turned everything upside down. Now we think that sugar is normal and that you can eat a lot of carbohydrates because it is supposedly the main source of fuel for the brain and this has led to a bunch of problems with blood sugar in diabetes and type 3 diabetes, Alzheimer's disease. Glucose has a very bad effect on the brain. If the brain has a choice between ketones and glucose, it will always choose it as a fuel even if there is both in the blood. So the brain loves it. Well, let's talk about ketones in the context of the topic of the video. Ketones have wonderful properties. One of them is an anticonvulsant effect. What is a convulsion? It is a spasm, sudden, sharp, involuntary movements of the body. Ketones stabilize the excitability of neurons. If neurons are hyperexcitable and uncontrolled, ketones can calm them down. Ketones also modulate or control neurotransmitters. Ketones do a lot of things for the brain, including the hippocampus, the main part of the brain responsible for memory and learning. Many who do not follow Keto can cause problems like dementia. It has been found that ketones increase mitochondrial biogenesis in the hippocampus by 43 percent. And the connection between epilepsy is undoubtedly due to ketones protecting the brain and protecting neurons from oxidative stress. Ketones increase the amount of ATP in neurons, thereby improving their function much more effectively than glucose. A solution to seizure problems. This is a healthy version of the ketogenic diet. I will give some products that are given to children on this ketogenic diet, but first I will list all the side effects that occur with such a diet. Firstly, hypoglycemia. The only reason for hypoglycemia on this diet is that you are not in ketosis long enough for the body to adapt. You may have so much on weekends, but not on weekdays. There is one point when you no longer consume the same amount of glucose. Foods that are low in carbohydrates will cause your blood sugar to drop. But you will not feel bad, but the fact that you are not giving your body sugar will manifest itself in low blood sugar, it can drop to 3.8 and sometimes even to 3.2 and you will feel great, but sometimes people panic without understanding. Oh my God, this is dangerous. I have hypoglycemia, but there are no symptoms. And you are advised to drink orange juice or eat sweets every 20 minutes to raise sugar, this will only make the problem worse. The solution to hypoglycemia is to make sure that the body has adapted to the diet and you can live on fat fuel and are no longer subject to fluctuations in blood sugar. Another side effect of such a diet is acidosis in the body, an environment that is too acidic, this can also lead to such a side effect as kidney stones, such a side effect as vomiting, nausea, insomnia, but there is a simple solution. Just follow a healthy version of the keto diet and you will neutralize the acidity created by ketones by eating more alkaline, non-starchy vegetables. We will talk about this later. I just wanted to say that there is a very simple solution. But if you are on a dirty version of the keto diet, you will have a bunch of side effects and how to follow this. You will not last long. And also add to  Water, lemons and limes contain citrates, so you can reduce the risk of developing kidney stones. Not to mention that you need to drink enough water, 2.5 liters a day, and you definitely won't get kidney stones. Of course, if you're a child, you don't need that much water. There are other side effects caused by deficiencies, and of course, when someone in the hospital prescribes a ketogenic diet, they don't distinguish between synthetic vitamins and natural vitamins from food. You'll be given synthetics and other substances that aren't particularly useful, but there are several groups of vitamins that you should always keep in mind on the theta diet. The first is group B vitamins, especially B1; the second is electrolytes, potassium, magnesium, calcium, sodium, chlorides, and other minerals, including trace elements. I also recommend omega-3 fatty acids. Cod liver oil is best, but fish oil is also possible. Another side effect is a skin rash, which most often occurs from a deficiency of omega-3 fatty acids that isn't replenished. I'll explain why this rash occurs now.  Let's move on to what is the typical diet of these children on the dirty one. They are recommended such things as sugar-free jelly, sugar-free soda, mayonnaise, which has a lot of soybean oil, which has a lot of omega-6 acids that lead to skin problems and brain inflammation. Heavy whipped cream, that is, regular whipped cream from grain-fed cows, which has a huge amount of omega-6. Saccharin is also allowed there, this is an artificial sweetener and all that. There are questions about it. There is also such a thing as Keto kale shake powder, and its main ingredient is refined soybean oil, and it is in powder form. There is also casein, milk protein, and lactose, milk sugar, corn syrup concentrate. I don't know why it is there. Whey protein powder, and there are also two oils from mushrooms. These are the ones that are used in the processing of these oils, chemical solvents are used, which are neurotoxins. And when you want to give the brain nutrition, you shouldn't use neurotoxins. Side effects from these oils include diarrhea, vomiting, bloating, and dehydration. So, here's what I recommend for your child or you if you have seizures.  A ketogenic diet is definitely needed. How to produce ketones is possible with a low-carb diet, but only a healthy version. And also intermittent fasting. If this is for a child, then just three meals a day without snacks and the food should be healthy enough against seizures in adults. You can create ketones and enter deep ketosis by switching to one meal a day and fasting. This is a powerful thing. Ketones can also be taken as a supplement to increase their amount. Remember, if there is a choice, even if you are not on a pure keto diet, if there are ketones in the blood, the brain always prefers ketones to glucose. Another tip for those who need to increase ketones for the brain is to eat foods that are high in fat and slightly less protein because excess protein stimulates insulin, which will take you out of ketosis. Various sausages are rich in fat more than protein. You do not need lean proteins. Another way to get more fat is to buy fattier steaks. Do not take lean ones. If you go, eat chicken. Eat with the skin. Do not eat lean chicken breast. Cook with butter. Add herbal oil.  fattening to vegetables And you definitely need to eat more non-starchy vegetables as much as possible, this will solve the problem of tetracidosis, the pH problem will give the necessary minerals, help cleanse the liver of fat, which will be excreted from avocados are very fatty, you can also eat fatty nuts like macadamia nuts and pecans, eggs are very fatty, cod liver oil is very useful for a child, you can buy cod liver oil with almost no fish taste, it has a lemon flavor. I take this, there is no fish taste at all, I drink it, it is easy to drink, 2 tablespoons a day, they do not have enough B vitamins, you can get them from nutritional yeast. I like to add nutritional yeast not enriched to leafy salad dressings like olive oil or balsamic vinegar, yeast gives a cheesy taste, this way you can get all the B vitamins. You can also add exercise. Exercise also increases ketones in the body. So, Take a deep breath and it will greatly help against cramps. I have some more information about an excellent diet in which a little more fat and less protein will be this video. Look here