Many men have the problem of erectile dysfunction. They try different medications like Viagra. I think there are four other drugs. Sometimes it helps, sometimes it doesn't, and sometimes there are side effects. Of course, ideally, you need to find the root cause and eliminate it. Or at least take something that doesn't cause such side effects, which, by the way, are quite numerous even without minor side effects: headaches, low blood pressure, dizziness, and even heart attacks. Any medication has dangerous side effects. This doesn't mean that I advise you not to take medications. Discuss all my advice with your doctor before using them. If you search the Internet, they write everywhere that this problem is complex and has many unknowns. They combine hormonal imbalances, neurological problems, and vascular problems. Risk factors include age, smoking, alcohol, obesity, diabetes, stress, heart disease, and inflammation. This is clear. What is the real essence of this problem? That's what I want to know. I always find answers. By studying the mechanism of action of drugs, if you take Viagra, for example, it works by inhibiting one enzyme. In general, most drugs either inhibit or stimulate some enzyme.  Enzymes are proteins that perform specific functions. In the case of Viagra, it inhibits the FD5 enzyme, which is responsible for the smooth muscles of the male penis. In simple terms, a whole series of changes occurs when taking an inhibitor of this enzyme. The end result is an increase in nitric monoxide, which affects the nerves and blood vessels, providing a long-lasting erection due to the fact that the smooth muscles are relaxed and blood flow to the penis is facilitated, and venous outflow is absent. Essentially, nitric monoxide retains blood in the organ. This is how this drug works. I, of course, had a question. Is there a natural FD5 inhibitor? The answer is yes, there are other solutions. This mechanism works indirectly. There are other means that directly increase nitric monoxide, which again does what I just described. For example, there is nitroglycerin cream, which acts directly and faster, with fewer side effects, but they still exist. Its dosage should be discussed with a doctor. Some also use something like el-arginine, an amino acid, there are even studies proving its effectiveness. So here's another option on my channel.  There were videos about zinc, zinc increases testosterone and sperm count, but apparently there are no real studies that it helped with corrective dysfunction. But here are four points that I will talk about today: the first fasting, links to all the studies below, fasting can increase nitric monoxide. Over the years of practice, I have seen many success stories when erectile dysfunction receded in those who began fasting, of course. Here, apparently, the fact is that they had problems with blood sugar, excess weight, diabetes or insulin resistance, and of course, fasting helps. There are also plant-based versions of this FD5 inhibitor, Horny Goat Weed, forskolin, and black ginger. They helped many people, and there are much fewer side effects. Exercise also helps, especially weight lifting or intense training with good recovery. Because with severe stress and lack of sleep, all the benefits will be reduced to nothing. This is another trustworthy method and there are good studies about it. And the fourth thing I will talk about is a very interesting technique called low-intensity shock wave therapy. The name shock wave is some  It's scary. But these are low-intensity shock waves. It seems this therapy is used for many things with different wave intensities. It is used to crush kidney stones. It is used for bursitis and tandinitis because by lowering the wave intensity, you can create an anti-inflammatory effect. These devices are available in special centers where you can go for these procedures. There are also devices for self-use. They work by creating microtraumas of very small injuries, just like during training, which subsequently leads to an increase in the number of neovascularization vessels. Plaques are also destroyed if they are in the penis. It seems to be a good method confirmed by large placebo- controlled studies. In some of them, the result was in 70 percent of cases with this method. I like the fact that it has a minimal number of side effects. Here's some food for thought. I gave you four options. I want to emphasize one last point. This concerns stress. If a person is stressed, he will sleep poorly. And if he does not sleep, he will be in sympathetic mode, run, and the parasympathetic system will be suppressed. As for the root causes of the problem, a person with sympathetic dominance usually does not sleep so well, he is usually stressed.  He has a low parasympathetic reserve, so it will be very difficult for him to maintain an erection. So, another important point besides nutrition is coping with a situation when sleep and recovery are disrupted by stress. To learn more about this, watch this video.