If you have erectile dysfunction and you try to find a potential solution, you will be completely confused. The main strategies are aimed only at not aggravating this condition. No one talks about correcting this condition. There is a lot of information about Viagra and all sorts of other solutions, but we will focus more on the problem, on the pathophysiology, on the mechanism of how this condition could arise. We will try to understand the root cause so that you can solve this problem. Many people think that the cause is simply low testosterone and you need to work on it, but there are those who have reptilian dysfunction, and testosterone is normal. There are people with abnormally high testosterone and with low testosterone and they do not have erectile dysfunction. Why testosterone also matters, but there is also data that I want to talk about. One of the most important molecules associated with erectile dysfunction is nitric oxide.  Our body creates it, we get it from food, apparently with age, the level of nitric oxide decreases by the age of 40, its level is 50 percent, nitric oxide plays a very important role in erection, in fact, Viagra activates some of the pathways used by nitric oxide, so the most likely cause of erectile dysfunction is associated with a deficiency of this nitric oxide molecule, and today I will talk about everything that is consistent with this theory, because the more data confirms the theory, the higher the likelihood that it is correct, and so nitric oxide is produced by endothelial cells, these are cells on the inner surface of blood vessels, nitric oxide helps blood vessels to expand, in fact, it is associated with the so-called endothelial relaxing factor (ERF), and so nitric oxide helps blood vessels relax and this increases blood flow, this is associated not only with erection but also with the cardiovascular and other systems, that is, with a low level of nitric oxide, a person may have, for example, asthma, so nitric oxide is closely related to the tone of the vascular system, and tone is associated  With the expansion and constriction of blood vessels, nitric oxide increases the release of oxygen in the blood. Therefore, with a lack of nitric oxide, a person has difficulty breathing. 79 percent of people with sap also experience erectile dysfunction during sleep. This is one connection. Another connection is the effect of nitric oxide on cortisol. Nitric oxide helps manage the level of the stress hormone cortisol. It has been proven that the more anxious someone is, the higher their cortisol level, the higher the stress level, and the more severe the reptilian dysfunction. In fact, an erection is impossible when the sympathetic nervous system dominates. When there is a lot of stress, the reaction occurs when the sympathetic system dominates; there is little stress when you are calm. Therefore, an erection occurs when we sleep and the parasympathetic system dominates. Here is another interesting connection: nitric oxide greatly affects the tactics of the larynx and steroids, that is, it helps produce testosterone. This is the very connection between nitric oxide and testosterone. With low nitric oxide levels, testosterone production will likely decrease. Nitric oxide  It's also associated with luteinizing hormone AM, which is produced by the pituitary gland and controls the testicles and the amount of testosterone produced. Nitric oxide is also closely linked to sleep cycles, including REM sleep. This may also be the reason for sleep problems, insomnia, and in sleep with the right, there is a higher risk of erectile dysfunction. In addition, nitric oxide increases insulin sensitivity. This explains why diabetics, who always have insulin resistance, usually also have erectile dysfunction. Consider how high sugar levels affect the inner surface of blood vessels. It destroys the endothelium, thereby reducing nitric oxide production. Those who take statins usually have either low testosterone or an increased risk of erectile dysfunction. This is perhaps because statins block cholesterol, which is a precursor to testosterone. Now the main question is how to increase nitric oxide levels. Is there a natural way to do this? The answer is yes. Number one, you can switch to so- called nasal breathing. Start breathing through your nose instead of your mouth. Apparently, this increases nitric oxide levels.  and you can increase the release of oxygen in the blood by 20 percent thanks to breathing, but when breathing through the nose, the resistance is 50 percent greater than when breathing through the mouth, and it seems that this increases the supply of nitric oxide to the lungs and the whole body, and this helps to release oxygen. It seems that we inhale less air, but more oxygen is released. Add to this number two: regular exercise, say you do light exercises in which you do not breathe intensely. If you breathe through your nose, your nitric oxide levels will increase. In addition, exercise improves the condition of endothelial cells in the vascular system, and this in turn increases nitric oxide. You can also get more nitrates from food to increase nitric oxide levels. Here are foods rich in nitrates: beets, spinach, kale, any leafy greens. All these foods are rich in nitrates and help increase nitric oxide. Of course, you need to avoid sugar because it destroys the inner surface of blood vessels. You need to avoid alcohol because it also reduces nitric oxide. Also, try to avoid stress because stress can also block nitric oxide.  Nitrogen and number 5. Take steps to improve sleep. This will help increase nitric oxide. So, these are 5 natural remedies to counteract the decline in nitric oxide levels that occurs with age. There is another video if you haven't watched it yet. It is dedicated to breathing techniques and it has to do with nasal breathing. There is more information there and this is very important, especially if you want to reduce cortisol, stress, and even overcome panic attacks. Watch this video here.