We arrived, the retreat turns out it causes heart attacks and strokes, now I have to redo all my videos. I've been promoting the retreat for years, now I have to redo all these damn videos. Damn, but seriously, I'm being sarcastic. Let's discuss the amazing new study. Nowadays, everyone has been saying that erythritol in the blood correlates with more frequent heart attacks and strokes, when suddenly something like this appears in all the news. I want to know the source of this study, who is funding it, and I'll leave links to this topic below. If you read this study, you will see very interesting things in it, not only a bunch of oddities, but also serious omissions that I want to talk about. I will very simply explain four points in this work. I will not get into commas and arrange a stuffy sinful review, I will talk about four big problems with this work. The first problem is related to the word correlation. Correlation is a kind of semblance usually expressed in some numerical indicators. This does not even come close to indicating  I'll give you an example of a cause-and-effect relationship. Statistically, there is a correlation of as much as 99 and 79% between government spending on science and space technology in the state and the number of suicides by hanging. If you see a causal relationship in this, then you need to radically reduce the funds allocated by the university for these technologies. That is, it is completely illogical. Here is another example. There is a correlation of 94 and 7% between the consumption of cheese in the US per person in pounds and the number of people who died because they got entangled in sheets. That is, statistically, these indicators correlate over many years, and all this correlates with the total income of ski resorts in the US. As you can see, there can be a very high correlation between unrelated things. Personally, I think that there is a very high statistical correlation, apparently, almost between the information reported in the news and the fact that it is completely false. So, point one, correlation is not a causal relationship, and that study was only an observation, and not of very high quality. Number two, that study did not take into account how much erythritol people consumed. In this study, it was not at all  The amount of erythritol consumed was measured, only the amount of erythritol in the blood was measured, but it could have been created by the body itself. Our body creates erythritol, it is called endogenous erythritol. And erythritol is probably not actually that popular. So the erythritol measured in that study could well have been endogenous. That is, created by the body itself. And the third point will shed light on the second point. Why does the body create erythritol at all? It creates a lot of it. So, erythritol is produced in the process of glucose metabolism. So, the more sugar you eat, the more diabetes you have. The more fructose you eat, the more erythritol you produce. In addition, erythritol is produced during oxidative stress in the body. So, it is produced in liver and kidney diseases. In diabetes, it becomes more if there is something on the stomach, which is probably associated with excess carbohydrates. It is also created when drinking a lot of alcohol. This is interesting information. How can we find out what caused these cardiovascular events? Erythritol or the general health of a person. We also need to know that  the vast majority of people in this study had hypertension, diabetes, and generally very poor health, just you know that, and number four, and that's the icing on the cake. If you read the research on erythritol, you'll find some very interesting data that goes against all of this. erythritol appears to be an antioxidant. It has anti-inflammatory properties. It can lower A1c levels, lower blood glucose levels, reduce insulin resistance. It can increase insulin sensitivity. One study said that it appears to improve endothelial function and can reduce aortic stiffness. It apparently slows weight gain, as my research has shown. High fat diets can counteract the harmful effects of sugar, which causes oxidative stress and reduce inflammation. Is it possible to reconcile all of this data? It seems much more likely to me that something is trying to help a person rather than harm them. To be honest, I don't like making these kinds of videos with reactions to something said in the news, and it somewhat distracts from other topics that I really want to discuss. Every day in my videos, but I just decided to briefly talk about this so that you have all the data and so that you can decide for yourself.  Is erythritol harmful or perhaps even beneficial? Take a look at the quote from the findings of one study on erythritol. I quote: erythritol significantly reduced metabolic disorders such as obesity, impaired glucose tolerance, dyslipidemia - a kind of dysfunction of lipids and fats, and the accumulation of fat in the liver were caused by high fat in the intestines. Yes, these results were obtained on mice, but they still show that taking erythritol actually brings benefits. Since we have touched on cardiovascular events, if you really want to know how to strengthen your heart, you need to watch this video.