 larger larger T3, larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger larger T larger T larger T larger larger T larger T larger T larger T larger T larger T larger T larger larger T He is classified as a sugar, but in his behavior, he is more like a sugar, than a sugar. For example, a apple. On the glycogen index, 36. On the glycogen index, 65. On the glycogen index, 100. On the glycogen index, this index shows how quickly the glycogen index is in the blood. It is in the range of 136 to 180. So these are just crazy numbers. I decided to figure out, deeper, deeper, and share it with you. It is not classified as a sugar, because in the sugar there are only 2 pieces of sugar. Then they are considered sugar. But here is what is interesting. If you add a third piece of sugar and add a 17 pieces of sugar, it is no longer than sugar. It is called a hard water. In other words, it is a starch. The larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger but the sugar is only part of the cause of the disease that it causes. It does a lot of bad things. I will tell you about this, but first I want to talk about the relatives of Maltodectrina. There are ordinary the karmal, the corn, the corn, the rice, but there are also the commercial karmal. What do you do to add to the different ingredients, the chemicals, and all this is to be used to, to transform it into something else. It is not the same thing you get from your own. But in fact, all these karmal are the наполнители. They need to increase the mass of the product. So when we talk about the karmal, the maltodectrina, it is practically a maltodectrina. It is what is karmal, in a very small or small shape. So it has not a long line of glucose, but it is a fraction of the sugar. It is a karmal, as a karmal, in a small size, as a karmal. The larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger All these things are in the body of many products. You need to know them and not use them in the food. There is a simple test to know, if there is a body of maltodectrin. I will show you how to do it in the end of this video. Where do they add maltodectrin? He is in many products without sugar, in many protein products, in many protein products, in electrolytes, in many products, in many products, in larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger platform can not remind you of new videos. This simple way you will help you to continue the development of the channel. We continue. In the clinic Cleveland, they found out what happens with animals, which they feed maltodectrin. They found out that maltodectrin makes the organism to produce much less skin, the skin becomes smaller. And when it happens, bacteria from the surface it moves, it moves, it moves, it is called a microalty like a microalty. For example, the disease of the crone is found with a kidney with a kidney. In the clinic Cleveland, they found out that maltodectrin is a function of the genetal switch, which allows bacteria to draw small strokes like the! They are placed on the wall of the chest, and they then build up the walls of the walls of the room, which is where they are from from the room of the room of the room. And glucose is not possible, in addition to maltodectrin. In other words, it shows that maltodectrin поддерживает размножение сальмонеллы. So you eat something, even if there is maltodectrin, in the products, and you are surprised, why do you have a sparse in the stomach? And it is not that it is a lot. It can be a large amount of amount, if you have it regularly. But, however, it is in general, it is in general as a result of a healthy disease. So they are like a lasey, when you say something is safe, without any independent studies. When you consume a lot of sugar, a lot of carbohydrates, maltodectrin, you actively have your own weight of vitamin B1. In our body, it can only be 25-30 mg of B1. And when you eat glucose or maltodectrin, you are going to be able to get this B1. When you are going to get it, it will not produce energy. And your body, your body, your body, starts to get a lot of weight. You start to get problems. You will not relax. You will not get a stress-stress. You are going to get a stress-stress. You are going to get a mental health. In many states, there is a paramedics that there is a rule of giving 100 mg B1. You are going to give 100 mg B1, before putting a couple of glucose with glucose, when the cause of the release of the release of 100 mg. 100 mg. Okay? The recommended norm is 1,2 or 1,5 mg. 1,5 mg. This is why most people of diabetes seriously suffer from the deficit B1 in the joints, especially in the palms of the legs. It is a perifery of the knee. The reason for the knee is high-stress B1. I recommend it to be a version of B1. The reason for the knee is to get a muscle, which is the muscle of the knee, which is the muscle of the knee. The other reason for this is to help. The deficiency of B1 can affect the heart, the breathing, the breathing, the breathing, the breathing, the difficulty and problems with the stomach. So, this is the reason for the maltedigstrin. The larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger The larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger who knows what will be, if mixing this with resistant maltadestrin because there are many ingredients in the body, not only one. I think this video is very important for understanding the! Okay, so. The simple thing is to read the product. Look, there is a maltadestrin or a modified food. It is not a sugar. It is not a sugar. This is how to do this test. This is how to determine if there are any ingredients in a some kind of product or even a good product. We focus on maltadestrin. It is hidden, hidden, hidden, and a sugar. If you can mix jod and caramel, the color of the color will be blue. Now, if you take a simple water, just pour here, and then pour one or two cups of jod in just a regular water, then, as you can see, it will not turn blue. It is kind of blue. It is kind of blue. It is kind of blue. But if we take a little jod and cap on this wonderful bread, then we will see that it will turn blue. Okay, that's a chemical reaction. Now, if we take a simple maltadestrin, and put it in water, and put it in water, and mix it in, and add a couple of jod in. And I put it here. And I put it here. You can see the color. It is blue. It is blue or violet. It is a pure maltadestrin. All right. Let's see if maltadestrin is in my electrolytes. Let's see if maltadestrin is in my electrolytes. Let's mix and add a couple of jod. Not violet. It is purple. Maltadestrin is not. larger diet, larger diet, larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger larger Thank you.