There are foods that are much worse than sugar and I will leave all the links to the studies below. Here, all the factors that can shorten your life are listed. You can die because of this. At the very top of the list is severe obesity, it increases the risk of death by 93 percent. Then comes heavy smoking, 80 percent. And look what we have here: vegetable oils, 62 percent. They are worse than sugar. We go lower here: a sedentary lifestyle, 48 percent; alcohol abuse, 41 percent; moderate smoking, 30 percent. And only 13 percent is excessive sugar consumption. Processed meat and polluted air, 11 percent each. Red meat, 5 percent. But I disagree because they did not compare grass-fed meat and finally, sodium, 3 percent. Here, they also hardly studied the ratio of sodium to other elements, potassium, for example. But my idea was to show you where vegetable oils are compared to everything else, while the average American consumes 80 grams of vegetable oils per day. It would seem that these oils should be useful, because they are made from plants, but there are not many oils in plants.  So they are not really vegetable in fact these oils are made from seeds from beans and grains And by the way you need a lot of grain or seeds to get a small amount of oil But on average people consume 80 grams of vegetable oils 6 tablespoons in them 720 kilocalories and this is on average 32 percent of all calories that a person consumes that is, we choose from vegetable oils and the introduction of these oils into our diet in order to replace saturated fats is probably the biggest change in our diet in the last 50 years there are other quite interesting figures a 5 percent increase in the share of calories from vegetable oils in the diet corresponds in terms of harm to smoking 7 cigarettes daily So vegetable oils are oils from seeds of grains and beans they are from plants like celery broccoli or lettuce it's just that the word vegetable sounds healthier on the next slide I have collected some more facts I just want to convey to you how important it is to avoid vegetable oils because we get as much as 30 percent of all calories from them and here we are talking about soybean corn canola cottonseed peanut sunflower  In healthy oils, for example, read the composition of hummus, there is no longer olive oil, they use soybean oil, sometimes sunflower oil. The problem with these oils is their powerful pro-inflammatory effect, they create a lot of inflammation, especially if they are heated and fried in them. The snacks that are served to you in a restaurant are usually fried in corn, canola or soybean oil. So, restaurants are the source of problems. After a restaurant, I very often feel unwell. I have a strange sensation in the back of my throat and my stomach is bloated. You never know exactly what you are going to do in a restaurant. At least find out or ask the waiter. What kind of oil do they use? Choose simple dishes that definitely do not contain such oils, because this effect is cumulative. 30 percent of the population in the US eats fast food every day. Just think about how much omega-6 they accumulate in their bodies and how this affects their blood vessels, pancreas and brain. In one study (link below), a 62 percent higher mortality rate was found among those who consumed vegetable oils compared to those who consumed saturated fats. A powerful campaign is being carried out to convince  Everyone should switch from saturated to unsaturated fats. But this is a huge, huge mistake. Saturated fats are very stable and can withstand high temperatures, while saturated fats do not oxidize and do not form free radicals, especially when you fry them. I'm not even talking about the repeated use of oil in restaurants. How often do you think they change the frying oil there? Perhaps once every few weeks or even months. These omega-6 oils are heated again and again. They can only remove debris and burnt food particles from there. But the oxidizing effect is enormous, and only severe obesity and heavy smoking are more deadly than the vegetable oils on this list. It's simply amazing, and in terms of harm to the body, even compared to sugar, vegetable oils are in a completely different weight category. Another study found an 82 percent increase in the risk of cancer, and this is logical. Because when such pro-inflammatory products enter the body, it causes DNA damage. In addition, cancer spreads to areas where there is inflammation; it has a tendency to migrate to such areas, so use only olive oil.  Butter, lard, beef tallow, or coconut oil in food and cooking. Since we're on the topic of saturated fats, if you haven't seen my video about butter, I recommend checking it out here.