Let's talk about the most common mistakes people make because of which they lose their health. This information is especially relevant. For those over 50, take note of the rest. You definitely won't learn all this from your doctor. They are not experts in nutrition matters. They are not taught this. Sometimes it's worth listening to them and doing the opposite. They put a label on you that describes a certain problem and select drugs for it. I want to get to the bottom of the cause. So, first, make sure that the source of information is someone with a lot of experience in solving your problem. Second, be careful with a diagnosis that doesn't seem right. Third, make sure that the solution or treatment does not create even more problems than you already have, that is, side effects. The next point: When you have experienced severe stress, it seems to get stuck in your head. You can fall asleep, worry, and be in fear all the time. Unfortunately, in our time, stress is almost impossible to avoid. The next topic: Before moving on to nutrition - it's the environment. Previously, I didn't really understand how important the environment is, but I was lucky enough to move from the city to a farm. I assure you that being where there are large open spaces is real therapy. Regularly being in nature is extremely important.  The next point is regular training. Training can be said to wash out cortisol and adrenaline from the body, which accumulate in the inhabitants of planet Earth. Training with variable loads is more useful than training with a constantly high heart rate. The next point is what are the most important nutrients that should be obtained regularly. The most important of them is vitamin D. A person has about 202 genes. Vitamin D affects 10% of these genes. In order for vitamin D to have a therapeutic effect, you need to take 10, 20, 30, 50 mg or more of vitamin D3. Then there will be results. There is one doctor who specializes in autoimmune diseases and he gets excellent results and he has more than 900 videos with reviews before and after cortex. Watch him simply prescribe high doses of D3. There are doctors who use such doses to reconstruct some parts of the eye, as well as to solve such complex problems as glaucoma. Others use high doses of vitamin D3 to reduce fibroids. So, D3 is super important for health. The sun also applies here. We don't have enough of it. The second most important nutrient is magnesium. Very few people get enough magnesium. Magnesium is involved in thousands of different processes.  In the body, all heart diseases are usually accompanied by a magnesium deficiency, but it is important not only for the heart. Without magnesium, you will not have energy. So, vitamin D, magnesium, and number three, zinc. Zinc is a very important trace element and many people lack it. All three nutrients depend on each other. If you drink a lot of vitamin D3 with a deficiency of magnesium and zinc, vitamin D will not work. That is, you need all three. There are a couple of nutrients that you need to be careful with due to possible toxicity. The first is calcium, which with age begins to clog everything. Magnesium protects against this. If you do not take magnesium regularly, the risk of heart disease increases. Why? Because calcium remains uncontrolled and penetrates into soft tissues. But even more dangerous than excess calcium is excess iron. We are extremely difficult to get rid of iron. At most, we are able to excrete half to 1 mg of iron per day. The recommended daily dose is 8 mg, and for women of reproductive age, 18 mg. We get too much iron because of this, our organs actually rust. So, read the composition and monitor your diet so as not to overdo it with iron. Genetic  A person will not have a problem with iron deficiency, but it will accumulate in the wrong places. Iron is very toxic. And I do not recommend drinking it. Add it with it. The following mistake is to avoid salt. Sea salt and table salt are different. I recommend sea salt, it contains 84 minerals. Sensitivity to salt is actually just a potassium deficiency. Sodium and potassium work together. We need sodium and it is in sea salt. And when you don’t have enough salt, your cortisol rises. This can disrupt sleep and cause stress. Sodium is an important electrolyte. As for potassium, the daily requirement is 4,700 mg. It is necessary for generating energy for nerves and muscles. Everyone doesn’t have enough of it every day. The next point: one woman asked me what to do during menopause. I answered that it is important to get enough cholesterol from food. And she said, “ You’re kidding.” The doctor said to lower cholesterol. With age, we decrease the production of hormones such as testosterone, progesterone, estrogen, and others, but all these hormones are synthesized from cholesterol. When you lower cholesterol in your diet or take medication to lower it, your cholesterol decreases.  The amount of hormones that are already at a low level, so it is important to have enough raw materials for their synthesis in the diet. Especially with age, cholesterol is needed by the brain for bile and fat digestion. But the main sources for hormone synthesis are butter, eggs, dairy, crustaceans, and Think about this: diabetes is an excess of sugar in the blood. Is it illogical for diabetes to eat less sugar and carbohydrates, but instead, diabetics are told to always carry glucose tablets or candy with them in case the medicine lowers sugar too much? Why not just eliminate carbohydrates and take less medication? It's some kind of madness, but it's not enough to simply give up sugar. You also need to eliminate other carbohydrates from your diet. Starch is most often not written about on the packaging of products; they are called by another name, modified food starch, wheat flour. All these are starches. Let's move on. Our diet contains proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. This is the most important thing for us, what should we focus on in terms of health benefits. The most important thing for us is proteins. Why is the body mainly made up of proteins? Proteins are not only muscles and connective tissues, but also immune cells and antibodies.  White blood cells, a person, an animal or an insect eats until its need for protein is satisfied. Look at junk food, there is not much protein in cereal boxes, crackers, cookies, these products do not have protein. What food will be the healthiest for us? Beef or fattened meat has a maximum of useful nutrients for the intestines, trace elements, B vitamins, and also high-quality protein. With age, especially after fifty, we begin to lose muscle and we need to get more protein with each meal. Another source very rich in nutrients is organ meats. Unfortunately, I don’t like to sing and I can’t eat it, but there is another liver that I adore. It is very tasty and I’m just a fan of it. Cod liver is one of the best sources of omega-3 fatty acids. I eat it a couple of times a week. The next point is very important: the purity of meals. Let’s say you eat 2500 kilocalories a day. It is much better to eat them in two meals a day. Than in extra meals. Eating creates problems every time food raises insulin and excess insulin is perhaps the main problem these days it is the cause of a lot of chronic diseases not only diabetes fatty liver high blood pressure you need to get rid of not only carbohydrates but also snacks nighttime overeating is not healthy Take what you snack on for example nuts and eat at lunch or dinner Eat twice a day This is an excellent option then you will have intermittent fasting and this alone will bring a lot of benefits After all you will lower insulin The next point is autoimmune diseases when the immune system attacks the body the number one problem in our world there are several reasons for this first is a lack of vitamin D but this is hardly the only reason bacteria viruses and other pathogens are also involved they seek to penetrate the body and create problems one of their strategies is to damage the receptors for vitamin D then the usual doses of vitamin D stop working these microbes are very cunning but there is another important factor something happens right before the disease I encountered this in my practice such patients almost always had a stressful event right before the onset of an autoimmune disease loss of a loved one loss of a job loss of Anything What is the threat  A strong shock, what's happening, suppresses its work, high cortisol, immunity suffers. And if you already lack vitamin D3, a shift in the immune system can occur, it will begin to attack the tissues of the body itself, creating an autoimmune disease. In addition, prednisone, a synthetic cortisol, also disables the immune system, which is why it is used for autoimmune problems such as skin rashes. The most effective remedy for stress is exercise. Do something about your environment. To have less madness around you, and lastly, one of the most important factors related to health, you need to understand that the intestinal microflora is an independent organ. People think that it is something separate. No, these microorganisms are part of us, there are many more of them than cells in the body. The influence of intestinal microflora on health is simply enormous. I can't wrap my head around it. Why the hell do we even take antibiotics to kill them? Do you realize that after taking an antibiotic, you will never restore your previous microbiome? Many bacteria do not recover. They are lying to you when they say, "Don't worry, the number of bacteria will decrease, but then it will return to normal." No, this is a lie. Support  Microflora as a separate organ is vitally important, it provides immune protection, synthesizes neurotransmitters, affects mood and cognitive functions, it produces vitamins, digestion relies largely on our microflora, the ability to get rid of cancer depends on it, the quality of sleep is connected with it and the list is very long. That's why it is so important to regularly eat fermented foods, your cabbage, kimchi, yogurt, plus. It would be very useful to take good tiki, we discussed a lot in this video and all this is extremely important, especially after p, but I would use all this earlier, create your health already Now, health needs to be created, it does not arise by itself, but I have given you the basic ingredients and in my opinion, the most logical thing for you now would be to learn what exactly you need to eat and do to create health. I will talk about this in my course, sign up, I invite you to a program on healthy ketogenic diet and intermittent fasting. From Dr. Berg, it doesn't matter if you are just starting out or your progress has slowed down, this program can help you, a huge number of video tutorials will be available, there are videos on what exactly to eat where all the details are discussed, there are lots of examples of what and how to eat, I will also tell you what to avoid  with all the details When you are trying to lose weight, you often face barriers such as parties and holidays, family dinners, stress eating, eating out of boredom, I will give you solutions that will definitely help you. The next point is that nutrition is an important part of a healthy diet, you need to understand the basic principles of nutrition. When it comes to food, because food is the very building blocks of your health, and it depends primarily on how rich this food is in nutrients. It's not just about reducing calories, but also in nutrients. I will give you a lot of information and knowledge on how to recognize what your body lacks, what to do about it, and how to get what you need from food. This program increases your chances of success and also demonstrates how to do everything right. To acquire new healthy habits for the rest of your life.