Hello everyone Let's start with our wonderful quiz It's your turn, doc So, why can the risk of a heart attack increase more than 20 times within hours Oh I wish I knew the answer as soon as possible It's really scary Let's talk to someone in person Luna from California called us and is patiently waiting to ask a question Luna, you are on air with Dr. Berg, can you ask a question Good morning Dr. Berg And thank you for this opportunity On Monday I will have my first surgery in my life, it will be a neck suturing I read a lot about the benefits of fasting, so I started intermittent and long-term fasting I know that you recommend fasting before and after surgery to increase the chances of recovery My question is How long should I wait after surgery until the first Prima So Yes, you definitely shouldn't Eat hospital food This food will cause your blood sugar to jump, it will be a failure The question is, what have you ever fasted for before, to some extent, I practiced more the five-day diet as for long-term fasting on water alone and then  I switched to chum during the window between meals I drink coffee and all that, but Clear dry fasting I haven't tried Clear Yes and I don't recommend dry fasting until you prepare for it and not everyone if you can and then start it would be good but take a dietary supplement with collagen because 30% of all our protein is collagen and you need to make sure the knee gets enough collagen I would advise immediately after surgery to start some kind of therapy so that the knee moves all the time because the knee cannot be immobilized as much as possible immediately after surgery and I think good microelements will provide collagen, that is, minerals, so that both cartilage and ligaments with tendons in the knee area can be restored and there is also excellent data I strongly recommend walking backwards to help heal and strengthen the knee during normal walking the muscles are often unbalanced and walking backwards corrects this perfectly I think you limp a little on the sore leg Yes, that's right knee started limping when Yes, right knee  In general, after surgery, you need to maintain a symmetrical gait. So you need someone like a massage therapist who will work with the other leg, the upper muscles near the knee, and the thigh muscles. And this is the quadriceps, the tensor fascia lata of the thigh, you need to massage these muscles properly to balance the muscles. After all, you limped for some time and after surgery, your gait will still be a little changed and it is important to return symmetry. It will be great if you do this. Thank you very much, please. Excellent question, Luna. Thank you very much and a successful operation. Now we will answer the accumulated questions from our friends on social networks. So, Beverly from Facebook asks if any B vitamins will help reduce hand tremors. Yes, first of all, it is vitamin B1, because it improves everything related to nerves and nerves. Another vitamin, B12, is also important. If there is a severe deficiency of B1, then the nervous system, so to speak, goes to the bottom and problems can arise not only with the peripheral nerves but also with the brain. Because of this, tremors are possible. Well, asks Jeje from Facebook. What foods are the best source of current? Yes, Toka  triv yes This is a good question in which products there are only three inols I know that one such product is red palm oil but usually people do not consume it there are a couple of other sources but I don’t know which products have a lot of them I will need to study this topic I know that there are a couple of plants from which ly are obtained But other than that I can’t help here we are all eager to know why the risk of a heart attack can increase more than 20 times within 24 hours and the audience has an opinion on this matter 25% answered anxiety or stress 15% said intense training 15% carbohydrates 15% excess calcium 15% sugar 10% excess salt and 5% vaccines Thank you teri for collecting all the answers So, as one study showed, this is the worst possible stress and it is the loss of a significant person another name is broken heart syndrome as it turns out this is such stress that the risk of death from a heart attack within 24 hours increases more than 21 it seems 21.1 times or by more than two thousand percent and then during the first week the increased risk is, I think, this figure decreases, it seems, to 600 about, in other words, this is enormous stress on the heart and that's what's interesting here. The fact is that in my practice, almost all patients with autoimmune diseases - of course, this was about 10 years ago - I asked all patients with autoimmune diseases or severe viral infections about losses and most often found out that they lost a loved one and they immediately had some kind of health problems because shock turns off the immune system and suddenly viruses come out of hibernation, a person's defense mechanisms are turned off, but the heart also experiences shock. That's why it is necessary to do a lot of important things to increase the reserve of physical fitness in order to better cope with shock when it happens. Many people are fragile. We need to work on increasing the so-called reserve of physical fitness in order to have additional strength to survive if something happens. Broken hearts are a real fact. NSI from Facebook. What can you advise a 34-year-old man who has been struggling with rheumatoid arthritis for years? He practiced for 3 months, but the symptoms only worsened.  Help, it's terrible. I'm a young guy. I know what I would do. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease. I would raise my vitamin D to a very high level. I would take 50-60 vitamin D3 every day with magnesium and zinc, and then I would take ic2. I would also eat foods rich in potassium, it is also useful for rheumatoid arthritis. High levels of vitamin D will reduce inflammation. And even if rheumatoid arthritis remains, there will be no inflammation. And you essentially won't feel it. In general, that's what I would do. Of course, removing carbohydrates will also help. Intermittent long-term fasting will help. But vitamin D is the best assistant.