There are some very important things that need to be done before, during, and after training, and this becomes especially important with age, because there are many diseases associated with aging, and training is one of the best ways to combat them, and as I said in another video, lack of training is precisely what causes some of these diseases, and one of the very important effects of training is to increase mitochondria. The mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell; it converts food into energy and also into raw materials for creating body tissues, and training directly increases the number of mitochondria, and this is important, because many diseases are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, including cancer, and by improving the condition of mitochondria in any way, you increase the number of stem cells. These are not yet mature cells that have yet to become some kind of body tissue. They can become any tissue you need: joint tissue, pancreatic tissue, liver tissue. Anything else, stem cells work worse with age. But training can rejuvenate many stem cells. So, if you don’t train, you need to start training regularly. Especially with age, and training is one of the best ways to reduce stress, and everyone has stress and it  You need to reduce to Zero without training, stress levels increase, training improves sleep, lowers blood sugar, their benefits are enormous. So, the first point about training, there are four parameters in training. In fact, there are four factors in training. The first is duration. How long do you train? The second is the intensity of training. The third is recovery after training. And the fourth is frequency. The number of repetitions per training or the number of training sessions per week. Any type of training is actually just a combination of these four factors. The first thing I'll talk about is recovery. Rest. Rest not only between training sessions, that is, how many times a week you train, but also the duration of rest between sets. Let's say you do eight repetitions of some exercise. This is called a set. How long should you rest between sets? Many people in high-intensity interval training rest for 30 seconds. The problem here is that, firstly, the body does not have time to restore ATP reserves. If you rest for only 30 seconds and immediately start again without having a full ATP reserve, that is, energy to supply the muscles, you will not be able to train with maximum efficiency as you could if you rested a little longer, and this can slow down your progress.  Especially if we are talking about, for example, sprinting or other high-intensity sports, 30 seconds is not enough to rest, the ATP reserve will not be restored, it is better to rest 4-5 minutes between sets, especially during intense training, the body will have time to restore the ATP reserve and will be able to use maximum energy during the training, because intensity is a key factor in training. The higher the intensity, the more growth hormone, the higher the muscle activation. So, it is much wiser to focus on intensity by doing fewer repetitions and possibly more sets than to reduce the intensity due to fatigue and try to do many repetitions because you have reduced the weight and do fewer sets. So, more rest between sets, fewer repetitions, high intensity. In addition, we get the most benefit from training, especially high-intensity training, 1-2 days after the training when we sleep. Training damages muscles, and during recovery, the body becomes stronger because it adapts to this stress. More about high-intensity interval training: let's say you do some exercise and your heart rate becomes very, very high. Let's say you run a short distance at full speed for 10 seconds and your heart rate rises. I don't know, let's say.  up to 160 or 170 or higher, it is the sympathetic nervous system that makes the pulse quicken and many rest actively, saying they Perhaps they walk in place or do some exercise, that is, they continue to exercise, but not so intensely. For some, this is suitable if you, say, run a sprint and then walk, but it is much better to stop completely after running a short distance. Why is a complete stop better than active rest? Because when your pulse begins to decrease, and the pulse decreases under the influence of the parasympathetic nervous system. This will be the opposite reaction, that is, the sympathetic system increases the pulse, and the parasympathetic actively reduces it, just as we press the brake pedal to slow down a car. We press the brake, we remove our foot from the gas pedal, and then press the brake. The parasympathetic system connects and presses on the pulse to lower it. So, when you completely stop, you are not exercising, but sitting, your parasympathetic nervous system is training. This is not quite obvious. But this is important to do if you want to better recover after exercise. I know about this because in my practice I used a device for measuring  I evaluated people's recovery after training with heart rate variability, and those who completely stopped after exercise showed improved control of the parasympathetic nervous system over time. Don't forget that the vagus nerve is part of the parasympathetic nervous system. This is the main nerve that largely controls the digestive system, the heart, and many organs in the abdominal cavity. A strong parasympathetic nervous system improves sleep, recovery, especially after training. The next thing I'll talk about is contrast therapy. This is when after training you either take a cold shower and then maybe a hot one, or lie down in a bath with ice, and then go to a sauna or jacuzzi. There is a lot of data that this really helps the recovery and repair of the body. It speeds up the process of rejuvenation of damaged muscles, reduces inflammation, and shortens the time needed for repair. I experimented with this and found that I recover perfectly after immersing myself in cold water. I have a bathtub that I jump into after training, it works very, very well. I don't use heat therapy after this, but somehow with this  Experiment with cold after training or even heat, whether it's a shower, sauna, or jacuzzi. You'll get more benefit, especially if you, like me, are genetically predisposed to inflammation. I have a problem with this even in sports. I have to be careful not to overtrain and pay more attention to rest between workouts. Of course, I didn't know this when I was doing sports. So I just trained a couple of times a day, 7 days a week. Big mistake because at the end of my wrestling competition period, I could barely walk. Here's what else I want to say on this topic: muscles contract and relax. The movement in which the muscle shortens is called a contraction or concentric movement. It shortens the muscle. When we lengthen the muscle, it's called an eccentric movement. For example, when I do pull-ups, I lift my chin over the bar. When I lower myself, it's called an eccentric movement. Let's say I do push-ups and then I slowly lower myself. This is also an eccentric movement. Sometimes we forget about this. Perhaps when doing push-ups, we force ourselves to push up and then passively lower ourselves or pull ourselves up.  We pull ourselves up with force and then lower ourselves very quickly. If we focus on eccentric movements, the benefit from training will be much greater. This applies to the bench press and to any other exercise. Focus on the negative movement on lengthening the muscle and your muscles will be stronger. Your muscles will recover better, they will be larger, they will be faster, and even delayed soreness will be less because the muscles will be stronger. This is a good method of progression. For example, people can often only do a few pull-ups. Place some kind of stand under the horizontal bar and stand on it, leaning on the stand, pull yourself up to the horizontal bar and focus on slowly lowering yourself on the eccentric movement. If you do this, then after a while, perhaps in 2 weeks, you will be able to do many more pull-ups. After all, you are working on the reverse movement. The next topic is carbohydrates. If you snack lightly. As many people do, they eat carbohydrates, perhaps a protein bar with sugar, or drink an energy drink such as Gatorade with sugar, then you negate all the benefits of ketosis burning.  fat and autophagy autophagy is the processing of old damaged proteins in the body, which kind of rejuvenates the body. You spend a lot of energy during training and then eat a little carbohydrates and this essentially negates the benefit, especially if you are trying to lose weight in the waist area. It is very useful to train when you are fasting. And you can eat an hour and a half or even 2 hours after training, then there will be more improvements, but we are dealing with hormones. During training, insulin levels always rise, we are told that insulin, as an anabolic hormone, improves muscle growth. Research on this topic is controversial. Some say that this is so, others say that this is not so, but I know for sure that insulin affects muscles, the penetration of protein amino acids into muscles, and it prevents muscle protein loss. So, do we need to increase insulin or not? Diabetics and those who eat a lot of carbohydrates have insulin resistance, and with insulin resistance, there is not enough insulin, so with diabetes, muscle loss occurs, and people with insulin resistance find it difficult to build muscle, they are told. Eat more carbohydrates to increase insulin levels and build muscle. I do not I advise you to do this. I advise you to follow this diet. And this is a low-carb diet. Eat 50 grams of carbohydrates and get. This is the amount of carbohydrates from berries. Three cups of berries contain 50 grams of carbohydrates. If you are young, you can have more, 75 grams. You also need to know that eating protein can also increase insulin levels. If you eat even 20 grams of protein, insulin levels will increase to some extent, but not as much as from carbohydrates, but they will increase. So you will have more insulin and you don’t need to eat sugar for this. So, protein increases insulin, while it increases the level of the glucagon antagonist hormone, which helps burn fat and build muscle. I advise you to also get more electrolytes, you can do it in powder form, because potassium, magnesium, calcium, chlorides are very important for muscle contraction and relaxation, as well as for the energy of the nervous system and muscles. When you have enough electrolytes, the muscles are stronger and the body is better saturated with fluid and do not forget about the electrolyte sodium. I also want to say that when we eat, perhaps an hour or two or even 3 hours after training. What exactly should you eat? What is the most important thing?  An important thing to talk about is protein. You can't say much about this topic in a few words, but I'll briefly outline the main points. There is no better protein for muscle growth, muscle repair, and training than red meat. You can eat beefsteak, steak, and so on. You can eat lamb, too. Red meat and other types of red meat. Why is red meat important? Red meat has a higher concentration of amino acids, and protein bioavailability. And they don't have enough amino acids. And red meat is what we want to build up. We want to build up our red meat, so red meat is an excellent buffet of everything we need for muscle growth, muscle repair, and to supply muscles with energy. Red meat contains carnitine. Carnitine is, so to speak, a bus. It transports fat to the engine, to the mitochondria, the power plant, so that we burn more fat. That's what carnitine does, and there's a lot of it in red meat. There's also creatine. What it does is give muscles fuel for high-intensity explosive loads during training, and there's a lot of creatine in red meat. In addition, red meat contains carnosine, which acts as An antioxidant that neutralizes lactic acid that forms during training, which increases performance, longevity allows you to train longer, but that's not all. Red meat also contains all the cofactors such as iron and B vitamins that are necessary for amino acids to work. If you eat whey protein powder, you will not get the cofactors, vitamins, and minerals that allow mitochondria to be metabolized. I don't know if you've studied biochemistry. But even if you have, most people are confused about what the Krebs cycle is. The Krebs cycle is, so to speak, an assembly line of small things that arise inside the cell, inside the mitochondria. Our body takes food and converts it into energy, which exists in the form of ATP. Our body also converts food into building material to create body tissues and for chemical reactions in the body, this is the Krebs cycle in simple terms, but many people do not know that many areas or stages of this conveyor require certain nutrients for everything to work. If there are not enough of these nutrients, a bottleneck occurs, everything simply stops working, which affects the Krebs cycle because of this. energy production and biochemical processes stop somewhere in the body there is a way to detect this I will also make a video about this but the point is that we need this whole conveyor to work smoothly and that there are micronutrients namely iron B1 B2 B3 B6 B5 magnesium and also manganese and another nutrient coenzyme Q10 it is also in the mitochondria but you know what if you eat red meat you have nothing to worry about it has all this if you eat high-quality grass-fed beef and all that it has all these cofactors everything that I talked about all this is already in it everything that is needed for muscle repair but instead of red meat people eat chicken breasts And they have too many omega-6 fatty acids and their quality is clearly worse as well as the quality of plant protein it is completely no good someone thinks that it is pure protein and that it will help This is not true You can also eat eggs It is a good protein just don't eat eggs raw because raw eggs can deprive you of biotin their bioavailability is much lower than Another good source of protein is high-quality cheese. What is cheese made of? It is made from milk. When an animal in nature needs milk when it grows. Why? Because milk contains many growth factors that promote muscle growth. So, a little cheese can do wonders for muscles in terms of their growth, increasing their size. Just don't eat low- quality cheeses if you can. European cheese made from raw milk is the best. In addition, cheese is a fermented product. So, it is also beneficial due to its microorganisms and it is better than whey protein. This is a different type of protein. It is purified, that is, whey protein is a refined protein product. Don't take lean red meat. Take it only if the animal itself had little fat, but don't. Try to eat animal protein from which the fat has been removed. After all, again, this is also a purification process. Grass-fed beef is best. Just don't take the leanest one, but it is difficult to make grass-fed animals fatty because they are not given grain. This is normal. People obsessively avoid fat and strive to eat lean this and that, even if you eat chicken. Eat it at least with the skin if  If you eat fish, it's better to eat it with the skin. I also want to talk about recovery between, say, after a workout, you have something hurting, you can't train while overcoming this pain. Let the body recover. And sometimes this takes more than 1 day. 3 or even 4 days. It's better to focus on sleep. And the last point about sleep, if you are an athlete and train a lot, you know that a trace element that athletes usually have little of is copper and this can worsen sleep, especially REM sleep. So if you are an athlete and cannot sleep 7, 7 and a half, or 8 hours, take a little copper before bed. You don't need a lot, just a little bit and see what happens. Your sleep may improve. You don't need to take it for a long time, maybe a couple of weeks. But the point is that training deprives you of copper and you need to know how to get more copper from food. I gave you a lot of advice on what to do before, during, and after training to improve them, but there is very interesting information about red meat and what is in red meat that helps you recover after training. Watch this video.