Hello everyone, I want to tell you about the worst product for the liver that only exists, which is especially important for those who are concerned about the development of fatty liver disease. A hint is that it is not sugar, it is not carbohydrates, and it is not even highly formalized. The big problem with the liver is that very few symptoms are associated with it. I had a liver problem for about 22 years and I did not know that it was a liver problem. There were some symptoms, but I did not understand their cause. I had many symptoms in my right shoulder, in the trapezius muscle, here, and also in the back of the shoulder blades, and I had symptoms under the ribs on the right, here there was always a painful sensation, a feeling of complete compression and bloating for years and I did not know why, of course, here below I had a problem with the bile ducts, the tubes coming from the gallbladder. But this is part of the liver, because bile is produced by the liver. I had this problem for a very long time. I make a lot of videos about the liver because I completely eliminated this problem and this is a big myth that I want to dispel because people think that if there are problems with the liver, they will always be  but this is not true. The liver is a very strong, very resilient organ. It is the only organ that can completely regenerate 100%. So, this is one myth. Another myth is that the liver is filled with toxins, that it is very toxic. This is not true. The liver neutralizes poisons. It does not store poisons. Poisons are stored in fat cells, and the liver removes toxins from the body. When the liver reaches the point that scar tissue begins to appear in it, and cirrhosis begins, the risk of developing liver cancer increases greatly. Doctors do not solve this problem in the best way. They suggest getting on a waiting list for a transplant, and there are few people with a healthy liver suitable for transplantation. A person waits and hopes that he will live to see the day when they find a liver for him. And if a liver is transplanted, you will have to take anti-rejection drugs like prednisone. And they have their own side effects. A simple solution is to avoid liver problems. I will tell you about a very interesting study on rats. There were three groups of rats. The first group of rats was fed pork fat and also given alcohol. The second group of rats was fed beef fat and also given alcohol, and the third  The group was fed corn oil and also given alcohol. It's interesting that in the first group, pork fat and alcohol, liver damage was minimal, while they checked for liver damage and the development of fatty liver disease. After all, they were also given alcohol. I would like to have another group of rats in this experiment that were given only alcohol to see what happens. Well, okay, in the group that received pork fat and alcohol, there was minimal liver damage. In the second group, which received beef fat and alcohol, there was practically no liver damage. What does this mean? This means that beef fat can potentially protect the liver. This is another interesting point. This is amazing, especially considering that I consume a lot of beef fat and I no longer have liver problems. And what about the third group, in which the rats received corn oil and alcohol? Guess what happened to them. Nothing good. Severe liver damage is the most severe. Of all three groups, the worst product, let's call it an ingredient for fatty liver and liver in general, is seed oils. Seed oils cause severe inflammation and cause a lot of harm, which is understandable considering how they are made. Here is oil.  from seeds so it's interesting that here we see pictures of vegetables and we call this oil vegetable I think that this advertising is misleading because someone sees these vegetables and thinks that this is vegetable oil but it is not so it is soybean oil So sooner or later this advertising will come back to haunt the manufacturer of this oil because it is not vegetable oil it is a special type of fat omega-6 fatty acids and people consume too much of them in the US people get 25-30 pro calories from omega-6 it is linoleic acid so pork lard contains about 2.5% linoleic acid in beef fat contains only 0.7 pro linoleic acid that is less than 1% and in corn oil 56.6 linoleic acid this heated linoleic acid in seed oils is so oxidized by free radicals our cells seem to rust from its effects especially the cells of the liver nervous system and because of this a lot of waste occurs I made several videos on this topic you can watch them too you need to completely exclude these oils from the diet there is too much from 25 to 30% they cause severe inflammation, they get stuck in cells, in fat cells, in the membranes around the cells of the nervous system and remain there for 2-3 years. Yes, when you eat, say, sugar, you burn it pretty quickly, damn. Something like that gets stuck in the body. And we can't even get energy from there. Where do we put it? In cell membranes, in hormones. These oils get into our tissues and cause all kinds of inflammation, especially inflammation in the liver. Which leads to the development of insulin resistance. Start reading the ingredients when you buy food. And in restaurants, ask what oil was used to fry what you are served. I would avoid anything fried in any snack bar. And in any restaurant, such food. After all, it contains a lot of soybean oil, corn oil. Perhaps canola or cottonseed oil. Avoid this. At least 23 years to remove these oils from the body. See for yourself how good you can feel if. Replace this crap with something healthy. Replace it with omega-3 fatty acids. And this is fish oil, cod liver oil, and so on.  These oils reduce inflammation. Not only has this severely damaged area been oxidized more. Just imagine how much waste is generated and what kind of oxidative stress your cells are exposed to. So, number one, eliminate seed oils from your diet and read the ingredients of foods. Number two, consume more omega-3 fatty acids. Number three, consume less animal products such as chicken, turkey, even beef if they are grain-fed, and even eggs from grain-fed chickens. Unless you find eggs that have more omega-3 fatty acids. The point is that you need to eliminate seed oils and any fats that are high in omega-6 from your diet. Replace them with completely grass-fed beef, grass-fed lamb, grass-fed goat's buvat, and so on. I think it would n't hurt to add cruciferous vegetables to your diet, including sauerkraut, and so on. After all, they are also good for the liver. I invite you to my course. You have a liver type of body.  If you have a protruding beer belly, fatty liver, and digestive problems, then this course is for you. It will help restore liver health. My unique videos, a special diet, and exercises for effective workouts are waiting for you. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.