I want to share some interesting information about products that can help remove fat from the liver. Fatty hepatosis is very common. If you count only non- alcoholic fatty liver disease, it affects one in 7 tenths of a billion people on the planet. Fatty liver can also be caused by alcohol, which is also a huge number. That is, not counting people who drink alcohol and have fatty liver. That is, non- alcoholic fatty hepatosis and alcoholic fatty hepatosis are the same problem, but with different causes. I am very happy to share with you a tool that helps me find this information: the site and foxes.  Orc is an incredible search engine, it searches through, I think, more than 200 million studies and helps find the necessary pieces of information that are difficult to find with a Google search, and the link will be in the description. It is very useful, and we will discuss the foods you need to eat to remove fat from the liver. In addition, I should also say which foods are harmful to the liver. Fructose is very harmful. What is unique about fructose is that it is a type of sugar that not all cells in the body can handle like glucose, but only liver cells can. Every time you consume glucose and fructose syrup or any fructose from fruits, the liver has to deal with it. If you overload the liver with fructose, it begins to become overgrown with fat, even though fructose has a low glycemic index. And of course, anything that increases insulin worsens fatty liver disease. This is sugar and refined carbohydrates. There are also other factors, for example, inflammation, which lead to fatty liver, and so we have a chain of problems: inflammation, fatty liver with liver scarring, cirrhosis, and of course, insulin resistance, which can increase insulin and  aggravate the condition of the liver and of course the very presence of a fatty liver increases inflammation, which worsens insulin resistance, that is, it's a vicious circle. If you stand and look at your shoes and can't see them because of your belly, you definitely have a fatty liver. But even if you don't have a belly, you can still have a fatty liver. This is called lean fat. Before we continue, if you haven't watched my video on how to remove half of all the fat from the liver in two weeks using a ketogenic diet with intermittent fasting. The link is in the description. We need products with good proportions of fatty acids, a lot of omega 3 and little omega-6, because omega 3 helps remove fat from the liver. I also want to voice one paradoxical thing: short-chain fatty acids are fats, but they help the liver get rid of fat because they significantly reduce insulin resistance. The body creates short-chain fatty acids thanks to fiber, which feeds the microflora, and the microflora produces short-chain fatty acids as a by-product. I want to say one more thing before moving on to the products. All kinds of phytonutrients are plant-based substances that significantly reduce inflammation, which can indirectly help reduce the amount of fat in the liver. A hill of mins from turmeric is resveratrol, which is found in grapes. You can decide to indulge in grapes, but the problem is that it contains fructose, which will negate all the benefits. Some people start drinking wine because resveratrol is also found in wine. The problem is that the alcohol in wine harms the liver, so wine won't help. There is another very strong substance in green tea called G-C-G-I. Even many spices and herbs contain phytonutrients. For example, black cumin contains thymoquinone, a very powerful compound that helps remove fat from the liver. Other things also help, especially fasting. Physical exercise also helps reduce liver fat. Even vitamin D from the sun helps remove fat from the liver. Vitamin A and vitamin E both help reduce liver fat. As for foods, let's finally discuss them. All cruciferous vegetables help significantly reduce the amount of fat in the liver, that is, arugula, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts.  Cabbage, radish, Swiss chard. All of these foods are high in fiber and relatively low in carbohydrates and sugar. Another vegetable that can remove fat from the liver is dandelion leaves. They are a little tougher with a texture that is difficult to chew. They are not as tender as lettuce leaves, but I grow dandelion in a greenhouse. It is an excellent green to add to a salad due to its enormous benefits for the liver, not only in the fight against fat, but also against many other liver problems. And wild salmon. Why does the high omega-3 content help remove fat from the liver? I found a study through the same search engine that showed that consuming farmed salmon worsened the problem of liver fat, so you need wild salmon. Olive oil. Olive oil is a type of fat that helps remove fat from the liver. In addition, it reduces inflammation and it contains some very good, powerful phytonutrients. But make sure it is not a fake olive oil, which is often better these days. Buy an expensive, high-quality one.  and the oil that will give the desired effect, probiotics help get rid of fat in the liver, this includes products such as fermented vegetables, especially sauerkraut, kimchi, you can even use kefir as a fermented product, data on the following two vegetables I found in one study, garlic and onions, they both cope very well with removing fat from the liver, so be sure to add garlic and onions to your food more often, and the last thing is not really a product, this is a drink, coffee, imagine coffee is capable of removing fat from the liver, of course, I recommend only one cup a day, because excess caffeine will not let you fall asleep at night, acids and other substances in coffee, even caffeine help remove fat from the liver, and green tea and black tea will also help reduce the amount of fat in the liver. Here are practical recommendations for fatty liver, and I want to add that I have a large course dedicated to liver health and it has much more information not only on how to deal with fatty liver, I invite you to my course. If you have a liver body type, you have a protruding beer belly, a sick fatty liver and digestive problems, then this course is for you, it will help restore liver health, my unique videos are waiting for you, a special diet and exercises  For effective training, sign up for the course using the link below, see you there.