This can increase the risk of a heart attack by more than 20 times within the first 24 hours. You're probably wondering what I'm talking about. What can so greatly increase the risk of a heart attack? It's poor nutrition, no, maybe it's smoking, no. Or maybe alcohol, no. What I'm going to talk about also increases the risk of viral infections and autoimmune diseases. So what are we talking about? We're talking about stress, and the type of stress that most often leads to a heart attack is loss. The loss of an important person in your life is called broken heart syndrome. It has been found that with a serious loss, the risk of a heart attack increases significantly in the first day. Imagine, in the first week, the risk of a heart attack is as much as six times higher. There are other types of stress, for example, post-traumatic stress disorder. It increases the risk of autoimmune diseases. Let 's talk about how stress is artificially created in our time. Stress can be different: physical or mental, real or imagined. Even thoughts about a stressful situation can affect the body. There is no stress in the environment, but just thinking about it can raise blood pressure. When I met my wife, we went on a roller coaster. She loves American  Rollers, they bring her delight and the scarier they are, the more fun I'm afraid to ride even the children's ones But of course I didn't want to look weak and went with her I remember how we got on the cart and we were secured in it my heart started pounding boom-boom-boom and here we are slowly climbing the hill and at the end of this hill I see just a cliff my blood pressure soars and adrenaline is off the charts I grabbed the handrail so hard that my hands started shaking My wife looked at me oh my god what's going on here and I was in a state of wild horror and here we are at the top And what's ahead you can't see my wife later said that I was pale as a ghost When your face is so pale it means that all the blood has left and all this blood ended up in the feet When we rushed down I think I lost consciousness my eyes were running and my wife said forgive me for God's sake I will never drag you here again I have n't been on a roller coaster since then I was also very afraid of public speaking just terrible fear Some people can tolerate stress of a certain kind, while others cannot. There are two main types of stress. There is sudden or acute stress, and chronic stress, which lasts for some time. But both create similar problems. Under stress, two things happen: Adrenaline soars, which then activates cortisol. Cortisol is a hormone. Adrenaline is a neurotransmitter. Adrenaline acts quickly, cortisol, after some time, cortisol mobilizes sugar for quick energy. Adrenaline mainly affects the heartbeat, sweating, pressure, and also the narrowing of some blood vessels, because the heart needs more blood, and therefore a heart attack can occur, the blood vessels begin to contract. If you inject adrenaline into the heart, its blood vessels also expand. With an asthma attack, a person inhales cortisol through an inhaler, and this expands the blood vessels in the lungs, but with chronic stress, cortisol levels become high, and cortisol is a natural immunosuppressant. This makes you defenseless against various infections. After all, you have lost this barrier, so stress reduces protection and allows viruses  invade the body for the same reason many people develop autoimmune diseases after stress especially if the stress is strong enough or it has brought the body into a state of shock you literally turn off the part of the immune system that should protect against autoimmune problems This is especially true for regulatory T cells these cells are a kind of Guardians of the Peace they should not allow the body to attack itself this is called an autoimmune attack when the immune system destroys the body's cells this is interesting and explains why stress can provoke so many problems with the immune system during a heart attack and stroke adrenaline works you need to understand that stress activates adrenaline and it causes blood clotting and other problems in the cardiovascular system as I already said you don't even have to be in a stressful situation right now Maybe you are lying and running through different scenarios in your head If something seems insurmountable it can Shatira body I will tell you about excellent solutions and in this case if without going into details you will probably understand what I mean there are certain people and groups that essentially do  your environment is more dangerous or seems dangerous, they create real or fake dangers, exaggerate the crisis, all this should cause fear in people, and the group that creates the problem usually has a solution on which you will depend, the key word in all this is control, there is stress, good and bad, and it all depends on who manages this stress, because there are types of stress that are good for health, say, training, where we control what is happening, sometimes it seems to us that if we get rid of stress and all problems, we will become completely healthy, but this is not so, high-intensity interval training increases stress, raises adrenaline and cortisol, but you do them for a very short time, another type of stress that helps me a lot is rock climbing, an intense load, a vertical climb to a great height, and when I climb this wall, my attention is completely in the present tense, I look only at what to cling to next, if I was previously thinking about some problem, these thoughts go away in the first minutes because I am focused on something else. It's all about how you manage your attention, the therapeutic goal is to get you out of your thoughts, free your attention from the fact that at the World Cup it is fixed  and direct it somewhere else sports therapy because it is a game playing sports easily disconnects from problems other therapeutic activities are woodworking cleaning gardening dancing music art and physical labor in your yard all this helps with stress when you are stressed start breathing in a certain way this is a way to control the autonomic nervous system works magically while you breathe through your nose mouth Inhale and Exhale This is a great way to get out of a state of panic attack or anxiety it is important that you control your breathing this is the main secret also helps taking some adaptogen nutrients one of the best ashwagandha ashwagandha helps increase resistance to stress calms the nerves B1 for example from nutritional yeast and also magnesium I prefer to drink it before bed it relaxes well helps get rid of stress and high cortisol And something else I used this in my practice And now I am making a video about how you can do it yourself this is an acupressure technique when you press on certain points on the body It is excellent  It relieves stress and helps you sleep well. You can learn about this technique in this course. I invite you to an anti-stress course. Stress is associated with cortisol and can indicate problems with the adrenal glands and also be the cause of excess weight. In the course, I will show you how to remove stress from the body and restore a beautiful body. Stress is closely related to immunity. Therefore, in the Pro package, you will receive a gift: a unique course on how to strengthen the immune system. I will tell you how the immune system works and what reduces it. I will also give you a list of the best means for strengthening it. I look forward to seeing you on the course.