Let's talk about 5 women's products that should be avoided and, by the way, there is always an alternative to any toxic product and, as for the sales market, there are still products that are very unsafe and very toxic and you need to know about them. Let's start with compact powder; we'll talk about powder. It is used in a wide variety of women's products from creams and finishing powders to materials used in eyeshadows, foundations, blushes, and many cosmetic creams. It is the softest mineral, it absorbs very well, that is, it absorbs oil from the skin and makes it soft and silky in appearance, at least at first. The problem is that mined talc always contains a mineral called asbestos, so 20 percent of all products with talc contain asbestos impurities, and the problem with asbestos-free is that it causes a malignant tumor called mesothelioma. So if you use compact powder, find powder without asbestos. Below I will leave links to two sites where you can find non-toxic commercial powder number two, nail polish and nail polish remover. I don't understand how people who work in salons or places where they do manicures tolerate the toxicity of all these chemicals. If you work in such a place, you need to at least install an air ionizer so that there are less of these chemicals in the air than nail polish is so bad in It contains chemicals such as toluene, which is found in gasoline. It is a solvent needed to prevent the varnish from separating, but when inhaled, it is toxic to the central nervous system and harmful to the reproductive organs. Formaldehyde is also added to nail polish. What's wrong with formaldehyde? It's great if you're embalming someone. But you must understand that nails are alive and the body can absorb substances through nails. Everything that is applied to the nails is absorbed. Vlad has dibutyl phthalate. It makes nail polish flexible and prevents it from becoming brittle and cracking. However, it is absorbed into the blood and can negatively affect the reproductive organs. It is a hormonal disruptor. Furthermore, the polish applied to the nails must then be removed with nail polish remover. Acetone is part of the composition. The problem with acetone is that it is on the list of hazardous substances, although it is a clear, colorless liquid with a sweetish odor. It is a solvent for oils, fats, wax, resins, and mass class. It is simply something. It causes headaches, nausea, and vomiting.  dizziness, nausea, and even loss of consciousness. It can affect the kidneys and liver. It is a flammable liquid. It is a dangerous liquid. In the first aid section, if it gets on your skin, it says to quickly remove contaminated clothing and wash the skin with plenty of water and soap. Are you applying it directly to your body? Maybe someone thinks that it is not absorbed or that since it is on the nails and the nails are kind of dead, although this is not true, it will not affect them. As for cancer, acetone has not been tested for its ability to cause cancer in animals. But even though it has not been tested, this does not mean that it cannot cause cancer. No flammable substances should be applied to the body. I recommend simply finding an environmentally friendly, non-toxic nail polish and the same nail polish remover. They exist and I will leave a couple of links to those that I could find. Number 3: intimate hygiene products. They are called feminine hygiene products. These are various liquids, wipes, shaving gels, and lubricants. It seems that many women buy these products, but are they really necessary and how do they affect the microbiome of the vaginal canal? These chemicals kill.  microflora and change your these products greatly increase the risk of developing cervical cancer genitourinary tract infections pelvic inflammatory disease human papillomavirus genital warts genital herpes why because they destroy the immune system these microbes are a defense mechanism and without a defense mechanism you are more vulnerable to pathogens normal lactobacilli living in a single channel produce lactic acid it helps make the environment several tesla and this is another barrier when the page rises and the environment becomes more alkaline a woman becomes more vulnerable to a lot of problems irritation redness and so on a very simple solution use a probiotic for vaginal health I don't know the name but you definitely need to look for them and switch to them okay next number four depilatory creams the chemical that is usually used in them is called glycolic acid any substance that you apply to the skin and after a few minutes brush off the hair in one motion should be very alarming because this acid dissolves keratin in the hair and imagine me glycolic acid is also included in the list  dangerous substances, this is an aggressive substance, it can cause severe irritation and burns to the skin, as for the danger of cancer, it has not been tested for the ability to cause cancer in animals, the jury is still deliberating, but look, it says here to avoid contact with the skin, and you apply it to your skin, it even says to use protective gloves when working with this acid, if you don’t like body hair, do not use this chemical, it is better to use wax, and number five, permanent hair dyes, over 5,000 chemicals are used to color hair, and unfortunately, some of them can cause cancer, these chemicals get on the scalp, are absorbed, enter the bloodstream, and they can affect the endocrine system, affect hormones, some of them are hormone disruptors, and in one large study involving 45,000 women, it was found that this increases the risk of breast and bladder cancer, but there are natural dyes, and it is worth using them, and when you dye your hair, always ask yourself what the ingredients of this dye are so that it does not contain a lot of chemicals whose names you can’t even pronounce, and since we’re on the topic of chemistry and women’s health,  I have a separate course dedicated to this subject. I invite you to my course on ovarian body type. This course is for women with cycle irregularities, menopausal symptoms, and other gynecological problems. Externally, this is expressed in fat deposits on the hips and lower abdomen. My course will help you restore women's health. You can expect my unique videos, a list of products, and exercises for effective workouts. Sign up for the course using the link below. See you there.