Let's talk about which vitamin is best for fighting glaucoma. Before you do anything that I recommend, consult with your doctor and I'm not saying to give up medications. I just want to bring this information to your attention. It was difficult to find, and if you have glaucoma or you know someone with such a problem, you should know about the alternative. Glaucoma is a situation when the pressure in the intraocular Yalo is increased. The danger is that the pressure on the optic nerve can increase. And this can worsen vision, even leading to blindness. Glaucoma is also the second leading cause of blindness in people. 80 million people in the world suffer from glaucoma and half of them don't even know about it. I found something very interesting on this topic. Previously, I had no idea that glaucoma could be an autoimmune disease, which is why the natural remedy that I will name works. If you google natural remedies, vitamins, or proper nutrition for glaucoma, you will not find anything. There are even publications that claim  that such things do not work, it is not worth trying. Of course, this does not convince me, because who will invest hundreds of thousands of dollars in such research. What should we pray and wait for someone to do this someday, or should we try something natural and see, especially when you hear what I will tell you about the relationship between glaucoma and vitamin D. In Korea, a study was conducted where 6,000 people participated. A clear link was established between low vitamin D levels and glaucoma. It turned out that people with glaucoma are three times more likely to have problems with the vitamin D receptor. In this video, I provide a review of a book that I recently found. It was written by the German doctor Harald Schelly. An amazing book. He uses vitamin D for a variety of eye problems, getting wonderful results. He gives very interesting information about vitamin D, and this attracted my attention. In this video, I will provide the main data from the book. A link to the book will be below. Almost all parts of the eye have a receptor for vitamin D. If this is actually an autoimmune disease, then vitamin D is very important in autoimmune diseases. Your antibodies  Your body's T-cells attack your tissues, causing inflammation, and this prevents the body from functioning normally, and with the help of vitamin D, you can suppress this reaction. But here's the problem if you have a vitamin D deficiency or resistance to vitamin D. What happens most often: taking vitamin D in a normal dose will not give a therapeutic effect; the immune system reacts too strongly, the balance is disrupted, the inflammation does not go away, and by the way, there is another point, so-called steroid-induced glaucoma. This means that taking steroids can also cause glaucoma. People with autoimmune diseases often have a genetic problem with the vitamin D receptor with the conversion of vitamin D from an inactive form to an active one, or with the absorption of vitamin D. The general term for all this is vitamin D resistance, and it is precisely to overcome this resistance that you need to increase the dose of vitamin D. The current norm for vitamin D content in the blood is usually considered a deficiency if you have less than 20 nanograms per milliliter, but Dr. Harald Shelley believes that the normal level is much higher. Initially, they took the vitamin D levels of some healthy people and took it as the norm. These people lived in certain latitudes and no one looked at its other beneficial properties. If you only need prevention of bone loss, osteomalacia and rickets, then perhaps a small dose will be enough, but Dr. Shelley says that you need from 100 to 130 or even 150 nanograms per milliliter. An ordinary doctor will look at this and get scared and say that this is too much, that your calcium in the blood will skyrocket, but don’t rush to conclusions. Listen to the end. There is amazing information from Dr. Kaim from Brazil, who successfully treats autoimmune diseases with high doses of vitamin D, and here’s what he recommends starting with: 1000 vitamin D per kilogram of body weight. My weight is approximately 84 kg, so I need to drink 84,000 IU of vitamin D daily. This dose will greatly increase calcium absorption. When taking a blood test for vitamin D, you need to understand that you will see vitamin D not in its active form, but in an inactive form, and it still needs to be converted with If you have biochemical processes, then despite high doses, the receptor may not accept it. Therefore, according to this protocol, you further increase the dose until you overcome resistance to vitamin D and until the receptor accepts it, this will produce a therapeutic effect on the immune system. But how do we know that the receptor has accepted vitamin D? You can monitor parathyroid hormone because an increase in the amount of vitamin D that binds to receptors reduces the level of parathyroid hormone. So you can see that the receptors for vitamin D begin to work better. So, you drink 1,000 IU per kilogram of body weight for several months and then adjust the dose until you either bring it to a level of 100 to 150 nanograms per milliliter or the hormone is below the normal range and give the vitamin time to work. And to minimize the risk of calcium accumulation in the vessels, you do not take calcium supplements, eliminate some foods with calcium, drink 2 liters of fluid per day.  To protect against kidney stones, also 100 micrograms of vitamin K2 for every 100,000 micrograms of vitamin D3. All this will also be in the description. In addition, take magnesium, somewhere around 600 mg daily. Magnesium also helps protect blood vessels from calcium deposits. But what if everything is fine with you, but your parents or their parents have problems? Then take Vitamin D for prevention to protect yourself from a series of problems with the body, including possible autoimmune diseases, as well as glaucoma. In general, I wanted to record a new video about glaucoma to tell you this information in case you need an alternative to the traditional method. If you haven't yet taken my course dedicated to vitamin D, there is a lot of other important information about it. I recommend inviting you to my course on vitamin D, a vitamin for health. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90% of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how, thanks to vitamin D, to get rid of these diseases and symptoms, strengthen your health and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speeches on longevity and health at the 2019 Keto Summit. All this is available.  Online in Russian, link below, waiting for you on the course