I want to show you something very useful for correcting a forward curved posture when not the whole body but only the neck shifts forward from the vertical axis. Let me show you something on the spine so it will be more visible. So, perhaps you sit at a desk all day and this is ruining your posture or it is broken due to a long-standing injury. About which a little later, the head weighs about 5-8 kg like a bowling ball and it rests on the spine and every centimeter of the head's tilt forward creates enormous tension. Here in the back there is a connection between the occipital bone of the skull and the first vertebra. Here it is called the Atlas. There are very strong ligaments and tendons. And also nerves. The brain stem is located right here and this part belongs to the parasympathetic nervous system. Its other name is the rest and digestion system. Having problems in the upper neck can lead to insomnia, dizziness, or even spasticity. This is an affliction. When you get up abruptly, your head spins and you have to lie down again. Adaptation to getting up is impaired. The upper neck is pinched and  I'm constantly tense in my practice. I asked patients if they had a compression injury to the head when something fell on your head or you yourself fell from somewhere landing on your head. When I was 5 years old, I was swinging on a swing and slipped and landed on my head from a height of a meter and received a compression injury in this area. That's how my neck problems began and that's why I eventually went to a chiropractor. There are also coccyx injuries when you land hard back. The impact of the blow passes through the entire spine and eventually reaches the back of the head and gets stuck there. If you have ever had a coccyx injury, you probably have a lot of tension and protective tightness in the upper part of the neck and this pulls it forward. And there is also a whiplash injury. If you were driving and someone hit you from behind and your neck went back and forth like this, which led to an injury in the front of the neck due to stretching or in a head-on collision when the head is pulled forward and a microtrauma occurs in the back of the neck.  or even from the side if the collision is lateral and the head is jerked like this with the neck can happen many different injuries that will occur in the future in life and it happens that you spend 10-12 hours at a desk at the computer and the head gets used to being pulled forward the question is What can be done with such a problem with the neck there are three things that I recommend paying attention to The first is a very simple stretch what happens when the head is thrown forward the muscles in the front of the neck and the upper chest pull it forward They are too tense compared to the muscles in the back because we have a constant imbalance between the muscles in the front and back It would seem that if the neck goes forward then it would be logical to pull it back but these muscles do not work like that it is much better to stretch the muscles located here in the back by bending like this Because when you stretch these back muscles bending forward you send a signal to the muscles in the front and this signal orders them to relax Each time you stretch some muscles the opposing muscles automatically relax we send a signal to relax the front muscles when we stretch the back So the first stretch that I recommend is called Jefferson  Jefferson twists are usually done gradually from the easiest version without weights to adding weights. Many athletes do it, gymnasts, weightlifters, and so on, but I recommend you do it without weights and not from a raised platform. Essentially, you need to bend your head forward as much as possible, then bend the middle of your back toward your toes, bending the lower back so that the entire upper body bends forward. What will this give us? This will allow you to stretch the entire back of the spine and the back of the neck, sending signals to the front that allow all the muscles in the front to relax. When you get up from the Jefferson twist, you will be able to stand straighter and more relaxed. When you become more flexible, you can add weights and properly stretch not only the biceps and thighs. This exercise will also add flexibility and strength to the entire spine. The second thing I recommend is neck traction. You can buy a traction device, it’s inexpensive, online, it costs $50-75. $100 will give your neck a colossal boost.  relief and will perfectly correct your posture, especially if you have ever had a compression injury or a coccyx injury, you just need to fix the device on your head and either lie on your back and attach such an elastic springy tourniquet to the other side of the door handle and close the door like this. You can control the force of traction or you can attach it to the top of the door so that the head is pulled upward like this, creating a gap between the occipital bone and the first cervical vertebra. Understand that the ligaments in this place are extremely strong and a lot of pressure can be applied to the neck to provide good traction between the occipital bone and the first cervical vertebra. Over my 30 years of practice, I have used neck traction because it not only gives great relief in the neck but also improves sleep due to the stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system that is about rest and digestion, in this way a person can finally achieve relaxation, and tension in this part of the neck is present in many people. You can also buy my device, however, it is not really for traction, rather for acupressure, you can use it  Those who buy it will receive video instructions. It is very relaxing, but after a compression injury and a coccyx injury, you need a device for traction of the neck. It can eventually remove the consequences of the injury. I advise you to do traction closer to the end of the day, say half an hour before bed for 5-10 minutes. You will feel that your body, not only the neck, but also the middle and lower back will reach a state of relaxation and this will greatly improve your sleep because it is difficult to fall asleep with constant tension in the neck. You will notice that the neck moves more freely and pain in the neck. And maybe even headaches will go away. The third thing I advise after stretching and traction is an exercise to strengthen the neck. You need to do the extension exercise while standing on all fours and also do the flexion exercise while lying on your back. There are a couple of links to detailed instructions in the description. Very often people go to the gym and pump up their whole body but do not strengthen the neck. If you sit at the computer a lot, you can lose the normal shape of the cervical curve and you need to do something to actively counteract this.  Microtraumas I'm very interested in your past, have you had any neck injuries, be it compression or whiplash injuries or coccyx injuries? Please write about it in the comments. And after that, if you are suffering from lower back pain, I think you should watch this video.