I want to tell you something about insulin that you probably have never heard and it sheds a lot of light. After all, most people have confusion about insulin and they don’t even know about it, but at the end of this video, everything will become absolutely clear. You can discover many wonderful truths. When studying something that is associated with some paradoxes and conflicting information in connection with insulin, there is also conflicting information that needs to be sorted out. Conflicting information means that fact A contradicts fact B. Two facts cannot contradict each other. One of them is not a fact. So, if the facts are contradictory, you just need to dig deeper and figure out what’s what. You can usually find very interesting data. Let’s apply this approach to insulin. The main reason that it works and eliminates so many problems, as well as intermittent fasting, is that they lower insulin, and lowering insulin always brings amazing benefits. There are even books that are dedicated to hyperinsulinemia, which is a high level of insulin in the blood in type 1 diabetes. A person needs to take a lot of insulin, and of course, the more insulin he takes, the worse it is for health. The idea is to take a minimum of insulin, but if we talk about functions Most people know that insulin lowers blood sugar. And this is good. Some people know that insulin helps muscle growth and has an anabolic effect on muscles, so some bodybuilders even take insulin or eat carbohydrates to increase insulin and develop muscles. But if insulin is so harmful and dangerous in large doses, why does it help develop muscles? This is something very good. Well, when you start studying other purposes or functions of insulin, you learn amazing, amazing information. You may have seen my video where I talk about insulin spray. People inject insulin into their sinuses. Where is the barrier that separates the brain to fight dementia? It's interesting. After all, I thought that Alzheimer's disease is considered type 3 diabetes and the more insulin, the worse it is for the brain and cognitive function. Why is insulin spray used to reduce the symptoms of dementia? In addition, insulin has an anti-atherogenic effect. This means that insulin actually improves the condition of blood vessels. It's interesting because we hear so much about how insulin is destroyed, promotes the formation of plaques, blood clots, calcifications, and heart disease. Here's another very interesting fact. I think you better sit down before you hear this. insulin actually reduces  Lpnp, the so -called bad cholesterol, is completely contrary to what most people know, that excess insulin increases bad cholesterol, Lpnp, especially small dense particles that are very harmful to blood vessels. Another fact: insulin dilates blood vessels and helps lower blood pressure. Yes, this is absolutely true, read it yourself, but what about metabolic syndrome, when a person has high blood pressure, high LDL, and diabetes? How is that possible? And here's another thing: insulin actually slows down the process of glucose production in the liver, which is called 1C. That is, insulin reduces gluconeogenesis, the formation of new sugar in the liver. But what about all those people with diabetes or prediabetes who wake up in the morning with the phenomenon of dawn, high blood glucose, but they did not eat any carbohydrates the day before, no sugar. Where does this sugar come from? It is created by the liver, and insulin blocks this process. I already said that insulin helps develop muscles, create new muscle tissue, it also prevents the destruction of muscle tissue, protects muscles from atrophy. Okay, then why do people with high insulin and hypersalivation very often have muscle atrophy? Another amazing fact.  insulin helps absorb potassium and magnesium, but how is it possible that people with high insulin levels in the blood experience potassium deficiency, and even such a deficiency? The more insulin in the body, the less. Here's another interesting fact: there is so- called lipolysis, which is essentially the breakdown of lipids or fats, and insulin suppresses lipolysis, that is, the breakdown of fat. So, it preserves fat for survival, preventing the release of fat. But it is interesting that in people with high levels of insulin in the blood, the suppression of lipolysis is abnormal. This function is impaired. Their levels decrease responsibly, at least at the beginning. But their fat cells lose fatty acids that enter the vessels and lead to high levels of fat or lipids in the blood. Yes, I'm talking about triglycerides, yes, I'm talking about cholesterol and LDL, and again, the so-called facts contradict each other. Here's another amazing fact: insulin has a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. This is completely contrary to what many people have been taught: that insulin increases inflammation. For example, with diabetes, a person has a lot of insulin in the body with type 2 diabetes, but at the same time, he has inflammation everywhere.  How is this possible, I'll talk about it in half a minute, but for now, here's the last fact about insulin. insulin is also an antioxidant. It has an antioxidant effect. This is completely at odds with what we see in people who have a lot of insulin in their blood. They have oxidation, free radical damage, and many complications of diabetes. So this is another contradictory fact. Just read about the symptoms of hyperenzymemia, excess insulin in the blood, which includes high blood pressure, sleep apnea, and low testosterone. Although, normally, insulin should actually increase testosterone, another symptom is hundreds of uric acid levels. You know that insulin should help lower uric acid levels. It's interesting that potassium is excreted from the body. This is another symptom of high insulin levels, while insulin should preserve or retain potassium. So what the hell is going on? Here's the information that explains it all. It has to do with insulin control. The beta cells of the pancreas create insulin and release it into the body. The insulin travels through the bloodstream and binds to receptors. It is the receptors that send a signal to the cells that create insulin, which tells them how much insulin to create. So, the brain of all this  The feedback communication system is the receptors and when this recipe does not work as with resistance, the function of this hormone is not performed. The function of insulin is performed only when it correctly binds to the receptor, which then tells the body what to do with insulin resistance. In fact, there is an insulin deficiency. There is not enough insulin, and all these bad things that I just talked about in connection with insulin are caused by an insulin deficiency, not its excess. Yes, insulin can be in excess in the blood, but it does not affect the receptors. So, with diabetes and all these other conditions, there is actually a deficiency problem. And now everything becomes clear. When I talked about the functions of insulin and the problems or contradictory facts about insulin, in fact, I was talking about sufficient and insufficient amounts of insulin. And the reason for all this is insulin resistance, that's the problem. And since we know this, we need to understand how to eliminate insulin resistance. High insulin levels lead to insulin resistance. That is, the more of this hormone you have, the worse its receptors work. The more carbohydrates you eat, the higher  insulin resistance, frequent meals lead to insulin resistance, this can be caused by excess protein, because excess protein turns into sugar, there are other factors that can worsen the work of this receptor, insomnia, stress, high cortisol levels, drugs like prednisone. And this is cortisol, but stress is an important factor, and oils themselves lead to insulin resistance. How can we solve this problem? We need a healthy version of the keto diet. We need intermittent fasting. These two factors are the most important, and so you know, with type 1 diabetes, people get somewhere from 40 to 80 units of fast insulin per day and somewhere between 25-30 units of slow insulin every day. This is a huge amount of insulin, and it is very, very expensive, at least in the US. I recently made a video about a man with type 1 diabetes. He can't stop taking insulin, but he started the keto diet with intermittent fasting, and now he only needs to get two to five units of fast insulin. 2 to 5 units, whereas before he was getting 40 to 80 units. This is incredible.  Reducing the need for insulin. And the more insulin you get, the higher the insulin resistance. Are there any other ways to speed up the reduction of insulin receptor resistance? Yes, regular exercise is extremely useful and of course obvious ways. This will reduce stress. Get more sleep. Regular intake of apple cider vinegar, about a tablespoon with water, is very effective in lowering insulin and blood sugar. Berberine is an excellent plant that helps in this situation. Also, cinnamon. Use cinnamon on toast. I was joking about toast, but not about cinnamon. Chromium is also very useful. Zinc is very useful. Vitamin D is very useful. Magnesium is very useful. Omega-3 fatty acids also help. And for your information, only two types of foods do not increase insulin: fat and fiber. Therefore, large portions of greens in the diet are very useful, as is additional fat in the diet. It does not increase insulin levels too much. I already talked about the insulin index. The more fat in the protein, the less the protein affects insulin. Unlike lean protein, lean protein increases insulin. I hope that much has become clearer now. We will not complicate things, but I think. Now the most important thing for you to watch is a video dedicated to the insulin index.  A very interesting video, you will learn what foods to eat and which to avoid. Watch it here.