 a PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR PR It's a little bit longer than a estrogen. It's a little bit longer than a estrogen. It's a little bit longer than a estrogen. It's a little bit longer than a estrogen. It's a little longer longer than a estrogen. It's a little longer longer than a estrogen. I would like to do it. But the whole rage, I think it's related to the blood sugar, especially for children. These children have been a rage. But when you see what they eat, I see, that on the farm, where I live, when kids come to the house, come to the parents with a couple of days. And in my house there is no food. It's just not. After the day, they become more comfortable, become more comfortable. Oh, it's inspiring. J.R.R. from Facebook. What are the supplements you should take to the heart? They say that nicotinamide helps, so you can take nicotinamide. It's a form B3. It's not a niacin, but a nicotinamide. It's a form. But I think one of the most important methods of arthritis, which you need to try, it's a tooth. It's a tooth twice a day. I'll see you on this video, where I explain why. Most people will give you a standard answer. It's a little bit longer than a omega-3, a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a little oil or a Next, a lot of times it's caused a disease. There are some important sources that you take. I know a lot of people a little bit longer, a little longer longer, It's a weirdovalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalvalval I had to use this technique. It was just a miracle. The patient didn't have to step on the step. I started working with her right step, and she said, no, no, I'm not a left step, and I know. I worked with the right step, and the left step stopped bleeding. It was great. Now, please, subscribe and click on the bell, to turn all notifications. If you choose all notifications, YouTube can also remind you of new videos. This simple way you will help you to the next generation of channel. We continue. This is interesting. It's Dicapo from YouTube. My 12-year-old daughter is high level B12 in her blood. How much level she is? She is a vegetarian, she doesn't take any bad, she rarely eats vegetables. Wait a minute, she eats vegetables and eats vegetables? Well, well, she rarely eats vegetables and in general, she rarely eats vegetables. Well, if she's a vegetarian, she's a vegetarian, she's a vegetarian. Well, it's possible that she eats vegetables, she's a vegetarian, he's a vegetarian. And, you know, there's even problems with something called nuthy. It's so-called nuthy. It's so-called nuthy. It's so-called nuthy. In this case, we need to take a specific nutrient. But I don't know details. I think it's better to put in the order of the food and check it out. If there is a B12, it's somewhere where it comes. I would have looked at it. But it's also related to genetic problems. I would look at it more information, to discuss this question. Okay, so I'm going to ask you a question. We don't want to hear a statement, which you're going to make. And, возможно, you'll say something later. Yes, later I'll say something. Yes, I just shot a video. I think it's interesting. It's a video about how farm-gigants and food-gigants have been sent to a market resource for a lot to restore trust to them. It's a little bit longer than a minute. It's a little bit longer than a minute. It's a little bit longer than a minute. It's a little bit longer than a minute. It's a little bit longer than a minute. It's a little bit longer than a minute. So they are going after influencers, they are going after influencers, when you are in social networks, and you see people who are like a bit of a promotion, or they are attacking people who are against drugs, like, like, like, like, maybe they are paying for money. They should have to show below who they pay, but sometimes they don't do it. And 40% even they don't even know who they pay. So you see a lot of content, which is very very impressive, they are very impressive. They attack Robert Kennedy, the movement of Maha, the people who are healthy, they are supporting the healthy life, they are supporting the food from the plant. One look at it like that, what are their plans? They are trying to keep their status quo, so they are going after all. Or are they trying to improve health, and to remove the benefits of the products? So just go back to the right now, and you will see it all. And what really shocking is that it is the amount of money a little cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's I think it's like a big trust. I could get $250 to $500,000 for a video in interest of farm-gigants and food-gigants. Of course, I believe that I don't do anything and do not do anything. But I'm not going to do anything. They have great money for the fact that they are intermediates between this industry and buyers. And, unfortunately, they sell out. Because their opinions changed. So, I'm now going to have a look. Thank you for watching and see you soon. See you soon. Bye.