Today I will tell you what helps to reduce appetite, all this is based on scientific data, were you surprised that someone can walk next to food all day but does not want to eat, others are worried that they want forbidden things, they may consider themselves weak-willed or professional procrastinators, but no, this is not true. They simply do not know what I will tell you now at the end of this video, you will much better understand what you need to eat and what to do to suppress your appetite and begin to better control your diet, you can lose weight, you will look better, you will be happy with yourself and your willpower. Hunger and appetite do not begin in the stomach, sometimes it comes from bacteria in the intestines that manipulate the brain. There is amazing data that these bacteria can force you to eat what they need. But you can cope with temptation. Carbohydrates, food with monosodium glutamate, alcohol, ultra- processed foods. I will name what will help and let's start with coffee. Coffee stimulates something that makes you feel full. Decaf coffee gives the same effect, just take organic decaffeinated coffee. Avocado is excellent.  a filling product and not only because of its fat content, NM contains natural substances that reduce hunger. In my experience, when I eat guacamole, I get full very quickly, and the fiber from avocado is food for bacteria. Fiber from any product slows the rise in blood sugar, which prevents blood sugar from falling quickly, increasing appetite. Dark chocolate contains a bitter substance that suppresses appetite. The higher the percentage indicated on the chocolate, the less sugar there is. So if you find 95 or 90%, you can safely take sugar there is very little. In addition, chocolate contains a lot of magnesium. Cayenne pepper is another useful food additive. It was found that its smell alone can reduce appetite. Next on the list is apple cider vinegar. A tablespoon per glass of water will help stabilize blood sugar. And even if blood sugar has risen, apple cider vinegar will help stabilize this level so that it does not fall too much. This works, among other things, because the body uses the acid from apple cider vinegar as fuel. Green tea contains a certain substance called galactose. epigallocatechin, it is a very effective appetite suppressant. Next on the list is bone broth. When you drink bone broth, the effect is almost the same as if you had eaten something more appetizing. For example, meat in the broth is full of nutrients. Try the following option: simply protein-rich foods, such as eggs or even red meat, compared to other foods with carbohydrates and fats. High-quality protein foods such as eggs or meat are not only rich in amino acids but also contain a lot of other nutrients that saturate the brain and the body gets what it needs. When you are hungry, you can also add ginger to food. It stimulates digestive juices and you extract more nutrients from food. Next on the list are dark leafy greens or lettuce plus olive oil. It is a very filling fat. It also helps extract fat-soluble nutrients from greens. This is in addition to vitamins and minerals. Next on the list is MCT oil. It is obtained from coconut. MCT oil is a fat that does not require chemical reactions for absorption, as for  absorption of other fats. It is easily digested and converted into ketones, which give you more energy than water and even proteins. The body likes to use ketones as fuel. Food with turmeric is very healthy and brings more satiety. Next comes zinc. If a person is zinc deficient, they have an increased feeling of hunger. Next is kombucha tea or tea mushroom. It's not really tea, it's a carbonated drink, it's very sour. I like it. Drink half a glass through a straw. I dilute it. It's very satiating because it contains lactic acid and provides food for the microflora. Which then sends a signal of satiety to the brain. Grapefruit also contains a substance that satiates well. Another bitter substance is found in arugula, it supports the liver. Arugula is more filling than, for example, a regular salad such as Romaine lettuce. When you eat vegetables or berries with fiber, this fiber protects against high blood sugar. If your food contains fiber, you feel fuller. Next on the list is non- fat protein. You shouldn't eat lean protein. The leaner the protein, for example, whey protein powder, the stronger the insulin surge. The insulin index and the product that raises insulin the most among non- carbohydrates is whey protein powder. Protein and fat have a lower index. For example, a whole egg, the fat of meat or fatty fish, they raise insulin less and there is no sharp drop in blood sugar levels, because insulin lowers blood sugar better when sugar is at the same level. And when you eat protein with fat, this drop is softened. Fiber in the diet also lowers the glycemic index. Physical activity can also help with appetite, but there is a caveat. If you train a lot and intensely, this can lower blood sugar too much and you will want to eat. I mean long walks, something not too intense. This helps blood sugar well. Next on the list, and this is very important, an extra half hour of sleep. You can take a nap for half an hour or get up half an hour later. This will noticeably reduce cortisol and level out blood sugar. And finally, the last point helps to cope with stress as much as possible. Exercise, physical labor in the fresh air, more sleep, a healthy diet, stretching, taking ashwagandha and be sure to take magnesium glycinate before bed. This will help with these products, I get enough sleep and  By reducing stress, you can control your appetite, lose weight, look good, and feel good about yourself. Health problems begin when you lack essential vitamins and minerals. Deficiencies can manifest themselves in various ways, from fatigue to muscle pain, from vision problems to decreased immunity. How can this be safely corrected? Will pharmacy vitamins help? What supplements to take, how and when. In the course on nutrient deficiencies, Dr. Berg will talk about vitamin deficiencies, how they affect health, and how to replenish them. More than 100 lessons, notes and lists, everything you need to understand this topic. Sign up for the course using the link below.