I want to discuss one drink, or more precisely, tea that can be drunk to lower blood pressure. Of course, you need to find the root cause of high blood pressure, be it a deficiency of potassium or vitamin D or some other reason. But for now, if you need a good remedy that has literally no side effects, then this video is for you. The antioxidants in this tea are stronger than even in green tea. One study showed the effect of a significant reduction in both systolic and diastolic pressure. Systolic is the upper number measured during heart contraction, and diastolic is the lower pressure measured during the relaxation phase. Researchers found that this tea is as effective as the blood pressure medication captopril. Tea has a weak diuretic effect, but this is not the main reason for its effectiveness. It can remove excess sodium but does not reduce potassium. Several other beneficial properties have been found in it. It helps lower both glycerides and LDL cholesterol. I am not saying that this is bad on a ketogenic diet, but if you are not on a ketogenic diet and your LDL is high, this tea can help you. Another study on 65 people found that this tea significantly lowers  Systolic pressure compared to placebo. A subsequent meta-analysis of a number of independent randomized controlled trials showed a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic pressure with virtually no side effects. Because blood pressure medications usually have a side effect of depletion of drug-induced nutrients. When taking blood pressure lowering medications, you develop a calcium deficiency, a potassium deficiency, and a magnesium deficiency. All three are important electrolytes, and a deficiency of each of the three provokes an increase in blood pressure. It's bad when a side effect ultimately causes the same problem that you are treating. I also want to mention one interesting double- blind clinical trial where the control group contained another blood pressure medication, lisinopril. Lisinopril showed a better result, but not that much. The average blood pressure in the group was initially 146 to 97, and by the end of the study, it dropped to 129 to 85, which is quite good. This shows that the therapeutic effect of drinking this tea was 65 point fifteen percent of the effect of lisinopril. An outstanding result and at the same time one hundred percent safe. 0 side effects.  What kind of tea is this? Are you ready to find out? It's hibiscus tea. It's made from beautiful hibiscus flowers. The pigment in these flowers contains phytonutrients, anthocyanins, which apparently act as ACE inhibitors. OPF is an enzyme involved in the balance of fluids in the body and in regulating blood pressure. This is why many blood pressure medications are ACE inhibitors. Hibiscus hibiscus tea is a natural ACE inhibitor. ACE inhibitors lower blood pressure and relax blood vessels. The basis of this enzyme is zinc, so it's an enzyme containing zinc. What's interesting is that zinc deficiency can provoke an increase in blood pressure. This connection may be due to the fact that the body needs to build ACE inhibitors. There isn't enough of it. In general, zinc deficiency can lead to increased blood pressure. Zinc deficiency also occurs in diabetes. Diabetics usually have high blood pressure. Zinc deficiency also occurs with kidney or liver problems, and of course, blood pressure rises in these cases. The antioxidants in tea are more powerful than in green tea, and this is amazing. You shouldn't drink hibiscus tea if you're taking diuretics, unless you consult a doctor.  It will be allowed because apparently this tea already acts as a diuretic. If you drink this tea, your blood pressure will drop. And if you take medication, your blood pressure will drop even more, so consult a doctor. Hibiscus tea has other beneficial properties. There is research showing that it can suppress stomach cancer by as much as 52 percent. It has been shown that the phytonutrients in hibiscus tea also have antibacterial properties, the effectiveness of which is comparable to some antibiotics and even exceeds the effectiveness of penicillin. There is a study showing that they can even remove fat from the liver. If you drink hibiscus tea, the course should last at least six weeks to achieve the full effect. In the meantime, you should also increase your vitamin D and potassium levels. I have a large course of vitamin D. I highly recommend inviting you to my vitamin D course. Vitamin D deficiency affects 90 percent of the world's population and causes many diseases. During the course, you will learn how, with vitamin D, to get rid of these diseases and symptoms, strengthen your health and maintain youth. As a gift, you will receive my speech on longevity and health at the 2019 Nadeta Summit. All this  Available online in Russian, link below, waiting for you on the course