I know it's hard to believe, but some people who started consuming carbohydrates can't stop. Recently, someone turned to me for help because they were a little hooked on carbohydrates. The person wanted to switch to ketogenic diets, but he couldn't overcome this addiction. So, I decided to make a video about this. We are accustomed to sugar from birth. It is found in baby food, in all products, children are constantly treated to sweets and cookies, cake for every holiday, and so on. As a result, the body gradually develops a real addiction. Two neurotransmitters are involved in this process: dopamine, which is associated with the feeling of pleasure, and serotonin, which is associated with the feeling of happiness. I once had an addiction, that is, a craving for Ben and Jerry ice cream. It went so far that I ate half a kilo every night before bed. This lasted for about a year. I had a real obsession. I thought about it all day. If I didn't eat it for a long time, I would feel stressed and physically uncomfortable, but as soon as this delicious ice cream was in my mouth, I immediately felt satisfaction and happiness. I felt that life was going on and  I had nothing to worry about, it lasted for about a minute, but this feeling of satisfaction and happiness was artificial. I lived for this moment, and for the rest of the day I felt like I was in a rut. Of course, ice cream didn't help my health in any way. You need to understand that if you give in to cravings, they will intensify over time. It will become stronger and stronger. It's interesting that the body can physically enter a state in which it will demand sugar. This addiction really has such a hold on you that it will completely go out of your control. What should you do at this stage? First, you need to completely give up food. Start fasting immediately. Instead of eating anything, don't eat, and the body will have to switch to the transition period. It won't be very comfortable, but it's not that bad. The body will begin to enter ketosis, and then when fat begins to be used as fuel, the brain will begin to recover and reboot. The receptors for neurotransmitters are so damaged that they need a reboot. Fasting is the best way to do this. I recommend fasting for at least a day. Two days is also possible. It would be good to do additional light exercise or long walks. This way, the sugar eaten is burned faster and eliminated from the body. You need to put the body into ketosis, and the brain will feel better.  An interesting fact: if the brain has a choice, it will always prefer ketones to sugar. Without a doubt, this is very healing, and as soon as this happens, you will begin to better control your addiction. Third, you need to be very careful with what causes temptation. Remove all unhealthy food from the house. Yes, those chips that are hidden in the kitchen cabinet will make it difficult to access unhealthy food, especially late at night when you are bored. Many people in the evenings, even if they are not hungry, go to the kitchen looking for something they don’t know what, maybe something salty and crunchy, or maybe sweet. You need to remove all this junk from the house. It is also important during fasting not to read cookbooks, especially about desserts. Avoid anything that reminds you of temptations, including pictures of dishes or desserts. Dopamine is a hormone associated with the anticipation of pleasure, but eating food no longer increases dopamine levels. Dopamine is a precursor to the actual sensation of food, so the sight or smell of food immediately increases dopamine levels, thus establishing some control over your body. Let’s say you are riding a bike around the neighborhood during lunch and smell the aroma.  Spaghetti from someone's house is bad. Avoid this smell. It's a strong trigger. The smell of cooking food is deliberately enhanced in this case to lure customers into the establishment. Avoid temptation in any possible form. B vitamins are essential in this matter. Vitamin B1 will completely eliminate all associated stress. So, use nutritional yeast to curb addictions. Sorry, I meant cravings. I invite you to my Healthy Keto course. It's for those who want to lose weight so that the weight does n't come back. During the course, I'll tell you what prevents you from burning fat and what exactly needs to be done to correct this without harming your health. Hundreds of people have already taken this course and achieved very stable results. Join us too.