Today I want to take a second to tell you about the best homemade syrups for coughs and sore throats. Sorry, I just decided to immediately demonstrate the symptoms. Sometimes people don't understand my strange humor, but I didn't mean to be mean. Well, okay, this video is about coughs and sore throats and about one of the best remedies. It contains honey. In other videos, I said that honey affects blood sugar levels, but when it comes to coughs, especially chronic ones, or sore throats, I decided not to be so strict about honey, and soon I will explain why this applies to one specific type of honey. The remedy contains a certain type of honey. I will say which lemon, apple cider vinegar, and water. The main active ingredient in this remedy is manuka honey. This particular type of honey has interesting properties that have been well researched and contains many natural compounds that affect the body. Even though this sugar is 70 percent fructose and 30 percent glucose, it can affect blood sugar, but it also contains substances that can help with many problems that I will talk about. This honey has been very carefully researched. I will leave all the links under the video. One study showed that it It worked better than an antibiotic and cough medicine. I want to clarify that the positive effect is not created by fructose or glucose, but by completely different substances that bees extract from flowers and deliver to the hive. In particular, the manuka bush contains amazing phytochemicals. Manuka honey reduces the symptoms of a sore throat, has a positive effect in the treatment of burns of any kind, is excellent for healing wounds, and the same goes for bedsores. The FDA even approved it as a means for healing wounds and bedsores. Some of the substances in honey release oxygen from hemoglobin and speed up the healing process. It has anti-allergic anti-inflammatory action, prevents upper respiratory tract infections, has an anti- traumatic effect, has a positive effect on the immune system, suppresses streptococcal bacterial infection, and also has a positive effect on gingivitis and periodontal disease. Although it is sugar, it does not cause caries, but on the contrary, it can reduce plaque. I do not recommend including honey in the diet because it contains a lot of sugar, but when  If you have a cough or sore throat, you can try it. So, what's the recipe? Take a glass jar with a lid and add two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar. Why is this? Apple cider vinegar increases phagocytosis, which can help speed up the immune process and fight off the infection faster. Apple cider vinegar also has an antimicrobial effect. Next, add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice. If possible, it's better to take a whole organic lemon, blend it and add it in proportion instead of lemon juice. Why is this? Your potion will have much more vitamin C than just lemon juice. But if you don't have the time or desire, take 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, preferably organic. Lemon juice also has amazing properties. It can act as a natural antibiotic, has antimicrobial properties, and can suppress coughs. The third thing you need to add is 2 tablespoons of Manuka honey. Then add a quarter liter of water, mix well, and store in the refrigerator. I recommend drinking this remedy in small amounts. Take a shot glass, drink it in one gulp, let the remedy penetrate your throat, and  You can swallow it several times a day. I don't recommend boiling the mixture because enzymes and other compounds can lose their properties when heated. However, you can make another effective remedy: slippery elm bark tea. Let it cool slightly, add a tablespoon of honey, stir until the honey dissolves, and drink like tea. Just don't add honey when the drink is very hot. Another thing: if you add a whole, whipped lemon instead of juice, then mix everything together in a blender. Water, honey, apple cider vinegar, and a glass of water until smooth. Store in the refrigerator. The taste will be quite strong and rich, so when you take a sip, it may irritate your throat a little at first because of the apple cider vinegar. In this case, just add more water. But for most people, this remedy suppresses coughs. If you haven't seen my video about water with lemon, it's time to fix that. Here it is. Watch it.