I want to discuss three circumstances in which you should not take apple cider vinegar and in general anything that increases acidity, but I want to note that apple cider vinegar brings great benefits to many people and this is because most people, as a rule, do not have enough gastric juice for digestion. Normally, the pH should be from one to three, this is an indicator of an extremely acidic environment, but with age, due to the consumption of unhealthy foods, the pH increases and the environment in the stomach becomes more alkaline and now we lose the ability to digest especially proteins and also the ability to fight microbes, we lose the ability to absorb trace elements and as a result, proteins will remain undigested at the end of the digestive tract, which leads to bloating and all sorts of other problems, however, there are three circumstances in which you should not use vinegar. 1 ulcer. How to find out if you have an ulcer. An easy way is to take a little apple cider vinegar. One or two tablespoons. Be sure to dilute it with water. If it gets worse, it is possible that there are ulcers because you are putting acid in the stomach directly on an open wound and this will make it much worse. There is an excellent remedy for ulcers, carnosine.  50 milligrams three times a day works wonders. After a month, the dosage can be reduced, but this drug should be taken together with all the micronutrients. The fact is that if you take only one micronutrient without the others, you can cause an imbalance. Chlorophyll also helps against ulcers. There is a lot of it in powder from grass juice. Mix it with water and drink it on an empty stomach. It helps with ulcers very well. And of course, if you are new to my channel, you should definitely start a healthy chum salmon diet with intermittent fasting. This will give the body the opportunity to heal and eat the right foods to avoid ulcers in the future. The next point is gostrey, a condition in which the stomach is inflamed, which is accompanied by sour belching when acid rises into the esophagus. If you add acid, the inflamed stomach will only get worse. Glycyrrhizin licorice and probiotics help well from this. If you don't have Siber, there will be a link to a video about this syndrome in the description. It also won't hurt to take zinc carnosine. In addition, marshmallow root helps well with gastritis. And finally, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, which means  The presence of a tumor, usually in the pancreas or small intestine, significantly increases the production of gastric juice, leading to ulcers. Most people will benefit from apple cider vinegar, but there are still those who will not benefit. Thank you for watching. If you want to learn how to improve your body, subscribe to the channel and click the bell.