Let's compare apple cider vinegar and distilled white vinegar. What's the difference? What are the similarities? Which one should you choose? Apple cider vinegar has five to six percent acetic acid; white vinegar has four to seven percent, almost the same amount. The main difference is in the raw materials. Apple cider vinegar is obviously made from apples. White vinegar is obtained from barley, corn, and sugar, potatoes, and whey. Yes, this is the protein part of milk, and other grains. Don't forget that corn can be genetically modified. If the vinegar is inorganic, returning to apple cider vinegar, there are about 11 milligrams of potassium in one tablespoon. There are almost no other vitamins or nutrients. Our body needs approximately four thousand seven hundred milligrams of potassium. 11 milligrams is practically nothing. Certain types of apple cider vinegar, for example, unprocessed organic, have a sediment at the bottom called the vinegar mother, which is a small accumulation of bacteria, fiber, and possibly some enzymes. On the other hand, distilled white vinegar, which one is better? It really depends.  If you take organic apples and make apple cider vinegar from raw materials, compared to this raw material, apple cider vinegar is certainly preferable, and it also has some useful properties. But if you compare the proportion of acetic acid, it is almost the same, so the properties of white distilled vinegar and apple cider vinegar are very similar or even identical. But since the raw materials for white vinegar are of low quality, I would give preference to organic, unprocessed, unfiltered vinegar. We don’t know what other chemicals could have been used, especially if it is from corn. I’m not even sure that the vinegar label indicates what environment it is made from. There are beneficial bacteria in the vinegar matrix, but they are negligible. The chances of getting benefits from them are simply tiny, especially compared to other properties, for example, help with digestion. Most people have low acidity in the stomach when they eat, especially protein, incomplete digestion occurs, hence indigestion, bloating, gas. It is difficult for them to digest protein and this leads to various problems, including constipation and incomplete absorption. Add a tablespoon of vinegar to water and drink it before meals, and you will feel better.  In addition, by helping the digestive system, you will absorb microelements much better. Many people experience cramps or even nervous tics, maybe a stick in the left eyelid or in the hands, muscle cramps in the shins or feet. If you try adding vinegar to water, the cramps may disappear because the pH level will change and you will begin to extract nutrients from food and absorb them inside much better, and especially calcium. Yes, you can replenish electrolytes, but I always use apple cider vinegar. It can also significantly help you. Vinegar also stimulates your liver to produce more bile for the digestion of fats. This especially affects the absorption of vitamins A and E, K1 K2 fatty acids, for example, omega-3 and other fats. Another important property of vinegar is increased insulin sensitivity. Most people have insulin resistance, which they do not know about. Vinegar increases insulin sensitivity, thus reducing insulin resistance. This alone brings enormous benefits. You can find a lot of information on Google. Among the benefits of apple cider vinegar, they mention Weight loss, blood pressure stabilization, improved skin condition, and acne control are all thanks to increased insulin sensitivity. This alone will provide many other benefits. Overall, there are similarities and differences. If you haven't seen my other videos about apple cider vinegar, and there have been several, here are the links.