What did Dr. Berg get into his head again that eggs and butter improve cholesterol profiles? How is this possible? Of course, if you have familial hypercholesterolemia, then it is hereditary and this information does not apply to such people. And if you are what is called a hyperrespondent, then this information is not for you, but it applies to everyone else. Just listen. So, first, let's talk about the egg yolk. The egg yolk is one of the richest sources of cholesterol-mobilizing nutrients. The first of these is lecithin, and the second is lecithin. Both of these substances help remove cholesterol from the body. In eggs, for example, you need to know that one egg provides approximately 186 mg of cholesterol, but at the same time, the body also produces cholesterol itself, and a lot of it, about 3,000 mg of cholesterol daily. And if you compare 3,000 mg and 186 mg between these numbers, there is a big difference. Mother Nature has provided the egg yolk with substances that remove cholesterol. I will leave links to these studies below. But dietary cholesterol, that is, cholesterol coming from food, does not affect the increase in cholesterol levels in the blood. This seems paradoxical, but you can't argue with facts, and also no.  studies that would show that egg consumption negatively affects the cardiovascular system, but one rather interesting study talked about two clients on lutein who improved their cholesterol profile with limited carbohydrate intake. They tracked how cholesterol changes in people on a low-carb diet when consuming eggs, and they showed lower levels of oxidized cholesterol. They also had higher levels of the type of Lpnp that does not cause problems with blood vessels. In fact, we have two types of Lpnp with different particle sizes. We have large, loose or floating LDL, and then there is small, dense LDL. In the group with limited carbohydrates, there was a much better Lpnp profile beneficial for vascular health. There is another interesting point regarding lutein and zeaxanthin. They are also better absorbed. It seems that such a study has not been conducted. I may have to conduct it myself someday. The point is that animals eat plants and get these phytonutrients, and by eating these animals, we indirectly benefit from these phytonutrients in addition to the fact that they are better. Another interesting point about yolks is that they are a good source of vitamin K2, which protects the heart and prevents calcium from accumulating in blood vessels, moving it to the bones. That is, when it comes to foods that are good for the heart and cholesterol, eggs are the undisputed champions. Now about butter, and I'm talking about butter obtained from entirely grass-fed cows, not like the usual grain feed, which is incomparable. It's better if you can find cultured butter, even better, because from this product we get additional benefits. Good bacteria, first of all, butter, and these bacteria significantly affect cholesterol levels. Your bacteria produce bile salts that help remove cholesterol. Bile salts are involved in the primary regulation of liver cholesterol, and microbion produces secondary bile. Every time you consume probiotics, foods with beneficial bacteria, say, cultured butter, your cholesterol profile will most likely improve. But I haven't found any studies on the effect of cultured butter on cholesterol, but I know how important it is to consume fermented and bacteria-enriched foods. Butter is also a good source of vitamin K2. What's good for the heart? If grass-fed butter  Dr. Price called vitamin 2 [music] of traditional foods and fermented foods. Butter is also very useful for women going through menopause because it contains cholesterol. This is the raw material for sex hormones, and we're not just talking about progesterone and progesterone, but also about other hormones, such as aboxitocin and cortisol. The key to harmony helps you get through stress. If you go on a low-fat diet during menopause, you'll have big problems with these hormones. I'm just reminding you for the hundredth time that cholesterol is needed to produce these hormones, to produce vitamin D, to maintain the composition of cell membranes. Cholesterol is needed for the brain. Cholesterol is good for the immune system, and it's needed to produce bile salts, which is very important. That's why the liver produces so much cholesterol. We need it below. I'll leave it at one point. A randomized controlled trial. A trial showed that butter increases LDL. Another trial showed that butter has nothing to do with cardiovascular disease or diabetes. I'll leave another link about the cholesterol-lowering effect of beta-carotene. If you eat butter,  From grass-fed cows you get a lot of beta-carotene. The color of such oil is closer to yellow than to white. If it has a lot of beta-carotene, there are some other substances in the oil that are very beneficial for the cholesterol profile. One of them is known to lower cholesterol, reduce inflammation, and help you lose weight. This stands for conjugated linoleic acid. Conjugated means combined with protein, and also contains butyric acid or butyrate, a short-chain fatty acid that can also lower cholesterol. It is used to nourish the cells of the colon and is excellent at relieving inflammation in the colon. It also helps with leaky gut syndrome. It also helps prevent the absorption of cholesterol in the intestine. It is interesting that grass-fed butter also contains omega-3 acids. They can also affect cholesterol. There is also some wonderful research on khi butter, which is purified butter from milk from which impurities have been removed and pure butter fat left, and its cholesterol-lowering effects. This is also very interesting. Exercise also lowers cholesterol. If you are concerned about your cholesterol, if it is  You are tall and want to do something else. I will quickly list a few things. You can take Neocin, which can significantly lower cholesterol. Notakinase is another drug that can lower cholesterol. Red yeast extract is another drug that replaces statins. And my favorite is bile salts, which help regulate the removal of cholesterol from the liver. To summarize, I will say that you should not worry about consuming eggs and butter if you have cholesterol problems. If you are worried about your heart, just try to eat high -quality eggs and high-quality butter. Since we started this topic, if you haven't watched this video about eggs yet, and it has a lot of views, I think it's worth watching.