And you're supposedly on a whale diet, this may shock you, but someone in the comments called me some kind of cop. Can you imagine? I'll tell you right away that I'll never wear that hat. I'm Nikita the cop. I prefer you, the teacher, and I want to show you how to properly follow the Chinese diet. However, there are people who follow the ketogenic diet perfectly, very strictly eating high-quality and nutritious food that's low in carbohydrates, correctly practicing intermittent fasting, and there are those who practice the ketogenic diet on weekends and on weekdays they eat basically whatever they want, the so-called 5- for-2 regime. There are those who are on a dirty tetta diet, that is, they eat low-quality food, but the approach is the same: low carbohydrate content, medium protein, and high fat. They buy what they can get in cheap stores, but they don't go beyond the permitted limits. Others are on a lazy ketogenic diet, they don't really count calories, they usually eat when they're hungry and in any quantities, but they don't exceed their carbohydrate intake. Here they are great. There are those who follow the diet, children, but sometimes  Some people cheat a day or just have a small portion. Others eat healthy mostly, but sometimes indulge in unhealthy foods. Now I have a question for you, where would you place yourself on this scale from 1 to 10? Write in the comments. We'll look at the numbers. Personally, I consider healthy chum and intermittent fasting as tools for changing the body. What we have is quality food, a product from farms, and so on. Nutrients, and a reduction in carbohydrates, a reduction in insulin levels, and this is a huge benefit. Intermittent fasting can significantly increase ketone levels, and this is very beneficial for the body. It all depends on what specific health problems you want to resolve. How much weight you want to lose and how quickly you want to achieve this goal. Most can practice intermittent fasting. Most can eat foods low in carbohydrates, high in fat, and medium in protein, but some have a weakness for certain carbohydrates, for example, wine, and the like. Something that they really like and they don't want to deny themselves. I believe that many people can eat quality food but don't eat enough vegetables. So, if you decide, you have three goals: first, do you currently have any problems?  Do you need to help your body heal? Are there any inflammations? Do you need to lose weight noticeably? If the answer is yes, then you need to follow this diet quite strictly. You understand the second goal and also try to develop new habits, but enough so that you stop forcing yourself to keep them in a routine, bring it to automatism, know exactly what to eat and at the same time you don’t need to count anything, because it will become a habit. For example, many have a habit of snacking at night or allowing themselves to do bad things, or they fall under the influence of others and change their habits. But it’s worth developing new habits and the problem will disappear. The third goal and this is simply vitally important is to stock up on health. What does this mean? You have a reserve and this is only health, that is, you are so healthy that you don’t have to keep yourself within the constant framework. You can stumble at any moment and quickly get back in shape. And after all, this is a tool for you and even if you stumble, you wo n’t have to sprinkle ashes on your head. You know that you have a large reserve of health and sometimes you can allow yourself to do this. You understand the risks and are ready for the consequences. And this is perhaps the most important thing. Stock up on health in order to increase the body’s resilience. Have  It's an opportunity to indulge yourself sometimes, that's all. See you later, so you don't miss my new videos, click the bell next to the subscribe button.