If you suddenly found that you started to gain weight while sitting in self-isolation, that is, in quarantine and want to lose weight, this video is for you. People eat for many reasons. First, they eat when they are stressed. This is the first possible reason. Many people start eating when they are stressed, because even before it brings them pleasure and reduces stress, even if only for a short time. Then they suddenly experience stress due to overeating or because they are gaining weight. Next, do you eat out of fatigue? Many people eat to replenish energy because they are tired. This is an important point. People can eat out of boredom and during isolation or quarantine. Of course, you will be bored and you may have a desire to eat, especially in the evenings. And sometimes people eat when they are happy. Many use food as a reward. And also, someone eats because of depression. People eat during depression in an attempt to raise their mood with food. And finally, people eat when they are hungry. Write which of these points is right for you. The correct answer is this: hunger. You need to eat when you are hungry. For some, this will be a revelation. Because many eat when they are not even hungry, they eat even when they are already full, they just continue to eat. Ideally, the rule should be  This only happens when you're hungry and stopping eating when you're full. One of the most effective things you can do at home during self-isolation is fasting. Why? Because fasting significantly strengthens your immune system. In fact, fasting can stimulate stem cells, that is, create new immunity for you. If you need additional protection, a smart solution would be to fast more. The next question is what to do with your free time. You just need to occupy yourself with something useful. Fasting also improves your mood. It also improves cognitive function. Here are a couple more points worth noting: Don't buy junk food and fast food because if it's in the house, you might start eating it. Next, try to get your whole family involved in healthy eating and giving up junk food. Just explain that this is necessary for health. Because now, the most vulnerable to the virus are those people who already have some health problems, such as obesity and diabetes, so why further aggravate this risk? You need to do the opposite. You need to enter a regime in which you accumulate health every day and involve your family in this. The last thing you need is for one of your relatives to get sick. It will be very sad. Because it's one thing to just sit in isolation and another.  The problem is sitting in isolation and getting sick. I strongly advise going for long walks if you are allowed to go outside, as I do myself. I walk every day for an hour, it’s amazing, relieves stress and provides a lot of oxygen and is very good for the adrenal glands. Stay productive. This is extremely important because the more you indulge in idleness, the higher the likelihood that you will start eating. The problem is that when you start snacking, a couple of hours after the snack, the feeling of hunger arises again. That is, snacking leads to new imbalances, and snacking on the wrong food will cause sugar cravings the next day or later in the day. Apple cider vinegar is very important to add to water to reduce hunger and give you energy. Here are three key nutrients for supporting immunity: vitamin D, zinc, and vitamin C. Vitamin B1 from nutritional yeast is very important for keeping stress at a low level. If you haven’t heard it yet, nutritional yeast is an absolute miracle. Taking nutritional yeast, for example, in the form of tablets, you go, and in a matter of minutes, stress will be relieved as if by magic. Potassium. Eating foods with potassium is great.  The amount of leafy greens in huge salads will help reduce stress and increase your energy levels. It just so happens that vegetables containing potassium also contain magnesium, both elements are important for both energy and satiety. We already mentioned that snacking is the real villain. Snacking is a pest. To avoid snacking, you need to make sure your diet contains enough fat. Olives, avocados, and M-City oil are nuts. I love pecans. Food should contain fat so you stay full and can go longer without food. Okay, now tell me which of these reasons most often makes you break your diet and snack. Thanks for watching.