

=== FILE: Thunder Cat spoof： Old but gold [Iwan6OYgVVg].txt ===

 you-you gotta snap out of it, Lion-O! Call the Thundercats before! Shut up, you fuck! I should have known the territory didn't mean us any harm when the Sword of Omens didn't obey me! And anyway, it was just plain stupid to assume it might be bad, just- What the fuck am I talking about? Let's find the mega-condenser- I'm saying that too fast. Let's find the mega-condenser, still going too fast. What's wrong, Lion-O? Oh, fuck, here it is again. What's- what's here again? That thing, that mega-thing. Want me to say it? Yes! And keep your foot off that blasted sommo flange! What the fuck is a sommo flange? Sommo! I have to do that again! Motherfucker! You fucking god, yes! Shut the fuck up! Get over here, bitch! Ah! Damn! Run him to fucking plate, boys! Come here, motherfucker. You've got to get back to the lair, panthro! Before those mutants do something drastic! No, I mean, get yourself together. I'll just- I want to see your kid smiley- Can't hold onto it any longer! Stand it! Going to... Pass-off...

=== FILE: ব্যস্ত প্রুষ এপিসোড উনো(১)- ক্যুন রিনকন ক্যন ওপেনার [DwnT-tEJ6lE].txt ===

 alagotura, acha, hai. Aminu da, bhalobara designer, ane bara jon fan. Amisabh shome, hann jinnishpatro kalek kore jheg rotshi e, ato well-designed, from an industrial design point of view, jheg hann da jibon japanon ek shahotskere da. So, bhalobam kisuh jinnishpatro hablam, review kori, navaastere, misalbos tuh do, aaprio, canopane, to canopane, tarsole, onmanu open haritse toon ekspecial, taratne main karon ke lo, onmanu open haritse taro function kare, tarsole function karan se, let me see if I can find a can. So, a can is a very perfect and yet, na, karan to alidi ahta open haritse, but if it wasn't here, sheikhet re, jinnishto ane bhalo kachkata, so it hochi ke, Kunreng Khan, Anameta Company, raho koi bhalo kitchen product bane, design in Switzerland and everything, kubi, KOMDOM, Amazon, again, kono product placement na, I just like the design of this product and how many functionalities it holds, right? So, kyanoda special, so prthuna to, aata alidi ahta magnetic attachment point tori kore, ki kyanne modhe. Haan, basi talain karo kobi sohoch, sabi jodi tii miche dekhahi, purishta, purishta, purishta, aata cha, tia se, aata cha, kyanadi kta, sanavoshe, maa koi purishta aata kitchen, guard league and everything else, so it talents really well and it sticks to the kyan, ta prrthu apnidhi ghoran. Je tta hochi sa, je omnangu kyan, je tta kora, omnangu kyanakunar bula kubi sharp aata aage tori kyanne cha prashe, se tta hoi jinnishta kore na. What this thing is doing is, it's actually like cutting and the seam, se seamen modhe kath korte sa all around, maa aate ishata jinnishta hochi kora bata aajit sa, omnangu kyanakunar bula, but it's actually folding the steel openings as it's cutting. Se tta jokun kath hola, omnangu kyan, rojinnishta, tta bata vaita kondi smuker kad, there you guys done, omnit to opposite side bhar ghorali, it comes off really easily. Ta prrhe khanai, there is another functionality here, as you can see it, it's like this, kakrhaar, darar mothe ka jinnis, se tta dhiro kuh sohaje perfectly open hoi kone smuker, kano sharp edge nahi, anam boli sanata de har bulan ba something, but it's a very functional kitchen product, just really well done product, aapashe aarone jinnishthati asse, kinto glonu uskara hana, baron opana, aajit ishata ho to can turn open kora ja, but again this is my favorite kitchen can opener, from koon brimkhan, darar link hata bani chit dhi bo, jae nai shabh system kihawa kachkara youtube, but hopefully you guys may enjoy, bye.

=== FILE: ব্যস্ত প্রুষ এপিসোড ২- সব্জী খান নিজেকে বাঁচান এবং টোস্টার ওভেন [_Mmgip6wsk4].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx It was not in my intestine and intestine was intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine So, if we roast it, it's better to use a little oil or garlic in the country. If we roast it for a long time, it will be better. But if we roast it for a long time, it will be more energy-conscious. So, energy-consciousness is very important. We have to roast it for a long time. That's why I came across toaster oven. I have tried all the air fryer's, but we didn't get the same performance as air fryer. So, for a J2J performance, I think toaster oven is the best solution for a good company. The connetter is very small in volume. So, it's not electricity-driven, it's still in the Btu. The cooking capacity for a family of 3 or 4 is much more economical. So, we have to roast it for a long time. Toaster oven. It's very simple, but it's very useful. It's very useful for a good company. If you don't have electricity, you can buy it for $3. By the way, good wheel is a new return policy, so it's not electronic. So, if you don't have it today, you can buy it for $3. But I would recommend you to wait for a deal. It's a good company toaster oven. Cuisine art is a very good company. Again, no product promotion, just good product. I didn't have the option to roast it, because it's a light-mild. It doesn't take time. It's a thousand genie, so you can control the time when you have a house, Google Assistant, Procurement. So, it doesn't take extra features. So, the basic feature has to be strong, which is the coils have to be strong. The feature, the racking system inside has to be robust. So, I have written these things. So, these are very useful for cooking art. Anyway, the last thing I have here is the stove. I have also made a simple dish. Basically, simple dish. Carrot, full-copy, green beans. It's not possible to make anything in Bangladesh. But it's not time to make anything. In the next few minutes, if we want to make a healthy, high-intake dish, we have to make it here. So, this is our... what do you call it? Toast oven. Toast it. It's very good to make it baked. But, a toaster oven is a very small size. So, I don't know much about it, as I said earlier. And, I have two dishes to make. One is this dish. I will show you. And, after the dishes, I will make a pizza. I recommend a feta cheese pizza. Because it's the price, from dollar to dollar, the pizza is the most fun. So, they provide very good value on their food. Especially on their pizza. So, we have to eat the pizza. So, it's very important to eat the pizza. It was veryxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx It was not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not You can use any salt you like. But if you want a normal salt, you can use a salt. There is nothing special really. It is a little bit special. So I have a small mistake. When it is colorful, it is a good visual guide. You can use any color you like. You can use any color you like. So this is an important thing. It is a shadow. In fact, probably the most important thing here. This is called Roshan. Roshan uses a very popular quotation from Anthony Baudin. Unfortunately, he is very good at it. Anthony Baudin had a quotation. He liked Roshan very much. He liked it very much. So he said that you don't like garlic. You don't deserve garlic. If garlic doesn't taste good, you don't deserve it. If you don't like garlic, you can't deserve it. But it is easy to use. You can use any other method. You can use any method you like. You can use any method you like. It is very easy to get rid of. So I am going to use Roshan freshly. You can use any method you like. So this is a product that is not easy to use. It is a quite old Roshan. Roshan is very important. It changes the dynamic of the whole day. You can use garlic powder if you want. I am using the same Roshan. If you are tired of the vampire, you can use Roshan. But it is very hard to use. So I am going to use Roshan. I am going to throw it away. It is a special Roshan that is not easy to use. My favorite is the Osprey Poco Plus. I have already posted it. It is a hiking bag. I use it for everything. When you are hungry, you can use it for your work. So you can use it for your kids. It is very easy to use. I am going to use the deal milk. It is around 150-200 dollars. It is a brand new product. It is around 330 dollars. I am going to use the deal milk. It is around 1200-1200. You can keep it in the market or you can buy it at the market price. It is a freshly ground paper. It is a freshly ground paper. I have already washed this part. I have made it in a glass. I have made it in a 3D print. I am a huge advocate of reuse, repurpose, recycle. I am not going to use a hipster. I am going to use a keeper. It is good to reuse. It is a very good experience to reuse. I have already used oil and salt. I am going to bake it now. I have already baked it. I have already washed it. I am going to remove the bowl. I am going to bake it in the oven. I am going to make pizza in the oven. It is a very good system. You can use tea. It is highly recommended. It is a part-time paper. It is very important. It is 1 dollar. You can stick it here. You can give it some water. It is good to stick it. You can also use a kitchen knife. It is not very good as long as the paper does not touch the coils. It is good. It is not very convective. If you actually take it out of the coil, then there is a dish that fire soaps. That is the kind of corner glass I am using. I have already given some greens. I have given some vegetables. I have already given some garlic marigoulas. Fresh vegetables. I have given some to my friend in the meantime. I am going to do it with him. Again, I ignore all the ugliness right here. I am going to make this pizza. French Thrin crust pizza with green cheese and tomatoes. I am not really good at eating this pizza. I am not really good at eating this pizza. But it is really good. Chico is a pizza. This is one of the better pizzas. The system is working. The pizza is frozen. I am going to put the pizza on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on top. I am going to put the vegetables on top. I usually put it on the grill for about 30-40 minutes. It is very difficult to cook it in two frozen dishes. But whoever cares. So, that is it. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to ignore all the ugliness. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on top. The vegetables are ready. I am going to put it on the grill for 25 minutes. 25 minutes. It's very good. I think it's good for the people who are in the middle of the day. So that's it. I will be back in a minute. I will be back in a minute. Once it's done, we will be back. Back up. It's done. It's all done. Basically. There is no milk left. It's all done. It's all roasted. But basically, the vegetables are ready to eat. The pizza is ready. The vegetables are ready. I want it to be roasted. So that it will be caramelized. So it will have a slight umami-yasty flavor. So I will roast it. I have shown you that it will be a little bit formal. Then you can just eat it with pizza. As usual, you can eat it with any food. I guess that's it. For those who are in the middle of the day, you can eat it with 20-25 minutes. It's a very good meal. It's very cheap, fun, healthy. But still, it's fun. So that's it for today. Bye.

=== FILE: ব্যস্ত প্রুষ এপিসোড ৩ -  হার্ট এটাক হইব এরাম তেলে আঞ্ছভি মাছের ভর্তা [Xdpodk_Dmeo].txt ===

 scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx It was not in time and was not in weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather So, we will add the ingredients in the pot. It was little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little little and this was intestine So, this is the oil that we have to use for the oil to get rid of the oil. So, this is the oil that we have to use for the oil to get rid of the oil. So, this is the oil that we have to use for the oil to get rid of the oil. So, this is the oil that we have to use for the oil to get rid of the oil. So, this is the oil that we have to use for the oil to get rid of the oil. It was not in commercialxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anyway, it is the best portion of Goja Millarang. Okay, now we are in the second part of the video. I have mentioned that the first part of the video is about the origin of Goja Millarang.

=== FILE: ব্যস্ত প্রুষ এপিসোড ৪- ＂Loka Chai Maker” Full Review [llxZVeKi1mw].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I think this is a very useful item for me because it is very useful for all the people who are going to go out to buy tea and go to the back of the house. Or if you are constantly getting tea from the house, you can order this. So, first of all, this is not an unboxing video, but it is already an unboxing video. So, I have already used it, so I will try to style it in my unboxing video. Thank you, Nira. So, this box is well designed. I think it is a box design, but box design is not everything, right? So, as much as there are boxes and packaging design, best practices are there. I will follow all of them. This is a standard box, which is a Forest Green size. And this is a graphic set, typography set, all of them are on point, nothing too gaudy. So, it is pretty cool. I think it is good. So, minimalistic, utilitarian design so far. So, moving out. Again, I am just about to say that it is an unboxing, I have been unboxed already. So, right, the name is Loka Tea Maker. I have been talking about it for a long time, I mean, I have been talking about it for a long time. Basically, which I agree, right? It is a three-piece product. Again, very smooth. I think I like this design a lot. Stainless steel. The typographs are on point. All the icons and everything are on point as well. It is produced in China as well. But definitely, it is like alpha version. So, it is what I am trying to find out right now. So, right now, it is a three-piece part. So, there is a ground holder here, which is where the tea ground goes. This is the other base part. It is not a big one. It is used in the booklet. Again, this is a ceramic coating. Not Teflon is what they claimed. But I did not research it. But it is supposed to be non-stick. Like any other ceramic coating. This is the upper part. Because it is a sort of a thermal plastic. It can be handled with thermal steel. It is a heat transfer. And here is an O-ring. It is used to give the milk or liquid to the bowl. The other steel is stainless steel. Again, it is a great term. It will definitely come in the booklet. It is a great stainless steel. But it looks like of a pretty high quality. So far, the only issue I have seen so far is that the single thread here is a bit sharp. It does not roll. So, it can be used to push the hand. That is something that I have decided to talk about. But again, it is nothing bad. It is used to make the hand look bad. Here, the edges are a bit nasty. It is used already. The edges are not properly rolled. Which means they are a little bit sharp. But again, nothing we can't leave without. The edge can be used with heat. It can be used to un-finish. But again, this is alpha build. And it might improve later on. The other side is a bit dirty. So, there is a smash pattern right here. Or filter, whatever you want to call it. But there is no internal support structure. So, over time, or even by accident, it might get damaged or strike right into that. So, we are going to use this to run now. Actually, we are not going to run. We are going to use it for 4 hours. So, I am going to break this here. I am going to put the stove top on now. It is not pushing it. So, see you then. Bye, Naina. Say bye. Bye. Okay. First of all, please don't judge me on the condition of my stove top. Because it is a bit bad. There is not much time left. There is a lot of life left. And the background music that I am playing here, that is Alchemyst by No Structureism. Or the Algamerti Modern Jazz. So, it is pretty good. Highly recommended. You guys try it out. So, the logic here is that I am going to make 3 cups of tea here. So, I am going to make 3 cups of tea here. I am going to make it in 6-7 cups. I am going to make it in 4 cups. But I am going to consume it in half. So, I am going to recommend it in half. So, I am going to make half milk, half water. So, I am going to make it here in 3-4 cups. Which is like maybe 10 oz. I am not sure about that. So, I am going to make 5 cups of milk. And 5 cups of water. So, enjoy my Spanish background. Anyway, I think that is about it. So, the pot is ready. So, I am going to put it here. Put it in. And then, I am going to add tea here. It is going to be brown. So, whatever amount of ground is there. You are ready. I know. So, whatever amount of ground is that you would prefer. I usually say that here, you can put it here. 2 tbsp. 1 tbsp. I am eating it as it is. It is a bit burnt. So, I am going to open this up. I am going to add some ground here. I don't have time. I don't have time to measure. I am going to turn off the stove. So, the way it should work. When you are watching the next video, there are some air-fills here. It is very, very easy. These air-fills are going to be placed here. You can put the bubbles. Or you can put the food. I am going to make it as a fountain. So, you don't have to use a stove. The environment here is very bad. You don't have to use a stove. You can put a filter here. You can put some milk, tea, or any other ground. Basically, you don't even have to pay any attention to it. So, we will be back in a few minutes. Okay, we are back again. The background is very easy. The last thing I want to say is that you should dice. It can really work by him. So, I am going to go and see what is going on in the fountain. So, I am going to go and see. Okay, I am going to see. This fountain is very easy. You can put the water in it. The water is getting heated. So, basically, you have to put the water in the fountain. You can put the water in it. You can put the water in it. You can see that the water is boiling. The water is boiling. So, the water is boiling. The water is boiling. So, when this gets finished, again, you can use a timer or a river. And at the end, you can actually enjoy a nice cup of tea. So, let's see what happens. Okay, time for the grand reveal. This is a glass. Glass is like a bath. But, I don't know how much the bath will be. So, basically, grand reveal. The last cup of tea can be put in the bowl. But, I am usually, I prop it up with something else. So, you can add the tea. Tea is ready. Thank you. But, even if it's dark, it's not good to drink tea. So, I can say that I forgot about this. It looks pretty good, actually. So far, my experience has not been that bad. The color, combination, everything looks good. I usually put a little bit of Agave nectar in there. Again, not very healthy. I know. But, whatever. Right? So, that was the whole review for Lokachai Maker. It's at the Kickstarter right now. So, I think I am really impressed. I really like it. It serves my purpose really, really well. Especially being a really busy dad. And, maybe, he doesn't want to eat it. He just ate it. He can eat it with a guest rush. So, perfect for somebody like me. So, hope you guys enjoyed it as well. Bye, Nira. See you, bye.

=== FILE: ব্যস্ত প্রুস এপিসোড ৪- “Loka Chai Maker Review” টিসার [tDcorxAvScI].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.518638Z ===
