 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I think this is a very useful item for me because it is very useful for all the people who are going to go out to buy tea and go to the back of the house. Or if you are constantly getting tea from the house, you can order this. So, first of all, this is not an unboxing video, but it is already an unboxing video. So, I have already used it, so I will try to style it in my unboxing video. Thank you, Nira. So, this box is well designed. I think it is a box design, but box design is not everything, right? So, as much as there are boxes and packaging design, best practices are there. I will follow all of them. This is a standard box, which is a Forest Green size. And this is a graphic set, typography set, all of them are on point, nothing too gaudy. So, it is pretty cool. I think it is good. So, minimalistic, utilitarian design so far. So, moving out. Again, I am just about to say that it is an unboxing, I have been unboxed already. So, right, the name is Loka Tea Maker. I have been talking about it for a long time, I mean, I have been talking about it for a long time. Basically, which I agree, right? It is a three-piece product. Again, very smooth. I think I like this design a lot. Stainless steel. The typographs are on point. All the icons and everything are on point as well. It is produced in China as well. But definitely, it is like alpha version. So, it is what I am trying to find out right now. So, right now, it is a three-piece part. So, there is a ground holder here, which is where the tea ground goes. This is the other base part. It is not a big one. It is used in the booklet. Again, this is a ceramic coating. Not Teflon is what they claimed. But I did not research it. But it is supposed to be non-stick. Like any other ceramic coating. This is the upper part. Because it is a sort of a thermal plastic. It can be handled with thermal steel. It is a heat transfer. And here is an O-ring. It is used to give the milk or liquid to the bowl. The other steel is stainless steel. Again, it is a great term. It will definitely come in the booklet. It is a great stainless steel. But it looks like of a pretty high quality. So far, the only issue I have seen so far is that the single thread here is a bit sharp. It does not roll. So, it can be used to push the hand. That is something that I have decided to talk about. But again, it is nothing bad. It is used to make the hand look bad. Here, the edges are a bit nasty. It is used already. The edges are not properly rolled. Which means they are a little bit sharp. But again, nothing we can't leave without. The edge can be used with heat. It can be used to un-finish. But again, this is alpha build. And it might improve later on. The other side is a bit dirty. So, there is a smash pattern right here. Or filter, whatever you want to call it. But there is no internal support structure. So, over time, or even by accident, it might get damaged or strike right into that. So, we are going to use this to run now. Actually, we are not going to run. We are going to use it for 4 hours. So, I am going to break this here. I am going to put the stove top on now. It is not pushing it. So, see you then. Bye, Naina. Say bye. Bye. Okay. First of all, please don't judge me on the condition of my stove top. Because it is a bit bad. There is not much time left. There is a lot of life left. And the background music that I am playing here, that is Alchemyst by No Structureism. Or the Algamerti Modern Jazz. So, it is pretty good. Highly recommended. You guys try it out. So, the logic here is that I am going to make 3 cups of tea here. So, I am going to make 3 cups of tea here. I am going to make it in 6-7 cups. I am going to make it in 4 cups. But I am going to consume it in half. So, I am going to recommend it in half. So, I am going to make half milk, half water. So, I am going to make it here in 3-4 cups. Which is like maybe 10 oz. I am not sure about that. So, I am going to make 5 cups of milk. And 5 cups of water. So, enjoy my Spanish background. Anyway, I think that is about it. So, the pot is ready. So, I am going to put it here. Put it in. And then, I am going to add tea here. It is going to be brown. So, whatever amount of ground is there. You are ready. I know. So, whatever amount of ground is that you would prefer. I usually say that here, you can put it here. 2 tbsp. 1 tbsp. I am eating it as it is. It is a bit burnt. So, I am going to open this up. I am going to add some ground here. I don't have time. I don't have time to measure. I am going to turn off the stove. So, the way it should work. When you are watching the next video, there are some air-fills here. It is very, very easy. These air-fills are going to be placed here. You can put the bubbles. Or you can put the food. I am going to make it as a fountain. So, you don't have to use a stove. The environment here is very bad. You don't have to use a stove. You can put a filter here. You can put some milk, tea, or any other ground. Basically, you don't even have to pay any attention to it. So, we will be back in a few minutes. Okay, we are back again. The background is very easy. The last thing I want to say is that you should dice. It can really work by him. So, I am going to go and see what is going on in the fountain. So, I am going to go and see. Okay, I am going to see. This fountain is very easy. You can put the water in it. The water is getting heated. So, basically, you have to put the water in the fountain. You can put the water in it. You can put the water in it. You can see that the water is boiling. The water is boiling. So, the water is boiling. The water is boiling. So, when this gets finished, again, you can use a timer or a river. And at the end, you can actually enjoy a nice cup of tea. So, let's see what happens. Okay, time for the grand reveal. This is a glass. Glass is like a bath. But, I don't know how much the bath will be. So, basically, grand reveal. The last cup of tea can be put in the bowl. But, I am usually, I prop it up with something else. So, you can add the tea. Tea is ready. Thank you. But, even if it's dark, it's not good to drink tea. So, I can say that I forgot about this. It looks pretty good, actually. So far, my experience has not been that bad. The color, combination, everything looks good. I usually put a little bit of Agave nectar in there. Again, not very healthy. I know. But, whatever. Right? So, that was the whole review for Lokachai Maker. It's at the Kickstarter right now. So, I think I am really impressed. I really like it. It serves my purpose really, really well. Especially being a really busy dad. And, maybe, he doesn't want to eat it. He just ate it. He can eat it with a guest rush. So, perfect for somebody like me. So, hope you guys enjoyed it as well. Bye, Nira. See you, bye.