 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx It was not in my intestine and intestine was intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine intestine So, if we roast it, it's better to use a little oil or garlic in the country. If we roast it for a long time, it will be better. But if we roast it for a long time, it will be more energy-conscious. So, energy-consciousness is very important. We have to roast it for a long time. That's why I came across toaster oven. I have tried all the air fryer's, but we didn't get the same performance as air fryer. So, for a J2J performance, I think toaster oven is the best solution for a good company. The connetter is very small in volume. So, it's not electricity-driven, it's still in the Btu. The cooking capacity for a family of 3 or 4 is much more economical. So, we have to roast it for a long time. Toaster oven. It's very simple, but it's very useful. It's very useful for a good company. If you don't have electricity, you can buy it for $3. By the way, good wheel is a new return policy, so it's not electronic. So, if you don't have it today, you can buy it for $3. But I would recommend you to wait for a deal. It's a good company toaster oven. Cuisine art is a very good company. Again, no product promotion, just good product. I didn't have the option to roast it, because it's a light-mild. It doesn't take time. It's a thousand genie, so you can control the time when you have a house, Google Assistant, Procurement. So, it doesn't take extra features. So, the basic feature has to be strong, which is the coils have to be strong. The feature, the racking system inside has to be robust. So, I have written these things. So, these are very useful for cooking art. Anyway, the last thing I have here is the stove. I have also made a simple dish. Basically, simple dish. Carrot, full-copy, green beans. It's not possible to make anything in Bangladesh. But it's not time to make anything. In the next few minutes, if we want to make a healthy, high-intake dish, we have to make it here. So, this is our... what do you call it? Toast oven. Toast it. It's very good to make it baked. But, a toaster oven is a very small size. So, I don't know much about it, as I said earlier. And, I have two dishes to make. One is this dish. I will show you. And, after the dishes, I will make a pizza. I recommend a feta cheese pizza. Because it's the price, from dollar to dollar, the pizza is the most fun. So, they provide very good value on their food. Especially on their pizza. So, we have to eat the pizza. So, it's very important to eat the pizza. It was veryxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx It was not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not much time and not You can use any salt you like. But if you want a normal salt, you can use a salt. There is nothing special really. It is a little bit special. So I have a small mistake. When it is colorful, it is a good visual guide. You can use any color you like. You can use any color you like. So this is an important thing. It is a shadow. In fact, probably the most important thing here. This is called Roshan. Roshan uses a very popular quotation from Anthony Baudin. Unfortunately, he is very good at it. Anthony Baudin had a quotation. He liked Roshan very much. He liked it very much. So he said that you don't like garlic. You don't deserve garlic. If garlic doesn't taste good, you don't deserve it. If you don't like garlic, you can't deserve it. But it is easy to use. You can use any other method. You can use any method you like. You can use any method you like. It is very easy to get rid of. So I am going to use Roshan freshly. You can use any method you like. So this is a product that is not easy to use. It is a quite old Roshan. Roshan is very important. It changes the dynamic of the whole day. You can use garlic powder if you want. I am using the same Roshan. If you are tired of the vampire, you can use Roshan. But it is very hard to use. So I am going to use Roshan. I am going to throw it away. It is a special Roshan that is not easy to use. My favorite is the Osprey Poco Plus. I have already posted it. It is a hiking bag. I use it for everything. When you are hungry, you can use it for your work. So you can use it for your kids. It is very easy to use. I am going to use the deal milk. It is around 150-200 dollars. It is a brand new product. It is around 330 dollars. I am going to use the deal milk. It is around 1200-1200. You can keep it in the market or you can buy it at the market price. It is a freshly ground paper. It is a freshly ground paper. I have already washed this part. I have made it in a glass. I have made it in a 3D print. I am a huge advocate of reuse, repurpose, recycle. I am not going to use a hipster. I am going to use a keeper. It is good to reuse. It is a very good experience to reuse. I have already used oil and salt. I am going to bake it now. I have already baked it. I have already washed it. I am going to remove the bowl. I am going to bake it in the oven. I am going to make pizza in the oven. It is a very good system. You can use tea. It is highly recommended. It is a part-time paper. It is very important. It is 1 dollar. You can stick it here. You can give it some water. It is good to stick it. You can also use a kitchen knife. It is not very good as long as the paper does not touch the coils. It is good. It is not very convective. If you actually take it out of the coil, then there is a dish that fire soaps. That is the kind of corner glass I am using. I have already given some greens. I have given some vegetables. I have already given some garlic marigoulas. Fresh vegetables. I have given some to my friend in the meantime. I am going to do it with him. Again, I ignore all the ugliness right here. I am going to make this pizza. French Thrin crust pizza with green cheese and tomatoes. I am not really good at eating this pizza. I am not really good at eating this pizza. But it is really good. Chico is a pizza. This is one of the better pizzas. The system is working. The pizza is frozen. I am going to put the pizza on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on top. I am going to put the vegetables on top. I usually put it on the grill for about 30-40 minutes. It is very difficult to cook it in two frozen dishes. But whoever cares. So, that is it. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to ignore all the ugliness. I am going to put the vegetables on this grill. I am going to put the vegetables on top. The vegetables are ready. I am going to put it on the grill for 25 minutes. 25 minutes. It's very good. I think it's good for the people who are in the middle of the day. So that's it. I will be back in a minute. I will be back in a minute. Once it's done, we will be back. Back up. It's done. It's all done. Basically. There is no milk left. It's all done. It's all roasted. But basically, the vegetables are ready to eat. The pizza is ready. The vegetables are ready. I want it to be roasted. So that it will be caramelized. So it will have a slight umami-yasty flavor. So I will roast it. I have shown you that it will be a little bit formal. Then you can just eat it with pizza. As usual, you can eat it with any food. I guess that's it. For those who are in the middle of the day, you can eat it with 20-25 minutes. It's a very good meal. It's very cheap, fun, healthy. But still, it's fun. So that's it for today. Bye.