 There we go, alright, today is the last leg day, and I think today is the only leg day in between these two shows, you know, so this is something I do have to bring up, my current training, like these workouts, these last, this past week, and going forward, this next week, these are in between competition, like, basically peak week style lifts, so what do I need out of these workouts is really what's determining what they look like, is, well I need, you know, to just hit whatever I'm hitting satisfactorily, I need to pump, I need some blood flow, I need to kind of stimulate all my fibers and whatever, you know, we all get the gist, but I don't need to! different once my daily carb intake goes from like 200 to 800. Even just saying it is getting me excited. But let's just start here, light squeezing, even just doing filler reps with half the stack. This is gonna get some work though. These are gonna be burning. Okay. Okay, two more of those. And then we'll switch to, I don't know, maybe a Cedar Curl will be good? We'll figure it out. One more. Whoops. I forgot to hit record. I just did one more set, but let's do some standing curls next. So this stack goes up to 150. I have no idea who could do that. I'm only doing the 30s, or doing 30, and even bolts. Like I don't, I can't even do 100 on this thing. So this is the kind of machine I like. Something about the weight ratio and how much cables and tension. It's like when the full stack is impossible, it actually makes you pick the right weight. If I'm close to the bottom of the stack, I'm just going to bump it up. Just, you know, that's that ego lifter talking. But when the stack is undoable, it kind of humbles you a little. In a good way. Well, let's do alternating reps and go from there. I'm thinking leg extensions will be next. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Let's get some work extensions going now. Now, is simply to get my quads as pumped as possible. I think that's going to entail a few sets of leg extensions, a few sissy squat combos, that seated leg press right there. And before we know it, find some mirror space, see how we're looking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. okay all right so the full stack is 500 pounds this is only 300 so very manageable but a very different sort of strength curve feeling with a press than a leg extension i love leg extensions for the squeeze but for more of a deeper standard press leg extensions pretty solid and half of this is just to change it up all right there there yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I thought I was going to do two. We're just doing the one. Let's finish with some leg extension 60 squats and see how we're looking. Alright, without exaggeration, this really is one of the best leg extensions I've ever used. And it's just something about it. I don't know, like the strength curve and just how smooth it feels on my knees. Yeah, it's just freaking sweet. But assuming this set goes well combined with the sissy squat or with a sissy squat, this could be it. But obviously, let's do the set first to find out. You never know. And the seat belt does not hurt either. Yeah. Hell yeah. Alright. I love you. Okay. That is all. Alright. Yeah, those leg press sets, or that leg press set, just the one, definitely got some hamstrings activated. So, let's see how we're looking. One morning weight, 228 pounds. So, I finally got all that spare water out of my system. And holy shit, that is way veinier than I thought I was going to look right now. Uh, oh, okay. Alright, let me make sure we're in focus. Yeah, I don't know what I expected, but I did not think I was going to look like this. Woof! Holy shit. Oh my gosh. I guess I just kind of got used to like watery looking Sam. But I forgot what the veiny Sam kind of looks like. Let's do a little breath hold to really get these things out here. Oh my god. Holy shit. I gotta take a picture on my fucking phone here. Oh yeah, there we go. This is story worthy. Nice. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, holy crap. Just fucking standing, no flexing. Side lat, er, side of quad veins. This is fucking nuts. Oh yeah, this is what I want to see. So what I'm aiming for, for the Arnold UK, is honestly to look a little more like this. I'm not going to try to push my water depletion so hard this time. And I'm really going to focus on kind of coming in fuller. Because I look like a total freak. Two days after the show in the gym, obviously I was 243 pounds of extra carbs and water. I'm not going to be able to be on stage at 243. But if I can be stage weight or show day morning, 235, 236, that'll be a very substantial change from show to show. So that's really my biggest goal. Come in bigger. And I think I align with that in my line pretty well. So I'm freaking out of here. I got to go take a delivery at the gym. So my cardio will have to wait, but it will still be done. Just, you know, in like an hour. That was a leg pump. That was a leg pump for sure. And that was a nice surprise. That was a nice little surprise of leanness. Yeah, I definitely, definitely could tell over this past week of post-show rebound combined with a little bit of over, a little bit of international travel. Even though, you know, Canada's right there. It's not really that far. Like, you can take a domestic stateside flight further than that. But, yeah. Now we're finally getting back to that kind of drier, drier look. So, yeah. Cardio is to be maintained. But, well, actually, there is no but. We're just smooth sailing. So, cardio as normal. Deficit as per usual. That 23, 2400 range. Yeah. Now it's just kind of waiting, you know. Which is kind of a strange feeling. Because I like being in the gym and giving it 100% fucking effort. Like, I like when the gym is the hard part. The hard part in a good way. Like, I like challenging myself on a set-by-set basis. Of, okay. I don't care if it's only one set of laying leg curls. And then just going fucking nuts. Or freaking nuts, rather. But, dieting down, especially at this point between shows, the effort is more evenly distributed across the entire day. So, instead of this concentrated effort of the lift, it's a more evenly distributed effort of, for one, not grubbing. Which is harder than you'd think if you've never actually done it for a while. I mean, it's doable. But, don't let me be the kind of guy to sit here and say, like, oh, why can't you diet, bro? Why can't you get lean? It's so easy. Like, that is certainly not the case. It is doable, but it's still challenging, for sure. So, instead of just thinking, all right, I'm going to make this set of squats the most insane fucking thing ever. It's an evenly distributed, hey, I'm not going to eat that Oreo right now. I'm not doing it. I'm not going to stop in that Dutchess gas station and get four bags of chips or whatever. I don't even have any chips cravings. But, like, you get what I'm saying. But, it's, you know, it just kind of requires a little bit, not a little bit, kind of a lot of just, like, self-discipline. You know? And I'm not usually the guy to sit here and say the word, like, discipline. Like, I don't know if that's really a word that I resonate with. But, when nobody's watching and it's just you, that is a very eye-opening experience of how are you going to act? Like, how are you going to treat your goals and how are you going to go about the things that you value when there is no external circumstance or force keeping you in line? You know? So, that's what I like the most about working out on the side that it is a pretty individual kind of endeavor. Not much of a team. It's really you doing you. And what I like about that is it really kind of validates that I do want to do it. You know? I do want to stick to my diet. And I do want to train really hard. And I do want the results that all this training is going to give me. Because I'm doing it. You know? I could just sit here and do, um... I mean, shit, I could just go home and eat a bunch of trash. And say that I stuck to my diet. Uh, but... That'd be... That'd be freaking stupid. I'm sure there's a lot of people who do that. You know? They say they're only eating chicken and rice. And then they go home and they eat a bunch of freaking junk. Uh, it's like, at least talk about it if you're going to eat it, man. You know? I don't see the point in hiding. That sort of thing. But, yeah, it's what you do when nobody's watching. You know? And that's why I can really kind of connect and click with somebody when, you know... I'll be in a gym, totally random, never met this guy before. We start kind of chatting. And I hear him say, like, dude, I lost 70 pounds this year. I lost 60 pounds over this last, you know, X number of months. And my eyes widen because now I know this guy knows what he's talking about. And not only does he know what he's talking about, but he's walked the walk. He's actually done it. he knows about the... He knows about counting his calories and tracking his macros and doing his cardio. And not even just that, but he knows that feeling that it takes to tell yourself, no, you know? And, obviously, it's not the most insane thing in the world to say, I'm not going to stick my hand to the cookie jar. But there's a lot of people who don't even think twice about that. Like, the idea of the, you know, temporary discomfort of not just, you know, instantly pleasing themselves with whatever they want and going after that instant gratification, be it from, you know, food or just, like, over-chilling. There's a lot of guys who spend a bit too much time chilling and just not really, you know, working on anything. Not even work, just, like, even stuff that they just want to do, like, for fun or, like, be active. Like, there's semi-productive chilling and then there's just completely non-productive chilling. When you're clocking hours on short form TikTok and Instagram and you're not even going down, like, a niche rabbit hole, like, you're just literally just feeding the algorithm system, that's kind of pointless chilling. I'm trying to reduce my pointless chilling currently. But, yeah, I mean, a lot of people don't have that self-control, even at all, you know? And it's a weird kind of, like, liberating feeling, I guess, that these people might use to kind of, like, justify the treat-yourself mentality of, you know, don't worry about the calories, man. Eat whatever you want. Oh, come on, don't worry about the gym. You don't need to do any of that. You know, don't worry about cleaning up your room, bro. Who cares? You know, you do you. And that is just kind of a gross mentality, you know? Because if you take it to the extreme, and if you take anything to the extreme, obviously you're going to see some extremes, but, you know, it's like, shit, man, you don't want to be caught slacking. I guess that's my main point. You know, don't be a slacker. At least for the things that you want to actually do, you know? Because if somebody has an expectation of you, of, like, okay, we want you to go to this school, and we want you to get this job, or we want you to do well at this sport, or whatever, then, you know, that might not even be your goal. That's just something that someone wants you to do, or expects you to do. But when it comes to things that kind of, I don't want to say deep in your heart, but that you really find interesting and compelling, and, like, you're passionate about, it's like, man, I really do, maybe I do want to try doing that. Maybe I, you know, all my, a couple of my buddies really like getting into the gym. I don't know. It's a little nervous to ask them, you know, I don't want to be the third wheel guy, like I've never really worked at before. I'm just, you got to go for it. You have got to go for it. It doesn't matter if it might turn into a freaking fireball of a failure. To have gone for something is going to make you a much cooler and just a much better dude afterward. Because it makes it that much easier to go for something again. You know? So right now, I'm kind of in the middle of going for something. My thing, as I would probably describe it, or at least the biggest thing that I have, is going to be the gym. If you could do a screen time of my mind of what I think about the most and what I put the most energy and effort and thought into, it's going to be getting a pump. You know, be it bulking, dieting, cardio, training, just trying to improve my training, you know, looking at myself flexing post-lift and thinking, what do I want to work on? Like, it's an outlet that I can pour a ton of energy into. And what I think the important part about it isn't necessarily the subject itself. You know? Like, if instead of having my thing be bodybuilding, it was more like CrossFit training or if it was maybe long distance running like hypermarathon, that would be a very different alternate universe, Sam. But if that were the case, I think I'd still reap the benefit of having a thing and an outlet that I personally enjoy and get a lot of value from just intrinsically from doing it. And a lot of guys who I, like, just really like and resonate with, they have a thing. It doesn't even have to be the gym. But when you kind of run across somebody who's got just an unadulterated passion for something, even cooler if it's the same thing you're into, like the camaraderie of just being in the gym and talking to somebody about just, you know, random BS, you don't get to talk to normal people about that, you know? As big as the gym is, it's kind of just us. It's a bubble, you know? How many people work out versus don't work out? Let's just say, let's just limit it to the states. One out of a hundred? One out of two hundred? You know? I mean, it's, we're the minority, man. You know? So we've got to kind of stick together, at least when we're in that kind of shared space, be it in person or kind of social media-wise. But now I'm just getting into a long-ass ramble. In summary, I'm feeling like a beast, at least in terms of progress. In terms of, like, strength, I'm not exactly feeling like a beast. But that strength will return. You know, I'm not so much of an eco-lifter that I can't handle backing off on incline bench for the sake of getting leaner. But it's more like the tide. You know, it comes in and out, back and forth, it ebbs and flows. But, feeling good. I'm certainly on track for another good showing, which I'm really excited about. And I'm going to try to get a bit more behind the scenes. Eh, I don't know. We'll see. I don't want to distract myself with trying to, like, get all this kind of stuff recorded because, like, obviously I really like just enjoying the moment of it. But I also want to be able to look back at it, too. So, I don't know. We'll see what happens. There will certainly be some extra UK footage over this next week, for sure. But, that's pretty much all I've got to say there. So, I'm going to go sign for this delivery. Get some, grab a 3D. Head to somewhere to hit some cardio. Definitely the treadmill, not the bike because my quads are kind of cooked right now. So, the bike is a little bit quad heavy. And then just keep going, man. You know, nine more days after today. So, it's actually even less because I'm going to be carving up on, what, the 26th or so? So, really, I've only got nine more days of dieting. I can handle nine days. You know, I can go nine days without a Caniac craze. But, let's not even think about it. Let's push that thought out of my mind. I will see you for whatever lift goes down tomorrow. I'm not exactly sure what it's going to be because my split has kind of been all over the place. but it'll definitely be something to do with upper body. I know that for sure. Anything else more specific we'll just have to freaking see. But I'll see you then.