 all right, there we go, amlipine, amlipine, yeah, good, we're back with the regular freaking setup, that is for sure, so, we got a few videos that are overdue, one more grocery haul, another full day of eating, a big old Q&A, I'll make a Q&A post tonight, I can get that going tomorrow, I can get that going tomorrow, we'll do a long one, actually, maybe I'll go for a crazy long one, two hour Q&A, I don't know, we'll think about it, you know, there's a zillion questions, so there's certainly no limit on that side of things, but plan for today, with this lift, not exactly a lift, today was supposed to be hamstrings, but I'm just making it cardio only, I'm gonna save that for some tomorrow action, which isn't crazy fun, but, I mean, at this point, the last thing I need to do is kind of over-inflame my lower section, which, in an off-season, very different situation, you know, I'm almost aiming for just maximum inflammation of my freaking, you know, quads and hamstrings, just trying to, like, completely obliterate them, so that, you know, basically the entire week going forward, my legs are still, completely cooked, oh, excuse me, and I'm kind of just, like, constantly feeding their recovery, with all the food, and, you know, everything else they end up doing, right now is the complete opposite, I just need to eat enough to maintain the muscle I've already built, but not so much that it's enough, and that I've got to burn off some internal energy reserves, aka some body fat, so that's where a cheeky little hour on the treadmill, is gonna do me good, so, six, potentially one digit higher of incline, about three miles an hour, I might bump it up to 3.3, you know, we'll just have to kind of see how I'm feeling, but, when it comes to the cardio, cardio, it's not about the cardio, you know, it's not about the cardio specifically, it's not about the macro tracking specifically, or the supplementation, or just the workout routine, the split in and of itself, but it all kind of adds up to this greater picture, you know, so, the way I kind of look at it, is it's not so much, okay, did this guy skip his cardio, you know, obviously a lot of people do, cardio, but, you know, think about, what does that mean, you know, the guy doesn't care about his cardio, well, does he really care about the workouts, as far as I'm concerned, if I have decent cardio, you know, I'm not a freaking marathon runner, but if you put me on a bike, then I can bike around all freaking day, you know, like I've got decent cardio, especially for my size, and especially when I'm lighter, dieted, and I'm doing like a ton of cardio, you know, so it gets freaking solid, but in terms of just the lifts themselves, well, if I get decent cardio, I'm not going to win myself after every set, at least no more than necessary, and I'm going to be able to train harder for, not exactly for longer, for its own sake, but I'm going to be able to take my training purely, you know, to the, let's just say the muscular edge, rather than your cardiovascular edge, you know, I want to stop because my quads have achieved failure, I want to stop because my quads are destroyed, not because I'm so freaking tired, I can't just go on with my lift, and a proper quad pump, I mean, you know, yeah, you get a little bit longer rest period, just because it is the largest muscle on your freaking body, but you still got to get that next set done, you know, we're not, we're not doing power lifting workouts here, between a set of squats and a set of leg press, assuming I'm, you know, already warm, and I'm really in the thick of these sets, it should be more than a few minutes, you know, just enough to catch my breath, and say, all right, let's bring it again, you know, so, it's kind of just bleeds into everything else, and what I kind of wanted to highlight was, obviously, right now, I'm still right in the middle of a, let's call it a pretty big pinnacle of the year, which is starting super early, only March, not even three months in, and I've already done probably one of the bigger things of the year for me, these competitions, so, just a little bit of a reminder, a little bit of an early reminder, what's today, February 15th, so we're two months and a half in, so what's two divided, what's two and a half divided by 12, yeah, we're about 20% of the way there, so one-fifth of the year, just about, it's gone, it freaking disappeared, I don't know what happened to it, it, whoops, it's an off into nothingness, so, I haven't seen a New Year's resolution post since mid-January, and I can kind of understand why, you know, it's like, people are kind of clocked out, so, what I'm getting at is, if you can start to add up these kind of smaller things, which you might consider a little bit, you know, kind of insignificant, like, I mean, let's be real, you know, 30 minutes of cardio, what the hell is that, what is that even going to do, man, it's like, you're not even peddling that hard, that's the thought process, oh, come on, you're telling me that if I eat this handful of M&Ms, that I need to count the calories that I just ate, or I need to, like, estimate how many I just ate, come on, come on, that's crazy, what are you talking about, I took the, I basically achieved failure, you know, what, maybe I could have done five more reps, is there anything special in those last five reps, those are the mantras, those are the, the demonic murmurs of a slacker, you know, they just don't, I don't know, either they don't see it, they don't want to see it, like, there's certainly a, an ignorance involved with definitely dieting in general, but even the gym as well, you know, because if you never really get into working out and reap the benefits, then you'll never know how cool it is, so there's certainly just guys who need to be introduced to the gym for some reason, what really sucks is the fact that there are some people who are just begrudgingly anti, let's not say anti-fitness per se, but just anti-progress, anti-working on yourself, I mean, I've gotten to talk to a lot of guys where, you know, at expos and stuff, especially younger dudes, they're still living with their parents, and he's telling me shit, and, you know, how the hell am I supposed to lock in with this diet if I'm, nobody in my house is, and all I, I gotta eat all their food, you know, that's how, and it's kind of tricky, you know, it can be a little bit alienating, if you're busting out the Tupperware with some ground beef and some rice, or, you know, you're changing up the grocery list, for some people, they don't want to see that, you know, they don't want to see you hustle, they don't want to see you get on your freaking game, right, I mean, let's, getting back to kind of college life, which even back when I was in school, I wasn't, I mean, I'm still kind of looking at it from like a third person perspective, but, you know, if there's a group of five dudes, they're all partying on the regular, they're, you know, they're doing their responsibilities, they're going to class, they're doing the homework, they're doing the projects, they're, they're working their 5 a.m. part-time shift at Lowe's, I was doing that for a while, did not have a lot of fun, uh, I got a haircut right when I got that job, and every, you couldn't have headphones in, but if you had long hair, everybody who had long hair had headphones in, so I, I kind of screwed myself there, right, but, you know, they're, they get their stuff done enough, like, they're, but they're just coasting, you know, like, that's the, that's the end of the situation, they're not trying to do anything else, uh, or just, you know, not even for any specific outcome, they just don't have, like, I feel like they're missing something, you know, there's a lot of people out there that I think are just missing a little freaking something, you got some stuff going on over here, not sure what exactly, and if you're that sixth dude in the group, what are the odds you're going to be able to lock in, you know, especially in a diet, like, I'm not, there's a lot of bodybuilders that like to talk about dieting, and, you know, about working out, as, like, this, just, you know, this suffering, and this sacrifice, and, you know, personally, I, I love the gym, like, just getting a pump is fun for me, so, even though, yeah, parts of it definitely are hard, and require a lot of effort, it's like, I want to do it, so it doesn't feel, it's like, work isn't work if you enjoy it, you know, that sort of, kind of, mentality, but with a legit, proper diet, actually making progress, actually getting leaner, dude, you got to be on it, you know, you got to be on your game, and not a lot of people really respect that, you know, and I don't mean in general, like, as an idea, but just on a day-by-day, you're not getting any, you're not getting any external affirmations, you know, I mean, it's, you're getting hit, I mean, this is, it's the worst, right, everybody loves to say it, it's all, you're getting, you're working in for the day, you know, if you're moving some shit around, or if you ever do, kind of eat a treat or something, maybe you're having a cheat meal, oh, I guess the, just the diet's out the window, you know, like, I guess all I'm trying to kind of highlight is, if it really just, if it feels like it's just you, if it feels like you're the only one who's putting a lot of priority and just value on, whether it's a diet, whether you're trying to get leaner, whether you're trying to build some size and strength, you know, you're going into a 2026 bulk, whatever it ends up being, and you kind of maybe feel like, man, shit, you know, I really care about this, but not a lot of other people do, we're out there, we are freaking out there, the hustlers, at least in terms of getting consistent lifts, counting their calories, doing their cardio, they're out there, but they're, you know, in the grand scheme of the population, few and far between, I got to say this in a little bit of like a panel, sort of like talk that we did at the Arnold, and it was insane how many people were there, like this was the gnarliest Arnold Expo, I think ever, I think ever is not an exaggeration, and, you know, that's a, that's a meeting, not a meeting of the minds, I guess it's a meeting of the bodies more so, where basically every, not only freak across pretty much the whole planet, you know, not everybody of course, but a good chunk of them, all just congregate right smack dab in the middle of Ohio for this big ass, you know, three day weekend expo, and it's pretty motivating, every time I've ever been to the Arnold, every time I've ever been to a big expo or anything like that, I mean, it gets you going, it gets you fired up, he, there is nothing like seeing some of these guys in person versus in videos, you know, not even, not to mention if you end up actually getting to talk to some of them, and then it's like, shit, this guy was way cooler than I thought, you know, I guess it would kind of suck if you go up to this dude who like you really like up to, and like, the guy's a dick or something, I haven't seen that happen, like, yet, I guess I hope it won't, but it's, you know, it's a very strange situation, it just doesn't happen a lot, so if you ever do get to go to the Arnold, which is what I said in this little kind of panel, it's like, dude, you gotta enjoy it, you know, if you have, if you've got a group around you, like, I remember my college rec center, or the college rec center crew was very strong, it was pretty much the same set of regulars, same time of day, every day, pretty much, I mean, the occasional rest day, of course, and I think I took it for granted, you know, because as much as the gym is this individual thing, you've got to hold yourself accountable, that's probably the biggest takeaway from the gym that anybody gets, not exactly a discipline, but just like an understanding of, alright, if I want to do this, I've got to do it, there's not really anybody else you can rely on to make you stick to your diet, or do your cardio, like, this is a you thing, you know, and you've got to not only appreciate that, but also kind of respect it, and give it the value it deserves, but when you're in a group, you know, and you've got a crowd of, I mean, let's just put it simply, as like-minded individuals, I mean, that's pretty freaking cool, you know, so if you live next to Gold's Gym Venice, and you get to bounce around in there all the time, and that's your home gym, oh, I mean, that's got to be freaking cool, not to mention all the crazy gyms that are just kind of strewn about the states, and then worldwide, you know, going from Metroflex to, I think it's Powerhouse, uh, oh man, Powerhouse, New Haven in Connecticut, that gym's freaking sweet, or even just a random anytime, you know, if it's got the right people in it, it's, it can turn into a pretty motivating kind of echo chamber, but if it's just you, you know, you're lifting at your, at the YMCA down in Inglewood, and it's pretty much just Retirement Home Central, obviously, it's motivating in a different way, seeing these guys get after it, 60 plus, but, you know, you kind of need some of that, uh, let's just say that youthful energy of guys your own age, right, so just know they're out there, right, every time you're warming up for a nasty set of squats, or you're popping a squat on the cardio bike, or the treadmill, you know, assuming that you do, which of course you do, you know, you'd never skip your cardio, somebody else out there in the world is doing the exact same thing, uh, this is something that I would think to myself a lot, not so much recently, but there was a time period before I was really posting all these videos, but I was still, like, squatting like a maniac, so it was just me in this really grungy gym, uh, by my school, it's like two in the morning, because I had a terrible sleep schedule, all the classes were, like, online, and they were asynchronous, so you didn't have to wake up, but, you know, I'm sitting there, I got five plates loaded on the bar, there's nobody around, I've got the safeties on, at least, um, I, uh, that's one thing I can appreciate, I always try to squat with the safeties when possible, and I'm sitting there, and it's just me, you know, nobody else is watching this, I'm, I might have, there's a lot of sets I didn't even take a video of, like, for my own documentation, like, I kind of wish I did, but, just the idea of knowing, alright, somewhere out there, I don't know where, but somewhere in the world, there's a freak that's squatting this same weight, or at least close to it, maybe even more than it, and just, like, just knowing that, knowing that there's a, that some of us have that kind of connection, I mean, that just gets me freaking excited, you know, like, even now, just rolling up to go, just walking the treadmill, the fact that I know there's thousands of people doing cardio at this exact same moment, they might not be thinking the same thing, kind of realizing that, but it's definitely happening, just kind of makes me excited, you know, and that's probably my biggest takeaway, or not my biggest takeaway, but a big takeaway and kind of thing that I enjoy about the gym is, you know, it's as much of an individual project as anything, and it's your thing, and you can put a lot of effort into it, you don't have to explain it to anybody, you're doing your thing, you know, and that's, at least for me, I really like that kind of, like, just solo angle, right, you're doing your, you're doing individual playtime in school, but if everybody in the room is all working on the same thing, or all playing the same game, kind of individually, but around each other, that's, uh, it's called parallel play, I mean, it's just fun too, you know, so maybe that's just kind of how I'm wired, but, you know, just knowing we live in a world of lifters, all dispersed, coming from all different walks of life, hitting things in different ways, but across the board, still bringing it, that gets me going, that gets me going, that is going to make this 60 minute, uh, tread session go a little bit quicker, you know, and that's all we want, that is all we freaking want, so getting into that, and more, not just like general, uh, gym hype, but actually what I'm doing now is 11 days out, so this is going to be a late upload, apologies for that, but, yeah, so 11 days out from showtime, six days out from headed over to the UK, because I got to get there a little bit early, so that I can kind of, you know, make sure I don't have overnight flight, water retention, and things along those lines, so just kind of coming in smooth and steady, had a little bit of a touchdown for the Arnold Columbus, got a basic look at what my current stage package is, so I'm going to try to make some improvements in between, but there's really not so much you can do, I mean, it's, uh, it's only three weeks, but we'll see what can happen, and honestly, if I can make a couple more improvements from that show, that's really all I want, because that's kind of how I look at it, even with the gym in general, not in, like, a competing context of, like, uh, you know, trying to be competitive or place at anything, it's like, you know, am I better today than yesterday, and if that's the case, well, that's exactly what I freaking want, you know, so a little more cardio, a little more locking in, treats will, treats are on the horizon, you know, I feel like it's, um, I don't feel like this, but this, I think the saying is kind of accurate, it's dark is before the dawn, so a little extra cardio, just another week and a half of, uh, of locking it down, actually a little bit less, only 10 days, because the day before show day is when I get to carve up again and really start eating, so really it's only 10 more days of a deficit, and guess what, 10 days, that is very freaking manageable, that's more than manageable, that is freaking doable, you know, I mean, 10 days is a lot shorter than what was it that we started with, I mean, I don't remember how many, but at least like 150 of this dieting phase, a little bit longer, but I think low and slow paid off for me at least, so I'm gonna go pedal for an hour, or no, what am I saying, pedal, I'm gonna go walk for an hour, and then I'll meet you right back in here, all right, yeah, that is what I am freaking talking about, let me make sure, let me make sure we're gonna focus here, three, yeah, perfect, there we go, all right, yeah, we're good, so now it's time to go freaking home, a little rabbit running around, it's nice, you know, it's pretty nice that it's kind of warming up, two days ago up here, it was crazy, and I got a comment where I said, if you're in the northeast, you probably got hit with a crazy freaking windstorm, somebody hit me with, well, actually, Sam, Ohio is in the Midwest, and you know what, no, it's freaking not, you know, we're literally on the east side of the states, to call it the Midwest is, I mean, at best, historically accurate in like an arbitrary sense, and at worst, just fucking confusing, you know, wouldn't Arkansas be the Midwest, wouldn't like, like Utah be the Midwest, you know, not Ohio, not, not Kentucky, we're on the east side, but yeah, so at the cost of knocking down a couple of streetlights, I'm, I'm down with the warmth, man, you know, the, the snow is cool, but it's nice being able to come out of the house, and shorts, and a shirt, and not get smacked in the face by the cold, especially after doing cardio, you know, like, there's cold, there's wind chill cold, and then there's coming out of the gym, basically soaking wet, at least underneath your clothes from sweat, and then you get that updraft of just the coldest freaking dust of wind, probably ever, straight up your freaking entire build, not good, not good, so yeah, 66 degrees out at night, I'm cool with that, you know, I had my fill of the, of the snow, I had my fill of the wintertime, uh, kind of, what the hell is going on here, okay, and they put like a cone in front of that and knocked over a streetlight, it looked like it was on fire, oh my god, uh, but yeah, I've had my fill, let's warm it up a little bit, let's warm it up, let's bring, let's literally bring the 70s back, which, yeah, that'll be cool, that will be freaking cool, shorts are on the horizon, which I like, you know, I like, uh, kind of going for that older 90s style below the knees shorts, but that hour of the treadmill, I went a little extra hefty, so I did seven and a half percent incline, three and a half miles an hour, so that's a little quick than what I've been doing, my baseline for treadmill cardio has been five percent incline, three miles an hour, so that was a little extra, had a little extra oomph, uh, now I'm holding on to the machine, which is a one-way ticket to going easy on the treadmill, especially, I mean, if you've ever seen somebody crank the incline up to like 30 percent or 20 percent or something crazy, and then they're holding on for dear life, leaning back on the machine to the point where their body is perpendicular to the actual angle of the treadmill, it's like, what are you doing, you know, that might, maybe it feels good, but you're definitely not burning the same calories as that incline sort of value, you know, so I'm kind of doing a little bit of a, like, one hand on the treadmill kiosk, or whatever the word is, other hand holding the phone, um, I just re-watched Chef today, that was pretty good, maybe I shouldn't have watched it during a diet, uh, they were talking about making, like, this overnight smoked brisket Hawaiian buns sliders, you know, buttered on both sides, panini style, that'd be pretty cool, you know, I don't, I don't have an issue obliterating an entire loaf of Hawaiian buns, give me a little, you know, pat of butter on the side as well, I mean, that's, um, oh, I mean, there may as well be a fifth force of the universe, the, uh, the Sam Hawaiian buttered bread force in which it's really unstoppable, you know, there is no limit to, uh, to that, but I guess the seventh force of my own discipline is a little bit stronger, because I'm not going to do that, you know, and the best part about getting to the end of a dieting phase, for one, obviously, I've, for what my goals are, now I can pretty much say I did it, I'm not done, I've still got two more weeks, and I'm not going to completely obliterate this diet into a bulk, like, I'm going to ease into it, I want to stay a little leaner for longer this time, but now that we're in the home stretch, actually, I, being in between two shows is even further than the home stretch, it's more like, uh, it's like it's the last quarter and we're up 70, you know, like, there's no, there's not much chance to blow it now, it's more so just, you know, continuing on as we've been continuing on, but now that it's almost over, I get this kind of pressure off my shoulders, you know, because it's like, hell yeah, we did it, back in August, it was only like a figment of my imagination of what March might bring, but now we're actually there, you know, so all of those days of cardio and calories, and I mean, literally days of cardio, um, I don't know how long exactly I spent doing cardio this prep, because some days I did 30 minutes, and other days I did, I ramped up to 45, and then a few months ago, I ramped up to an hour and a half, two 45 minute sessions, then I was doing two hours for a while, and sometimes I do an extra hour, uh, let's just average it out to an hour of cardio per day over the last six months-ish, which I think is a very fair, uh, estimation, so yeah, 180 days-ish, an hour each, 180 hours, so that's what, five, five days would be 120, so yeah, seven and a half days of cardio, seven and a half, literally an entire week's time over this last six months, just either pedaling, or treadling, or doing the kind of seated elliptical, where it's kind of like a seated bike, but instead of rotating two pedals, you're just pushing two, um, two paddles back and forth, yeah man, seven days accumulated, and that's not something you can rush, you know, nobody, it'd be physically impossible to even do it within a seven-day time period, the only way to actually have clocked that many hours of cardio would be to do it slowly, in chunks, over the long run, you know, over time, I couldn't even tell you how much cardio I've done net, you know, let's just, let's just assume lifting, I wasn't doing, eh, I don't know, that gets a little bit tricky, because I wasn't a full-on, um, let's just say cardio evangelist, I think it's probably a decent description of it, until a little bit later into my working out, like it took a minute for me to get the grasp, uh, or to grasp the benefits, like many, you know, you never know until you actually kind of get into it and see the results for yourselves, but, yeah, I mean, easily months, easily a few months of time, maybe at least one for sure, but, yeah, maybe coming up on two months of just net cardio clocked, and some people might look at that and think, wow, you could have done so much, you could have done so much other stuff in two months time, and it's like, I mean, it depends on what your values are, you know, but let's, um, let's not kid ourselves, what's your screen time like? I know, I know mine's atrocious, I'm trying to work on it, I've got TikTok and Instagram off of my home screen, not deleted, but I've got it off my home screen, just so I don't, I have at least one little barrier to mindless scrolling, which I think really helps, because once you kind of look at your home screen, like, oh, what do I do? Now, where's TikTok at? Oh, yeah, wait a second, I told myself I didn't want to scroll TikTok, I'm not going to do it, I'm not going to do it, let's watch a movie or something, let's watch a show. I kind of madmined myself out, because I watched, like, freaking six seasons in a row, but it kind of, I don't know, madmen kind of lost me at the end, like, the middle of season six, you know, how many times is Don Draper going to cheat on his wife before you say, all right, I think we get the gist here, man, you know, like, how many times do you want us to watch this? You know, if you've ever seen the show, you get what I'm talking about, hopefully that's not a really bad spoiler, but, you know, it's like, it just feels better, watching something that's a little bit more long form, a little more discussion based, that's the kind of stuff we should be watching. You know, like, if you've got some, if you've got some little lifters running around your house, you've got some kids, I would probably think it would be good to have them watching, like, How It's Made. I remember when I was younger, How It's Made was the shit. Like, I could sit, you know, excuse my language, but I could sit and watch How It's Made, and, you know, whatever other random Discovery Channel show that was on, all freaking day. You couldn't turn that crap off, you know, or, like, Mythbusters and stuff like that. That's the kind of thing that I want to, that I want to kind of focus on, you know. Not to say that I want to watch, like, kids shows like that, but just stuff where at least there's kind of a point, you know. Or, like, watching a, watching a workout video where the guys are actually working out and talking about, like, you know, what they're doing and why they're doing it. You know, we don't have to, we don't have to be, like, you know, professors in class when it comes to these workout videos or anything, but just, just trying to minimize my brain rot consumption, you know. I think that'll, I think that would do anybody well, but yeah, plan now is to get home. I think I got a can of tuna with my name on it, and then I'm going to freaking bed, that is for sure. So, we, uh, get the raw guys over at the gym. We're doing a little bit of raw behind, I guess not behind the scenes, but, like, some raw kind of promo stuff. So, I got a freaking raw protein bar sitting in the car just teasing me. Would I like to destroy this thing right now? You're god dang right I would, but I don't really have the macros left for today to facilitate that. As soon as this diet turns into a, um, it's not going to be instantly a bulk, there's kind of going to be a little bit of a main gaining period of just eating maintenance, and then gradually putting on size. I mean, I'm going to keep increasing my calorie intake over time, but I'm going to start a little bit slower. So, the beginning of this bulk will be perfect, because I'll basically just be able to get to eat as much as I'm hungry for, which will put me in maintenance, and then just adjust from there. So, these are going to be freaking destroyed. You know, they're not like the, it's not like a 2 gram of fat, 10 gram of carb with, like, a bunch of allulose, kind of, like, protein substitute kind of bar. They're really just going for net enjoyment. So, I'm talking, I think, 7, actually, let me just pull up this specific one. So, yeah, double fudge brownie, we're looking at 230 calories, 9 grams of fats, 21 grams of carbs, 20 grams of protein, coming from a protein blend of some whey protein concentrate, whey isolate, whey everything. You know, we kind of get to just, it's kind of crazy that all, or at least most protein bars are all kind of whey-based. But I guess where else are you going to get them, you know? But, yeah, they're going for more of a, more of a hefty bar with these, which is for sure, which sucks for me, because I'm seeing everybody post about the freaking, like, salted caramel pretzel flavor, and there's a few that I haven't tried yet. I think there's, like, a chocolate chip, I don't know. But I can wait a little bit longer. You know, I can wait a little bit longer to kind of quench my sweet tooth about that, because I said this in the last portion of the last full day of eating that I did, but this is where delayed gratification comes into play, you know? Because current Sam, in this exact moment, if I was about to, if somehow I knew I was about to just get struck by a meteor in one minute, and I knew that was going to be it, well, then I'm going to sit here and slam this protein bar, and I would enjoy it, you know? But I know that's not going to happen, and I've got some shit to do going forward, which I want to basically restrict some things to be able to achieve, and, like, you know, perform at, and just, you know, really just see what level I can reach. So the immediate gratification of grubbing, like, the immediate gratification of me doing a 180 in this roundabout, headed back to Cain's and saying, your fryer's on? Well, they better be, you know, turn them up. The immediate dopaminergic release that I would get in the moment would probably be pretty high. Like, I'd probably be sitting there slamming toast number four, thinking, oh my god, this is so good. But that feeling would instantly dissipate. It would instantly disappear, and I'd basically catch myself probably covered in crumbs and sauce, thinking, excuse my language here again, but what the fuck did I just do? Fuck. Like, I just did, I did two hours of cardio today, and then I blew it by getting two caniac combos. What the heck is freaking wrong with me? You know what I'm saying? So I've had that feeling before, you know, anybody who's actually dieted, I presume, has cheated on their diet, and not in, like, a refeed way. Like, I'll have a mean refeed, and it will kind of fit the purpose of just what a refeed is. You know, basically just carving up, giving yourself a little bit more energy for that day and the subsequent days, probably having a pretty badass lift the next morning because you're going to be all carved up, but you're still on track. There are days where I've had a refeed where it wasn't a refeed. It was just me saying, dude, I'm eating today. I'm getting this out of my system. I'm grubbing. And it's just, you know, it's not, it's basically never worth it, right? And it depends on the strictness of your diet. Like, if you're just dieting in general, and you're legit on track with what your goals are, you're trying to lose 30 pounds in, let's say, what, 30 weeks? How many weeks is that? How many, is that eight months? Yeah, so by December, you're saying, man, I want to lose 30 pounds. If you're down about a pound a week, you're tracking your weight, you're counting your macros, you're doing your cardio. Well, then, honestly, probably once a month, you can get away with a day where you just go buck wild. You know, once a month might be a little frequent. Once every six weeks, definitely. Like, if I'm dieting as I have been, or if I diet again after another bulk, if I'm on it, calories, deficit, for six weeks straight, I can't undo that in one day. That's what would kind of count as a refeed. But now, I mean, 10 days out, it's just not refeed time, you know? Like, you're driving down a country road, you can get away with going over the speed limit to touch, but, shit, man, if you're in the city, let's say school's getting out, you better be going to the speed limit. Not only for your sake, but for everybody around you. So, that's kind of a weird analogy to get my point across, but all I'm saying there is, sometimes, it's crunch time, you know, and you just gotta not have that internal debate of, okay, you know, should I, I mean, it's been a while since I've had a, a full family-sized bag of Reese's Minis. Oh, treat yourself. Oh, man. Never. Never. Never. Never let that phrase creep into your mind. Oh, come on, treat yourself. At least not if you're in a diet. If you're bulking up, you're headed to an insane leg day, where you've got, like, nine working sets of quads, six working sets of hamstrings, adductors, calves, like, you're leaving the gym drenched, you can treat yourself. If you're in an off-season, treat yourself is in your vocabulary. Dieting down, yeah, you can treat yourself. Treat yourself with a can of freaking chicken and some sugar-free barbecue sauce. How about that? Make that your treat. And honestly, if you're actually in a good deficit, it tastes a lot better than you think, you know? So, that's coming from somebody deep into a prep. You're not watching me. I mean, once I start eating in the off-season, I'm not going to be eating the same meals I've been eating. I'm not going to look at a bowl of plain oats, tuna, um, a little bit of barbecue sauce, and then ranch dressing powder, all mixed together. I'm not going to look at that and think, man, I want to eat that right now. But deep, you know, now two weeks out from one more show, a little bit less than two weeks, that would hit the spot. That would freaking hit the freaking spot. That's for sure. But no more chatting. This is definitely a yap. This is a yap-isode of, is this 12 days out or 11 days out? Yeah, 12 days out. So, I got some shoulders tomorrow. We're going to get a little B-roll behind the scenes of some of the new raw stuff. If you're a creatine fan, which, as I'm, as I would assume, we all are. We got a little bit of a new something or other creatine-wise coming. So, just keep your, keep your ears perked up. That's for freaking sure. But, yeah, I got nothing else to say. So, I'll see you tomorrow. So, Thank you.