 s So, yeah, not as much food yesterday. Full-on rest day, double session of cardio. So, I was snacking today. I was snacking. I got some extra carbs in my system for sure. So, I'm going to make use of them by having a crazy-ass arm day. So, I think three sets of curls, three sets of triceps, two sets of buys, two sets of tris, one set of curls, one set of pushdowns of, you know, some kind of variety, kind of that three, two, one pumps effect. Maybe a super set as a finisher. And that'll be all. So, for a hotel gym, it's nothing crazy. But honestly, this equipment is pretty nice. You know, curl, dip, a bunch of leg stuff, cables, dumbbells. Do you need that much more? So, I've never seen it called a dependent curl. Well, let's just start here. Not too heavy. Heavy enough, I'm going to feel it. Three of these and then maybe switch to a dip. We'll see what happens. Hmm. Okay, two more of those, just like that. Yeah. One more and then some dips. That'd be perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, cow crap. Half the stack is not supposed to feel like that. That's okay. Let's get some dips going now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. One more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Alright, time for a new curl. Let's see what we can do with the... Am I crazy for thinking I want to do the 50s? Well, I don't think so. Let's try it. If it's too heavy, I'll just do a drop set to the 25s. I might just... Actually, I might just do that anyway. Alright. Alright. Okay. Okay. one more of those. Alright. Let's just do some rope push downs. Keep it simple. Yeah. No. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more of these in the superset. That'll be freaking all. We can pause down. Alright. Highlight. That's all. Let's see if we're looking. Alright. Yeah, there we go. Alright. Yeah, there we go. So I've still got some cardio on that seated bike way over yonder. Actually, shit, what time is it right now? So, yeah. So, let's see how we're looking. A little carved up. Still slightly water-retentive. Give another four days-ish. You know, kind of including the flights. That doesn't really help the situation. To get back to that fully leaner skin level of thinness. But even today, I felt much drier than yesterday. Which is what I want to see. Because that's telling me, you know, just from keeping my hydration normal. Sleeping well. Doing my cardio. So, some of that extra water. Let's just call it subcutaneous water. Is kind of just dispersing how I would like. But, let's see how we're looking from the backside first. And then flip around to the front. Yeah, there we go. Right in the center. You're not gonna be able to fulfill the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits of the limits limits of the limits of the limits limits of the limits limits of the limits limits of the limits limits of the limits limits? You're not gonna be free till the wind. definitely a watery pump if i've ever had one and in terms of overall enjoyment i mean i certainly feel pumped that is for freaking sure but yeah plan now get back to the hotel room and then i will be back home tomorrow so no more of these short no car talk kind of videos we'll get back into a regular groove of things but yeah man i mean you know it's gonna depend on the hotel but apart from like this one in vegas a long time ago that i went to where it's like a full-on gym like squat racks like it looked like people would just go there for the gym itself this is pretty good and of course i'm gonna say that because you know i had an arm day so relatively chill but i'm gonna get my cardio going then we are all freaking done for today