 all right, so a very chill day. So for one, two, is this three days out now or two days out? Is it 25th? Yeah. So two days out from the Arnold. So no workout today. No, you know, no full on lifts or anything. No cardio even. It's kind of just, um, I mean, yeah, shit, full on rest day. Uh, I get, I get some carbs to my, uh, across the table, which I have just about had enough of. So my morning weight this morning, guess what it was? Is it 228? So what that means is I'm right freaking there where I want to see. So after slamming a bunch of fluids and actually really that's probably the main thing, slamming a bunch of fluids and then having that be cut off, you know, basically about now 10-ish, then from 10 till tomorrow at 1, um, well, 10 until tomorrow whenever I wake up, I'll end up just being able to see if I have to fluctuate anything. But I should be right on the money if I kind of keep going with a little bit of, um, what's the word? Water, water restriction, you know, because right now after drinking so much water over these last, you know, like almost 12 hours, I'm just in water flushing mode. So going forward, once that water intake kind of chills out, I'm still in the flushing mode. So that extra water will kind of start to come off me. But I made a, I made a little Q and A post. So we get a couple of, a couple of decent questions. Um, the first two are silly. Would you rather do a collab with Genghis or Khan? You know, I don't get the significance of that. The second one is just, uh, 10 meows with an exclamation point at the end. So it must be a statement, not a question. But the first real question from Applesauce132, favorite milestones in your lifting career? I'd say, I mean, the first one that came to mind as soon as I read the question was just hitting three plate bench for a single. That was pretty freaking wild. Obviously, you know, more recently just getting up on the Arnold pro stage and, you know, winning my pro card if you're on the amateur, those were a little bit more significant. Uh, but it's, um, I don't know. I mean, those are definitely the biggest ones. So like the first time you really see a bicep vein or if you get an arm pump, so pumped to the point that you can't actually touch your shoulders because now your biceps and triceps are so swollen, you can't even reach that far. Those are pretty good as well, you know, but it's kind of all inclusive. I wouldn't want to just pick one. Marcos Gonzalez6201, what is the best way to get a lot of protein as a beginner? And to that, I will say, um, and I get this question a lot, uh, honestly too much to the fact or to the point that it makes me kind of concerned about like how much has someone looked into the gym in general? There's a few questions here later that are the same thing where it's like, okay, what's better doing this or this? Whereas, you know, if you knew about your calorie deficit and you tried counting your macros and everything, you'd kind of get a feel for it a little bit. Uh, the gym is definitely something where just from having a little video with somebody, you know, listening to, you know, even a damn freaking legend like an Arnold, well, just as much information as you can hear, you've got to implement and learn and like adapt and actually gain your own experience, you know? So I can sit on my computer trying to look up the best way to do everything, but if I never did it and tried it and saw what worked, well, then nothing would ever freaking happen. Uh, but the best way to get a lot of protein as a beginner, well, for one, are you eating any protein specifically, right? Like, do you have any, do you have a big salad bowl full of ground beef already cooked in your fridge, ready to go at a moment's notice? If not, I'd recommend doing that. Uh, but if you get, if it's more of a time constraint situation, you know, you're cooking meals, then I'd say bust out some shakes, man. You know, a protein shake is solid. I don't care what anybody says about like, you know, this, that, or the other of, actually, I guess nobody really even brings anything up about protein shakes now. Not as much as they used to, but yeah, protein shakes, totally solid. Keep a shaker with you, throw in two scoops. You know, if you're going to, let's say you're a high school dude, you eat breakfast in the morning, you know, maybe eat something at seven, you're not going to eat lunch until noon. So that leaves that, you know, nine, 30, 10 time to be kind of a perfect spot to slam a shake. And then if you want to get a few more extra carbs and throw in two packs of an instant oatmeal, and then by the time you kind of let it sit and like absorb the water, you know, it's a thick shake, but it's still a pretty solid way to get your protein and calories in because you can just drink it, you know? So if you're really having a hard time getting food down, shakes are a good option. Edwin Valerio. Yeah, this is what's better, an aggressive cut or a long-term cut. But for who? You know, like that's a big question. If I'm just going to diet between off seasons, like let's say I'm doing a bulk, I want to just diet enough to get leaner and undo the fat gains that I put on from the bulk and then bulk again, well then I'm going to do kind of a faster, you know, just two-month dieting phase because all I need to do is kind of have some rapid sort of fat loss. And I'm not concerned with a slightly steeper deficit because it's only going to be for a shorter period. But for something like this show, I found at least this time around doing a longer, slower dieting phase made a bit more sense because I didn't want it to be like a drastic change, right? So if you've got a significant amount of body fat to lose, slow and steady long-term progress is going to be your highest priority. But if you're just going for kind of like a quick mini cut, well then, you know, shorter and aggressive is going to work as well. Hepster05, besides just having fun and getting a great physique, what would really satisfy you when it comes to the gym? That's kind of a weird question because that's sort of the point. Like the fun of it is the point. That's what satisfies me. Like if I didn't have any fun doing any of this, if I didn't go to the gym because I just wanted to because I enjoy it, well then I'd never do it, you know? And that's the same with anybody. If you have things that you just don't want to do, you're not going to do it. And even if you do, you're just going to be like dragging your feet, scrapping around. Like, you know, you have no passion behind it, right? So if you took away having fun, I'd have to do something else, you know? It just wouldn't work long-term. Why the hell would I do something that's so difficult and like time intensive and, you know, you got to restrict your diet sometimes and, you know, you give a schedule in training. Why would I do that if I didn't have any fun, you know? So I'd say those are, those are the best parts that satisfy me. Al-Al-Basha 4205, how does it feel to lone wolf most of this grind? I feel like it's the only way. So that's just kind of like a cooler way to say, you know, this is, this is your thing. This is for you to do. And I'd say it's not like a lone wolf grind because everybody out there is doing the same sort of thing. You know, if I go back to the States, I'm going to lift like I do, you know, there might be a lot of people around, especially when I'm at my private gym and it's just me, you know, I'm doing my cardio in the basement or something. It's not a team effort. And if you're used to like a football weight room type of lifting situation, then going from like football weight training to personal, just you in the gym training. I mean, that's a pretty stark contrast of just energy in, um, you know, and just like straight up hype, you know, but the way I look at it is, you know, I know everybody else is getting after it. I know no matter what I'm doing or when there's someone else hitting the set just as hard. And that kind of just gets me excited, you know, to know that it's this worldwide thing, even though in the moment it just feels like it might be just you, you know? So I'd say try not to feel like that, right? Don't forget everybody else is kind of hustling as well. It's a, it's more like parallel play instead of an individual activity. It's not just you. Everybody else is doing the same thing as you, but just, you know, on their own in their own way. Jordan BJ2FW, do you train abs? And if so, how often? Not really, not super often, but I have done a ton of ab training, especially when I was younger doing gymnastics, basically every, you know, not that years ago training is going to change how I look right now. But even like from diving in college and everything, like when it comes to your abs, you're flexing them all the time. You know, every time you do a rope push down and you're bending over to push the weight down, your abs are being worked every time you squat. Just, there's such an important stabilizer in your day-to-day life that once they're developed to the point that you want them to be, well, then you're probably good. You're not, I'm not worried about losing my abs muscular size. So I guess the question would be more so, are your abs as developed as you want to be, or as you want them to be? Because some guys are going to say, oh, well, you know, it doesn't even matter. You don't even have to train them. They're just made in the kitchen. They get revealed when you get leaner, but that's not purely the case, you know, because some guys get totally freaking peeled diced, but their abs are still kind of just lackluster because they haven't really worked them, you know. So to that, I'd say I'd recommend some ab machines. Don't do too much of this. Don't do too many, like you're holding A-50-pound dumbbell, doing side bends, working on the side of your abs. I wouldn't really recommend a ton of that just because you're going to end up thickening your, what's the word? I was about to say adductor. I know that's not it. Thickening your obliques. And, you know, as much as you want them to be, I think you're going to get enough work just from doing straight down the middle stuff. So like every Planet Fitness has an ab machine. You can put the, I mean, there's ones where I can't even do the stack. It's so freaking heavy, but just, you know, weighted and treat them like any other muscle. But once they're where you want them, you're good. As long as you're doing like, you know, a reasonable amount of compound lifts in your regular routine. Elysia True, Elysia True, 7820. Is there any version of you that could beat current you in a fight? And then which version? Definitely peak bulk. Peak bulk Sam could probably beat me in a fight. Just from like a size perspective, because 230-pound Sam is much weaker and more fragile than 260-pound Sam. So unless it was, unless somehow we had the same level of punching skill negligible, it's probably just going to turn into a wrestling match. And then 30-pound bulked up, super strong Sam would probably have an edge, I think. Even if his cardio would be worse than mine now. Redug A. Brilp. I don't know. Have you ever been nervous before a big lift? And do you think whether feeling anxious or not before a big lift can affect performance? I mean, yeah. You know, back when I first started really squatting heavy, just sitting in front of the weight would get me going. Like I'd be, you know, just screaming. Like there's videos where I've earlier, or in the middle of last year, like August-ish, I squatted like six plates for eight. You know, I'm screaming. I'm just, yeah, I'm going totally crazy. But that's not so much nervousness as it is just kind of like an anxious, like excitement, you know? So I think if you're feeling nervous, like, like kind of a weak nervous, that might throw you off. But if you're feeling like this antsy, like, you're not even thinking of words, you're just thinking like that feeling of like, that, I think it'd probably help your performance because it'll get your, you know, get your freaking endorphins kicking. Kador 7, 8, 1, 2. Did I already answer one of yours? I don't think so. What's the best anime you've ever watched? And why is it Gurren Lagann? Yeah, very presumptuous of you to think that that's what I think my favorite is. I haven't seen it, so I guess I don't know for sure. But I've seen clips, and I guess I, it hasn't interested me enough to watch it yet. But in terms of, I mean, what my real favorite is, I don't know, man, JoJo's Wizard Adventure is pretty freaking peat. Obviously, every season's kind of a different story. But if you're gonna, if we had to describe an S-tier anime in terms of a season or like an arc or a story or whatever, yeah, part five, Golden Wind, is just objectively the best. I'm not saying it's subjectively the best. Like, I really like part three, you know, with Joe Taro and everybody's like super freaking jenched. But objectively, as like a story, part five is the best for sure. And I could, I think that's pretty easily defendable. Dylan Hanley, this will be the last question. Thoughts on possibly moving to open? I get this, I get this question a lot. I get the, oh, Sam, are you gonna, are you gonna jump to open? And it's like, how, um, how quick do you think I'm gonna grow? You know, like how, uh, how easily do you think it is to put on like 30 pounds of muscle? You know, I'm still under my weight cap for classic. I would never move to open unless I somehow couldn't make weight. And I'll always be able to make weight for classic. And then if we're just describing like a look, like what's endgame Sam gonna look like? I used to definitely think I was gonna be a 300 pounder, like offseason 300 pound Sam wasn't even a question. It was gonna happen. Now, a little bit more like in that sort of mid 200s, you know, so I guess we'll see what happens. There's no way to know for sure, but it's certainly not the plan. But really, you know, what is the plan, right? After the show, and I get back into my regular groove of things, my plan is just to keep lifting, you know, keep making gains, growing a bit, eat some food, stay a little bit leaner, uh, at least for a little while. So I don't completely undo this dieting phase like overnight. Because if I went nuts, I could get back to peak bulk looking Sam body fat in like a month, like easily. It wouldn't even be that hard. So I want to gradually reintroduce food so I can, you know, get bigger, but not pack on so much body fats just really for no reason. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, that's pretty much all I got there. So I have got a got to wake up tomorrow. Not early though, because check-ins are one o'clock. So I get to go to bed. I get to go to bed and just straight up sweet dreams. And then I'll see you for tomorrow. Excuse me. I'll see you for tomorrow for the for the one day check-in.