 P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P5P, P and tomorrow will be nothing tomorrow will just be i mean even tonight this shoulder pump is pretty chill like it's just get some blood flowing you know get things moving uh but tomorrow full resting no cardio no training no nothing tons of fluids i'm gonna eat a bit more food than the day before check-ins last show so i come in a little heavier i want to check in right at the wake half of 227 instead of being a little bit under so i start at a little bit of a fuller state for the carb up but other than that things are all lining up freaking well you know so there's nothing uh i think nothing else to say how about we just cut to some training and then we get some post lift uh some post lift meal discussion going forward so let's head over to dino's yeah i got a little lighter yeah Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This machine is fucking perfect too. Sometimes I only like doing, well, essentially like holding hands like this. But this sort of like Verna Macquar is pretty perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come on. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's grab some side downs. The machine. We'll begin. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Ooh. Ooh. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright, definitely a little bit of a funkier movement. So this is a row, but by going lighter, sinking the seat down really low, I can kind of just turn it into a face ball. So, I don't want to work my traps. All I want to do is feel my rear delts squeeze. So, kind of tricky. Definitely a quiet taste. Yeah, shit. You know, one more set of side delts and that should be fucking off. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. okay okay okay Okay, I suspect that there might be a little bit of mirror magic going on here. Something to consider, you know, like if you know the mirror is making you look a little crazier because maybe it makes your shoulders a little wider or like shrinks your waist or something, you can enjoy it. But don't be disillusioned. I think the primary cause of body dysmorphia in the current age isn't necessarily even that we compare ourselves to, you know, the craziest fucking guys on Instagram who are like, they edit their photo and everything else. It's just our own self-perception where, you know, we get attached to this in the gym, fully pumped, veiny, awesome lighting, the mirror might be doing a little bit of trickery for you. I think that's what gets you, you know. So look at yourself and obviously, you know, hopefully you look like a freak, but keep in context, like, you know, that's your current pumped in the gym temporary look. That's not you all the fucking time. But let's, yeah, shit, I'm feeling good. That's not my head. so that is about what we can expect so I'll be a little tanner and I'll get a little drier and I'll get a little fuller which all three of those things are positive boosts towards the freakier fucking look so that's all I gotta fucking say man let's get out all right I've been killing time by watching British TV it's kind of funny all the ads are well I guess it makes sense you know why would there be uh why there'll be American actors but that was kind of surreal that was kind of surreal and you know why I got a little bit of a picture of it it was the last cardio session of prep now I only did 30 minutes you know today is a little more just do a little something or other which isn't cool to say you know like I don't I don't feel like a total beast this last few days of training which is just the nature of pre-show peak uh but you know that's just the that's the ego lifter in me clawing its way out knowing just in a few days time it's going to be carved up getting the pump that's well that's not even getting into it yet but yeah so 30 minutes right here on the probably a life fitness bike that's even older than me you can't see any of that but you know let's do some math so I've been trying to yeah it's I so the first day of the I call it cutzilla for a while before I actually called it like a prep series or anything but on the calculator that was 221 days ago what so that's divided by what 20 let's just say 20 uh let's say 30 yeah yeah quite a while now the first like two and a half months were very gradual like it wasn't really a hard diet like that was not 220 days of insane dieting that was more so maybe 90 days ish of like gradual ease into it maintenance just coming down from a bulk and then more like you know whatever the rest was gradually increasing intensity but I started doing 30 minutes of cardio a day gradually ramped it up to 45 minutes and then an hour and then an hour and a half and then I was doing two hours a day for a while now I kind of backed it off a little bit but even assuming that I did an hour of cardio a day average which I think is a low estimate uh let's do some math here divided by 24 9.2 9.2 days of cardio 9.2 days camped out on either the seated bike or the treadmill or the seated elliptical or any kind of combination in between from beginning of prep or this dieting phase to now today being the last training day and holy shit look I tell you something that's not even close to the number of hours slash days that I've done cardio in general just you know all time kind of records but still even knowing that number is kind of freaking wild and there's no speeding that up there's no speeding up the process of doing that much cardio so and it's just kind of it's just kind of cool but yeah so today it's getting close to bedtime I'm still used to like Ohio stateside circadian rhythm I'm kind of getting into the groove of it now where uh for me it's almost one so that's about time to go to sleep so I've just been slamming tons of fluids uh my weight this morning was 230 exactly where I wanted it to be and then my weight now is just about 234 235 end of the day food my system hydrated so tomorrow honestly I wouldn't be surprised if I wake up at like a 229 so what I'm going to do is make sure well really just make sure I don't really do anything tomorrow that is I'm going to make sure I you know really fill up with fluids so that if I pull my water at like you know nine or something or eight that by the time I wake up and then weigh in I'll be under that kind of weight cap uh but I don't have to starve myself tomorrow either so I can still have a good chunk probably two I don't know maybe four or five hundred grams of carbs or so I'll have to adjust accordingly but my game plan going forward is as follows so for one uh edit this video together play some Magario go to sleep wake up tomorrow really just freaking whenever it does not matter I don't have to wake up for cardio tomorrow tomorrow is a full-on freaking rest day and then don't overdo with my food you know make sure I eat enough where I'm still kind of beginning the carb up process but where I can still wake up on Thursday which is check-in day right at the weight limit so if I can wake up Thursday you know an hour before I'm going to go actually weigh in ish and I'm right at that 227 honestly even if I was 228 that's cool too and you take a hot shower for 15 minutes you know just pull out a little bit of water like that but I'm really aiming right for that 227 and then well the floodgates get to open so even though show day is Friday I'd really say that the pressure of the dieting side of prep ends Thursday right after weigh-ins because what that means is I get to freaking grub you know so just kind of thinking back over this whole process uh it hasn't really felt like prep until these last few months uh I mean honestly really just these last two and a half months or so have really felt like I was bringing it because I still diet purely for my own sake between bulks and cuts you know off seasons and preps would be the more competitive way to describe it but every time I bulk up I cut down to kind of balance out that fat gain that I had in between and then also I'm just sick of bulking so to diet down is a bit easier so those first few months of dieting no freaking problem only after I got to that point of like okay now we're getting real has it felt like I've really been bringing it you know but yeah it has been a freaking while but now the hard part's over even I mean it was basically over um a few days before the Arnold Columbus because that's when he gets to have a refeed kind of get my fill of food and everything which I basically just get to redo this time but yeah now in a very real sense the hard part of the dieting is over so instead of like okay I had to get a few more weeks I haven't even been thinking that I've just it's more like okay sick to my diet today we're good I haven't even been thinking in terms of weeks and how long it's going to be just because there's no speeding up that process by thinking about it it's like okay was I on track today good am I on track which tomorrow would then be today again good repeat repeat repeat before you know it you're going from 265 pound soft sam to that low 230s on show day you know maybe 235 peeled sam and shit just freaking happens you know but yeah so that's going to be fun so now all that's left is the fun part you know the actual get on stage do your routine throw down with everybody else uh the only thing that's a little rough is I'm going to completely destroy these the sheets in this hotel and they know that you know they know that since they're like the the host hotel for the Arnold that that's just going to be part of the deal uh so it's not like they're they're going to be surprised or maybe they will I don't know but either way I'm gonna just keep drinking some freaking sugar-free soda tomorrow it'll just be mainly I mean straight up water I might I was looking around for like some Mio or something but I don't know if they have it over here which I mean as long as the water flavoring doesn't have any um you know sodium or substantial electrolytes then that makes it a lot easier to just slam a ton of fluids like I'll probably end up drinking at least two gallons worth so that that'd be what about eight liters maybe ten liters or so and it's really not the hardest thing in the world especially if you're sitting you're watching tv or something instead of snacking you're just sipping you know but yeah that puts me at exactly three freaking days out technically only two days because now it's the 25th for me but I guess by the time I upload this in the states it's only 10 o'clock so the time gets a little funkier but yeah nothing else to do but get ready for the show so tomorrow will be pretty chill maybe uh maybe some q a activities maybe um maybe a little grocery store trip and get a bunch of treats because I've still got to do that there's there's no treats in this room right now which is a it's a good feeling because it's keeping me from wanting to scarf them down but actually yeah I guess that is a good feeling so I'll I'll wait until it's actually time to eat to get the food because the last thing you want is knowing that you've got the treat drawer right in the freaking kitchen behind you or maybe like just the treat bag and I've got to go to sleep and just like this is me trying to sleep knowing there's a box of mic and eggs in the kitchen may as well save yourself from the temptation at least until the time actually freaking comes but yeah I can't say enough about Dino's gym if you're ever over in Birmingham over in Soul Hill you got to check it out I mean if not purely for the fact that everybody in there is getting it or not getting it but oh yeah I guess they are getting it you're getting after it the energy and just like the space itself you know like you can go into I've I've been to Gold's gyms I've been to some you know pretty cool tool gyms just across the freaking country and then now a little bit across the world not the entire world like I've never been to you know like Asia or South Africa or anything the only non-state side country I've been in is Canada and the UK and Italy which you know just Europe which isn't really everywhere but I've seen some crazy gyms and just let's just call it the vibe that you're going to find at Dino's it's it's really just does speak for itself so if you're coming over for the Arnold UK that is certainly a gym to check out we'll put it that way but for the Arnold UK this whole weekend Dino's is probably going to be freaking packed so maybe get there super early or go super late if you want to really kind of enjoy a lift that isn't just full of people or if you want to feed off everybody's energy and just kind of have more of a go with the flow workout well then just go midday you know I don't know exactly what the hours are going to be I'm not going to work out until either the day after the show or maybe two days after just to kind of rebound and you know get my water back on track but that's let's not even think about that until showtime's over we get enough on our freaking plate in the first place yeah I got nothing else to say so Jim man I will see you freaking tomorrow