 all right, so today is the 21st, so hitting a bit of an earlier workout, because I am going to be up in the air tonight. I don't know how much earlier everybody else is flying over to the UK over in, I think, I'm just going to be up in the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of your look a little, right, you can get a little bit of water, you can get just kind of generally, I mean, just your blood flow gets funky, you're just sitting down for so long, so for one, I'm going to make sure I move around, you know, I'm going to be that guy who gets up and walks up and down the aisles a little bit, probably bend over and touch my freaking toes, or at least try to a few times, just over the course of, you know, that kind of overnight, I think it's the opposite of a red eye, I don't know, whichever is which, but yeah, I think one thing I'll definitely do today between finishing this lift, hit my cardio, and then headed to the airport, is I'm going to get a pair of compression pants, you know, I don't need like super crazy tight, but just a little bit of that kind of general compression, because I don't want to land in the UK with like puffy legs, because that's a look that takes a second to kind of lose, like as much as you can fluctuate your, let's just call it your water retention from, you know, maximizing your fluid intake, not eating too much sodium, you know, kind of actually really being particular about it, you know, having less than a gram per day, or at least, you know, trying to minimize as much as possible, and then slamming a bunch of extra fluids to kind of balance yourself out, if you have puffy legs and you're really holding on to a lot of water down there, it just takes a minute, you know, so that's something I'm going to try and avoid, but yes, today's the 21st, show day's the 27th, so 1, 2, or 21, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, yeah, so I've got until, yeah, I guess, including today, six more days of being pretty much locked in diet-wise, and then it'll be time to, well, what's a good analogy, what's a good analogy for opening the floodgates, for letting the dogs out, for calling in, I can't tell you, either way, food is going to be grubbed on, but I'm going to try not to go too wild, because post-show, you know, obviously, you carve up, and you manipulate your water, but I felt really bad, uh, two Arnold's ago, so this was at the Arnold Amateur I competed at, um, as soon as that show was over, uh, like, even, obviously, for the Arnold Columbus this year, you know, I ate some food on show day, like, even the night after, um, or the night of the competition, it was kind of funny, backstage, they had, like, some pizzas, and little burgers, and sliders, and stuff, uh, I didn't even get to eat that much, because everybody freaking scarfed them down before I could get to it, you know, I had, like, three pieces of, of, uh, of this pizza, it was pretty good, but I didn't go crazy wild, because obviously, I still have one more shoe to show, uh, one more shoe, one more shoe to do afterwards, so it's not like, you know, you can just go completely insane, in terms of that post-show meal, but after the Arnold Columbus last year, I mean, show's done, all right, boom, probably had the equivalent of, like, a medium Papa John's, because, uh, some of my extended family came over, and they brought this pizza, I forget drostanolone it's from, I think over in, like, West Virginia, or something, uh, but it's, like, classic, every time we all kind of end up visiting, or go over there, we get pizza from the same restaurant, and it's just, it was, it's just awesome, like, kind of, like, not deep dish, but deeper dish than normal, uh, you know, and I had probably 15 pieces right there in the hotel room, bunch of junk, go back to the night show the next day, and just scarfing down, you know, Mike and Ike's, and drinking a ton of everything, because I'm, like, all right, I'm hungry, I'm thirsty, I'm tired, let's just eat some shit, uh, and all of that combined, like, really just eating a bunch of salty, saturated fats, and everything, when I woke up the next morning, bloated as I've ever been in my life, and not in, like, a stomach sense of, like, gassy, but in terms of just overall, like, subcutaneous, uh, water retention, like, I'm leaving dents in my shins, my whole face is, like, like, I look like I had an allergic reaction, like, I get stung by a bunch of bees, um, and I kind of got that a little bit this show, in terms of, like, a post-show water rebound, but not that bad, because I, you know, kind of controlled myself, so I'm going to try to do the same thing this time, even though I'm going to eat some food afterward, of course, I'm still, uh, my overarching post-show goal is still ease into that calorie surplus, really, more like ease into maintenance, you know, I'm not even going to jump up to, uh, or at least I'm going to try not to jump up to an average calories of, like, you know, 4,000, like, I'm going to kind of keep it close to the cuff, maybe, if my average for the next couple weeks post-show is, like, 3,700 or 3,500, that'll be about what I'm aiming for, you know, but let's not get ahead of ourselves, let's think about the show first, so, yeah, that's going to be good, a bit more cardio, and then, so today's the 21st, so, show day, I'm not going to work out, so the 27th, the 26th is check-in day, I'm not going to work out, the 25th is the day before check-in, so, yeah, really, it's just, um, so the 25th, 24th, so today's the 21st, so, yeah, four more lifts, uh, so today's going to be back tomorrow over in the UK, very, very potentially a rest day, post-travel, we'll have to see, but I've definitely got some chest planned, I gotta hit Dino's gym and slam some chest, if I didn't, uh, I mean, it'd be an absolute disgrace to even show up to, uh, to the UK without hitting chest over there, and then maybe just a little arm action, little shoulders, like the last lift that'll do, so that'll be, on Tuesday, that's just going to be a real light arm pump, just get some stuff moving, uh, because I'm trying to max or minimize my kind of net inflammation, going into sort of the carb up, and get yourself into, like, a really relaxed state, but, yeah, so the only other change, apart from, um, hitting a side, uh, or not, is it just, it's not side relaxed, it's, uh, ah, crap, what do they call it, is it side relaxed, front relaxed, I guess just quarter turn, yeah, you just say quarter turn, what am I saying, well, apart from making sure I really widen up, which, like, for me, since, you know, I don't, I haven't competed a ton, I don't have, like, a huge, super crazy, uh, competition repertoire, uh, it feels a little silly to really turn, but obviously that's going to change, and then I just want to come in fuller, you know, I want to, um, I want to emulate the in-the-gym look as much as possible. For the Arnold Columbus, I was definitely, I mean, I was way bigger and leaner than the initial debut shows, which is what I wanted to see, um, which, to be expected from a really big, substantial off-season, but, yeah, I think there's definitely some room for more glycogenation, if you want to put it like that, for this show, so we'll see, try not to cut so much water right in the beginning, come in a little fuller before the carb-up, instead of trying to flatten out super hard, and then re-carb, you know, something along those lines, that's what you're, that's pretty much all I'm aiming for, so if I can improve on the look for the UK over Columbus, even freaking better, but, yeah, I think, uh, I think there's nothing else to say, how about we just get in there and get this freaking back day started, the last, uh, the last lift in the States for a little freaking while. All right, I think I have a plan, so first, let's get this kind of, I don't want to say upper back row, because the bottom of the range of motion is very standard, like pulling towards your torso, but it kind of has this upward arc, so it's like regular mid-back row, up into kind of a shrug, so only three plates here, probably two or three sets of this, and then I got a plan for some alternating cable, I mean, like, light pull-downs, but still, well, we'll talk about that when we actually get there, but let's get started here. So since I'm going lighter, I'm going to really emphasize, like, a good squeeze and hold, like, I want to feel like my elbows to bump each other at the top of the range of motion, you know, you can't, but that's kind of the visualization that's helping me squeeze and pull back my shoulder blades. będę będę Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. yeah yeah One more. One more. And then let's move on to a cable kind of lat focus sort of deal. Okay. All right. Yeah, let's try this pull down variation I just thought of. And with these there is like, I mean obviously maybe it's just like this machine specifically, but I'm not just getting to here and like pulling. I'm almost kind of arching my back, like my mid back at the top. So kind of roll over a little bit, round, and then at the top kind of pull all the way in. But something like the squeeze definitely feels a bit better. All right. All right. So instead of my normal alternating single arm pullover, I think I'm going to do alternating single arm pull downs. So lightweight, only 130 on the stack, which I mean, you know, I don't know about you, but on a cable stack. Actually, fuck, that's actually too heavy. What am I doing? Let's do 100. 100. But yeah, 100 even more so. So certainly light enough to bust out some reps. So I'm not going to need straps. I can just kind of lock my thumb over my fingers. So I'm not going to work my forearms, but just doing a feeler. I'm going to kind of, you know, I'm bracing myself. So I'm pretty, you know, still. And then I think just five reps on each side. And with these, I'm not doing a standard pull down where like this is the motion. It's kind of more like this out and in sort of squeeze. So I'm trying to put my mind in to my lat right in here and feel it tense up. Like actually, you might even be able to see a little bit now because I'm pretty lean. But like tense up all the way down to the bottom right here where my lat ties in to my waist. Like that's the squeezing I want to feel on both sides. So five reps alternating. Then we'll go from there. Might just do the one, you know, I don't know. Let's see how it feels.ててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててててて No That's more Okay Let's up it to 110 And do one more of those No Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah That'll be the finisher Yeah I think just one set of pulldowns and that'll be the finisher Let's actually do the set and find out but I think we'll be good I think we'll be good There we go Not even 200 pounds Let's do 180 Make this kind of a moderate tempo squeezing And then probably convert it into more partial reps towards the end as a finisher portion There's the finisher section of the set Of the set But let's make this happen Different song though There we go You gotta check out demons by human error project That's where it's at Hmm Yeah There we go You gotta check out demons by human error project That's where it's at Hmm Hmm będę będę Let's find some lighting. Let's see how we're looking. A quick little six setter. Okie doke. Alright, I haven't hit this exact lighting spot for a little while, but it is certainly a good one. So let's see how we're looking. Overall, feeling-wise, in terms of just heft and let's call it swollenness, really pumpedness is the right word, I'm feeling good. So a through-the-shirt lat spread, not so abrupt when it's through a black shirt. But it's still pretty freaking nuts. Let's see how a trim we can suck in the waste. Yeah, we're cooking the gas now, that's for freaking sure. But let's actually see how it looks straight up. Yeah, there we go. Ph productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos productos Oh man. All right. That's what I call a back pump for freaking sure. But yeah, plan now, go home, get my cardio done. And then I have got to pack up, get this lift edited together, get all my camera stuff in a, that's one thing that's always kind of weird. Every time you go through security and you got a freaking camera, they almost always pull you aside because they think you're hiding stuff in the lens or I, you know, I don't know something about the training. Sometimes they just pass you through and it's totally fine. But typically it's like, you know, I mean, luckily nobody's dropped it yet, but if somebody picked up like one of the fancy camera lenses, they're swabbing it with this little thing and then it got busted. Shit, I'd be out of freaking luck, but yeah, nothing else to say. I think the pump spoke for itself for this, is this six days out? Yeah, shit, six freaking days. So let's get in the car, head back home and start freaking pedaling. All right. You know, I just kind of realized I'm always saying some shit like the gym is my thing. Everybody should have a thing or I would, yeah, I mean, you know, it's not like a rule, but I would think everybody should have something that you're really into and you'd like to do purely for the sake that you like it. Like take a hobby, but, you know, maybe a little further, you know, like more of an activity that you really like. A hobby could be a little more casual, but just, I mean, even if you categorize it as hobby level, that's cool too. But, you know, every time I'm talking about motivation and like consistency and the fact that if you really like something, the value of, you know, actually sticking to practicing it and getting better at it and becoming more proficient at it pays off, you know, a million fold in the future. Like if in my mind, I really said to myself, you know, I think it would be really cool if I could freaking shred on the guitar. You can't shred instantly. Nobody can. But if I sat in practice for, you know, 30 minutes a day, 45 minutes a day or whatever, you know, and had like a teacher and, you know, did the courses or then fast forward a year, you know, I could be freaking shred and I guarantee it, you know. Now, I'm currently that, uh, that internal desire to shred isn't really that big, so I'm not going to do it, but just things as simple as that, uh, kind of get me going. So I'm always saying, you know, a lot of the lifting motivation kind of translates because, you know, a lot of the times just getting better at anything is just practice times time, times consistency, times enjoyment, times like a little bit of self-reflection because people can show up, but it doesn't mean they're progressing. You know, there's guys who come to the gym pretty consistently, their effort level is at a baseline, their consistency level is at a certain baseline, and that is going to result in just, you know, maintenance of whatever state that they're in. Not that everyone needs to be a freaking, you know, bodybuilder or insane lifter or like, you know, bulking and cutting super hard. Like that, that's certainly not what I'm getting at, but, you know, it kind of just branches into everything else, you know, like that, uh, just like pursuing proficiency at something, I think is kind of the main point. But I'm always saying a lot of this stuff overlaps with just anything. What else are your things, you know, because obviously everybody in here isn't just a hardcore, like, all right, I'm going to be a freaking bodybuilder, you know, not even to compete, but like, okay, I really want to just bodybuild like for me because I want to get bigger. And that's really what lifting is, you know, unless you have specific strength goals or, um, like maybe cardio based, uh, hybrid athlete kind of goals, everybody who's coming to the gym for the sake of just, you know, looking better, getting a little bit bigger, maybe just, you know, looking, getting in shape. I mean, that really is bodybuilding, just not taken to the nth degree of where we take it to actually go on stage and do shows and whatever. But what's your thing? You know, I'm actually very curious. I never asked that. What, uh, what's the thing that really gets you going where you're like, all right, I'm going to get up, I'm going to go finish all my classes. I'm going to study for this test I've got in a week. And then I can finally chill out for a couple hours and I can work on blank. So that's, uh, now it's kind of a call to action. Drop a comment below as a rare Sam quote on a, on whatever that thing is. Cause I'm, I'm very jumpy with my interests. You know, I was saying in the Q and a, like I've got, I've got a variety of boxes which have just, you know, come in and out of, um, just let's call it obsessive, uh, obsessive hobby, um, accrual, you know, like I've got a bunch of freaking Rubik's cubes sitting around in shelves and a bunch of like, um, HDV, like old video camcorders that I was messing with for a while. And I mean, even the camera stuff is its own hobby. It just happens to overlap with the fact that I'm making all these videos now. So that kind of is like a twofold sort of thing, which I really like, but yeah, it's good habits, stuff like that, you know, something where you're looking forward to it just because of it in and of itself, not for any kind of reward afterward, just the fact that, you know, you like to do it. It's a good little, I think it's just a good little day brightener, you know, and if you don't have something like that or you don't really like nothing comes to mind as like, yeah, shit, what do I do? You know, I mean, I'm cranking nineties in Fortnite. I can build, I can, you know, my bills are pretty quick, but how long is that going to last? You know, I, I, I never, um, I used to be a war zone fiend back in college, especially COVID year. That was my freshman year because all the classes were asynchronous and we're all kind of just like intro classes anyway, freshman year. So it was a very lax year as we're all aware, if you were in any kind of school during, you know, 2020, 2021 ish. So it would get to the point where I, um, I think I was doing morning cardio at the time. I remember I might've been doing night cardio. Well, either way, it'd be wake up solo game. I don't know how many solo wins I had. I think I got to go back and actually like check my account, but I definitely had a fucking few. That's for sure. But you know, that's not, that's more of just like a entertainment kind of thing. I wouldn't categorize video games as a, as that hobby level fulfillment, but maybe you do. I used to say, but yeah, I think I got nothing else to get into, get home, start peddling, break a sweat, watch the new season of invincible, which, um, that's probably the worst part about, uh, scrolling TikTok is the fact that all of the clips from all of these new shows are always getting spoiled for me. So I already know what's going to happen kind of, you know, so I'm trying to, I'm trying to avoid those going forward, but yeah, man, nothing else to say. I will see your, uh, I will see you in freaking Europe. I got a big ass day of travel ahead of me.