 and that puts us at nine days out from competition. So let's break down what that's gonna look like. Chest today on the 18th, probably backer arms tomorrow. So let's just say that it's gonna be a little bit more. Any friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends isn't honestly going to like wreck my sleep schedule because if you sleep on the way there, I mean, you kind of get a normal night's rest across the travel. It's flying back, uh, later. That's really going to screw me just because of the, uh, like the reverse time change or, you know, however that works, but get there the 22nd, maybe make that a rest day, just cardio, maybe still train. I'm not totally sure. The 23rd, definitely train, but the 24th, I think that might be where the training ceases, at least for the lifts, you know, because there is no growing in that phase. There's really no growing at all as I'm dieting with this whole deficit. So it's not a situation where you can really do much muscularly, but we'll see. You know, I think for this last show, my competition was a Friday and my last day of training was a Tuesday. So it's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Yeah. So two days of rest prior to show day itself, I think I'll probably end up doing the same thing for this next show. Not because I don't want to lift like on those days beforehand, but it's kind of just the nature of that whole situation. But yeah, in terms of changes, which obviously I'm kind of going to be saying the same thing for these next couple of days, just fuller, not flatten out so much. You know, I definitely think my fluid retention muscularly, I kind of wrecked a little bit just from coming in. So dry and depleted first, which you wouldn't think it'd be a problem, right? Cause it's like, you will do want to be dry. So you'd rather be dry than totally spilled over soft, but I think I can ride that line a little bit finer this time, but it's been a while since I've been to the pros gym down in Columbus. So I think that's where I'm headed now or not. I think I know that's where I'm headed. I would have checked it out during the Arnold, uh, Arnold Columbus weekend, but I mean, for one, that was, you know, post show kind of a couple of rest days, but also it just turns into a freaking jungle. I mean, there's, there's pictures out there. If you look up the pros gym, Columbus, because it's only a mile or so away from the expo hall. Um, they, they've got this overhead, um, like, I guess you'd say a mezzanine section. Cause it used to be a bank just in the city that got converted into a gym. So the space is really cool, but like there's photos where, excuse me, the gym's kind of far. I haven't drank the pre yet, but there's photos where you can't even see the fucking floor. Like there's just so many people in there and it's, you know, there's busy and then there's basically untrainable. Cause it's like, I mean, shit, you'd be lucky to get your hands on any piece of equipment. Nevermind like getting specific body part pieces, you know, like you'd have a good lift if your training routine is going to be, all right, I'm going to go in, grab any piece of equipment available, do a few sets, move on, pick a new piece and just repeat. Uh, but it'll be kind of cool. I got the kind of jealous seeing all the videos of everybody bouncing around in there. So this will be my post or I guess my in-betweenst Arnold's pros gym checkout. The last time I was here was like two years ago and it's just kind of far. So, you know, like I've got, um, I've got a wide radius of gyms that I will make a trek out for. Um, I basically went to American barbell every other leg day, which was every heavy quad day, um, of, I think this last offseason or maybe the offseason, no, the offseason before this last one because they had a Rogers hip press, which when I'm trying to pack size on, uh, I found it was absolutely freaking awesome. Uh, so I, now that I've got my own gym, I got that piece of equipment specifically. So I don't know. I haven't been making that drive as much, but 30 minutes, depending on what the gym is more than worth it. But, you know, depending on traffic and like if you're actually going all the way into the city, it's like, you know, at what point are you just going to say, I'm going to the planet fitness down the street or, you know, in a very spoiled case, what point are you just going to hit your own kind of private warehouse gym, you know, but I'm not a recluse. I still want to make my way around. And that is probably the, one of the biggest changes of this prep compared to my last one, which I think totally skyrocketed my enjoyment of it was last prep. I did all my cardio in an apartment gym that was absolutely dead. Uh, I mean, fancy piece of matrix, uh, you know, seated bike and treadmill, like, you know, super new. It had Netflix on the screen, you know, the really fancy ones. So my actual like doing of the cardio is sweet. The equipment was great, but there was nobody there. And it was like, you know, I'm doing 5am cardio and then I'm coming in later for like a really night session because last prep way more than this one. My sleep was just kind of funky. So like, I just wake up at like two in the morning sometimes and it's like, all right, shit, I'm awake. Let's just do some cardio. I got to do something. I'm up. Like it's, it wasn't like roll back over and go to bed. I wonder if part of that was just the nerves of having that be my first show. It definitely might've been, you know, I don't remember feeling crazy nervous, but your first show is definitely a fucking big one. Uh, but I would do my, I mean, I don't know how many days worth of cardio easily, probably three weeks. I don't know about three minimum two weeks of time straight, like 14 days, 24 hours of just sitting on this seated bike or the treadmill that was next to it and just overlooking nothing, just a, like a field and the apartment pool. But you know, it's fucking December. There's no water. It's, it's, it's totally frozen over and just doing all my cardio in that same spot. I liked the convenience cause I didn't, I mean, sure. I drove from my apartment to the little gym. It was like half a, it wasn't even a full street block distance. So, you know, I didn't have to take any time going back and forth and unloading my stuff. But yeah, this prep having done most of my cardio and like the, uh, the planet fitness or just the Y or any times or just where people are around. Like if you're going to do a ton of cardio, it is definitely a little bit of just an energy boost. If you do it in a place where people are around, you know, if it's just you, uh, and I mean, I do this too. I still have my cardio bike in the basement that I've been hitting every, you know, probably even just like half the time, but just knowing like, all right, that's a, I want to, I got to feed off the energy of the people around me for this next hour of cardio. I mean, it's, it just kind of gets you going, you know? And it's probably just like getting back to some basic psychology. You don't want to be the odd man out. So if you roll up and every treadmill at your P fit is like fully freaking packed, you find one and you jump on it. Well, what are the odds that you told yourself you're going to do 30 minutes and then you're just going to get off and leave early when everybody around you is sitting there fucking, maybe not drenched in sweat, but at least getting after it, you know? So if I can give you one tip in terms of, uh, in terms of your next prep or even just your next cut, make sure you, the cardio you're doing is around people because at least for me, in my experience, I had a much better time, but that's kind of an extreme case because I've been doing like two hours of cardio per day or an hour and a half split into two 45 minute sessions. I've been doing an hour these last few days. Cause it's like, we're almost done with prep. Why, why hold it back? Let's, let's get a little extra cardio in, but yeah, either way, let's, uh, let's just go see how busy it is for chests. Hopefully there's some freaks wander around in the water. This really is a pretty legit grungy, but like, I don't know. It's like half grungy, half clean cut. You'll see when we get in there. It's pretty fucking cool, but yeah, no more talking about it. Let's make this chest day happen. I'm feeling grainy. I have warmed up substantially. So now I'm going to start with some kind of just, uh, not exactly cross body, but sort of cross body cable press. Instead of bent over though, these are kind of just bench supported. I mean, these will just be making a cable press machine out of the individual components, but honestly, as a setup, this is one I can highly recommend very squeeze focused. friends. Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends? Any friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends See? Okay. One more of those. Then I'll move on to something else. Alright. Two. Two. Three. Four. Four. Two. Three. Two. Three. Three. Three. Alright, I lied. One more. That actually feels a little better than I thought. And then we'll pick something else. Yeah, these are pretty sweet. Any friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends Maybe some peck deck? Yeah. Peck deck it is. Let's just do the one. Let's just do the one of those. This machine seems kinda cool, and the filler rips feel pretty decent. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh, yeah. Let's finish with the cable. I think we're good. Alright. So the pros gym does have an infamous posing room. But I've been here before. I don't know. Some of my posing rooms are overrated. Like I just want to kind of hit an in the gym lighting pose down. It feels a little more normal. But yeah, chest is certainly feeling extra pumped today. So let me make sure I'm actually fully in focus. Yeah, there we go. Right about there. So let's see how we're looking. Any friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends Get a couple back shots as well. Alright, so right after I finally get back to a normal Sam's skin tone, I gotta get ready to go back to orange in just about a week's time. So we'll be back to that extra jersey look in friggin' no time. But I'm gonna pack up and I am not done. I got some cardio to do upstairs, so I'll see you in the car. Alright, I was officially out done today. I get on the cardio machine upstairs, so you know, I'm pedaling, I'm hitting the bike, and there's a girl on a separate seated bike who was pedaling before I started, and I did a fuckin' hour, and she was still going after I was done. So, I only had an hour planned, and I only did an hour, but yeah man, some of you guys are freakin' hustlin', that is for sure. So, I'm not Texan, I just gotta do the directions. I don't really know my way from Columbus directly home. Cause this is more of like big city central Ohio. I'm a little further north, a little more country-esque. Or not even country-esque, just a little bit more country. But, yeah. Nah, that's a cool ass gym. And it's so big. Like, I don't know if I really showed it off, um, just from like the camera angles that I got for that lift. But, it was, I mean, it used to be a bank, so it's kinda got like this second floor mezzanine section. And then there's even like this extra funky lookin' like third floor, where it's like a completely separate section. It's kinda more of like a, I don't even know how to describe it, just like more of an open air fitness area. Like, it's got some turf and then some other just like stack loaded machines. It's a cool gym for sure. So, if you're down in the Columbus area for whatever, whether or not you just live here, you go to OSU, or maybe, um, maybe you're just down here for work, something along those lines. The pros gym is definitely one to check out. Now, there, um, as I get closer to off-season, that's when my training gets a little later in the day. Sometimes just like super late at night. So, that gym is 24 hour, but I never, like every time I think about coming down here to hit a lift, usually it was in the off-season, and then I'm dieting down, and it's like, ah, well, there's nobody there. Because, just because it's 24 hour doesn't mean it's staffed 24 hour. Like, it's a, it's just key card entry kind of deal. But, yeah, that was a good one. And I'm excited to get in there and move some weight around in the coming months getting into summertime, because they have a lot of freaking solid leg equipment. They've got a ton of different kinds of like, pendulum based, uh, not even a hack squat, but just pendulum, like, hack squat style machines, and a bunch of different leg presses with different pendulums and loading, uh, like strength curves and stuff. And I think that's probably the coolest equipment you can get for quads, is getting into stuff that has a different strength curve than just, you know, like a super linear sled leg press, or like a regular squat or hack squat. Because, I mean, for one, you just get to change it up. But I really think it lets you kind of leverage more pressing volume if you do leg pressing machines that have kind of a increasing strength curve. So what I mean is it'll be lighter at the bottom, and then it gets progressively heavier at the top, which is how your legs work anyway. You know, like I could hold, I could probably hold eight plates on my back, you know, I mean, it might crush my spine, but my quads, I think, could hold that much weight. Or I could unrack 20 plates on the leg press. Could I do a rep with it? No, because that would be too much weight in the bottom of the range of motion. But with some of these machines, the way that the strength curve works is they get lighter the deeper into the rep that you go. So you can still have a really heavy press, but you can still get a really solid stretch at the bottom too. And I'm not one to really be freaking out about making sure every movement that I do has like a super deep stretch or anything like that. I think, obviously, you know, full range of motion. But with quads, I think I've learned my lesson. This past off-season, I really did a lot more pressing volume. Like I made it a priority in my quad training. Whereas, you know, over the last few years, my quad training has looked like this. I would warm up my quads and my hamstrings, get ready for a really insane set of squats, maybe two. And then I would just go back to leg extensions. Because my logic was, okay, let's just go nuts on this set of squats. Alright, I physically can't even do another set that hard again. It'll just be impossible. I've already cooked my quads just from that one. And then I'd move on to just leg extension-based work. Which, you know, I got a pump and I had really strong quads. I mean, I still do. But, over this last off-season, by kind of adjusting my ratio from, I guess what I'd probably say was like 25% pressing to 75% leg extensions. To more like 75% pressing, 25% leg extensions. I think I noticed a bit of added just like, not density, but just a little more thickness to my quads. So, I'm going to implement that into this next long off-season as well. And hopefully continue to see some more quad gains. That is for sure. But, that'll, it'll take a little while. Like, even now, I'm kind of, I'm really feeling the strength loss of this prep. Which, obviously, to be expected. You know, like I'm not, I'm not going to be benching 365, like a 260 pound bolt Sam. But, I haven't really felt like a weakness in the gym until these last couple of days. So, I'm getting excited for, for some more food. But, it's not instant. You know, like once the Arnold UK is over, and I make it back to the States, and I get some food in my system, and I kind of rebound up. And now, instead of walking around like a flat 230, my weight will probably be more like a 238, 240. Just, you know, full kind of fed weight. And just because I'm up at that fed weight, well, I haven't been doing really heavy training. Like, I haven't been pressing really heavy and putting a lot of force into my chest and my shoulders and everything. So, I'm going to not only build up my calorie intake, but also kind of re-expose myself to more and more weight. So, just as I kind of had to back off from heavier sets gradually over this prep, I'm going to have to gradually reintroduce them once I start eating some more food and packing some more size on and just physically being stronger. And then recovering, more like over-recovering from every lift, right? Getting bigger, larger, so that, you know, I don't just freaking rip both my pecs off. Like, if I put four plates on the incline smith and I tried to unrack it right now, especially without a proper warm-up, easily both of them would come straight off the fucking bone at best case scenario. You know, so that's a future version of events that I'm going to try my best not to make happen. That's a pretty high priority on my list now is not injuring myself. But, I don't have to think about that for a while. I've got enough on my plate getting ready for the Arnold UK and still, you know, a few more days of hard dieting and cardio. Let's just focus on the here and now first. I'd say we're, you gotta eat your dinner before you get your dessert, we'll put it like that. But, yeah, nothing else to say. Glad I made it down here. The pros gym, certainly one to check out if you're around. I'll pop in there every so often. But, yeah, that's all I got, so I don't fucking see you tomorrow. Any friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends friends