 all right, there we go, um, ah shit, let me make sure the audio is actually working, that would be the worst, okay, yeah, we're good, so a quick breakdown of yesterday, so the day prior to weigh-ins back in Columbus, I'm thinking, I'm thinking, all right, so I'm thinking, all right, well, I'm thinking, all right, well, I want to make weight, I don't even, I don't want to be the guy who missed weight, so I had a really light day of eating on Wednesday, which was yesterday, today's Thursday, so take Wednesday and Wednesday of the last show as the same, because the schedule was the same, so last Wednesday, the day before weigh-ins, really scrappy food intake, low carbs, you know, maybe, I think I had like 200 grams of protein, 200 grams of carbs-ish, 50 fat, I don't know, something like that, very low, like not a filling day, because I wanted to make sure I could actually water deplete and dry out and get under my weight, but for that show, I came in a lot flatter than I wanted to, so the adjustment that I made was in the day prior to weigh-ins food intake, so yesterday, I mean, let me, yeah, let me take a look here, yeah, 1200 grams of carbs, no protein, no, or not no fats, it was like, 50 grams of fats, but a big beginning carb up into the carb up day prior, you know, because I can eat a crap ton of food, but in one day, I don't think I can reach my fullest sort of look, you know, so my goal was, alright, well, let's eat a crap ton of freaking carbs on the day that I'm water loading, like I drink 12 liters of water yesterday, from noon till about 10 o'clock at night, and I say 12 liters of water, what I really mean is 12 liters of flattened diet soda, which the important part about this water loading isn't whether it's just plain water or if the water is flavored, it's the electrolyte content, you know, I want to have a ton of low electrolyte fluids going into my system and out of my system, getting me into this water depleting mode, you know, so if I'm looking at, I got some right behind me, it's like this, this cherry soda, which, it looks sweet, but it's 2 grams of sodium per bottle, that's a little high, you know, there's this one cream soda I had, that's zero, totally not, like zilch, it's even on the little nutrition label, it says trace amounts of sodium, you know, so by drinking 12 liters of those and just going to the bathroom back and forth, I ended up going to bed, and this is after I've eaten 1200 grams of carbs from some oatmeal, some rice cakes, had some sweets, had some skittles, so really the carb up did begin yesterday, but in a cleaner sense, just straight carbs only, but my heaviest weight yesterday with all the food in my stomach and with, you know, after drinking a ton of water was like 238, like there was a moment when I stepped on the scale at 238 pounds, so I go to bed, you know, I go to the bathroom for the last time, which not really, because I kept waking up, I'm still on Ohio time, so I wasn't dead asleep until like 3 in the morning, I kept playing on my phone, I just couldn't help myself, but really right before I went to bed, after getting up, going to the bathroom a few times, I checked my weight on the scale, 232 was the last weight that I saw, so I'm thinking, alright, I'm going to lose some weight overnight, because I'm going to get ready to go to the bathroom in the morning, I'm breathing, you're always losing a bit of fluids, just from breathing relatively wet, humid air, because your lungs are wet, okay, so I should wake up just about where I want it, so I wanted to be right at 227, for that wake up, you know, fasted morning after the bathroom weight, and I hopped on the scale, and I'm 226, which is exactly what I wanted to freaking see, so I still got that kind of drying effect from pulling water, but I've already started the process of carving up, so I'm a freaking happy camper, I'd say phase one of this check-in day has been more than completed, so I'm on freaking track to at least be bigger on stage, not that size is the only component, especially in classic, but you do want to come in full, you know, so if I was a little bit flatter for my last show, that's the biggest thing I can adjust, is making sure my food intake, well, works for me accordingly, but at 226, I do have a little bit of room to play with by eating some food before weigh-ins, which are in about two hours, so I'm going to do two packs of instant oats, which is going to be 40 grams of carbs, 4 grams of fats, and then I'm not sure how many rice cakes I'll have, and these are Morrison's rice cakes, I prefer the American, I don't know what the brand is, the classic rice cakes that we know, and these aren't even just rice, like there's, you know, there's corn grits in here, it's not just straight up rice only, but it's still simple enough that, you know, this isn't going to throw me off, so I get a couple sleeves of these, and they're pretty good, but they're much smaller, like this is, this is like a miniature rice cake, stateside, you know, but either way, I'm going to get to grubbing on this, we can go weigh in, come in right at that 227, and then start the real carb up, so over the course of tonight into tomorrow morning, 235, 235 stage weight, I don't know, we'll have to see what happens, you know, I don't want to come in spilled over, which is when you eat too much food, and eat too much water, or you drink too much water, and then you get this kind of just soft look, you know, like you get a little, you look just a little bit like you're not in shape, you know, so I'm going to try to ride the line hard this time, I was a little more conservative for last show, so I really want to go for it this time, so at least I'll look different for sure, so the show just won't be exactly the same look, which is all I really freaking care about, so I'm going to keep watching Trailer Park Boys, that's what I went to sleep to, so I don't know what episode I'm on, and then I'll update you accordingly, you know, I don't think, there's not going to be too much vloggage of like going back and forth in the athlete meetings and stuff, I've got a little bit of a schedule today, but I'll see how much I take you along for. Alright, yeah, so I meant to do a full like carb up process day, because I ate a freaking crap ton of food, I went to bed with a full stomach, but I woke up this morning and everything has gone where it belongs, so morning weight was about 235.5 pounds, that's like five freaking pounds heavier than the Columbus show, so what that tells me is doing a two-day carb up instead of basically just a one-day carb up, well, it has at least resulted in a significant weight change, but we're getting ready to head to pre-judging now, and if you didn't know, the gist is pre-judging is when things get decided, you know, the day of pre-judging, or not the day of, it's the same day, but by the time pre-judging is over, that's when they've basically written out their scorecards, how's everybody looking, finals at night, you know, so you can make some improvements, but it's essentially most of it, right, so I'm going to make sure I freaking spread my shoulders out for the quarter turns, and, you know, my approach with a standing relaxed post is to kind of stand and relaxed, but this time I'll really hit it extra hard, but yeah, nothing else to say, honestly, we're probably just going to cut to a clip of pre-judging, and then we can get a little post pre-judging discussion, so I'll see you on stage. Thank you. Thank you. We'll see you next time. Welcome to the far blue floor She let me in and scream for more I'm not sure what you do I'm sick, yes, I'm sick, no It's all the same, she's black, I'm blue She just gets out You can't tell her, no, no, no She's got the wrong girl She never gets enough She's on the blame She's on the blame She's on the blame She's on the blame Driving all the young and crazy And you know she loves it, baby She's got the wrong girl And I'm not running so fiat girl Where are my back of the blame She just gets out You can't tell her, no, no, no, no She's got the wrong girl She never gets enough She's on the blame She's on the blame She's on the blame She's on the blame We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. I'm leaving a winner, even though a little bit more of a, let's just say, metaphorical winner. Mike Summerfield is leaving a real winner. He came out and freaking crushed it. It's been like a one prep. I've got a lot of chips. There's no time limit. I'm going back around for the Arnold and the Arnold UK. I'm going to be right back. in a prep. Europe traveled, but we're heading back.