 all right, I'd say this, this isn't exactly the start of the off-season because I'm still kind of reaching my new maintenance weight. So just by eating around 3000-ish calories, now instead of going from the depleted deficit weight, which is like my depleted deficit weight, which is like when I'm super carb-depleted, so a bit lighter, now I'm getting up to my more maintenance minor surplus weight. So I want that to level off and then that will be the baseline start for this off-season. You know, right now, this morning, I got a new little Google Sheets, I'm gonna track everything in, 238.4 pounds. So just a little bit more, I'm gonna track the end of the video, I'm gonna track everything in, 238.4 pounds. So just a few weeks ago, I was 229 pounds, right? So would I say that I've gained nine pounds of muscle in only two weeks? Not exactly. So that's kind of the, um, that water weight carb glycogen fluctuation. So depleted, you're nine pounds lighter than normal, you haven't lost nine pounds of body fat, but you are just a bit lighter. So it might not be nine pounds, it would depend on just how big you are as a person. And then carved up, that's that nine pounds heavier weight for me. So that doesn't really count, you know, like, that's, um, that's like weighing yourself on the scale in the summertime, and you're only wearing shorts and a shirt, versus in the wintertime. And you might be wearing jeans, two jackets and boots. Sure, as like a thing, you're heavier, but that weight is just very temporary, you know, so that's not a, that doesn't count as progress weight. What's really going to count is the change from this new maintenance, bulked up weight, weight, from now until, you know, the end of this offseason, when I say, all right, I've had enough, I'm big enough, and not even big enough, but I can't eat any more food to grow, you know, that's going to be far into the future of this year, because I'm going to take this offseason nice and slow, I'm talking, I'm talking slow cooked, gradual gains for a longer period of time. Main reason being, well, for one, I don't want to get too soft, but also, I had pretty solid results doing the same thing for this last prep. It was a lot of, it was a longer diet than I've done before, but it was a little bit easier to manage, because I gave myself more time, you know, so the, uh, the main theme of this offseason is, I want to gain size, not put on too much body fat, and that should be the point of any bulk, even if you're going to be a little bit dirtier with it, and have, you know, some treats, or some cereal, or some ice cream, or some whatever, and like, you know, get post-workout McDonald's every so often. If you're gaining weight, but you're not putting on too much body fat, well, then you're good, you know? The problem is, when we talk about guys who are doing like a perma-bulk, uh, and even the phrase dirty bulk is kind of, uh, it kind of makes me a little bit curious. Do we mean the food that we're eating too bulk up is dirty, or you're bulking up in a dirty way where you're putting on too much body fat? That would be what I'd call a dirty bulk, you know? But in an offseason, or at least in a growing phase, you can have some treats, man, you know? But don't, uh, don't go overboard. If you're eating like pure junk 24-7, um, I guess maybe it depends on how old you are. You know, I was a bit younger when I was doing my first bigger bulks, so even only a few years time, but I feel like I respond a little better to more plain foods now, and I, uh, you know, I'm trying not to totally wreck my gut. But yeah, that's the plan. So I'd say within the next two weeks or so of, uh, of tracking that weight change every morning, so same state of being, after the bathroom, before drinking anything, clothesless, or at least wear the exact same clothes every time, so that there aren't any variables changing your weight. And then, you know, just write it, write it on a piece of paper, and then you can track it later on. Day by day, it's going to fluctuate up and down. But after a few weeks, you're going to start to see a trend. And the scale, the scale's your friend. In the sense that the scale will always be honest with you. Your scale is never going to try to screw you over. It's going to tell you exactly what is happening. So if you use it right, and every morning you track your weight at the same time, like, it always seems kind of weird having a scale in the gym, because unless you're eating, like, the exact same amount of food at the exact same time, and you're drinking the same amount of water, and you're wearing the exact same clothes, weighing yourself midday doesn't really give you an accurate depiction of what's going on. I could be 10 pounds heavier later today. You know, 10 would be a stretch, but, you know, let's say I eat a huge meal, drink a ton of water, and maybe I haven't gone to the bathroom for, you know, however many hours, and I have accumulated all the other food that I've eaten. Well, that's not, you know, that's just food weight, right? So that's, that doesn't really correlate. But if you do that for long enough, even just two weeks, I think two weeks is a good indicator. It's a, let's just say it's a good test sample of time to decide what's happening with your weight. So let's say you're thinking you're bulking up, you weigh yourself every morning for two weeks, and sure, day by day there's a little fluctuation, but really it's just a flat line. Well, guess what, man? You just got the answer to hand it to you. You're not growing. You know, you're not gaining any substantial size. That's not the whole picture. Let's say you're a beginner guy, and you're not really eating in a surplus, but you're a beginner. You can most certainly be getting leaner and develop new muscle tissue at the same time. So, you know, that's an instance where the mirror is going to come into play as well. But assuming you've been lifting for a while, you know, newbie gains aren't on, you know, they aren't at play, or you aren't in like a comeback phase. Like the only time where somebody's going to really substantially lose fat and gain muscle at the same time would be maybe this guy's worked out for a while, and then he got put out of commission for a year, and then he came back, and the muscle memory is still kind of at play. But let's say the scale's flat. Shit, man. That's the answer to your equation. You know, you're not gaining any size. So that's where, you know, of course, look at your training. Are you lifting consistently? Do you even work out? And sometimes that's a legitimate question. I mean, I've seen guys talking in like different videos or comment sections and things, or even just when I'm wasting time scrolling TikTok, I'll tune into different like fitness-based, like live streams that guys are doing. And I mean, some of these dudes, the way that they're talking is like, yeah, I've kind of had a weird month. I had to take this month off. Like, well, you know, no shit. It's not going to work if you took a month off, right? That's freaking crazy talk. But assuming your training's legit, I think the food is going to be an answer. So start tracking your calories, look at your carbs, look at your proteins. Are you eating enough? I just had a whole kind of rant about that yesterday on the way home from the gym. So I guess there might not be a point in totally repeating all of it. But yeah, oftentimes the food is just going to be an answer. And stepping on the scale is almost your, uh, your call to action or not prescription. That wouldn't be the right word, but kind of a, uh, a little bit of a designation of what needs to change. So if the scale is flat and you think you're dieting, you got to up your game, man, you gotta, you gotta cool it. You gotta drop your carbs, increase your cardio. You think you're bulking up, but the scale is flat as well. Well, shit, man, you gotta start grubbing, you know, one, um, one calorie dense trick that I'd recommend. I remember doing this in high school. I wasn't even really trying to bulk up at the time. Like I was trying to get bigger, but when I was a, when I was a junior and senior in high school, I wasn't doing like a full on bulk. I was just training, you know, as hard as I can counting my protein mainly, but every morning it would start off with a, uh, just a bagel, a ton of freaking cream cheese. And then I don't know how many slices of like salami or something, but I put that in the toaster, give it a little bit of a squish, eat that on the way to school. And I mean, that could easily be, I mean, let's, uh, let me try to think of the math. Definitely 50 grams of carbs from the bagel. I mean, certainly the protein for the salami isn't like super protein packed. I think salami is probably like one-to-one protein to fats, which is kind of rough depending on, uh, what your calorie goals are, but easily probably 30 grams of fats, maybe 15 of protein ish, but that's more than a couple hundred calories right there. And if you can scarf that down, well, boom, even just adding that one little kind of a high density breakfast sandwich type deal to your day's food intake could push you over the edge from maintenance to surplus, you know, an extra 500 calories a day is very powerful. So if you think you've been a little bit on the, the slimmer side, you're not going to do a full crazy bulk, but you want to get a couple more calories into your system. You don't have to go overboard. It doesn't have to be a situation of, um, you know, slamming 10 mass gainer shakes plus, you know, pounds upon pounds of ground beef. Like that's not how far you have to take it to see some results. Even just giving a guy an extra hundred grams of carbs per day. Now that's a consistent extra hundred grams of carbs, same thing with the scale. Sure. You know, you might feel a little extra strong one day if you have an extra hundred grams of carbs, but if you don't the next week, it's not going to do anything for you, right? It's a, it's this constant drip that you have to keep super kind of consistent with, but if you took a guy's actual calorie intake and just somehow throughout the day, he gets an extra hundred grams of carbs. Maybe it's from, you know, a couple packs of oatmeal spliced throughout. Maybe, uh, maybe the guy just gets, I mean, literally just bring a bagel with you. You don't even have to wrap a bagel up in a, in like a bag. You know, I remember just throwing a bagel in my backpack on my way to school or as I was walking around and just kind of whipping it out, you know, like it, uh, it doesn't have to be super kind of complicated, but as long as at the end of the day, your accounting makes sense, well, then it's no longer a question of, all right, you know, I want to try this bulking thing. Let's see what happens. It turns into, all right, I did eat my 400 grams of carbs today. I had 80 grams of fats and, you know, I had 200 grams of protein or whatever your macros may be. You know, look up a maintenance calorie calculator to get kind of a basic gist of, um, of what that should look like. And if you couple that with hard training, plus tracking your weight every morning, you know, I'm not saying you need a super crazy specific log of like morning weight, midday weight, night weight, track all the water and all every meal you ate. Like, um, I know, I mean, I'm sure a ton of people have done this before, but I know Milos has, uh, has old training logs where he's got absolutely everything tracked. I don't know if he tracked his weight multiple times per day, but every meal, every, you know, amount of fluids, what the training was that day, exactly how it was done. Like he knew exactly what the situation was. So, I mean, if that's the case, it's going to be a little bit easier to make, not only make progress, but also make adjustments to continue to make progress, right? If I eat whatever I want, which in a way, or not whatever I want, but I, if I eat as much as I want right now, which is what my goal is, because I'm just trying to eat right around maintenance. So for me to eat as much as I'm hungry for is about the right kind of calories I'm aiming for. Well, for the next two months, probably a month and a half, two months, six to eight weeks, I'm going to make the progress in the gym that I want. I just came off this really steep diet. So now that I've kind of half opened the floodgates of my calorie intake, I'm going to start to grow. I'm going to start to have this post diet rebound phase. I'm going to get bigger. I'm going to get stronger. Sweet. But if I don't manually adjust my calories and eat more food going forward, then what might look like this steady upward trend of, you know, constantly increasing my food, making sure that my weight progress is where I want it to be, right? Progressively overloading my training. If I just eat as much as I want, it's going to turn into this kind of exponential, just, you know, kind of plateau. So as much as, uh, right now I'm certainly a happy camper in terms of my diet because I can actually eat some food again, you know, and I've got room for, right? I mean, if I see a snack size pack of a, a peanut M&Ms, I'm good. I'm going to count the carbs and fats, but 10 grams of fats, 20 grams of carbs, that counts, man. That adds up towards my day. But if I get, you know, further into basically just adapting to that much food and my metabolism speeds up, well, eating like that won't give me the results that I want. Eating like that will just be enough for me to maintain like a semi bulked weight, which depending on what your goals are, could be fine, but I want to freaking grow, right? I want to leverage these next few months or actually more than a few months, but I'm going to leverage this time period to really put some size on, you know, without too much body fat. So I got to be on it, right? I mean, you're not a, you got to get your oil changed every so often, which isn't a, that's not a good analogy, but I'm just trying to highlight that, you know, the harder you're going with your calories and your macros and actually checking the scale, it's going to turn it from a guessing game into just, you know, a simple task execution kind of situation. So just, just something to think about. So the fact that right now, yesterday I had 3,400 calories, I think, I don't remember. Actually, yeah, I don't know, that's today. I got a, if you got a car with, um, with Apple CarPlay, you can put a macro tracker on the screen. So I can see what I had for breakfast, 35 grams of protein, 70 of carbs and 30 of fats from some, um, English muffin and a couple of eggs. Yeah, that's good. But either way from being carved up yesterday, not insanely carved up, you know, it wasn't like a 1500 calorie day or a 1500 gram of carb day, but you know, 400 grams of carbs, 100 ish of fats, 250 grams of protein. I'm feeling fresh. So I'm feeling rather fresh for, I'm not exactly sure. Cause I can, I can still feel my back a little bit. Um, especially like my mid traps are a little tender, but I still want to do back. I'll just have to see. So between now and set number one, once I actually get in there and get started, I'm going to kind of do a little bit of a feel around and see if I want to do a lat focus back day, or if I want to just pivot, save back for tomorrow and make today like shoulders and forearms or something. And let me think about it, but either way, let's jump to, let's just jump to set number one and see what we end up doing. All right, let's sit back after all. After doing a couple of feeler reps, things are moving around nicely. Now, if I thought my back was still a little bit cooked, well, then I'd give it another day, but I'll probably splice in a little bit of a rear delts as well. I'm going to hit some more shoulders this offseason. Not like insane, but I do want my shoulders kind of, I want everything to broaden up. I guess that's what I'm really trying to say. So with this pull down two plates and a 25 on either side is about as much as I can handle. Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Oh, shit. Oh, crap. One more like that. I might actually have to go a little bit lighter for the next one. That's good. All right. All right. All right. All right. Oh, okay. All right. One more. But I got to take a 25 off. That is too much. I mean, it's good, but I just can't freaking handle it. Yeah, just two plates for this one. I don't know how heavy I'll be able to go peak off-season strength, but this is a really heavy machine anyway. Because one plate loaded on the end feels like one and a half over here just because the lever action. But after this, let's do something a little quicker paced. All right. Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Okay. All right. Those three are good. Let's grab something else. All right. Some close grip rows will be good. So those were very controlled squeezing holding. I'm still going to get a good squeeze at the top of every rep on basically every kind of set. I do want a moment of oomph, but I'm not going to hold it here. This is going to be a little more pumpish. Take it. Oh, yeah. One more of those just like that. Yeah, that's a good feeling. Okay. Let's do a basic pull down next. That'll be a good little change up. Okay. Let's do a basic pull down next. That'll be a good little change up. Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright. This is going to be a little bit of a super set finisher. Neutral grip pulldowns. Same weight as this last set of regular pulldowns. And then I'm going to jump over onto that row that I just did. A little lighter. There. Come on. Come on. Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall Tall okay okay all right i think that's all let's see how back's looking all right so what was that total three sets of machine pulldowns two sets of cable rows two sets of pullovers that way i wasn't even counting three machine pulldowns two see the cable rows so five and then two pulldowns one with a super set yeah that's seven sets ish that's that's within the sweet spot you know that's within the um what is it the that's within the proper z depth to hit diamonds you know if i did eight sets i think it would still be a good workout if i did six sets i think it would still be a good workout but seven seven's cool with freaking me so let's see how back is looking pumped up yeah we still got a little christmas tree action let's uh let's let the pose speak for itself but i'm feeling pretty wide that is for sure there we go right in the middle so oh my gosh yeah that's quite the back pump i would say so for a 238 pounder that feels pretty freaking wide like even just looking from the front not even doing like a proper vacuum or anything yeah my lats are jutting out so that's what i want to see like especially even like a full-on front lat spread like i'm trying to fill this elbow gap with lat from the back literally from the back but let's get home have a little post lift freaking discussion before i get a meal in i am fiending all right i got a bunch of older like q a posts and i can never answer them all so let's uh let's pick one specific comment and this guy uh this guy asked a good question ytd uh something or other a bunch of numbers uh says who else wants to bulk but doesn't want to cut because of the fat that you'll gain during an offseason that's uh that's legit man that's pretty freaking classic honestly that's probably the conundrum of bulking beyond just the fact that uh some people have a hard time even eating enough food those are essentially the two problems either you have a hard time putting down enough food to grow or you just don't want to because then you're going to have a little extra body fat to lose later on and part of that is a little bit just the deal you know that's kind of how it's going to be i am not going to look as lean and peeled in uh i mean shit even in just like a few weeks than i am right now uh definitely not the same as like you know show ready so that's the most pretty much insane state i can be in leanness wise and now i gotta put on some body fat if i want to grow it's like well what the heck's up with that right but it's kind of just part of the game you know a b c right you can't get straight to that cut look with that b the bulk in the middle you know so the way i look at that is okay assuming i do want to grow let's say that's assumption number one well that means that i probably do want to eat enough food to recover from my training and get bigger and get stronger and keep going and you know just have a proper bulk now there's a few other assumptions i also don't want to get too soft for one visually not as cool but also i gotta diet down and get that body fat off later right so that's assumption number two so assuming those two states or those two um let's just say facts what can i do what can i do to help mitigate my fat gain but still have a proper you know legit bulk where i'll grow and with a little bit of a dieting phase afterwards i'll be bigger and leaner at the end of these two kind of phases so i'm gonna do everything i can to help mitigate fat gain and maximize muscle gain now the maximizing muscle gain is kind of already just from eating you're eating enough food you're training hard you're recovering well you're taking a rest day when necessary right when necessary not when unnecessary and just frankly you're bringing it you know so that's usually that's kind of the easy part the not getting so soft part is where it starts to feel a little bit more like a chore um dieting wise like i said on the way to the gym same thing you gotta increase your calories gradually over time so that you continue to gain weight at a proper rate which i mean there's no cut and dry rule you know if you're gaining a steady pound a week that's a solid offseason if you're gaining three pounds a week how many pounds of that is body fat you know i'd just be curious right so you know look in the mirror make sure you're not getting too soft too quick but the scale is increasing so other than that you've got one more tool at your disposal which is going to help reduce your likelihood of just storing all these extra calories as body fat and it's something that i talk about a lot it's something that that i'm a pretty strong proponent for cardio cardio in a bulk cardio in a diet certainly not as much in a in a bulk like i'm not doing two hours a day but 30 minutes a day minimum and i might honestly i think i might increase that like especially i mean you know i'm kind of hyper exposed to it but when i do 30 minutes on the bike now after coming from two hours a day uh and it wasn't two hours a day for that entire prep it was mostly 45 minutes twice a day and then i had about a month where i was doing two hours but still having two hours you know an hour and a half of cardio per day be the baseline now 30 minutes gets done like nothing and you can make it even extra easy on yourself by getting a cardio bike somewhere you know it's a really fancy um like commercial cardio bike with like the screen and the matrix stuff it's crazy how expensive they are like it's five like there's cardio bikes out there five g's a piece you know that's like two camrys just for one little bike but there's also a bunch of just craigslist uh facebook marketplace cardio machines because people think that they want to do cardio and then they get the machine they put in their basement of their garage and they start hanging clothes up on it and then they never touch it again i've seen cardio bikes just on the side of the street um do they work i'm not totally sure because it if it's uh if it's got electronics in it then it might be kind of trashed but the ones where it's just like a plastic um like break on the metal disc kind of situation there's no electronics necessary i mean the only tricky part would be just being able to move it you know do you have a buddy who's got a truck or something and then you don't have to drive to the gym to do your cardio you've got the machine right there you know so unless you are cool with doing your cardio post-workout which i'm becoming much more open to because this whole prep i was doing an hour in the morning or no i was doing a an hour of cardio after my morning workout like immediately after and then a separate cardio session later so i'm not so stingy about when the cardio gets done uh as long as you get you know your 30 minutes your however many minutes per day so if you have a machine in your garage during your basement or whatever well now you don't have to drive to the gym now it's right there a really good routine is if you can wake up and instantly have a little pre-cardio cocktail of your choosing ready to go so for me that's having like a liter of water with some electrolytes some caffeine whether that's like mixing in an energy drink or having like AI mean i'll even do a little bit of pre-workout before cardio not like a full 300 milligrams of caffeine scoop but you know 150 milligrams what's that equivalent like two cups of uh yeah another guy but just the you know some caffeine just pre-cardio so you're you know up and moving and then jump into the basement the garage whatever and start pedaling the quicker you can do that the quicker your cardio is done and then the easier it is to just have that in your routine plus i mean let's be real how much time uh like open up your settings and look at your phone's screen time how much time are you just sitting on your phone anyway right we've got a we've got time to just sit i don't think it's so tricky to sit and play on my phone whilst pedaling and getting my cardio done at the same time if anything it makes the cardio easier like when i'm at the gym and i see somebody pedaling next to me and they don't i mean i no cardio or uh they got no phone they've got no headphones in they're just raw dogging 30 minutes on the bike i i don't know i don't get it you know you're not going to catch me just sitting on the treadmill you know vibing i'm trying i'm trying to distract myself either watch a movie or a show or just go down like some kind of rabbit hole or even just you know scroll on instagram and watch tiktoks and stuff like before you know it that 30 minutes is over and if you're eating a bunch of food because you're trying to grow the more active you are aka having some more energy expenditure having some cardio in your day well for one it's going to prevent you from you know storing so much body fat but i think it helps your bulk anyway because it's going to increase your baseline metabolism you know like uh think about when a crocodile in a uh in some section of the world i maybe in alabama i don't know somewhere where it gets super freaking cold this crocodile is going to sit and just basically stick his nose out of the water and the water around him is going to freeze so he's not eating anything but his metabolism slows way down his heart rate slows down he's just not doing anything so he doesn't burn a lot of his internal energy stores so you know three months pass the water cools and thaws and then he wakes up and he's freaking golden he starts moving around more and then he's got to eat more food to accommodate for that you know so the more active you are the more food you need to eat the more food you eat the easier it is i think to grow and train hard and really recover so it just kind of turns into this feedback loop right and even just from training in general like if your training intensity is solid well for one your training is going to burn calories it's still activity in the day and when you couple that with 30 minutes of cardio now you've given your body this need for rest, food, and hydration i was just saying this yesterday i'm sure i could come up with a cooler like not gimmicky but like quippy way to say it but the harder you train the hungrier you'll be the more you're going to drink water to kind of replenish your electrolytes and fluids and then the more tired you're going to be so you're going to sleep better and then you're going to recover well from that whole setup you know being as it was and you'll wake up fresher the next day bring it even harder and then the cycle just continues you know so if there's one catalyst of the trifecta of gym progress training, eating, sleeping I think the training is number one you know you're never going to sleep your way into gains because you need your training to actually induce that kind of uh you know recovery need and then your hydration your food your rest will kind of accommodate that and play into it well you know so just a thought just a freaking thought but yeah plan for tomorrow is going to be some arms and I think I'm going to switch it up historically I've really liked doing tries before buys um I remember I don't remember who I heard it from not AI don't think I heard Jay Cutler say this but some bodybuilder in some video I remember seeing say you gotta try it before you buy it triceps before biceps and something about that just kind of clicked with with me but every time I do buys before tries I feel like I just get way more pumped so I'll just I'll just go back and forth but I definitely think tomorrow it's going to be biceps first triceps second and then I want to yeah I got a member to bring a measuring tape I'll bust out the measuring tape so I can see what this initial arm circumference measurement is because I really want to beat it lift by lift by lift by lift even if it's only by an eighth of an inch or a sixteenth of an inch I always want my arms pumps to be a little bit more than the last time in the offseason of course I don't really measure my arms much when I'm dieting just because it's not very it's not very hype inducing it's like ooh my arms are half an inch smaller than they were last month sweet that's where I care a little more about the visual than the actual like quantitative measurement but now that it's getting warm I bet the fish are waking up I haven't caught a fish for months and that'll be cool I gotta we're gonna have to move all my little tackle box and stuff in the Camry I just leave all my fishing gear sitting in the trunk I'm gonna have to transfer it over and throw the stuff in the back that'll be freaking perfect but yeah nothing else to say solid back day feeling maybe not white as a house but we're getting there and then yeah that's pretty much all so I'm gonna edit this thing together get my cardio done and I got that pedal replacement but now I realize that the cardio bike's like little pedal arm the threads on the inside are stripped so now I need to order a different piece if I just screwed it in the right way in the beginning it would be totally solid but yeah nothing else to say so I'm gonna go ahead and enjoy this enjoy this sunny day and I hope we can see you for some arms tomorrow