 btstststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststs slept a lot today. I'm still kind of recovering back from just the sort of post-show process because it kind of got put on hold during that food poisoning freaking week. So now I'm still getting, we're getting there. But today was a back day, really good lift. I'll just splice the clips, or I guess I'll splice this Q&A over the clips in there. But I went to a UFC gym that's only like a few blocks away. Super freaking cool. But I think I've got, what does this look like? About 30 tantalizing questions. Some gym related, some not. And that's a good mix. You know, it doesn't always have to be a, you know, a protein related question. Let's start with number one. Alex, pick us. What's the largest Pokemon you think you could outlift? Oh, that's tricky. So define outlift, you know what I'm saying? Because I could totally outlift like one of those sunfish Pokemon. Like just whatever the biggest like conventional fish shaped Pokemon there is. Because as soon as you put it out of water, because a lift is not underwater, well then its strength is going to be like, you know, completely, let's just say flustered, right? Like a whale is huge, but structurally not so strong because it's always in zero or net zero weight because it's displaced the amount of water that its body is. If you kind of catch what I'm feeling. So I don't know it by name, but whatever that is, I think I've got in the bag. Chris Atherton7840, what's better for personal health lifestyle? Bulking or cutting? And to that I would say endgame, just like the best state of being, is probably just going to be a main gained, or just a maintained lean build. So, I mean, let's fast forward however many years it's going to take for me to say, all right, I think I'm about there. I think I'm as big as I want to be. This is it. This is cool. Let's just stay here for a while. Well, to infinity, well then that's when I'll probably just want to stay on the leaner side of things. Just because net, like for your body, it's just a more chill state. Like you're less inflamed, you're not pushing food, you're just maintaining where you're at. You've got a good homeostasis sort of built up. So, yeah, if I were to pick one to be just going forward, stuck in, either bulked up or cut down, I'd have to say cut down. The whole point of a bulk, apart from the temporary benefit of being super strong and feeling like a beast, is to do the next cut later and see what muscle was revealed. So, it's not for its own sake. It's kind of just part one of this two-part system of an off-season gaining size with a little bit of body fat, and then trying to remove that body fat as effectively as you can while maintaining the size that you gained in that gaining phase. So, at the end of it, it'll look like you start here, now you're bulked, you cut down, and this point is heavier than this point, right? This one's heavier than this one. So, you've gained size, lean size, and you're just as lean as you were in the beginning. You know, that's kind of the ABC of a bulk and cut. Yeah, a bulk cut. Yeah, exactly. 3 PVVV, how many grocery bags can you carry at once, right? Now, this is where I could get a little bit cheeky, and I could probably say I can carry 10,000 grocery bags, because a grocery, one grocery bag probably weighs only a few grams. But in terms of actual full grocery bags, like maybe with some fluids, like this stuff is actually heavy, give me five in each hand. Five big ones in each hand, that's probably about right. That's my version of the Brian Shaw, like, uh, farmer carry. Five big-ass grocery bags in one hand, that's about right. Keaton Jennings, have you seen the Mario movie? No. I might. Like, I'd watch it if it was on my phone. I'm not going to go see it, that's for sure. Blue Jay 3748, what is the best pizza topping? That's one more. I could be a little cheeky here and say cheese. I know that's not what you mean. Ooh. I don't know. If I really had to pick one kind of pizza going forward, it's probably either going to be cheese or pepperoni. So I'm torn between either just the most basic topping there is, or no toppings. No. Yeah, give me cheese. No topping is my favorite pizza topping. Now, I like, like, I like a pineapple pizza. Like, I like Hawaiian. I like a veggie pizza that has everything on it. I like a quadruple pepperoni. What if I had to pick one for me? Just plain is going to be a plain cheese. Yat boy. Alien death beam pointed at earth. What's your most perfect final lift? Definitely a chest day. I've read all these comments before because I scanned through them and I screenshot the good ones that I like. And I thought about this. I'm like, it's definitely upper body. That's for sure. Like, you know, I love legs, but if I want one lift forever, it's going to be from the waist up. And a crazy chest day kind of gets your whole, gets your whole torso involved. Because obviously your chest is pumped, so you look like a freak. Your triceps get a little bit of extra blood flow just from all the pressing. You know, I try not to use my triceps in a chest day. There's kind of no way to get around it. From doing any fly-based action, your biceps are going to get a little bit of... So you've got a residual arm pump. Your shoulders are going to get a residual pump a little bit from the front delt activation. But also just from having so much blood flowing into your chest. So at the end of a fully bulk chest day, even only a semi-bulk chest day like I'm starting now, everything is just in order. So that would be the last one. If I hit a crazy-ass, most muscular, into a side chest as big as I've ever been, fully swollen to the point where I think my skin's going to explode, and then immediately get laser-beamed from, you know, however far off into the distance of the stratosphere that that is coming from, I'd be okay with that. I'd be okay to go out like that. Logan Jenkins. Was that 2 Jenkins? No, Keaton Jennings. Yeah, close enough. Well, Lo... Whoops, I missed it. Yeah, Logan Jenkins, 4206. Thoughts on Invincible and the new boys season. A little bit of a common theme from the boys and this most recent Invincible episode. A little too much guts. You know, if you watch the most recent Invincible episode, that was a 30... That was a 10-second scene that lasted about 30 minutes. They could have done without that. I don't know what the editing room looked like. Somebody high up in Invincible was watching that play-by-play and said, More. More. Way more. Come on. We need two minutes of this. I don't know what was going through his head, but I did see that there's two new episodes of the boys. And it's already late today, me recording this. And I had to tell myself, okay, don't watch the new episode of the boys until you finish the Q&A and upload the video. So I'm watching those two episodes right after this. That's for freaking sure. I like it. It's fun. The boys is on the nose. It kind of makes fun of everybody equally, which is nice. It doesn't really give anybody too much special treatment. But Lil Moosie, I've answered your questions before. I'm certain I've answered a Lil Moosie question before, I think. If I'm not, I guess I'm just misremembering. But do you have body dysmorphia? And if so, how do you deal with it? Or how do you deal with it? And if not, what advice would you give someone that does have it and struggles with it? So define body dysmorphia, right? Like, are we talking bigorexia, you never think that you look good, even when maybe you really do? Because it's kind of a fine line between critiquing your physique and telling yourself, okay, I do have things I want to work on that I don't like about myself currently. That doesn't mean that I'm not, you know, valuable as me, but I want to work on this, right? I want to lose some body fat. I want to get more muscle on my frame. And the problem is that that thought process is always very negative. Like, it's hard to say, like, imagine I'm, you know, kind of a really skinny guy and I'm thinking, man, you know, I want to put some muscle on. It's easy to think, man, I'm not big enough. You know, it's just something about our own perception. We always spin things negative, you know. I want to lose weight is always taken as I don't like how heavy I am now, you know. So just try not to beat yourself up. My main tip there is be your own worst critic, but don't be your own worst hater. And even, like, really high-level bodybuilders, they've said this in, like, old training montage videos and stuff, and maybe they didn't really mean it and they just said it because it kind of, they thought it sounded cool. But I've seen videos of guys literally peak, like, looks like a total beast, Olympia competitors, in insane shape, and they're saying in this video, like, yeah, you know, I just, all I see are the flaws, man. You know, all I see in the mirror is all the things I need to work on. All I see is the things that upset me and that I want to fix. And I really don't think they really thought like that. But when people talk like that, it kind of sets that as the bar. And I think that freaking sucks. You know, like, I never think like that. If I do think to myself, like, I got my, what was I going to say? Well, if I'm ever, when I'm looking at myself in the mirror, and I'm thinking, okay, yeah, I do want bigger triceps because it would kind of look more, it would flow better with like my idea of what I want to look like. Or, all right, you know, I'm fully bulked. I got to start cutting down now. I'm not really like, I don't, I just, try not to hate on yourself. You know, the way that I look at it is working on progressing, be it body fat loss, muscle gain. And it's not a, it's not a problem to solve. It's more like just a journey to go on, you know, because there is no end goal in the sense of there is no one moment in time where like, dude, you know, I used to be 160. Two years later, I'm 180. I'm a gajillionaire now. Everything in my life is now suddenly perfect and I have no problems whatsoever. Like, it's just not how it works, you know. So it's kind of, it's just try not to hate on yourself. I think that's what I'm really kind of saying. I mean, I'm getting caught in a little bit of a ramble here. But yeah, just try not to hate. You can have critiques and things that you want to work on, but don't turn that into self-hate. That's where thoughts get more body dysmorphic rather than potentially just productive and, you know, critique based. That one gym dude, Sam, I want to know what motivates you the most even on the days you don't want to lift. Also, I hit 200 on bench at 17. What do you think? Well, that's pretty cool. But it depends on how long you've been working out for as well. But in terms of what gets me going when I don't want to lift, it's kind of a rare state of being. You know, for the most part, I mean, even dieting down when these lifts weren't like super hype and exciting, well, I still wanted to get a badass pump. Like I'm still excited to go to the gym and train just because that's what I really like. But on days where maybe it's not that I don't want to lift, but I might just be feeling tired. I might just be thinking like, I got legs today. I didn't sleep really well or, you know, whatever. Maybe travel. Maybe I was really sick. You know, I just kind of had that for a few days. That's kind of a moment where instead of a, like I feel like you got to give yourself a cold start, you know. So even though you don't feel that like internal urge of, you know, let's fucking go kill it. You know, let's just get it right now. Let's go. Well, what's going to happen if you take your pre and you get in the car and you show up to the gym? Somewhere in that time period of leaving the house, getting to the gym, warming up a little bit, starting that first set, you know, going through your whole pre-lift process, somewhere from beginning to then, things will just start to click in motion and your gears are going to start turning. You know, I've had it where I've came to the gym for a leg day and I've made it all the way into the gym and I'm still not really going. You know, I'm warming up my hamstrings. I'm doing some seated curls. I do my first set of seated curls. Maybe it's a light squeezing and I kind of give up on it early. And after doing that set was kind of like just this wake-up moment of, what am I doing? I'm literally in the gym and I'm slacking. And that's where I basically say, like, okay, that first set didn't even count. And just the fact that I had to tell myself, dude, that set didn't even count, bro. That was enough to kind of just really get me going. So I'd say if you're not really feeling like it, it's almost like that one quote of, I don't know the actual name, but it basically goes, the moment you, oh man, it's like when you least want to jump is when you have to. So it's like, you might be laying in bed, you got your blanket half on, you're on the pillow. Dude, you might freaking fall asleep and totally miss your lifts because you took a nap and then the gym's going to close. Like that's when you just got to somehow jump up, get your shoes on, leave, right? Just get some motion built up and you should start to feed off just, let's just call it the process of, you know, having done it before so many times. Like muscle memory is probably a good way to describe that. The dunk mass, does it matter whether you weigh your food cooked or uncooked? Yeah, it probably does. I've always just weighed my food cooked. I haven't noticed a problem. But yeah, I guess it probably does matter. I don't know, just look it up. You know, there's this website, it's called Calorie King. So that's where, if I don't know the exact, like maybe fat concentration of different cuts of meat or like maybe I don't know how many grams of carbs are in, blueberries or something, well then you can just look it up, Calorie King blueberries, Calorie King chicken breast, Calorie King flank steak. And it'll also say cooked versus uncooked. And then if you just plug in the amount that you have weighed out or you can calculate the amount that you need weighed out, like for let's say 50 grams of protein worth of a flank steak or something along those lines, really just look it up. You know, like I don't want to say just look it up, like that's not what I'm saying. But like look up protein in four ounces of cooked ground beef and then use that measurement. And once you get it, you kind of just start to remember like in cooked turkey breast, it's about 50 grams of protein per eight ounces. So when I get a really big turkey breast from Costco, like a vacuum sealed, like five pound lump, well I know if I want 50 grams of protein, I'll just lob off eight ounces. Sometimes I cut it perfectly at eight or when I weigh it on the scale, it's already like, you know, 7.9 or 8.1 and then I'm already good. So I'm not trying to just like dispel the answer as just look it up. But sometimes you do, right? So if that's mainly with meats, you're going to have to use a little bit of Google for that one. Potato 2668 is a gram per pound of body weight. Is a, yeah, is a gram per pound of body weight actually needed? So presumably about protein. And I mean, I guess no, you know, some people are alive and they never eat direct proteins. But in a lifting context, it's kind of just about right. You know, so if you're, if you're a 180 pound dude, lean, you should be eating about 180 grams of protein. If you ate more than that, if you ate 250, not going to kill you. If you ate 150, same thing, you know, you're not really going to notice an insane difference. So I think it's not a point that really demands a ton of, um, let's just say dialogue, but it's kind of a good rule of thumb. So if you're averaging about a gram per pound, that's a good number, you know, like, I don't know what the amount is like necessary for like vitamin C per however many, you know, um, kilos that a person weighs, but a gram per pound of your lean weight is about right. So if you're 300, but you got a DEXA scan and it said your lean body mass is 180, well then that 300 pound guy should only be eating that 180. So it's not just an arbitrary per pound of body weight. It's more so per pound of lean body weight if you kind of feel me. Here, give me a second. I'm going to drink some water. Got to get a little sip of something. I was going to edit that out But actually that's kind of funny Alright what's next Le Saboteur 13 How do you lock in and be eager to lift and diet When you're exhausted and have a crazy work life With a baby And this is I guess my answering this question is more so Speculation than it is experience But I guess probably my best idea would be To think about the end goal And not even just the end goal But think about fasting forward in time What would you have rather done Would you have rather let your physique And like your gym progress Just get pushed to the back burner Or would you have rather Being able to say like Yeah that was a crazy six months Or however long Things are really going to be extra busy And wild for But I still managed to get a lift Managed to do my cardio Managed to stay relatively lean And now here we are You know so I guess that's kind of That's kind of on you In the sense of You know your schedule So if you can make sure you allocate enough time And potentially enough Just kind of like Mental energy To be able to schedule that in Well then you'll be good But also you kind of have to know When to say Alright Today really is Going to be Full of Outside of the gym Responsibilities Responsibilities Let's make today a rest day Come back tomorrow Even harder Right Some days a rest day Or sometimes a rest day Is necessary Not purely for the sake of Like Pure recovery But just Shit man you're alive You got stuff to do sometimes You know It sucks sometimes Like obviously you want to get after it But what's better You know Doing a really scrappy lift Because you barely have enough time To get there And then you're rushing And then maybe you have to rush to leave Or Making that day a rest day And then coming back Stronger More recovered The day after You know That's not a rhetorical question It's more so like Just a way of Thinking about what's going on for you But Ooh Already answered your question buddy Tfray37 Do you think that you started Ramping down the lifts A little too early Before the Arnold Nah I think I timed it out Just about right I maybe Nah I think it was kind of about right I guess I probably could have tried To push it a little bit further But Then You know What if I started having more Random little tweaks Or anything I can definitely say It was a successful prep Training wise For one Just physically Having maintained my size But more so Having not hurt myself Throughout You know Like if A month out From the Arnold I ripped my pec Or I pulled my lat Or I did something to my quad Because I was I was trying to squat too heavy Because I was going too heavy In a really depleted state Well I'd be a total fool You know So Dieting down especially Sometimes you do need to Err on the side of caution But Yeah I think I timed it just about right I think RBG lift Can you explain how Water intake Water intake work week What are we saying here Can you explain how Water intake works The week Last week of a bodybuilding show I'm in prep for my first one Right now And I want to know How much I should be drinking Leading up to it So My approach Has been Week of the show Really just Kind of drink water As normal And then Only a few days Before the show Is where I start to fluctuate It So If this is show day That means this is Check-in day And this is the day before So Two days before show day I'm going to drink A ton of water Like ten liters Flavored from Either like a crystal light Or just Any Sugar-free Flavoring That also has No Substantial Electrolytes Because I want this water To be pretty Not dehydrating But just not full Of sodium Like I don't want my sodium Going over like A gram and a half On this day So Like just Basically look at the Nutrition label And what's the salt Or really yeah What's just the sodium Amount per serving Is it 500 milligrams Per You know 200 milliliters Well that's Going to be a gram Of salt In one liter Of water You know But Two days before the show And drink a ton Of water Before Let's say 12 to 14 or 16 hours Before weigh-ins And then Don't drink any water Until weigh-ins And then Reintroduce it With your carbs But that's not like If you're doing A full-on show That's probably Not something You want to Get pure advice On Just a little Q&A from me So I'd say that's Something to look up Specifically Or If you've got a coach You know Have him tell you How to do it That guy Noob69 Do you ever see Yourself having kids Little Sam Juniors Or are the muscles The only babies You will ever need Nah There will be A Sam Junior Eventually Maybe not Sam Junior Specifically But Yeah That's kind of The natural Progression of things Couldn't tell you When But it's not Off the table That's for sure Paul Stallion Will you make Any collab videos Or appear on Any podcasts In the near future Yeah Especially now That the whole Show prep Is over I want to get Some people In the gym So that's That's on me To kind of Get some Scheduling going But Yeah I don't want The gym to be Just the Sam Gym this year I want there To be some Characters That's for sure Five habits To start doing The first month Of lifting Asks Hey big guy golf And five things To avoid I don't know If I can think Of five things To do And avoid So how do we Just stick to Five things And I'd say The first thing Is just try to Stick to whatever Routine slash goal That you're aiming for So if you're thinking Okay Just got my Planet Fitness Membership Alright Let's do it Three days a week Or five days a week Or whatever you want To start with Just make sure You show up For those five days Doesn't matter What the workout is Honestly Like if you think You're Excuse me Like You know It doesn't have to be A killer workout Every time Because you're Starting from zero Right So make the Initial goal Just show up Just aim for those Five days a week Or four days a week That you're trying to do Make them happen Get yourself in there Now after that Being the first thing Try not to Over Do it You know Don't overextend Yourself right in the beginning That's how a lot of New year's resolutions I think get cut off Basically at the stem Right when they start to sprout Because However many How many people Are thinking Okay you know what January 1st I'm doing it 4am Workout Planet Fitness I'm doing full body Everything And an hour of cardio Like they give themselves This crazy goal Which is like Full on Zero to a hundred Like a David Goggins Like you know what I just went out And I started running And for some I guess they could do that They could kind of Have that turnaround But Like anything else in life You can't just Jump ahead That far You know Like we We move up in grades We move up in difficulty Of challenges It's kind of the same thing With the gym And it's not really The coolest thing to say But You do just have to You know Work up to it And get used to it So if right in the beginning You give yourself This completely Let's just say Not unattainable But Non-realistic Goal And you set that As your bar Well then You wake up And Shit my alarm Just went off At 4am I'm not doing that Straight back to sleep And now the goal's over And then the guy Is thinking to himself Eh you know what Screw it I don't even care that much And he didn't even give himself A chance to kind of Start leveling up And You know Working on it And getting exposed To the gym And you know Not even just getting Exposed to it But just getting exposed To like the fun part About it Because he set himself up To fail And then when he did fail He said Eh you know what I guess it's just not for me You know And that's just That just totally sucks You don't jump straight To the final boss When you're You know A level one Street thug Right You gotta get your way up To mafia boss To mop If you know what I'm saying There And work your way up Into it You know So I guess that's The second thing Don't overextend yourself But let's just cut it To three And then the last thing Is try to scale Gradually Right So like I just said If the initial bar Is Alright I want to go to the gym Four times this week Once you've done that Now you've proved To yourself That you can And you've basically Shown yourself Alright I can do that Something which I couldn't Or have not done before I now have And Likely can do again So you gotta give yourself A new goal Okay So now just showing up I got that in the bag What can I add To this system What can I add To this routine To push myself A little harder Okay Well I showed up Four times These last two weeks Alright I haven't really Haven't really been Super sweaty You know what Let's Let me just try To really bring it Let me try to hit These lifts A little bit harder You know Not even like a A numerical number metric Of let me hit This certain weight Or let me do this You know Amount for this time Or anything But Alright you know what Let me Let me try to really kill it I'm gonna try to go harder Than I have last time Same thing Okay Now I've been going Pretty hard What else can I do Well you know what I've been doing I've been going For four days a week This whole month Let's do five days Right Okay I've been doing this For a few months I'm making progress I'm bigger I look different In my photos Hmm I haven't really Haven't messed with cardio Alright A few Let's do two sessions Of 30 minutes of cardio This week After my workouts Monday and Thursday I'm doing 30 minutes On the bike Like little things Like that And then before you know it You've got a full on Six day a week routine You're starting to track Your calories And you didn't Over extend yourself By giving yourself That end goal Trying to hit it Right in the beginning You know Like there's a lot That goes into the gym From just a scheduling Concept To Like just your General mentality About the workouts Dieting Outside the gym So now the gym Is coming home With you And you're kind of Thinking about it Like it's a lot I would never say It's not So It takes a minute To add all that Just like Into your psyche And now At this point You know I've been working out For her It's like This is going to be The eighth year A lot of it Is just like Second nature And the gym itself Isn't something I feel like is a chore It's something I'm excited to do Like I I'm excited to go Back to that gym Tomorrow For some arms Because I know There's a bunch Of fancy equipment In there Plus Everybody was just Super cool And like You know Hype Everybody was Bringing it Like it's just A fun space To be in You know Alright Two more D-Stone Lifts Best first Affordable camera To get for gym Content And this is Kind of a non-answer But What do you think Right What camera Do you already Have That's probably Pretty decent Your phone You know I use my phone For the first Year and a half Of videos Even like the YouTube videos Like the long ones So obviously A real camera Is cooler But The point Of any social media For anybody Isn't That you have A fancy camera It's that you're Doing something You're talking About something That Is Like just to look At it objectively Is just interesting Maybe it's interesting Because it's entertaining Or Maybe it's interesting Because you're talking About a niche topic That you really like You know It could be a million things That's the coolest part About social media So The way that I look at it You know Putting my Sam Social media hat on Is The point isn't To Basically like Show something In a very cool Technical way With the camera The way that I look At it Is I just want to You know Talk about the gym And show off These workouts And just You know Get into it In a way That it doesn't matter What I recorded it with You know Like if I suddenly Switched to just Going back to my phone For the next two weeks It really wouldn't Change anything The quality would look A little bit different But the workouts And everything I would Talk about Would still pretty much Be the same You know So don't get caught Thinking Okay if I get A really fancy camera It's going to make My TikTok page Go crazier You know Sometimes it's not About the The method Of recording It's more so About the subject Of recording You know So I'd say You've already Got your phone There's no point Dropping like You know Potentially A few thousand dollars On a really fancy Camera setup Right in the beginning You know If you do it For long enough Then that might Actually make A lot of sense But I think Starting on your phone Is probably Your best Freaking bet You know Download CapCut Maybe get CapCut Premium If you want to use Some of the fancy Editing features But your phone Is Your phone's A pretty powerful tool And you've already Got it in your pocket Alright Last guy Potato Did I answer you I'm not going to Do it again Sorry Jack Ellis 860 Last question Who's winning In an open And classic Physique show Between Thrag Conquest Thaddeus Or Thaddeus And Nolan Um Probably Thrag Probably Thrag Is winning Both of those Conquest Is like Kind of more Bubble gut Looking open guy Nolan just Doesn't have it Like Thrag Because Thrag May as well Just be like A younger Nolan And I don't know About Thaddeus Or Thaddeus Um I'm not that far In the show Or I just don't Know the reference But I think In both of those Thrag Pretty much Has it But yeah Tomorrow's going To be a late Video as well So sorry about that We'll get back on I'll get back on My normal schedule Going forward Once I get back home This has been Uh Yeah This has been A very wild Few weeks Of competing And traveling And expos And everything else But Yeah I'm very excited To get back Into my regular Swing of things With this next offseason And then First and foremost Just building My strength Back up And getting into My maintenance Weight Instead of The dieted Like You know Kind of depleted Weight That I've been Bouncing around At for the last Few months But Yeah Hopefully I mean The way that I Look through these Is I always go to The oldest comments First So if you get A notification That I posted Like New Sam Sulik YouTube posts It's not a video It's just like A photo In the Like community Section I always just Answer the earliest Onward So kind of An early lifter Gets the worm Type situation But uh I'm gonna get This thing edited Together Thank you And then I'll See you Freaking tomorrow