 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no seen a few rich piano clips and then there's the hardcore guys who have seen all of the bigger by the day you know potentially they've even re-watched it but this um yeah these last two weeks have been have been kind of a wild ride for me so we'll i i can't even do like a proper post arnold breakdown because this last week has been so rough um which is like it's what's the word i'm thinking of not ironic uh i don't know maybe ironic the timing was just impeccable because i was just talking to somebody about food poisoning while traveling overseas and then i wake up i think it was on tuesday maybe monday i don't even remember uh but i had breakfast at this hotel and you know it's like whatever it's fine it's not really that good honestly um but they had this yogurt and it was like i don't know i i couldn't find the expiration date it wasn't just shown so it must have just been individually packaged i swear it was the yogurt but let me get into it first so i have one i open up another one this one was moldy on the inside now after i've already eaten one that was sitting right beside it so you know in my head i'm thinking all right well that's pretty gross i guess i'll be okay you know apparently not and then throughout the day just uh getting to walk around sienna with the crew so had some pizza had a bunch of beef tartar that might have done me in as well you know it's got egg yolks i don't know if i had salmonella uh probably not i don't know but and then i had a big ass dry aged t-bone steak for dinner which i was a little bit suspicious of that the next day because you know dry aged meats like you know maybe that could have done it but then i look it up and it's like well dry aged steak isn't a super likely culprit because if it had gone bad the whole thing would be like completely rotten so it's not like like you'd know if it was bad so either way i wake up the next day this is now tuesday i think so this is last week 10 o'clock all right you know i'm honestly as a as an organism i feel fine uh i go to the bathroom a little rough but you know what are you gonna do get up get my stuff ready all right a little bit of a quicker trip to the bathroom not good all right well i'm still going to the gym come on what am i crazy here this is supposed to be a leg day you know so we order a taxi head down into the city i get into the gym you know i i didn't have my pre-workout or anything which i guess probably would have helped because pre-workout probably would have hurt my stomach even more uh and i start trying to do calf raises to warm up for hamstrings it wasn't happening it wasn't happening by now it's about two o'clock on tuesday uh my stomach's doing some twists i'm starting to feel like i'm going to throw up i'm just going back and forth within the bathroom and trying to order a taxi outside uh you know the guy he they all the guys who work there like you know knew who i was so i go down i'm like oh hell yeah man this gym's sick nice come back up you know 15 minutes later he's like oh you're done already i'm like just stomach's wrecked so either way get home and then i'm dying at this point just get as soon as i get into the hotel room bag on the floor shoes off everything just i mean well you can imagine i'm talking i'm talking fluids were flowing out of both ends and what really and this was going on till midnight you know there was no there was no relief so i'm just going back and forth like this was the first time i've been bedridden sick for quite a long time and you know i'm just going back and forth i'm watching joe joe's part three and then i go back and watch part two so that's basically how i spent all this time at least when i was like semi awake uh but the worst part of that first day let's just call this food poisoning day one was i could not drink or eat anything uh like and it got to the point where you know at three o'clock you know i'm dying but i still feel relatively okay uh but by like 10 midnight i mean i was starting to like worry if i was gonna have to call somebody to or not call somebody but like go somewhere to get like iv fluids because i'm just i i can't replace my electrolytes in my water because every time i drink something by nine o'clock at night it got to the point where it's like all right i get the temporary relief of drinking this italian zero calorie energy or not not energy but zero calorie like sports drink and then 30 minutes later well i guess it tasted again you know not to be too gross uh so i do that a few times and then by the next day wednesday when i wake up and i'm i'm barely sleeping i'm getting like two hours each uh each session before you have to get up and go back to the bathroom wednesday it started to chill a little uh but really i mean basically from wednesday until friday out of commission barely eating anything you know i get some crackers and stuff and uh i was trying to put some food down but what really sucked was like every time i'd eat something or drink something it would just sit in the top of my stomach like it didn't want to actually flow through me so i'm sitting here i feel like this bloated feeling oh my god it was awful and then the uh the cherry on top was saturday i had to fly back to ohio like 18 uh actually including all the driving back and forth uh in the layovers i think it was like 21 hours of travel and i'm just i don't think anybody on any of the planes that i was on it had like three connections nobody was in the bathroom as long as me and that's not a flex uh so you know i'm just thugging it out it's pretty much terrible i get home at midnight uh and i'm i'm still kind of coming out of it we're getting i'm getting back into the groove now like i feel like i can actually get a good arm day in right now but yeah that's my little food poisoning story so i guess the uh there's a few takeaways from that you know make sure your dairy products are cold to the touch uh i guess there's a few other messages you know sometimes shit gets real i think that's probably the most uh the most accurate to the situation but yeah that was that was not awesome so that's uh that's kind of been my struggle for the last i think just about six days not good and you know i'm still i'm still coming out of it but what's really weird or not really weird but just kind of um definitely doesn't help is the fact that i have now gone back and forth between like holding an insane amount of water and extra fluids and carb you know retention um to being really depleted like twice in a two-week span uh because for the you know the arnold uk water deplete a little bit not as much as uh as in columbus but a bit so deplete deplete deplete fill up fill up fill up and then now from being sick basically just deplete deplete deplete deplete again and then now i'm kind of in the process of just getting some more fuel into my system so i was weighing like in the last workout in that um that back in italy workout or i think the arm day that was before that uh i probably weighed 240 something maybe 240 actually not 240 totally 245 uh now that's a lot of like intramuscular water and carbs and i was holding a lot of water like subcutaneously um like just kind of having that bloated look and then now i'm back to 228 from being so just flattened and you know freaking depleted so i guess um i'd like to think that the post-show carb up would have been so strong it would have been so insane that the universe had to you know well up some power to say look man we gotta you gotta cool it you can't grub just yet which definitely was not a fair trade but now that i'm coming out of it um i'll be all right so if i would have eaten an insane amount of food that whole trip i mean shit you know maybe i'd be a little bit uh maybe i'd be a little bit heavier and softer right now instead of staying a little bit leaner uh but the trade-off was definitely not worth it i would um yeah if i could go back do a little bit of a uh doc and marty time travel situation i i don't know what i'd do i guess i'd have to just tell myself like do not eat that yogurt just get a grill a bar or something you know any anything else but yeah we'll uh so now back home finally so what's next what the hell is freaking next what am i supposed to do we just spent six months working our uh working our freaking tails off doing a zillion hours of cardio and calorie restriction to get lean for uh for the pro debut the pro debut and the pro debut part two in the uk what do we do now well let's uh let's assess the situation and when it comes to my motivation for the gym or for like muscle building body building in general it's not so cut and dry as like okay i'm going to do a competition all right what are the judges saying like in terms of like my my bill like should i work on my back more like that's that's not exactly how i'm looking at it because that's not the point i'm doing it because i want to be big you know and it's fun for me but getting to see myself on stage especially um obviously mike summerfield won in uh in the uk but what was really jarring for me was seeing wesley's back when we were doing especially in that like back relax pose i think part of that was just posture like if i turn it into more of like a lat spread i probably could have made my back look a little cooler but even just doing a back double bicep shot wesley's back is fucking huge you know so obviously he's um he's definitely a bigger guy that's for sure and he's like 6'3 but what that tells me is i think i may have um i may be underestimating the amount of mass that my back should have uh historically i've always thought my back was like a really strong point to the point where i could kind of chill out on it but i think actually seeing how all these guys looked literally top of the game pros which is what i want to look like you know not for the sake of um like i want to look like that so i can compete well more so i just want to look like that because it's freaking cool what that tells me is i think some more back mass is solid but not so uh not so much that it's a singular jarring weak point you know because i want bigger triceps and i want a bigger chest and i want bigger legs and i want bigger shoulders and i want bigger forearms and calves and uh and hamstrings and quads you know i guess i said legs but so really we're just back to back to normal so phase one of this post show um period of time is going to be regaining some strength so i'm certainly not uh like today is not offseason day one oh i thought i was gonna hiccup is we're not there yet i've kind of kind of build up uh i've got to build up that momentum first so this is kind of just going to be probably a few week phase of just getting back into the groove kind of a maintenance phase you know because i don't want to i don't want to eat too much too fast and the reason for that is if i eat too much too soon right now i'm just going to start putting on body fat you know like nothing right i've been used to eating like mid to upper basically just mid 2500 ish calories the last few months so if i start trying to ramp it up to 4000 i mean it doesn't even feel like ramping it up i could just start eating 4000 a day like it to the point that it wouldn't be a challenge well that's a big ass surplus you know i i i've nearly doubled my calorie intake for the day so am i really going to be able to use all of that energy productively to you know put on size i've kind of got to ease into it so if you're if you've been following this whole dieting phase so far then you'll know that okay i've been saying some shit like all right i've been i've been at 236 for a few weeks i think i gotta up my game i think i need to drop my calories i need to up my cardio i need to make the deficit more intense so that it continues to work right i mean i was saying that back in december i was like you know if i could be 236 or you know 235 at the end of december then i'll be on track you know it's the same thing with an offseason so as much as i'm going to start with a minor surplus i mean really just start at maintenance calories i'm going to gradually increase that you know every few weeks or so to make sure that the scale continues to increase obviously i'm trying to get bigger and put mass on but also that i don't get too soft so that's where you've got to kind of look into yourself in the mirror and then what the number reads of the scale and play back and forth with the two in tandem you know because one isn't the total answer if you look in the mirror and you're staying pretty lean but you're not actually growing well the mirror's telling you you're looking pretty good but you're not progressing you're not getting any bigger you know are your lifts moving up at all if not well then you're definitely not progressing but if you only look at the scale and you're thinking to yourself man i just need to you know i've said this before like everybody gets 200 pounds well i don't mean 200 pounds with like 40 pounds of extra body fat you know that's not exactly what i'm saying so it's um it's kind of a bulk responsibly sort of situation where you need to eat enough food that you're growing but not so much that you overdo it and you get basically just you know fatter for no reason you know so it's kind of a tricky subject because usually people don't have a problem eating too much usually eating too much isn't the problem so that's why i can be really like blunt and say dude you got to eat more fucking food you know i mean we've seen it all literally that's the theme of almost every bigger by the day video dude eat more freaking food now obviously for some if you can eat enough well then you're good you can kind of tone it back a little bit but for the most part what ends a bulk or what kills a bulk at least it's progress for many is simply lack of calories right lack of food so we're going to get into that uh a lot of you guys or at least a a chunk have kind of had a break from me basically kind of you know giving out sort of not mean spirited but kind of like really straight up kind of uh sort of tips about like oh dude you can't eat that's your problem you can't get some food down because i've been dieting the last six months so i haven't even wanted to think about bulking but now we're the tides have begun to turn right it's like you've thrown a you've thrown a freaking ball or something up in the air it's going up for a while but now it's coming back gravity has uh gravity has begun its pull so how about we just get straight into the training and probably cut to a little bit of a post-workout meal and now it doesn't have to be like you know essentially dog food right like all right guys i got AI got a can of chicken i crushed up three rice cakes into it yeah yeah oh my gosh if you've ever dieted hard you know that is a good meal in the moment but as soon as the diet is over oh my god my food's gonna look a lot different let's just let's just put it like that but yeah i think nothing else to say let's uh let's just go get this workout freaking started we're back all right this is not the wildest lift because i'm still kind of uh actually yeah shit i'd say in recovery um you know not like serious in recovery like an injury uh but yeah there's no um there's no point wrenching my elbows or thrashing my forearms by trying to curl too heavy so really let's just get a fucking pump is uh yeah we're good this is on so let's just start with some single arm alternating reversed uh tricep extensions and these are just different you know i mean when you do overhand you can definitely bias your long head more which is usually like the biggest chunk of your freaking tricep but you know if you go on your hand a little bit as well you might get some shorter head a little more than normal and it's just different you know and isn't that what we want to do make our training different each time but yeah let's get a pump and then we can discuss no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Let's do a push down and then a curl. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Let's do a push down and then a curl. All right. Let's do a push down and then a curl and go back and forth till we're fully pumped. That'll be good for today. This will be good. My favorite part about a cable preacher, you're probably never going to rip your biceps off. And that's because the cable is pulling away from me, not just straight down. So we even want to get to the bottom. If I completely relax, well, all it's doing is pulling my arms this way. Whereas with a free bar, like a dumbbell or something, if I straighten them all the way, well, the weight is pulling my hands down and it wants to, you know, let's not even say it, but this will be good. Not too heavy either. Don't no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no Back to the D handle. Back to the D handle. Back to the D handle. Back to the D handle. Back to the D handle. Back to the D handle. Alright. I'm definitely like extra fatigued. But honestly, I feel better than I thought. I thought I was going to have to put on like a brave face for this workout. Because I wanted to do something. Like I didn't want to just sit at home for another day. Actually, I'm feeling a little freaking better. Let's get back to the curls. Like I'm not 100%, but I'm not that bad. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay. All right. I'm going to do one more of these, but I'm going to change it up for triceps. Let's do the rope. A little rope extension next. There we go. There we go. Whew. Yeah. Yeah. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Yeah. You Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh, yeah. Back to Preachers. That feels pretty good. I can go a little heavier for the next one. Not too heavy though. A little heavier here. If I can reach. There we go. Don't no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no Okay, shit. Yeah, that's fun. This is how this shit's supposed to feel. Let's get back to the rope. I guess I missed the set. You get the gist. You get the gist. Okay. All right. Let's do a rope curl right here. There you go. A little heavier. There we go. Okay, that's actually too heavy. I'm going to go back. There we go. Okay. All right. yeah yeah okay all right let's do an easy bar push down now steal it from the preacher the full stack is a little crazy let's do 80 of the full stack 190 out of the 250 available that'll be about right no no no no no no no Okay. Oh, all right. Let's hit a dumbbell curl set. And actually, I think one more back and forth to try some bias and we'll be good. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Oh, shit. Alright, I think one more push down and one more of these. We can pose down. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Alright. Oh, shit. Alright, that's how my arms got today. Alright, let's see how we're freaking looking. I feel pretty good. So, let's see if the mirror reflects that. Alright, so the battery is near dead. So, I may have to cut this pose down short. But, let's see how we look. Let's see how we look after essentially five days, no training, barely eating, dehydrated as a mofo, and also dealing with the immune stress of getting over whatever the hell kind of bio-weapon that I ate on Monday last week. By just getting a glimpse of my forearms, visually, you'd have no spanking idea. I think you would have no idea whatsoever. This is insane. So, I guess that's the benefit of being really lean from a show is you still look like a freak even when you have arguably... I mean, yeah, I think without exaggeration, that was the worst I've ever felt for that prolonged of a period of time. Like, that sucked. There's no getting around that part. But let's just relish the moment now. I tell you this, have you drank any water today? You know, have you gone to the bathroom and not dreaded it? Be grateful for that. All right? Once that goes away, you really start to fucking miss it. That's for sure. Well, let's see how we're looking. Okay. Bye. Bye. okay all right now that the lift is over i'm starting to feel a little tired so let's get back in the car get some food in my system and then freaking discuss all right we got a whole year ahead of us let's uh let's break down the game plan yeah nice that was five miles to empty luckily we freaking made it so yeah this kind of sucks right at a gas station treats galore i don't even want to go in and eat anything because my stomach is still feeling freaking funky uh so that kind of that's you know that's kind of a downer um you know in my mind i'm thinking all right diet over let's get real let's get some freaking treats in my system but now it's like i didn't want to freaking eat them just because it's well i guess that's probably good for the rate of the recomp instead of just going straight into you know full power food intake uh more so just kind of easing into it which is what i want you know so going forward if i can break down the game plan of the next probably the next month um like honestly i don't think the any kind of offseason really is gonna actually get into full swing for about a month or so so these videos won't be like day one day three day it's just kind of a recomp phase of uh of getting out of show prep into just regular lean lifting again you know just kind of from a main gaining or actually main gaining isn't even the right word just a you know reintroduction of higher carbs you know a bit more food heavier training and uh just kind of get my strength stats back up because they are low you know they are freaking low it was um what was it about six oh my god oh whatever it's about six or seven months ago maybe eight months i don't know uh but i was squatting six plates for eight like um i don't even i wouldn't even want to put four plates on my back right now it's gonna it's gonna take a while to get up to that let's just say load ability so that's what i'm gonna do for the next four months or the next uh the next four weeks just get my strength back get some food reintroduced uh also get over the sickness which kind of sucks but you know what are you gonna do i guess uh a bellyache can delay the pump it'll never stop it but it can certainly delay it but i think i'm getting back i think i'm getting back to normal now if i wake up tomorrow and everything is flowing as it should that'll be good that will be cool so that would put me at a full week of this ailment uh which kind of sucks you know i know i keep saying that but i mean at least it's over i mean i'm not joking i would um yeah that's not that's not something i could really recommend to anybody so i guess if you're traveling make sure you just keep a freaking keep a freaking closer eye on the food that you're eating on the bright side though i'm glad that that happened after the arnold uk and not before because if i got hit with that before like i mean even the week beforehand uh it would have totally screwed me you know and i would i mean shit you know imagine doing all this stuff to uh to compete at these two shows and then having to pull out of one just because i ate a freaking you know bad yogurt be terrible but yeah we're back and it definitely feels good to be back this is uh yeah i've been gone for a while because i've been out of the country since the 20 since the night of the 21st so it's been like two uh one two about two and a half weeks two weeks or so something along those lines yeah so so this is nice and it's i don't want to say it's a relief now that the competition's over uh but in a way it definitely is you know it's um like obviously i wanted to do it but it's like a crazy leg day you also get a catharsis once you've done it and once it's over and you can say all right sweet i did that shit oh let's take a minute you know let's take a minute but getting into more of a uh you know kind of post arnold uh recap like i was a little distracted just by i mean even getting in the zone for the workout on the way to the gym today let's make sure uh all right yeah audio's still clicking but yeah i mean i get to see some videos of uh some of the side by sides and obviously the wildest one is me mike sommerfeld to my right and then wesley on the left you know it's obviously they're freaking huge uh but from my freaking perspective not incomparable you know obviously they're insane like they're way bigger uh but shape-wise you know like let's just put it this way if you kind of blurred your vision a little bit i mean yeah they're bigger you know but the uh we're getting there and that's what i really want so i was definitely bigger fuller in the rl uk compared to columbus but that's just a you know a show by show change uh but year by year from last year got some more contractile tissue on my frame and uh i think one thing that's kind of cool which i'm starting to notice is the bigger that i'm getting and the more i do these kind of dieting phases in between the easier it is to get leaner as well as get bigger without getting so soft and part of that is just the fact that the more food that i'm eating it's like if i'm just trying to optimize for feasible size gain what i've kind of end up noticing is all right well shit if i want to eat a bunch of food you know for a long period of time and feel like good and actually recover and digest it all well well i mean i just kind of gotta eat simpler foods you know so not so much uh just junk and everything else but actual just plain meals you know this morning was oatmeal really just because oatmeal is like all i can eat um but going forward a lot of oatmeal a lot of uh a lot of rice i mean we'll have some treats in there too you know ben jerry's isn't off the table but probably a ratio of about 80 20 of conventional plain salad meals you know ground beef with ground beef with rice um let's see what else that's kind of a classic you know ground beef with rice steak and rice uh steak and potatoes you know chicken and whatever like for the most part those meals are easier to eat a lot of uh now of course you know i'm no stranger to a dirty bulk but yeah given the let's just say given the current circumstance and my current experience level i'm gonna go about it a little differently now you know but i can never go back and say that i regret eating a bunch of uh you know chocolate milk and donuts and stuff in my earlier bulks because that's what's got me to where i am now you know so and uh in the context of like continual progression i don't think there really are mistakes per se no you know of course there are uh but what i'm getting at is i want to look at you know my past off seasons and you know maybe if i've hurt myself before or you know what worked on a diet what didn't and you know things that i tried and maybe failed at or with all those things it's not as though it ever put me behind it just gave me more experience and knowledge of like all right i'm not going to do that again so now whatever i do going forward is going to be more educated and likely more productive all right good and that's something i think a lot of people aren't doing uh we are very concerned in the gym in terms of just you know progress bulking splits everything with how can i get the perfect plan beforehand and it's also strange because we talk about training in the context of like oh well it's so obvious you know like oh is it it's just the basics man and if it really was so simple as just you know do this and everything will work out perfectly fine well then the gym wouldn't be something to work at it would just be like you know like a thing there'd be no challenge to it right so i guess what i'm trying to say is as smart as we are you know and like we know the basics of consistent heavy training progressive overload get stronger uh you know maybe do a do a heavy week and then do a light week the next week maybe do uh do a lower volume lift and then do a higher volume pump lift the next week just changing things up like that you've got to kind of do it for yourself you know it's a really no so that's where it's as much as you can read a book about training if you just train and try different stuff and you know learn for yourself i think you're going to do a lot better you know you'll actually get a feel for what you're doing but that means there's a little bit of an uncertainty aspect but we'll get into that later i mean there's all sorts of stuff to freaking break down i mean now i'm going to start talking bulking and calorie tricks and you know eat a big ass breakfast right when you wake up so that you're already ahead of the game with your calories and the bulking mindset is very different it's very different i think i'm i'm a little more biased to enjoy it that's for sure but yeah it's a very different mentality than the diving down that is for sure so if you're still dieting uh don't get jealous that i'm going to start eating a bunch of uh well just start eating a bunch of food because you still got to lock in you know you've got more cardio to do you've got more you got to stick to your deficit you know just make sure you're going to bed eating only that 2200 or whatever your calorie deficit number may be but if you're ready to put some size on going forward well uh just just just think about it's getting me excited plus training is gonna i mean i'm already getting amps for training because dieting training is not as fun not it and i'm i just did it for like six months i'm very excited to get some carbs in my system and move some weight around and actually bring it like taking a set to real failure instead of just like okay that's enough i don't want to overdo it oh oh oh man this is gonna be good this is gonna be freaking good but yeah nothing else to say still kicking don't worry we're getting back into our regular groove now so i'll see you for tomorrow whatever that may be uh it's supposed to be legs if i'm still feeling a little bubbly i might save legs for the next day and make today make tomorrow like shoulders and forearms or something kind of have it be like a half rest uh just sort of gap day uh but we'll see you know i've got to see when that how i feel when i wake up and you know get a good night's rest and hopefully clear up the last bit of whatever the hell's going on you know in my midsection but yeah that's all so i'll freaking see you tomorrow tomorrow