 All right, I have made a little bit of an observation, and I've thought this before, but I'm not sure I've ever actually put it into words, but I've it's essentially the idea that, you know, it's essentially the idea that, you know, we all want to kind of live up to our own personal expectations, right? So, you know, in a way, it's like, where is your bar, right? So, with the gym, you know, what's the bar? What's the bar? What's the bar of achievement? If you're a consistent lifter, you're getting after it, you've got goals, you've set them, you've worked to kind of, you know, actually get after them and achieve them, you've got some quantitative metrics that sort of prove that, you've gotten bigger, you've gotten stronger over the last few months, whatever, you're probably living up to your bar, at least with your training, right? You've, you've kind of set this certain expectation of your consistency and how hard you want to, you know, actually work at it. Depending on how much you love the gym, it'll feel more or less like a chore. I think I'm on the side of the spectrum, that I don't know what could have caused it, but I feel like I'm just hardwired to want to bring it. So, even when, you know, I've got a, I mean, over these last six months, probably the hardest part isn't the training, it's, it's just the dieting and the cardio, you know? So, since I really, you know, wanted those results from, you know, the diet and the prep and everything, well, it's not super crazy hard for me to say no to, you know, giving myself a bunch of treats and like having a, having fast food or, you know, just pigging out, essentially, and stick to my deficit, do all my cardio and make that shit happen. Now, I know that when you put it like that, it sounds like it's not that big a deal. Like, oh, what are you talking about? Just don't, just don't eat, man. It's easy. But, you know, we, uh, if you've dieted before, you know the challenge. So, now I get a certain feeling of satisfaction knowing I did it. I gave myself this goal, I achieved the goal, I am now pivoting towards a different goal, and I'm already on track to achieve that one. You know, I don't have, um, the way I look at it is more so just kind of, am I headed in the right direction of what I'm aiming for? And if the answer to that is yes, well, then I'm good. I'm doing what I not need to do, but what I want to do. So, that's a good feeling. So, what you can kind of, uh, the way that I think about it is, you either set this bar of, you know, your own expectation for what your end result is, or what you want it to be. So, you know, you're saying, I'm going to do my cardio, I'm going to train, you know, do my six day a week, seven day a week split, whatever it may be. I'm going to bring it every workout. I'm really going to focus. I'm going to push it because I want to. I'm giving myself these, uh, these checklists, and I'm going to check them off. No excuses, right, in a way. And then there's the kind of person where the actual act of, uh, of bringing it, they've just got a little bit of a, they've got trouble doing it, you know? And I'm not going to say it's easy, like, just to even add basically two hours a day into your schedule from, that's just going to the gym. Because you're going to get in your car, you're going to plan your phone, you're going to drive there, you're going to park, you're going to the bathroom, you're going to put your shit down, and you're going to talk to your buddy who you see there, maybe somebody starts talking to you, and, you know, they're kind of a chatter. So, like, it's not like, uh, you're just adding two hours a day every day going forward. It's nothing, right? But you've got to work up to it. So, the person who's got a little more trouble with, uh, with the execution, you know, we can all come up with a plan. Anybody can look up a basic workout split and, uh, you know, look up your maintenance calories from a maintenance calorie calculator. Or, you know, watch a million training videos. Like, the actual, um, you know, knowledge necessary, that's not tricky to find out. You know, that's a day of going down a YouTube rabbit hole, or just talking to one of your buddies who works out. The tricky part is then, okay, yeah, 30 minutes of cardio every day is good for me. It's going to be good for this diet, I'm going to stick to my calories, and, you know, I'm going to get shredded by July. July 4th, new year, new season, new me. Not exactly new year, new me. But then, the execution falters, you know, and it's, ah, shit. Ooh, ah. You know, you're supposed to be dieting for four weeks, and now you're five pounds heavier than you were before. Because, alright, school's over, I'm going to start chilling. Oh, summertime, you start eating out, you know, people are grilling. And, it's pretty easy to eat a thousand calories worth of hot dogs. I mean, shit, I'm, oof. I can have a thousand calorie, um, you know, just like, cook out plate. And, I'm going to go back for a second one, right? I mean, food, all these extra calories and everything, it just sneaks in. So, shit. I gave myself these goals, and I, I didn't really do anything to reach them. And, now, when someone's in that position, what's a more comfortable thing to say? What's the more self-soothing, uh, you know, mental justification for why these goals that the guy set out for himself didn't really end up happening? And, well, it's no fun to say, yeah, crap, I just slacked off. That's on me. And, if you don't have to explain yourself to anyone else, like, the gym is a very self-centered endeavor. Not in, like, um, a selfish kind of way. But, you're doing it for you. And, basically, for nobody else. So, the easy, I've said this before, the easiest person to lie to is yourself. So, you gave yourself this goal in your own mind. You didn't really achieve it. Nobody else knows. So, you can kind of convince yourself, ah, well, shit, you know what? Dieting's just not for me. Counting calories just doesn't really work for me, bro. Yeah, ah, you know, cardio's probably bad for you anyway. It's, it's, you know, you're just, like, uh, you're raising your cortisol or something. Like, actually, cardio's catabolic, man, you know. Or, you know, the guy just says, you know what, actually, I'm bulking. And then, completely throws the goal out the window, you know. So, it's, um, it's, what I'm trying to describe is, uh, two scenarios. One, where somebody sets the bar wherever it may be. Just a little bit higher than they're comfortable with. So, that they're working towards something to progress. And then, he reaches the bar. And once you've met the bar, now the only thing you can do is raise it a little higher. Right? Once you go from not working out to going to the gym three days a week. And you went to the gym three days a week for the last month. Amen. Three days a week is now where your bar is. You're good with that. Now you can raise it a little higher. Five days a week. Raise it a little higher. Cardio twice a week. Raise it a little higher. Start counting your calories. You know, just keep pushing it just a touch. Or, somebody sets a bar. Doesn't really get up to it. And instead of, uh, you know, for whatever reason, kind of just falls off the wagon of that hype train. And then, they just drop the bar back to wherever they're at currently. So, instead of moving forward and climbing. They're just going to stay wherever they're at currently. And, sometimes it's a very tricky situation to discern between. Like, you can't necessarily tell if someone's really progressing in the gym just from looking at them. Because, you don't know what their whole day is like. So, these two guys. The one who constantly raises the bar. And the one who keeps his bar right where it is here. Stagnum. They might look like they're doing the exact same thing. They both come to the gym, you know, on a semi-consistent basis. Or, a good consistent basis. But, it's what happens outside the gym where a lot of changes are going to be made. You know, the guy who's sticking to his calories. He's, uh, he's just, like, he's just aware of the process of recovery. So, he's thinking, alright, I've got to get my protein in. I'm going to eat some solid carbs. I'm not going to just totally pig out on junk. Like, let's get some oatmeal for breakfast. Instead of, um, you know, a bowl of cereal or so. And, uh, you know, don't get me wrong. I'm going to, on my next grocery trip, there's going to be some cereal involved. But, my ratio of sort of treat-style food to regular just plain food. Uh, I'm trying to up that ratio to, like, uh, like an 80 to 20. 80-20 or, like, a 90-10 or so. Because the more plain foods I eat, you just feel better. You know, you just, uh, now, I just had, um, like, if I ever have, or, I don't know, I think it was a few days ago, I had a couple of Reese's cups before I went to bed. And, I just woke up, like, ugh. You know. Uh, but, that's not what I'm kind of getting at now. So, they both show up, but one guy is present. One guy is really centered. And, he's thinking, okay, you know what? I'm going to bring it. And, then, every set, he gets this little kind of, like, alright. And, then, he goes crazy. Whereas, the other guy might just, eh, let's do a set. You know, if you've ever seen somebody working out, and they're having a conversation at the same time. Like, they're mid-set. And, they're still talking to the guy that they're working in with. And, I mean, I'm not going to say you can't multitask. But, I don't, I mean, it's rare that I would think. Actually, basically never would I think, okay. I want to keep listening to what this guy has to say. And, I'm going to hit my set at the same time. And, I'm going to keep responding to him in between reps of lateral raises. Like, I, you know, I just don't see it. So, even though they both basically repeat the same day. The guy who tries to push it a little bit further. Just a tiny bit. You won't even notice on a day-by-day basis. He's going to get further. Right? And, then we get to kind of more of a day-by-day logic of, like, you know, do you want to wear a baggy shirt to grow into? Or, do you want to grab, you know, the shmedium that you've got in your closet? Because, that's going to fit you tighter. Right? It's, my logic has always been wearing that baggy shirt. Because, it's kind of like this cue that I want to fill it in. You know? So, not that everybody means to beef up to that degree. But, it's like just little, just little things. You know? Little stuff like that. So, just try to keep an eye out. The more you work out. And, the more you're, I mean, even just in the gym space. Like, on your phone. After a while, you start to see a couple of patterns. Like, you know, it's pretty easy to see the New Year's resolution or pattern. And, kind of the spring break. Like, okay, summertime. And, then, you know, winter lock-in. Like, that's, there's a, it's like our motivation is migratory. And, it's seasonal. And, it kind of comes in waves back and forth. So, if you can be somebody who keeps their regular, I don't even want to say motivation. But, just consistency. Up. Baseline. Solid. Solid. You're killing it regardless of whether or not you're working out for spring break. Or, you know, whatever. You just got better odds, man. Right? It's like, I know it's not exactly like this. Because, it obviously, like, fluctuates really crazy. But, you know, somebody who's only really getting hyped up for, like, short term. Like, alright, man. You know, we're going to spring break. Let's really kill it these next three weeks. Or, you know, the New Year's resolution. Like, that's, um, you know, that's, that's like taking a short position on a stock. Versus the guy who just constantly does, like, a plain ass index fund. You know, gradual over time. Kind of just slow and steady. But, that's enough of that little ramble. If you, uh, if you got the gist of what I was trying to say. So, I did a little bit of self-reflection this morning. Just getting up, moving around. And, I need one more day. My legs need one more day to get some, uh, to get their juices flowing. My quads are still a little tender. My hamstrings actually feel kind of fresh. But, I'll give it one more day for quads. Uh, but going forward, I'm going to have to do, or at least I think I'm going to have to do, quads every other leg day. So, essentially, get my quads, uh, or hit my quads once a week. Like, hefty. And, then, hamstrings can be, you know, both. So, it'll turn into, like, heavy quad day. Slightly lower volume hamstring day. And, then, the next leg day in the loop would be hamstrings only. And, then, really wreck them. Like, heavier hip hinging movements. Uh, just a bit more volume. Because, when I'm really killing my quads, they just end up taking a bit longer to freaking recover. Uh, but I'm not going to do that this time. So, I, I could have just done hamstrings only. But, my quads aren't so destroyed that I want to wait until legs come back around to hit them. You know. So, we'll, uh, we'll get a full leg day with some squats and leg press tomorrow. And, I should be, actually, probably substantially stronger than the last leg day. Not only because I've got more carbs in my system and I've kind of recovered from the last workout. Uh, but also, as much as strength is, uh, like a physical adaptation. Like, you're getting more muscle fibers. You can recruit them better. Uh, it's also a neurological kind of deal. So, two guys of the same body weight can be vastly different in terms of, uh, you know, force output. Just because one guy can really, you know, fire every neuron or whatever. Because he's, uh, you know, he's exposed himself to that much weight. So, even just one day of, uh, well, one day of one set of 315 on, uh, Smith Machine squats for 10. Since I haven't been pressing that heavy for a while, it should be a pretty quick change. So, hopefully, three plates feels like, uh, feels substantially lighter tomorrow. But, plan for this morning is just going to be forearms and delts. Forearms and shoulders. So, forearms first. Shoulders will kind of be the, or forearms are kind of going to be the star of the show. And then I'll finish with shoulders. Still just rear delts and side delts. Uh, my front delts are round enough over the front side. Uh, but I was just in Pittsburgh where you're doing a Gymshark shoot with me, Jack Eagles, and Samson Dauda. Uh, so this is one question I was asking Samson. Um, because a lot of, like, basically just pro bodybuilders that I've seen, maybe not, maybe not, not them all. But I think a substantial amount aren't really hitting their front delts too much. Right? Because just from pressing in general, uh, and not to mention the fact that your front delts are just kind of prone to growth. They get to a point where they're kind of big enough. But I think there's a little bit of change I should do in my side delt training. Because when I'm standing sideways, like if I'm looking at myself in the mirror from this right side, and I, you know, give myself good posture. Then I can see that my shoulders are pretty round over the back side. But they kind of slope off just a little bit in the front. So it's not that I want my front delts to be more developed. But I think there's a little pocket of space in between, like, full-on side delt and front delt. Where I want a little bit more beef. So I think I'm going to add in a little bit more front-centric lateral raises. So usually if I'm doing a lateral raise, I'm thinking maybe bend forward just a little bit. And pull backward a little bit extra. So I can work my side delt and my rear delt. But I think I'm going to throw in some more, you can kind of call it like a Y raise. Where instead of doing a side lateral straight to the side, I'll do it a little bit more in front of me. To get a little bit more of the front side of my side delt developed. If you follow me. Not like a full-on front raise where you're doing your front delt. But just like an even mix between the two. You know, because I want my shoulders, like, you know, freaking angular and broad. But I don't want to overpower the front side with my front delt. Because it's already big enough. You know, like I want my arms to catch up in terms of my shoulders roundness. And in like a bicep flex here, my shoulder is substantially taller and rounder than my arms are. But I still want it to be big from the sides. So that's the only other change I'm going to make. But forearms. Forearms. I haven't really been hitting for a while because they're kind of big enough. Or well, historically they've been big enough. But I want to see a little bit extra forearm growth. At least for the next few, yeah, probably the next few months. Throw some forearms in. Having big forearms is definitely cool. That's for sure. And I mean, Dona, I used to think like, alright, well I don't want my forearms to overpower my upper arms. You've got to have some pretty insane forearms for that to be the case. So I don't think I'm going to run into that issue at all. I've got a few staple movements. Because I'm not just doing the meat of my forearm. I'm also kind of hitting the back side of it too. But the basics are the basics, right? I mean, I was just saying this in the last arm day about like doing a preacher curl versus a bicep bias pulldown. All your biceps really doing if you zoom in is this. Just this bending of the elbow. Very similar with your forearm. I mean, of course you've got the grip angle involved. But that's its own kind of training. You know, and I'm not training for grip strength. But in terms of like the actual just mechanical motion here. Not including like, you know, finger grip ability. You got this. And you got this. I guess you also have this and this. But I don't think that's going to grow anything substantially impressive. So I just focus on here and here. The front side and the back side. So there's a few different versions of movements you can do for either of those. So how about we stop talking about it and just jump straight into it. I'm going to do the back side first. Because when I look at my arms pumped. Or my forearms pumped. I want the bottom side to be like super pumped. So I'll finish with that side and kind of just start here. So let's go pop a squat and basically just grab a 15 pound dumbbell. You know, it does not take much for these. But let's get started. Alright, so forearms. Very doable at home. There's not a ton of workouts where the home workout equivalent is, let's not say feasible. Let's just say enjoyable. You know, like yeah, you could do a home shoulder day. Like, ooh, get a gallon of water. What's a gallon of water weigh? Four liters. Four liters. Times 2.2. Ten. Yeah. A gallon of water is ten pounds. I feel like it's heavier than that. Well, and do like shoulder raises and curls with it. Like, yeah, you can jerry rig around it. But if you get, I mean, really, you'd only need two. A light dumbbell and a kind of heavy dumbbell. And then you'd be good. This doesn't have to be a bench. This could just be one of those freaking fold-out chairs over there. So, starting with the reverse side, right? Everybody knows this. This is kind of like classic forearm meat. But you've also got stuff back here, right? My, how I kind of imagine it is you're looking at a, you're looking at the flat of a chicken wing. Right? You get the top side. And then you get the bottom side. So, I want my forearms to thicken up in both ways. Size-wise, you're really going to notice down here. Like, if you're hitting like a most muscular something or other, this is where a lot of the meat kind of ends up being. But detail-wise, having the back of your forearm developed is pretty freaking cool, right? So, that's this, you know, all this kind of fancy stuff on the top side, which essentially works to open my hand. And would this be flexor? There's a different word for these two movements. But either way, the back of your forearm is what's helping with all of this. You've also got this chunk of your forearm, which gets worked when you're doing like a hammer curl or something. I wouldn't worry about hitting this super hard, specifically. Just from doing curls and rows, you're going to work this part of your forearm. I think you're better off putting a lot more energy into this bottom action and this sort of retraction action. This portion of your forearm will develop well enough on its own. And if you do like a, let's say you're doing a set of curls with the 40s, like okay, or whatever weight you're doing. Okay, you get basically to failure. I can't really do one more. And then you do a couple hammer curls as like a finisher. This part of your forearm is good. But starting here, very, very low stakes. So I'm going to sit to the point where my legs are pretty much flat on top. Grab a 15. I mean, if you've never done this, like do not feel bad about grabbing the fives. Like if I grab the 10s, the 10s would be enough weight. Because this is not a strong action. These muscles are not, they have not developed, let's just say evolutionarily, to be crazy super strong. Right? If you're out in the wild, you want to be able to grab stuff freaking tight. There's never a situation, at least that I can imagine, where you had to extend your hand with a crazy amount of strength. And that was like desirable. So a really lightweight, nothing wild. Plus, if you go too heavy, it's just going to hurt your wrists too. So ease into it. And I'm just going to sit here for like eight sets. I'm going to do about 15 reps on either side. Just to the point where it's really kind of starting to burn and I get, you know, I get halfway up and I can't really lift it any further. And that's all. So I'm going to do eight of those back and forth. Just enough to get it kind of activated. And this is, this is not the lift to ego lift with. Like I'm serious. A lightish weight, just enough to get this kind of portion of the back of your forearm burning. And you should start to see it develop. Well, you know, as quick as any other muscle. But I think I'll just show the one because honestly, eight of these, it's, would be kind of pretty freaking boring. But yeah, I'm serious. Not flashy at all. Nothing hefty. Just sitting here kind of burning them out. And before you know it, it's going to start to feel hard to really open your hand all the way. Because once this section of your forearm gets pumped, well, I guess you'll just have to see for yourself. But I'm going to camp out here for a while. And then I'll see you for when we switch over to the strong side. So this is all I'm going to do for the back of my forearms. This is basically my only forearm extensor movement. I can't even, apart from like using a rice bucket where you're opening and closing your hand, nothing's really going to beat this. But this action of the forearms, you got a few more movements at your disposal. So I'll do a couple more of those. But I'll just get started here and then I'll see you for phase two. Oh, okay. and then just repeat that repeat that like seven more times all right I guess we already got the camera angle set up let's just stay here but yeah I mean eight sets it got to the point where doing the 15s I can only get to like 13 or so and then my range of motion went from this to this and then that's kind of my cue but even just standing maybe not visually but I mean I can tell looking at myself in the mirror walking these dumbbells back and forth just holding them the top side over here is certainly more swollen so yeah I can't like I can't pull my hands back at least with straight fingers as substantial as I could when they're fresh but that's kind of the more I don't want to say boring but repetitive parts I'll see I haven't heard it for a while but I used to hear people talk about how they complained that shoulder training was really repetitive like oh all I do is side laterals and rear delts that's all like side laterals and reverse pec deck as though the simplicity of the training is a negative I'm sitting here thinking nice I got eight sets of reverse curls and I get to just sit in one spot and chill sweet you know it's a it's easier to do that than it is to you know run around and pick a few different movements now sometimes more movements is better like right here with these forearm curls so I'm going to start with the 50s I have done heavier and I think this movement lends itself to you know going more like as heavy as you can but there's no point in like trying to push the push the envelope like you know to the 150s or the 130s or something your forearms are super strong that's just unnecessary though but since I haven't done it for a while I think I'll stick with the 50s when I'm really strong or when I'm in like deeper offseason I can do like the 80s and the 90s here like pretty reasonably and I do think it you know makes the sets better but I'll just start here so set up as such bench, dumbbell, you yourself right here so you're going back and forth each rep or each set just basically the failure honestly or at least as close to it as you can kind of get adopt this sort of position so your wrist and your forearm is supported but your hand is hanging off the edge so this is where dumbbell here now the dumbbell is pulling my hand down and I'm fighting against it with this curling action you know so it's not the most flashy movement but this really gets your forearms going and honestly going a little bit lighter makes it easier to really squeeze at the top and then it just makes it a solid set too so I could go you know with the even if I sat here with the 30s it would still be a good set but I think 50s is a good middle ground so let's start with a few of these left side first what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what Okay! Okay, let's grab the 60s. I thought the 50s would be heavy enough, but I'll just go a little heavier for this next one. Alright. Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright, I lied. Two more of those. That actually feels too good to move on just after three. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. One more. One more. One more. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Let's do a slightly more brutish version. You'll see. I don't know if I've done this in a video before. All right. Okay. Okay. All right. Let's do a slightly more brutish version. You'll see. I don't know if I've done this in a video before. All right. So here's the setup. Sit your butt on the end of the bench or maybe a squat block. And directly below my thighs is one plate on a barbell. This. So this is just a different version. So doing those dumbbell curls over the bench. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. So here's the setup. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. So I'm going to do these curls over the bench. Sure. You know, I'm all hunched over. I'm doing one arm at a time. But all I'm doing is this action. So that's the same thing right here. Except now instead of this bent over single arm, I'm just grabbing a bar underneath me. So now it's just hung right beneath my hamstrings. And I'm doing this kind of curl. So it's just like a different strength curve. Like how, you know, like how a dumbbell curl is going to feel different than a preacher curl. The preacher curl, the bottom part is the hard part. Like, you know, there's so much freaking extra tension down here. Whereas with the dumbbell curl, you can sit in the bottom all freaking day. Because the weight is just hanging through your arms like skeletal structure. So it just kind of changes it up. With these, it's really freaking heavy at the top. Like I can do a few little baby partials at the bottom. But it feels more like I'm pulling the weight up with my forearms. Instead of just like, you know, doing a forearm curl. If you kind of feel me. You know, a little tricky. But definitely a heavy movement. I've done two plates here before, I think. But only one plate is going to be fine today. Especially after those four sets of dumbbell curls. If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? If you're walking, what is going to be fine? Two more of those That weight is good Two more of those One more And I'll finish with a little bit of cable action Alright Yeah Okay Oh Yeah Let's finish with some cables Single arm Well you'll see Alright these are certainly a staple So since I've kind of already done two like Heavy Forearm curl movements I think I'll be a little more pump focused here But Even with this movement I think you can still go pretty freaking heavy But My forearms are so weak now If I go too heavy I won't even be able to really squeeze at the bottom Which is kind of half the benefit of the cable I think Yeah that'll be good Only 50 pounds Right Not a ton But I'll just kind of do this little sideways angle Tuck my arm in so that it doesn't move And then just this action So No superset or anything fancy Or like five rep on each side I'll just take each side to failure And it might be like 30 reps But I'm cool with that Because that's more so for the sake of Pumping up my forearms at the end And I've already done the lower rep hard stuff Okay That's good Yeah Okay One more of those Then forearms are done Yeah Last one And I You know I try to say this every so often But At the squeeze Flexed portion Of pretty much any set If you give it a little extra focus And instead of just doing reps real quickly At the bottom You have a very like Distinct Extra oomph Like you send that signal That's going to add up You know Like I've seen guys Just sit and pump out reps On a leg curl Or a A leg extension Or you know A pec deck or whatever But if at the top of every rep Even if you're not doing a pause You have a little Extra something You're not I mean there's no extra range of motion Like when I get to the bottom I'm at the bottom But by putting a little more tension Through my forearms I think it adds up to a better set A better pump And better gains So Just keep that in mind Try not to go through the motions of a set Grass Grass yeah yeah okay all right that's all she wrote for forearms that's for sure let's do a little form check and they get shoulder started all right yeah there we go so forearms are pumped that is for freaking sure now yeah what I can really feel because obviously you have a chest pump you just you know you're freaking full with an arm pump you can't touch your shoulder actually shit just on this just from this forearm pump I can't touch my freaking shoulder so it gets very nice uh but yeah I mean this is what I'm talking about in terms of the back side because I mean obviously this looks like it's just the top of your forearm but when you're actually standing in you know more neutral that whole top of the forearm section with you know that got worked during those reverse curls that is just out and about you know so if you're grabbing you know a something or other dumbbell and you're looking at yourself in the mirror sideways you're going to see all these extra like yeah like see all those little kind of fluctuations and stuff they just kind of come out you know and it makes your forearm look way cooler right it's like you got a bunch of like fibers and cables working in there actually making your forearm freaking move not to mention just the like heft benefit of having this side of your forearm sticking up sometimes uh I've you know this is a semi common complaint about guys who think that their wrist is a little bit too uh slender doing forearms you know a lot of this and a lot of this action sure I mean there's not a lot of meat in here to grow this is mainly like just a concentration of tendon but there's some meat in here so the bigger that your forearms get your wrist will kind of accommodate as well so yeah I think my forearms are definitely thicker than they than they would be if I was like you know 50 pounds lighter because there's just a little bit of extra stuff going on in here and then honestly having strong forearms it kind of stabilizes a lot of other movements like bench for sure actually being able to hold you know 150 pound freaking dumbbells in a stable fashion I mean if your wrists are weak I mean they can give out I've seen the videos I don't know if you have where somebody's benching their wrist gives out they basically drop a dumbbell in their face it's terrible right so honestly having strong forearms it's just safer you know so let me try to do a little bit of a breath hold vein shot for this one and then we can get a we can get shoulders working do a little bit of a blood flow manipulation trick with the sleeve oh my gosh yeah that's a that's a cool bicep vein super freaking prominent but all right forearms are done let's shift gears rear delts need a thrashing so let's give it to them let's start a little bit heftier with rear delts so 50 pound bent over laterals right so I'm still doing this action but instead of standing upright hitting my side delts now by bending over if I want to lift these dumbbells up my rear delts are really doing most of the work so this is a movement I'd say you can go pretty heavy in because even though I put a little bit of momentum into it it's still basically all rear delts just try not to turn it into a shrug you know if you're doing these and instead of just having sore rear delts by keeping your shoulder joint in the same spot and just rotating your arms around it if you start turning it into this well now you're just doing a fucking you know sure you're hitting your rear delts but you're doing like a trap shrug I if you're only if you're only aiming for rear delts maybe air on the side of being a little bit lighter right heft in moderation but this will be good all right yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah still they feel a little tender from when I just hit back I'm gonna actually go a little bit lighter on rear delts today well let's see and we show off to the second set mmm all right should yeah let's just do one more today's gonna be three sets of rear delts and that's gonna be it they're already residually cooked from from some back so there's just like a cherry on top um um Captain Captain Alright, let's just hit some basic standing laterals next. Forties are calling my name. Thirties would be a little light, fifties would be a little heavy. Here! Okay! One more. Two. One. Two. One. Two. One. Two. Two. Two. Two. Okay. I think that's all. Quick little three setter for each. Let's see how pump we're looking. Ah, there we go. Yeah, same deal as last time. I accidentally let the camera nearly die. So let's try not to take too long to get straight to the pump check. But yeah, shoulders. It's nice having a shoulder pump. Under a shirt, you just, you get this extra level of broadness, which is pretty cool. I've, I've kind of gone back and looked at a few clips of me bulked in certain shirts that I recognize that are like still in my circulation. And I'm excited to fill those shirts back up. Uh, as of late, I'm, I'm fitting into all my shirts. I want to get to, well, not even one. I'm going to get to the point in the semi near future where I'm going to have to either restock or just simply be a little bit more, uh, specific with what clothes I end up picking to wear. Just because I don't like having anything super duper freaking tight. You know, I kind of want that baggier look so that when I do put, have a pump check, it's like a reveal at the end, but let's see how shoulders are looking. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. yeah still a decent amount of freaking grain very nice but yeah shoulders i'm gonna work them but they're not going to be in the regular split they're not going to be hips with the same frequency as like my chest and legs and arms but i'm not going to completely neglect them this offseason i do want to see a little bit of shoulder growth this but more so in terms of like visual width from the front not necessarily like front delt growth climbing up the top you know like these two peaks of shoulder and bicep i want my bicep to beat my shoulders in height but side delts and rear delts i want to keep cooking because having big rounded over like capped shoulders well that's just freaking sweet but yeah nothing else to say there a little shoulder forearm day let's get in the freaking car all right now let me make sure this guy's yeah there we go so before i forget thursday early morning thursday that's going to be a thursday at 4 a.m eastern standard time so if you're over in ohio or like the new york side of things basically just thursday in general but gymshark's doing their mid-season sale so same as the uh well not exactly the same but may as well be just as big as like the black friday sale because everything's going to be up to 50 off plus an extra 10 with code sam so if i have a if i can give you a little recommendation i'd recommend looking into the tactical t-shirts and some of the running club oversized shirts there's a few because with the uh with the running club shirts there's like a tighter version and a baggier version the baggier one is the one that i like the most it's um man they're all dirty so i can wear one today but no those are solid because they've still got that baggy like drapey look like uh like you know when something's in a museum and they put like that silk curtain over it like that's kind of the feeling i'm getting there plus the hotter it gets at least for me because i'm going into an offseason in the summer you start to run into a little bit of an issue where just existing in any room that's over or any place that's over 75 degrees fahrenheit you kind of just start to freaking sweat you know so with uh with those really light you know kind of nylon-y shirts i don't sweat so much in them and even if i do it kind of dries a little bit quicker so that may not be a problem for you but for me that is uh those are kind of going to be a staple i've actually got to kind of restock and see if we can get a couple more color waves of those because with the tactical shirts it's like black blue off-white if it was like black blue red off-white purple green that would be kind of nuts but it uh it takes a while to get that sort of thing through the pipeline but yeah those are my personal recommendations hoodie wise i guess if you're uh you're somewhere a little bit colder then you should go for that yeah check it out but plan now is to get some food in my system and i'm freaking hungry because the only thing i've eaten so far for breakfast was not even three packs i only did two packs of a quaker's instant oats just so i can have something in my system so i am ready to i am ready to scarf down something i'm not totally sure what but it'll be semi-substantial going forward most of my meals are going to look like about this macro uh kind of level so if all my meals look like this then i'm pretty solid usually 50 grams of protein per meal i don't mind going over if i'm really hungry and i want to do like you know 10 ounces of ground beef instead of six and you know have more like a 75 gram of protein meal i'm cool with that you know but for the most part on average i'm probably aiming for 50 grams of protein 10 20 ish grams of fats maybe 15 per and i think around 60 or 70 grams of carbs because then if i eat five of those meals that's going to add up to my kind of total macro goal which right now is just a little over 3 000 i'm not trying to push it super hard because i need to not only get used to eating that much food but you kind of have to let your metabolism adapt to actually like properly make use of it you know like i can't think of a perfect example or no no yeah i can't it's um it's it's like you got to get your engine running well and properly burning all of the fuel that gets put into it or else it's just going to flood you know or it's uh i guess that's something when you're trying to start it but if there's not enough air getting into the system it doesn't matter how much fuel you're putting in it's got to be kind of this one-to-one sort of ratio right so the amount of air that i'm letting into my system to combust which is kind of like you know an approximation of what my metabolism and like daily energy expenditure is it's got to match or at least closely relate to the amount of fuel that in putting in the system because if i put too much fuel into my system i'm not actually going to burn it off and get the benefits from it i'll start having some extra left over and then as you can imagine what are you going to do with extra energy that you're that you're consuming at least to a point well you're going to start just storing in his body fat man you know if you're 180 uh i guess i don't know the exact numbers you'd have to do your macro calculations and actually weigh yourself to really know your true uh daily caloric intake for just maintenance but let's say you know 180 pound dude 12 body fat he works out five times a week he does cardio um he doesn't do cardio slacker well this guy's daily caloric intake to you know facilitate his training and just his regular recovery but just to stay the same size like he's not growing he's not losing fat he's just staying where he's at you know maybe main gaining slightly but really just maintenance let's say he's eating 2500 calories a day you know 2500 that's his baseline when he eats 2500 he can train well he's recovering well but he's not growing he's just staying right there so let's uh let's pick a situation where the guy is now eating 20 uh 2900 he gets an extra 100 grams of carbs in per day consistently well now he's eating that 100 grams of carbs 400 calories over his maintenance combined with good training and recovery he should start to see the scale tip upward and a lot of that uh gain in the beginning i would imagine it's going to be some contractile tissue some of that's going to be body fat though you know you um i think if you're actually really leveraging your food to grow well you're going to store a little bit of body fat it's just part of the deal it's not it's not a problem uh but let's say the guy says all right i've been eating 2500 you know what let's bulk up let's really bulk 4 000 calories a day out of nowhere off the rip like he hasn't worked his way up to that 4 000 he's just going from 2500 straight to 4000 he's definitely going to gain some weight you know probably more weight faster than with that 100 gram of carb increase but he's also going to pack on a pretty substantial amount of body fat you know i mean how many calories above maintenance is necessary so of course i'm a big proponent for like a legitimate bulk and actually eating enough to grow but if you're not uh you know if you're not actually using the fuel that you're putting into your system properly well i mean shit man you know what are you doing we're not here for we're not trying to i don't even know if there's a word for fat gain like there is for hypertrophy uh but if there is there's a reason why nobody knows what it or at least i don't know what it's called because that's not what i'm trying to do so it's um it's in the sense of actually let me rewind just a second as important as it is to actually eat enough to grow right which i definitely think it is don't overdo it to the point where you're just packing on body fat for no reason and that's always been my take there is no uh i mean what's the point getting super crazy soft you know it's just uh that's kind of something you're trying to mitigate in an offseason so you got to keep those two things in balance which is a little bit of a just one more angle that makes a proper bulk a little bit tricky because you want to eat enough but you don't want to eat too much or else you're just you know packing on body fat for no reason and sometimes it's hard not to eat too much because you're bulking you can eat you know you can kind of get away with it so it's uh i guess your results may vary because if you don't have a problem dieting down you know if you don't have a problem actually like limiting your calorie intake and you're you know you've got a solid let's just say uh ability to cut well then you can get away with putting on a little bit more body fat whereas you know somebody who's a bit more um let's just say they've gotten aversion to dieting and they've gotten aversion to cardio well they're gonna have to be a little trickier with their uh with their weight gaining phase because you know if they want if they don't want to get soft then they really don't want to put on too much size or too much uh too much body fat but i don't mind you know fast forward a few months i'll definitely be softer than i am right now but within reason where you know just a 8 12 week dieting phase would kind of undo most of that and that's just part of the deal so i'm cool with that but yeah plan now is go home get some food in my system and then actually no yeah go home eat get my cardio going almost freaking freaking out i got 30 minutes on the bike and 30 minutes has never felt so quick uh i mean once you get used to doing hours 30 minutes passes by like freaking nothing you know 30 minutes isn't even one episode of invincible and i know you're sitting on your phone watching that anyway so why not kill two birds with one stone right so that's my uh that's my little call to action for some cardio right freaking there but yeah nothing else to say looks like it's uh looks like it might be a little rainy today but that's cool and grass is gonna be greener tomorrow that's for sure so i'll see you for some legs you