 This is my second hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand sanitizer to my hand At least not weight wise. Set wise is another matter. Yeah. All right, two more of those. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. One more. Then let's grab some dumbbells or something. I'm thinking all buys, then all tries. That'll be the plan for tonight. All right. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah. This is what it's supposed to feel like. Let's see. Go on. Okay. Alright. Yeah. This is what it's supposed to feel like. Yeah, let's go get some dumbbells started. I've got a poach lift discussion to discuss, but that'll be for the end. The 14s. Except not exactly. You know what I mean. I think kilos over here. One more. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I need to start some triceps. There we go. No need to go heavy on the rope. Even though this is a stack, this is very doable. Yes. mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm ok ok and one more and then I'll change it up yeah yeah yeah yeah mmm yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah this will be good light if I go too heavy this would crank my elbows all right whew whew my yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that's everything let's pose down alright I am certainly on the more humid side of watery but post show plus post flights you know just kind of flying around to be expected arm pump wise this is absolutely diabolical like to the point where even just bending my arm in to get my shirt off feels crazy I mean shit I feel like I'm not even I don't even recognize myself in the mirror walking around with arms this pumped like this is and this is not just mere magic either you know obviously sometimes that is at play which is something to consider but no I think this is full on just freaking insanity so let's see how we're looking let's run through a few shots here may as well to start with a little front muscular oh my goodness the pump speaks for itself at that point Christmas tree still visible okay like I seriously feel like something is gonna pop when I flex my biceps I don't know what they are around right now and this is extra inflated from just like general inflammation and water retention but even if that wasn't the case and I was just carved up like this is just fucking crazy but let's get back to uh let's get back to the crib and then have a little bit of a post post lift something I mean yeah shit just standing this is nuts I am most certainly in the honeymoon phase of the bulk that's for sure and it hasn't really properly even begun all right there we go yeah we are in frame 30 minutes of cardio has been completed and I tell you something big thanks to these guys over at Gold's Gym Sienna they stayed open for an extra hour so I was here last year on uh because I was up here visiting and if I'm already in the UK well they may as well come back make a little bit of a return trip and this gym is like fucking I think dense is the word you know it's not as you know big as like a full-on LA fitness or anything but just the fact that it's right in center city you just get to walk up and then boom all this old school smooth freaking equipment it's very nice uh but getting into you know what I was kind of saying that set of preacher curls you know I was kind of laughing to myself like oh that's what this is supposed to feel like yeah this is um oh that's a feeling that I really want I hate and hate is a strong word um I don't mean hate but I don't love coming into the gym knowing all right I'm gonna pull back a little I'm gonna go light squeezing back work just get a pump and then do an hour of cardio and do an hour of cardio at night and then come back home you know I have no aversion to cardio of course I mean I just finished my 30 minutes two days after the show or I guess three days after the show like cardio cardio is a non-negotiable and it that's not even the point I reap the benefits of the cardio like I want to do it but when it comes to the training yeah these last six months let's just say the word uh tame is a very accurate description and it's kind of just the nature of dieting for that long for the purpose of like a full-on bodybuilding show it's just what you gotta do man you know don't hurt yourself get enough to get a squeeze and actually like maintain your size and that's the end of it you know but that's not uh I don't think that's what I'm wired for what I'm really wired for is to come in and go freaking nuts to the point where I don't even have the sensation of or the thought bubble in my head okay eh that's about right I shouldn't do anymore it's gonna be too much I never want to do a set and think oh this is gonna be too much you know now that's not to say I'm just gonna instantly try to squat six plates or bench four plates um objectively I need to build my strength back up before I can do that like sure maybe I come in and I feel strong my chest hasn't lifted that much weight for months I haven't put that much weight on my back for months I can't just go straight into it so I'm gonna work my way up of course but I love the feeling of knowing that every set the point isn't okay just reach a certain threshold of intensity and then you're good no I wanna reach a new barrier I wanna hit the freaking barrier of my intensity that I can even get to and then go a little bit further like I want every set to feel like it's unending because I'm just gonna keep trying to do partials at least for most of my regular like straight up working sets to failure because the only thing I'm trying to do is get to the point where my muscles simply cannot activate any further now as a beginner it's gonna take a while to kind of work up to that which is just the nature of things I'm much better at reaching real failure now than I was as like a 16 year old I was you know working my way up I still train hard as a beginner but I think now I can get to the point where in one set I can do a substantial amount of good damage to my biceps just because I'm not gonna let the pain of like oh it's gonna start to sting or like oh it's kinda getting hard like I'm gonna fight through that as much as I can and I just got a little bit of a glimpse of that feeling today honestly the pump actually kind of impeded the workout a little bit especially for triceps because I probably could have done more work but by the time I did that fifth set of the overhead extension it's like what the hell else am I supposed to do my triceps are already so swollen I feel like they're gonna pop out the back of my arms but no this is gonna be a good week I'm gonna get some food in my system just from walking around and drinking regular fluids and a regular amount of calories you know still more than dieting but semi-regular I'm not going crazy 10,000 calories every day I should get back to normal but yeah so if you were kind of curious what's next you know it's like Sam you just dieted for six months straight like you put a ton of time into these two shows it's like what are you supposed to do now they're over and I mean that's kind of just how it is you know like don't you should never try to get too attached to one specific moment in time or one specific kind of accomplishment because there really is no arriving it's only a becoming so rather than try to like highlight like one specific moment in time I think the cool shit that you can really look back on is just having a whole basically you know in your mind kind of booklet of really cool moments that you just accrued gradually so these competitions were some pretty cool fucking moments but there's still more to come you know what I'm saying and size wise I think in the mirror right there is only a little bit of a glimpse because that's you know full carved up pumped but it's also extra watery so my arm day in like you know I'd say two weeks maybe by the end of the week should look substantially different than that because a lot of this subcutaneous water and kind of not exactly bloatedness because my stomach feels slim like I can still pull a vacuum but I'm just very just I'm just holding a ton of water right now by the time all that's kind of funneled off we'll get back to that kind of drier grainier look while still being full of carbs like a freaking freak so you know not to say freaking freak but you get what I'm kind of getting at so yeah show's over and now it's time to pivot pivot back into a calorie surplus pivot back into you know I don't want to say hating but calling out the guys who are having trouble putting food down look I tell you something I've been very dieting focused with all these talks and all these tips that have been thrown out there it's time to start pulling out some bulking hacks it'll be a while before I really have to you know pull out all my tricks because I gotta start with just a minor surplus at least on average and work my way up from there so in a few months it'll get to the point where it's like alright getting food down is a challenge let's start busting out the oatmeal rice or the oatmeal beef let's start busting out the protein shake blended with cereal let's start busting out the you know the mystery meal that I haven't even discussed yet because it's kind of crazy little things like that but yeah this is this is already shaping up to be a freaking big ass year and March isn't even over it's about to be over you know I guess technically it's um well it's over in a freaking hour but either way I think more to come is a very good description so I'll come up with some kind of title who freaking knows but I'll see you tomorrow