 mclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclclcl which I'm now signed with. So as a disclaimer, I am a co-owner of this brand. So, you know, keep that financial motivation in context when I talk about this. But when it comes to peptides in general, it's kind of been a tricky thing to reference. You know, it's getting hit with a lot of different factors all at once. So like creatine hydrochloride got really hyped up because it's like, oh, it's new and ashwagandha and like ECTE and all sorts of whatever. Just, just like, what's the next thing that people can sell on TikTok is kind of just a, like a fad of a product, which is kind of classic. It always just comes in waves like that. And then peptides have been around for, you know, I can tell you how long, but they're kind of getting hit with this extra, just social media hype as well, which is just, what's going to happen is fitness gets larger. And then more people are on social media talking about it, which honestly, I think is a good thing because that's more people getting involved with just health and fitness in general, or even just like being active, you know, but it's hard to recommend anybody look into the space when right now peptides in general aren't, or peptide companies in general, or, you know, sometimes companies is kind of a stretch for some of these guys is this unregulated gray area, you know, because everything's being sold for research purposes only. So they're not being held to the same quality standards as a company that's selling things that are FDA approved and regulated because technically it's for research purposes only. So I'll see a video. I mean, I saw one today. Some guy had bought a bunch of just unlabeled vials of whatever from China or something, and he's unsticking his own like holographic peptide label, putting it on the bottles. And then there's a link to his site on the TikTok shop. So I've got some peptide experience, you know, this isn't medical advice by any means. But every time I've pulled something like every time I've had a, like a really good, oh, I'd say really good, really bad chest hair, like I really pulled my hamstring one time a couple of Christmases ago, some BPC TB-500 intervention, I think pretty well improved my healing, you know, now that's, of course, that's just one anecdote. Do not take that as like, okay, I gotta buy this, this, and this, you know. But with NEB specifically, the United States manufactured, you know, tested to the maximum, like you can check out the website to actually see how stringently all this stuff is being produced. And if it wasn't, well, I'd never want to work with them, right? So I can actually feel comfortable putting my name behind them as a product in that this stuff is as advertised. But the main plan is to adjust accordingly as regulations change, you know. So if it was always going to stay, which, I mean, we'll have to see, but if it was looking like peptides was always going to be this gray market space, I really wouldn't be interested, you know, because it's like there's just no control, people are going to get it from wherever. But what it's looking like with the murmurs of a kind of RFK talking about, you know, pulling back regulations and reclassifying like 14 different peptides, it's going to change the business model, you know. So now, currently, NEB is just, you can get on this website, purchase this, this, and this, presumably with, you know, consulting your own doctor and doing your own research and actually having like a proper understanding and a necessary use case. Like this is, this should not just be an off the cuff thing that anybody looks into, you know, I'm certainly not trying to say that. But as these regulations change, and then governments will actually, not governments, but government regulation will come in and make sure that all these peptide companies are using approved vendors, and are all being held to really specific standards, then it'll change from just this research purposes only business model to an actual like prescription online pharmacy dispensed model. And the fact that it looks like it's going to move in that direction makes me a lot more comfortable to the point where I can say, I want to sign these guys, and I do see a solid potential value, you know. But it's hard for me to say, I mean, I'm not even going to, I didn't even talk about any peptides before now, just because if I say, yeah, you know, I ripped my pec, I got some BPC and some TB-500, and you know, blah, blah, blah. And then somebody goes and buys some shit from that one guy, just making, not making, but, you know, ordering the stuff to his house, putting his own label on and shipping it off. I mean, it's just, frankly, irresponsible, you know. So I can say with certainty, these guys are doing it right. And if you have an actual use case in the space, and you've done your research, and you've got your, I mean, really, you know, be a responsible adult. That's all I'm trying to say there. But I'm not going to be slamming like 10 peptide videos a week and saying like, okay, what are the top 10 peptides of this, that, or the other? That's not really the point. What I really want to kind of get behind is just the fact that they are a legitimate source. And going forward, I wouldn't even have to say that, presuming that we get into this kind of pharmacy based, more of a kind of HRT model, because then it's not even going to be something where they have to make their own quality claims. It's going to kind of be backed by just, you know, full on standard government regulation. So that's kind of the plan. So the fact that it's going to be, let's just say, legitimized to a much higher standard going forward, or at least that's what we're essentially waiting for. That makes me feel pretty comfortable with it. Now, in terms of the promotional content, feedback noted. We've got a few more of those planned, just because I've been so, you know, kind of running around doing all this prep and bodybuilding shows and traveling and everything. But we'll, you know, feedback has been taken. We'll work on kind of adjusting that accordingly. So if you have any other recommendations, I would certainly love to hear it. But let's get into, let's get into the real first question. Number one, small boy, Y-H-I-A. I started watching your videos since spring bulk day 20 or so. And I wonder why you don't bench press and deadlift, but you do squats. So that's actually a reasonable question. I guess I never really think about it because those are like the big three, but yeah, squats. Honestly, the squat is pretty good. Let's just put it like that. And I'm not squatting so much. Like I'll throw in a pretty crazy heavy set every now and again. But the main point that I'm getting at with those is like, it's just a solid quad loader. And not only that, but it kind of builds a full body strength that I think leg press doesn't, you know, somebody who can move a ton of weight on leg press doesn't translate that strength over to the squat as well. So I guess, I don't know. I just like squatting, but in terms of bench, it's like I bench, I just do incline bench because I want to bias more my upper pecs. Uh, I mean, I'll throw in, I guess that's not true. I haven't done flat bench for a long time, but I might throw in some flat bench every now and again. You never know, but deadlifts, I just don't see the need. It's a, it's a full on posterior chain movement. And none of my training requires full posterior chain engagement. Uh, like I'm hitting hamstrings individually. I'm hitting my back individually. I'm not trying to combine all three into one. Plus I don't need to work my glutes. You know, I want my legs as like on their trunk basis of quad and hamstring to thicken up. Not so much, um, you know, like my full on just backside in general. That's all. Yeah. Sorry. Screenshot of this one for this guy from the YouTube. Cause he was nice. What was it like when you first started making videos where your early videos kind of cringed at first and was a difficult getting comfortable talking to the camera? I've only made about seven so far and while I'm getting into it, it can still feel a little awkward sometimes. I'm really curious what that process looked like for you when you were starting out. And also, do you have any tips for someone trying to get into it and improve? So I've said this a couple of times before, but it's definitely tricky talking to the camera doing. It's just you, you know? Uh, so the best thing you do is just practice, just start doing it. Like I put my phone up in my car on the way to the gym. Um, I wasn't, I wasn't even going to post this. I didn't plan on posting anything just to record myself talking, you know, kind of a rich piano style. Like, okay, I'm headed to the gym. What am I going to do? What am I thinking? How am I feeling? God, I feel so stupid. Okay. Turn it off. Delete the video. I wish I, I wish I still had them. That would be kind of funny to look back at, but yeah, the more you do it, the more you get comfortable with it. And honestly, you kind of just have to start, you know, like if you actually want to post some stuff and you don't just want to make little Tik TOK edits, like you want to talk in these videos, it's almost like when you don't feel ready, that's when you got to post your first one. Cause I made two test videos first. I made one workout video, which was like just terrible and deleted it. I made another that was like a little bit better, but the audio was trash and I didn't really know what I was talking about. And then by the time I had finished making and deleting that second one, I said, I'm, you know, I think to myself like, okay, what am I doing? Am I just going to keep doing test videos forever and then post nothing? I'm just doing it. The next one, no matter what, I'm just going to do it. I'm going to post it and look where we are now, right? Shit freaking changes. That's for sure. But yeah, really just practice it, man. You know, and then don't worry. Uh, yeah, don't worry about being perfect instantly. Let's, uh, let's just put it like that. Logo log off Devin, any reason why you pick the Mustang? Mustang. There is a reason. And if you're a long time viewer, you would know what that reason is. Cause about two years ago I was up in Connecticut for a week and I had rented a Mustang. I, um, I, I couldn't actually like book the rental online cause you have to usually, you have to be like 25 to get a sports car. Uh, but the guy at the enterprise that I rented from who was really cool. I mean, this is two years ago, Sam, so a little bit smaller social media wise. And he recognized me from some of the work at videos and he was like, uh, I think we can upgrade you. Let me see what we can do. Um, I don't remember if I paid extra or not, but either way, it was only like, it was not that much cause it was only a few days, but I was in an eco boost, like the four cylinder. Uh, but I just knew it was cool. So I kind of always knew the Mustang was going to feel cool. And I just didn't really think about it for a while cause I was really waiting for the Camry to just explode. Uh, but then the tire went flat and I had to pump it up with a bike pedal. I don't know what all of, all of my, like, okay, I'm just going to wait. Like the floodgates just open. I'm like, all right, we're getting this thing. So it was, uh, that was kind of why. And I didn't go, there was, there's like a, there's I think two levels of engine higher than the one that I got. And just on the test drive, I'm like, okay, this is enough. Like there's no, uh, there's no point spilling it and having somebody post a picture of me with a dark horse flipped around a, um, a telephone pole. So it's, uh, didn't need to go that crazy. Tom Richards, do you have any advice on making self validation more important than external validation? I've noticed that when I hit a new PR, it feels huge to me, but when I share it with others, it rarely carries that same weight. Why do we still keep seeking that outside praise? So that's legit. That's a, uh, that's a legitimate feeling. And honestly, the fact that you say it feels huge to you, I think does mean that you care about, uh, or that you value your own self or that you put more importance on your own self validation than that external validation. And, uh, you know, it's like, sometimes you don't need people to understand, right? It's a, I think everybody has a certain yearning of like, whether you do something really cool and you want to share it with people or, you know, maybe shit has been hitting the fan for you and you want to like, uh, like just to put it in a very simple way, like you want to like share your pain and have them empathize with you. But, you know, to a degree, it's kind of your life, man. You know, this is your stuff for the most part, you're doing it for you. Uh, even if it's like kind of like self care, which kind of benefits everybody around you, it's still you, right? It's your journey. And that's how I look at it. You know? So if I'm killing it and I know that I'm doing my stuff, it's, if nobody's there to see it, it still happened, right? For, uh, for everything that you do, it's never. And if the tree falls in the forest, does anyone hear it? Because you're always there. You are always hearing it. So, I mean, I think you're already on the right track. The fact that you put that sentence like that is good. I think it's more of an unfortunate situation that a lot of people just don't care about the gym and they don't get it. But I can, uh, I wish you put the number there. I could say, uh, I could say whether or not it was higher than my deadlift PR or I assume you mean PR. The heaviest I've ever deadlifted was four or five. So if you've done more than that, then you have outdone me. Zach Chill, Sam, please answer this. Lately, I've been experiencing tendon problems, mostly my shoulders when lifting weights, but I'm used to lifting. It's not full-on injuries, but just discomfort. How does that happen? Uh, just kind of general inflammation. You know, if I overdo it, uh, like if I'm doing, if, if I do a back day and I go way too heavy, like I'm trying to move more weight than I really should be on that given day, I'm going to start to feel it right in here in my forearm, like where this kind of brachial, whatever ties into my elbow. And that's kind of a cue for me that I think I've been overdoing it. I just something about the feeling there. Maybe I've just been training too hard. I didn't get enough rest. My hydration's been off something along those lines. So what that tells me is maybe I should back off a touch, but I guess I'd be curious, what do you mean by tendon problems? Are you talking like rotator cuff inside your shoulder? Are you talking like where your shoulder ties into your outer arm over here? Uh, there's lots, there's a lot of stuff going on in here. Uh, but if it's more of an internal, like inside the joint shoulder issue, I'd say grab a pair of tens or even just one 10 pound dumbbell or start with a five and just do a lot of this, like before doing chest, do a hundred of these, like, you know, not all in a row, but like do 10, 10, do some like face pull stuff. Like a lot of rotator cuff activation warmup for me has made my chest days feel so much better. I have not had a shoulder issue for quite a while. And I think it's because I've been strengthening or at least warming up my rotator cuffs prior to doing any kind of heavy pressing. So that's pretty much all I can say there. Barnett Griff, I'm a teenager and every adult that I talk to says that going on a cut will stunt my growth. Should I listen to them and wait a few years to really diet down or should I just drop hardcore dieting goals or dieting or should I just drop hardcore dieting overall for now and just focus on my protein goals? Uh, how lean are you? You know, like if you're already 180 and you're thinking, okay, I want to be 140 with abs as a teenager, maybe you might be better off waiting a little while and like filling out your frame a bit more first. Uh, but I mean, how hard are you talking about cutting man? You know, I guess I'd really have to see what your body weight is. Let's, let's say, let's say you're, let's say you're 220, 5'10", 220, you'd be a lean 180 if you were peeled or like decently lean, like 10, 12% body fat. At that point, honestly, I wouldn't be so concerned about any dieting or any, um, any growth stunting, but it's like, are you a 17 year old teenager or a 13 year old teenager? So there's a little bit of arbitration there or a little bit of a, it's a little arbitrary there. I'd say focus on your protein goals and rather than think, okay, crazy diet restriction, just make sure you're super active. Like add some cardio in the mix or like just bike around or I mean, you're a teenager, you play any sports that's going to count as cardio and then just try to lift, you know, five, six days a week. I was lifting pretty much daily right when I started. Um, kind of just cause I liked it. Of course I'd throw on a rest day every now and again, but very sparse, but yeah, just, just get into it, you know? So I'd say focus on your protein goals regardless, but I need a little more context here because like if you're 300 pounds, I'd say jump on like jump on a hardcore deficit, but if you're only like 200, you're not like super soft. Well, then it's kind of a different situation, but either way, train hard, hit your protein goals. I think things are going to start to just work out. I'm sure you'll see that. And or Bishop, how do you decide when to bulk aggressively versus when to slow down and be more precise? So how does being, uh, and how does being natural change what you can get away with, with nutrition? So honestly, I wouldn't say it changes a ton, but it's more so something where the mirror is going to dictate whether you're eating a little bit too much food or not, you know? So if over this next, uh, month and a half, cause what day is today? Today is, yeah, today's the 20th. So if starting April to April to May, I eat 6,000 calories a day, I'm going to undo these last four months of dieting in one month. I'd be eating way too much food and I would just put on a bunch of body fat, body fat for no reason, like a fool. So how I decide when to bulk aggressively versus when to be more precise is kind of just adjusting accordingly. You know, sometimes I've jumped straight from calorie deficit to surplus and straight from surplus to deficit, which surplus to deficit, I think is more legitimate, but deficit to surplus. I think you should ease into it a little bit more regardless of like, okay, are you 180 pound dude? Are you like a 220 pound bodybuilder kind of guy coming out of a prep? There's a, there's just no point getting too fat too quick, you know, and I'm pro bulking, but I'm not pro putting a ton of body fat on for no reason. Making that distinction is very important. So what can you get away with? I mean, are you doing your cardio? If you're doing half an hour cardio a day and you're lifting, you know, six days a week hard, you can get away with some treats, man. You can have some, uh, you can have a tub of Ben and Jerry's, you can have some pizza, but within reason, of course. So if you start to tell you're getting a little too soft, maybe back off on the treats. Tanner Weagle, Sam Sulek, do you think protein shakes can substitute food for protein or do you think they should be drank if you couldn't hit your protein goal for the day as a last resort? I, uh, so just in general, I, this question is very polarized. Like this is phrased in a polarizing way. Like is protein powder good or should I never drink protein powder instead of a last result? Which a lot of people like, uh, like this is a, only in the last few years have I seen a lot of comments that talk like this. Like it's not just you specifically, but it's, everything is so black and white, you know, and it's just not like that. So protein shakes, I consider a high quality source of protein. Like if I'm doing a, um, an F to S tier of protein, beef is up there at S tier, chickens at S tier. I mean, I guess there's no point in even having that many tiers. It's just solid, moderate, bad beef, chicken, eggs, dairy, uh, whey, dairy. That's going to be up there as well. I wouldn't say only drink protein shakes for your source of protein all day, every day for months on end or anything. But if you're aiming for 200 grams of protein per day and every day you get 50 grams of that protein from protein shakes or from two, you know, protein scoops or like a protein bar or something like that, I think that's all right. You know, and I've had days where I really did have nearly, if not all my protein coming from protein shakes. Cause my logic was, all right, if I can, I can eat my protein or I can drink it. And then it'll give me more room in my stomach to eat more, you know, fats and carbs. That was kind of my logic. Uh, so I mean, macro wise, you're definitely solid. It might even come down to just does that much protein powder upset your stomach, you know, but if you don't mind some protein shakes and it helps you hit your protein goals, then you're totally good. You know, if I'm really, uh, if I'm like traveling or if I'm, you know, going to the airport or wherever and I get most of my protein from like random protein shakes from the garage or from the, uh, like the fridge kiosks, I don't look at that day as a loss. Like I got my protein in or good, you know, a ton of protein shakes might upset my stomach a little bit, but in terms of macro absorption, don't sweat it. Mr. One L E Y. How do you focus on weaker points on your physique? For example, I need to improve my chest and back, but I still want to improve other muscles. Thanks. And to that, I would say, just keep hitting everything. You know, the more you lift any, uh, any minor imbalances that you have are going to make themselves less and less apparent. You know, like my right bicep used to be substantially bigger than my left. And one of my lats used to be like substantially wider than the other. And even now my right chest is a little bit lower inserting than the left one is. And like, sure, I can see that very apparently, or I could see it very apparently because I'm looking at myself in the mirror. So all these little minute, like percentage changes of my size or whatever, it's like super hyper apparent to me. And it's like, you know, the more you lift, you're just going to kind of fill in your frame. Well, like you want to work on your chest and back. How do I improve it? Hit your chest and back, you know, slam them. If you've got crazy big legs, if you have a muscle that's really ahead of the game, like let's say you've just got freaking trunks and your legs are like, I don't even know. I don't have a good mental image of how big people's legs are like by inches. But if your legs are huge, like you've got, you've got problems finding genes, but you want your upper body to catch up. That's a situation where I'd say back off on legs, skip some leg days and just focus on your upper body. But if everything's in decent proportion, I don't think there's any need to like back off on muscle groups and hit others extra. I'd say if you think your chest and back isn't progressing as much as you'd like, I wouldn't want to necessarily tell you to change your training like frequency or, you know, drop frequency and other muscle parts. I'd probably say just try to re-evaluate how you've been training your chest and back. Like for me, my triceps have always kind of been a weak point. Like I want them to come up so that when I hit like a double biflex, they hang off my arms. And I haven't been doing triceps like twice as often as everything else, but I adjusted my tricep training. So instead of just like super heavy push downs, every set, skull crushers, I started doing a lot more overhead stuff. Dieting, all I need to do is, you know, rope push downs, like just get a good squeeze. But offseason, a lot of overhead, long head, tricep based stuff, a lot of rope squeeze and getting all the way to the top with like a full stretch. And I've noticed that improved my tricep gains. And it's not because I did more training, but the training that I am doing, I made better, you know? So just kind of look at that. Like, how have you been training your chest and back? And how do you think you can improve it? Odds are, if you, if even just hearing that question brought something into your mind, that's probably the answer. Tip and Levi, how often should I change my workout split if needed at all? Not that often, honestly. I'm more concerned with, are you changing your workouts, right? Changing your split, I mean, what is that even going to do really? Like if we're only talking about changing the variable of the frequency and like the order of muscle groups that you're hitting is like, what do you, the premise of that would be, okay, if I hit my, if I hit chest after back, my chest will grow more than if I hit chest before back. Or if I hit my biceps with hamstrings, it'll, they'll grow more than if I hit my triceps with my shoulders. And I don't necessarily see that. I think that we, uh, we prioritize talking about splits and like how frequently or what your schedule is because it can change. Cause like people do an Arnold split or like a full body every day or whatever, but really I'm not so concerned. Like as long as you're hitting everything just about twice a week, I don't care if you're doing hamstrings and side delts, front delts and back rear delts and arms, and then some other kind of crazy combination of any of that. If you hit every muscle part twice a week ish, you know, twice every eight days, twice every six days, whatever, then I'm more concerned with, are you doing the same lift every time? If your chest day is exactly the same and you're like, okay, I like doing flat bench for three sets and I like cable press for two sets. I like pec deck for one set. And then I like machine press for one set. And that's my chest day. If you do the same chest day, every chest day, in a way you're definitely going to get used to it. And then not only that, but your training is going to feel boring and you might start thinking, oh, I got to change my split. I'm bored of it. So I think for the most part, guys who ask about like, should I change my split? Should I do this? Or should I do this? I'd look at it on a much smaller basis. Like you're trying to take in too information, too much information at once by thinking by a full week and just pinpoint down to day by day. Like, is your training a little different? Are you really pushing it every lift? And if you do, it makes your training more interesting and you're not going to feel so bored. Like I've been doing my same loop of basically chest, back, arms, legs. I kind of, I'll bounce it around every so often. Like sometimes I'll do chest, arms, back, legs, you know, things like that. But that doesn't really change a ton. I want to make sure that my lifts themselves on a lift by lift basis is what's changing. Alex J. Marinero, what is the name of the Berserk Reddit that you recommended? I can't find the video. You referenced it. Let me make sure that it is still up. So I'm sure you know about Berserk, the, uh, the manga, the critically acclaimed anime. Uh, and there have been a few versions of the show because it starts off. It's basically just a, you know, multi book comic, like a ton. I don't know how many chapters, like hundreds of chapters, almost easily hundreds of pages, maybe a thousand pages. I don't know, but it's a long story. It's super good. But there was like a show that they made in the nineties and then they made like three movies and then they made another show in like 2016. And like each show kind of covers some parts of the story, but skips others. So this Reddit, uh, this guy basically edited together the shows and the movies into a 10 part cohesive series so that you can actually get the full story and not miss any important parts. So it's called Berserk Redux. So Berserk space R E D U X. So look that up on Reddit and it shows you, uh, it shows you basically the 10 part sort of movie series. That's why I first watched it and I never looked back. Actually I do look back cause every so often I rewatch it. It's been a while, but I think I'm probably on my fourth or fifth rewatch easily like that. But yeah, Berserk Redux, that's what you're looking for. Olo dot S Z zero eight. I hardly ever hear about what you do outside of the gym. Do I have any secret hobbies? Um, yeah, I mean, I've got all sorts like, uh, yeah, what have I even been into? I don't know. Prep has kind of been making me lock in a bit extra to the point where if I'm chilling, I want to chill passively. Like if I've got, you know, okay, I'm, I'm done with my training and I eat all my food. I'm going to sit here for like two hours before I go to bed. What am I going to do? I don't want to sit and try to play war zone for two hours. That's like, it's, that's too much. I'm like, it's over, it's, I'm getting overstimulated. Like I just want to watch a show or like watch YouTube videos or, you know, things like that. So as of late, what my, what my prep obsession has been, uh, has been watching like fancy Swiss watch videos, like T-Masso, uh, like the 1916 company. And it's just this whole world of like these different brands and like how they started and you know, like how they evolved. And really it's just, it's given me that itch of like tinkering, you know, cause the guy makes a 20 minute video. He's sitting here talking about the internal gears of this, you know, thing. And he's like, yeah, so this guy lives in, um, you know, this guy's from, you know, wherever over in Europe and he, he has his own little watchmaking facility and it's just him. And he, he makes one watch a year. And like, it just shows you the whole process. Like you're watching that stuff has been kind of cool. I like Teddy Baldessar, you know, things like that. Um, but I mean, I've got a whole, I've got a pile of Rubik's cubes somewhere. Like I solved a, I don't remember. It wasn't a, uh, I think it was a 13 by 13. So a regular Rubik's cube is three by three, right? Really just the basic one. Uh, but people have made them where now instead of three layers, it's 13 layers. So it's like, there's just bits of freaking plastic everywhere. Uh, but once you learn how to do one, like they make one where it's five by five. So it's like another level above the standard one. Once you can do that, doing the bigger one isn't harder. It just takes longer. Like it's not as though you have to be double smart to do a Rubik's cube. That's double the size. It's just going to take you like four times as long. Cause you sit here and you like do a piece of plastic and then you do another piece and you do a, you do an edge swap. I haven't done it for a while. Every time I get back into it, I just, um, I got to relook up like all the formulas and the, um, Ooh, they don't say formula. There's a word. Oh, I don't remember. I don't know, but there was a, and then that's its own sort of YouTube cult of videos. Cause guys will do YouTube reviews on like what the best MoU three by three speed cube with magnets in it is like just all sorts of stuff like that. Uh, which is kind of surprising cause like as a personality type, I think I'm very, um, I don't want to say like ADD, like definitely not, not, you know, so far as to say that specifically, but like, I'll definitely deep dive into something really just research it and watch a million videos on it. It's all I watch. And then I get my fill of it and I'm like, okay, I'm done with this. Let's move on to something else, which every so often I think about, cause that kind of surprises me. Cause I'm not like that with the gym. Like I haven't, I haven't gotten my fill of the gym yet and I don't think I ever will. So honestly, that's pretty lucky. Like in terms of everything else, like my ability to consistently be into something kind of fluctuates in and out of like, eh, I'm done with this thing. But the gym has been completely unlike that at all. Like there's no end to the pumps I feel, but yeah, nothing too crazy though. Sam's, uh, R3EKEE415 top three energy drink flavors, top three 3D energy drink flavors. There's a few other comments like this. And one of the other comments I should have screenshotted excluded the Sam Sulik edition. Cause obviously I'm going to say the Sam edition cause it's got my fricking name on it and there's a little cat on the, uh, on the 3D logo. Now, not any cat specifically, you know, cause I've got five, but it just says meant to represent cats in general. But other than the orange, which would definitely be up there for sure. Really? I'd say my favorites kind of fluctuate. I've got a whole pile over there. I've got, there's, um, Oh, I forget the flavors. There's a blueberry, there's a watermelon grape. There's kind of a, uh, there's like a Liberty pop sort of popsicle kind of flavored one. That one's up there. Yeah. That, that popsicle one is solid. The cucumber melon is kind of cool too. It's a little more like subdued. It's not so super sweet in your face. And then the watermelon grape, uh, it's, you may as well put a Jolly Rancher into a bottle. Uh, so that one's definitely really sweet. So like if sweet, like in your face energy drink, isn't your thing, maybe not grab that one. Maybe go for like the blueberry mist. That one's also a little bit more like subdued flavor wise. Like it's still sweet, but it's not like candy sweet. Yeah. Those three. But then I have a few of those three, like, okay, when I want to change it up and then I grab the, you know, the, um, the strawberry lemonade one or things like that. Tinty Vlad, what do you think about the upper lower split five times a week? If I want to increase mass and strength at 14 years old and one year of training. So let's, uh, let's do the math. So five times a week, upper lower. So that's going to mean you're hitting everything basically two and a half times a week with two rest days. So how are you going to spread that out? Are you going to do weekends off or are you going to do like Wednesday off Sunday off? Um, that's what I'd kind of be curious about. I definitely think, I mean, what's your volume, you know, let me, let me hear that. I think a decent volume recommendation, uh, and this kind of, I'd pretty much recommend this across the board. Uh, it's not for any one kind of like person or size specific, but let's say you're doing everything five times a week or two and a half times a week or so. So that would mean your average volume per week, which I would probably recommend is going to be around 15 sets. If you're doing 15 ish, 15, 16 working sets per week and they're legit hard working sets, I think that's a pretty solid volume recommendation. Um, and the way that I think about that is it looks like this. There's this bell curve of weekly volume, you know, here is zero sets, which obviously will do nothing. And then here is like a million sets where it's, you know, obviously going to result in increasing diminished returns. So somewhere in the middle is that sweet spot. So I think 15, 16 is about right. So if I, if this guy was saying he wants to do push pull legs, that would be eight sets per body part, each lift. So since he's doing everything two and a half times a week, then that would mean what's 16 divided by two and a half, seven. Oh my God. Six or seven sets per workout. But if you were doing, yeah, about six or seven sets per body part per workout, then yeah, I mean, I could definitely see it. It's kind of a long workout though, you know, because if you're doing a, if you're doing upper lower, the lower days are actually going to be more chill. So that's only going to be, um, you know, six sets of quads, seven sets of hamstrings, seven sets of, you know, around that range. And as a lower day, that's solid. But for upper, that means you're going to be doing six sets of chest. Let's just say six, six sets of chest, six sets of back, six sets of shoulders. And are you doing six sets for each dealt? So that's six, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42. You're doing 12 sets on your lower days, where you'd be doing 42 sets on your upper days. So the way I look at that is that's a little bit of a crazy disparity. So maybe, um, if you really are, are into this approach, I'd say maybe do upper lower, but put your shoulders with the lower day so that your upper day is at least just chest, back and arms. And then your lower day is going to be legs and quads. Um, I think two and a half times per week frequency, you could get away with doing two times a week frequency, a regular push, pull legs. And then I think that lets you get a little more out of each lift that you're doing. But if you really think this is like what you want to do, which is not something to be underwritten. Like if in your mind, you're telling me five times a week, upper lower makes sense to me. And it makes me motivated to train because that's how I want to train. Well, that's important because you're going to train hard if you're doing what you want to do, you know? So I'd say, yeah, it's valid, but maybe try to balance out your volume because the way that this is set up is you're going to have a really high volume upper day and a low volume lower day. And I kind of like balancing my days out. So for me, legs all at once is a pretty big day. Chest and back would be a really big day, probably too big. That's why I split them up and do chest on its own and back on its own. But arms, I can do arms together. That kind of balances. So I like having frequency or I like having volume on a lift by lift basis. That's a little more standardized. But I mean, it's definitely not a bad approach. HVX 20. Do you think counting calories is essential or having a grasp of how much calories are in things is usually good enough? Yeah, I think you're going to have to get to tracking, man. You know, like we think we got a good idea of how many calories are in stuff. But it depends on what your goal is. You know, I am very strict right now. Every calorie of everything that I'm eating, I'm tracking. There's 10 calories in one can of 3D, or at least the same orange 3D. So it's zero sugar, but there are still two grams of carbs. I'm counting that. I'm going to add those two grams of carbs to my macro counter. So I know that I ate them and I account for them. Now in an offseason, and I'm trying to gain weight. You know, if I go to Cane's, I'm going to look up the Cane's macros. Maybe it's a little more, maybe it's a little less. I'm just trying to eat enough food to grow, which I know I'm going to do. Well, then you can kind of get away with being a little bit looser with it. So in an offseason context, if you have a decent grasp, you don't have to be like weight on the kitchen scale, super accurate. But dieting down, there really is no way of around it. Like you've got to be tracking your stuff pretty specifically. And I think the fact that you even asked this question means, you know, you should be counting it, but you just don't want to, which I definitely understand. Like it's, it's kind of a chore, you know, you feel like, yeah, I got to forget it. You know, two grams of carbs in my tracker. I got to just, it definitely pays off. And by counting your calories all the time, you get a better grasp of how many calories are in things. So it's more so you have to count them to get that understanding. Because if you put, I mean, you could throw me into a game show where you're given a plate of food, you can eat some of it and get a taste and like feel the satiation, like how greasy it is. And guess the macros. And I think I would do very well. My guesses would be very accurate. Because I know what 50 grams of steak looks like 50 grams of protein of steak. And I know what 80 grams of rice looks like, like things like that. So it's, it's kind of a, you have to train your, train your mind to see it by tracking. And then you can get away with not counting everything or not weighing everything because you just sort of know, but definitely you've got to count it in an app to keep track. Otherwise you kind of just fly blind. Nathan MCD. Do you think you'll ever get into general athleticism and fitness after you're done with bodybuilding? I'm sure that's just kind of the natural progression. You get your fill of having a bunch of beef on your frame and you want to get a little bit more functional. I don't know when that's going to happen. I don't, I certainly don't have the urge right now. Uh, but yeah, I could see that. Um, and I'm still decently athletic. Like if you throw me on a diving board right now, I can still bust out some flips. Um, but if you, if you put me on a basketball court, it would definitely hurt my knees just like running around because I'm a very low impact. I mean, honestly, call myself an athlete, sort of a stretch, but I'm a very low impact force guy right now. I require like slow and smooth loads. Like even if they're, they're high loads, like it's a lot of weight, slow and smooth is, this is what I'm comfortable with. Musashi, AKA Takezo. Where do you see your ideal self in a few years? Um, you know, you can never say specifically, but I can guarantee I'm going to be getting a pump like fast forward four years from now, five years from now to the day. I can guarantee I'll begin to pump somewhere. I don't know where, I don't know when, but I know that will be a standard. Uh, but other than that, I guess we'll just kind of have to wait and see. That's the fun of it. My ye lifts. What's the plan after the Arnold UK? What do you think the plan is? What do you, uh, Oh, let's, I mean, I'm, I'm being rhetorical just to be kind of silly, but it's like, okay, you've been dieting for six months, pretty hard. You get some cheat days, you know, he gets a carb up for the shows, but for the most part, you've been very strict, uh, or restrictive with your diet. So Sam, what do you want to do now? You haven't had canes for half a year. What do you want to do now? Hmm. Let me think about that. Let me ponder that for a moment and, uh, and I'll get back to you. That's going to take some thought. I'm going to grub, man. I'm going to get some food in my system. Um, I'm going to try to do it responsibly because I don't want to just put a ton of body fat on because I mean, I should have just worked for like six months. I get pretty peeled. I don't need to undo that in a few weeks, but I am going to start upping my calories. And so over these last six months, I've gradually reduced my calories from bulk to steep and not even super steep, but deficit levels. So now I just want to undo that, ease my calories up, eat more food, gradually get used to eating more food. Subsequently gain weight, gain size. And then probably after two months or so of, uh, I would actually call that a recomp coming out of a diet because I'm physically getting larger. I'm getting fuller. I'm putting a little bit more size on. Once I get to like a basic full maintenance weight, probably around 250 or so, 255. That's when I'll say, okay, let's start a real bulk where I'll start pushing food to gain weight because even in the first two months, I'm still going to kind of hold off and like restrict myself just so I don't overdo it. You know, I've definitely gone straight out of a diet into a huge surplus and I, I just burned myself out. I eat too much food too soon. I can't handle eating anymore after a point. Whereas if I ate more food gradually and slowly over a longer period of time, I could bulk for longer more effectively. So that's the plan. A long, slow offseason with some size and strength to boot. So the, uh, I mean, shit, it's only the beginning of 2026. There is a lot to come in the, uh, in the coming months. Devin Stone, were you, uh, I, we kind of answered this and were you nervous when you first started filming in the gym? I guess that's a little different. Uh, apart from like just talking to yourself when it's just you alone, you know, nobody's watching you or anything. Nobody, you don't have to think like, Oh, does this guy think I'm crazy for talking to myself? But you do a little and, uh, just be, be, think about the context of what you're doing. Um, you know, there's a lot of guys who record themselves in the gym where they're just recording their training. They're being respectful. They're not getting in anybody's way. Um, even me, I don't have a ton of in the gym banter, you know, I'll rip the shirt off for a pose down. I don't do that every time. Like if I'm in a plan of fitness and it's really busy and these are regular gym goers who probably wouldn't appreciate a pose down, I'm not going to do it. I'm just going to say, okay, no pose down today. But if your gym is a little more loose and you know, you know, who's around and you're not going to mess with anybody, well then you're good. You know? So if you're doing basic, what I'd call respectful in the gym filming, sometimes you just got to do it. And by doing it, you'll get better at it. But in the first few videos I made, I know in the first leg day that I posted before I hit a set of hamstrings, I remember saying in a video, like, ah, I feel like such an asshole right now recording myself in the gym. All right, whatever. Let's hit this set. So yeah, you just get better at it. Oh, lost my spot. A few more. There we go. What's one lifting mistake you made earlier that you wish you fixed sooner? I don't have any that huge. Like I don't have any big lifting mistakes, but apart and let's, we can not count injuries. Obviously I would rather not injure myself. That's kind of like a given. So that's like, that's so obvious that doesn't even count. One thing I would change is I would have, um, I wish I got into more of an understanding of net macro tracking in the beginning. Cause for the first like year and a half of my training or two years, I wasn't counting my carbs at all. All I was doing was making sure that I hit my protein, which was enough because I main, I main gained, I got bigger and stronger over time. I didn't really properly bulk per se, which I didn't need to at the time because I was growing, making solid progress. But I think if instead of just trying to overdo it with my protein, cause I was eating like 350 grams of protein a day, I could have had 200 grams of protein with another 300 grams of carbs. And I think that would have improved my lifts and probably improved my early size development too. But this is a, you know, when it goes back to like, what's your biggest mistake? This question is always going to have a different context depending on where you are in the current moment. You know, if somebody is really screwed and you ask them, dude, what was the biggest mistake you ever made? Well, they're going to look back and think, God, man, I wish I didn't do this, this, this, or this or frick. Sorry about that. Whereas, honestly, I feel like I'm in a really good spot right now. So even if I do, even when I do look back at all of, um, you know, let's just say all my F-ups or whatever, they kind of resulted in getting me to where I am today, you know? So I don't look back at them with, um, with a melancholy. I don't look back at them with like a, a big regret. It's kind of just like more of a learning experience. Cause if, if a bunch of the, if a few key moments that come to mind didn't happen, where in the moment, I mean, it felt like life shattering, everything's falling apart around you, well then I wouldn't be me, you know? So it's kind of like, uh, it's, there's a light at the end of the tunnel sort of thing. And unless you reach the light, then it kind of feels like you're still in this tunnel. But I, I'd say definitely I could have adjusted my macros in the beginning and I could have pulled back on my volume. I was doing 50 sets a week. I just said I'd recommend 16, literally a, less than a third of the volume I was doing. But even then from doing all those sets, it gave me a lot of training experience really early, which I think I benefited from. So I mean, really, if you train long enough and you make adjustments to your training, you kind of can't go wrong. Cause the only, the only move you can make is going up, getting more experience, making more progress, getting smarter. And then if you adjust your training accordingly, based on that information, you got no choice but to progress, you know? Nate C. Reeves, when cutting, at what point would you say is a good stopping point? I don't want to get staged lean if I'm not competing. So what are some signs that I can ease up? It's kind of personal, man. You know, what are your goals? Like, do you want to get peeled lean and like see ab veins? Are you just aiming for like a 10, 9% body fat? Like, I can see some quad separation. I can see some, you know, some shoulder striations, just a touch and then say, all right, that's enough for me. So I'd really say you just kind of have to get your fill, you know? So if you feel like you want to get a little leaner, it's worth the effort of the, you know, the continued diet and cardio, then do it. And if you know that you want to, but you're kind of fighting against yourself with like a little internal dialogue of, eh, come on, man, just start bulking, dude. You know, it's going to feel so good to start grubbing on some food, man. If you know you want to keep cutting, you know, you really know you should keep up the deficit for a little longer. Just hold out another few weeks. For me, I know when I'm done. And honestly, I mean, if it wasn't for the fact that I'm doing both shows, I'd be grubbing right now. So my prep's not over, but I definitely got my fill for this dieting phase where I'm dieted out. Like I'm, uh, I'm not going to stay this lean all year. I'm ready to put some size back on. And if you do it a little more than you think you're comfortable with, like if you really push it where you're challenging yourself in the dieting phase, assuming you're at a point of, okay, you've main gain for a while, you've made steady progress, but now it's kind of plateaued. That's the situation where I say you might need to bulk or you might need to cut down, give yourself a little reset and then start bulking, you know, one or the other. If that's the point that you're in, which is what I've been in for a while is, okay, I diet for long enough that I'm sick of dieting. I've achieved my goal. I'm lean. Now I'm more motivated for the bulk. And then I bulk to the point of, oh dude, I can't even eat anymore. I'm freaking huge. I got to like hold my breath to put my socks on. It's time to cut. So it's always, it's like this slingshot effect back and forth. You don't have to bulk up that hard. Of course, that's kind of probably overdoing it. Uh, but I'd say push it a little more than you think. And then you're never going to regret it because you're going to look back on the photos that you take and think, man, I got peeled that summer. Hell yeah. You know, that sort of thing. But it's, uh, that's up to you to decide. Nobody else can decide that for you. While, uh, Wiley Holtman, what's the most important aspect in lifting? I can tell you what my important aspect is, or at least one that comes to mind just from you asking this question. This is the last question. He's got to have fun with it, man. You know, you got to be able to enjoy it and people get enjoyment in all sorts of different ways. You know, a lot of people love to come into the gym, uh, purely for the flex appeal of the fact that they can post on their story that they did their cardio and that they are training and they're, you know, working out, not necessarily because they want to work out, but because they want to show off that they're doing it. They're in the in crowd. You know, I don't really align with that as much. I like working out because I like it, but there's people who work out like that, but I think that that's not a good source of motivation, you know? So for me, just the act of working out in and of itself makes me excited to do it. And I want to do it and I want to get better at it and seeing progress really motivates me too. So every diet I get to have fun with it and I get to come in and say, Holy crap, I've never, I've never looked this lean before. I've never felt this bulk before, or I've never been this strong before. So like there's this constant push in the envelope of like how I can either push a bulk or a diet or just different progress in general, or it doesn't even have to be like a bulk. I can just come in and for whatever reason, I slept well, I was hydrated in a good headspace, just having a good pump, even not even for the sake of for a show or for anything, but just for me, I leave the gym happy. I leave the gym with just this sort of satisfaction of made that shit happen. Hell yeah. And assuming there's a universe where I never posted any videos and I wasn't sitting here doing this Q and A with you, I think that would still be the case. You know, like if there's a, if Sam entered Marvel multiverse and I was in the TVA and you could see all the different versions of Sam, there's no version that isn't getting a pump. That's, I believe probably a universal concept or a universal constant because just doing it is, um, I mean to say it's part of my DNA is a, is a stretch of course, but I mean, just from day one, as soon as I got into it, shit just clicked. So in that sense, I lucked out because I found this thing that I really like and enjoy and in doing it for long enough, now I'm good at it and I can keep getting better at it. And it's just this like, you know, positive upward spiral. So I'd say you'd want to try to reach a point similar to that where you're in this self fueling loop of energy. You train to make progress. The progress makes you happy. You want to see more progress. You look into the things that you can do to maximize that progress for you. So, okay. All right. I'm getting pretty, okay. Hmm. I'm not really gaining as much weight as before. I've been hitting my protein. Maybe I should start counting my carbs too. Maybe I should make sure I'm eating, um, you know, 300 grams of carbs net throughout the day before I lift. All right. Getting a little soft. I don't want to cut, but I want to get a little lean. I think I should throw some cardio in the mix and then your lifts get better because now your cardio is better and you're really properly fueling yourself for these lifts. And then there's the kind of, you can work it off approach, not approach, but just aspect of the gym where if you're super active, you lift every day and you do your cardio every day. You don't have to worry about throwing a treat in the mix when I'm just maintaining, when I'm just like, uh, you know, eating as much as I'm hungry for, I can have some treats and it's not because of, you know, whatever it's because I'm lifting every day, hard, breaking a sweat and I'm doing minimum 30 minutes of cardio. I think I'm going to up it to 45, uh, going forward for this next bulk purely due to the fact that from doing two hours of cardio a day for so long, 45 is going to feel like nothing, but also, I mean, it's just good in general, you know? So if you can reach a point where you work out purely because you want to, and you want to see more results and you want to just like, just see what you're capable of. I think that's probably the best level of, uh, or maybe not level, but the best mental state you can get into because now you're doing it because you want to. And at the end of the day, what everybody does is just this culmination in their mind of wants and don't wants, you know? I want to sleep in and I want to skip all my classes and I want to just leave my room a mess. But I also want to have a clean space and I also want to, you know, I want to pass and I want to do good on this exam and I want to, all right. And in there, in your mind, all those wants add up and what you really want the most is what you do. So if you can basically kind of rewire your mind to want to get a pump, to want to make progress, like just to want to kill it, well then that's what you're going to do. And then if you get it in your mind where killing it also gives you this added satisfaction, well then there's just no end, you know? You're a self-fulfilling, uh, or you're a self, you're a self-fueling engine and you're accelerating forward. But that's pretty much all I got to say there. So yeah, shit, man. I think the, um, I got, yeah, one more, actually, no, two more workouts here and then I'm UK inbound and we get one more freaking show. I got to pick my posing song. I haven't even, uh, I haven't even narrowed it down yet. So you actually come up with the routine isn't going to take, it really just takes a day to get the, um, to get it into my mind or not into my mind, but like written and planned out. Uh, but yeah, I'll probably pick that either today or tomorrow just so I've got some time to get into the flow of it. I'm going to up my flow factor for this one. I don't think it was that bad for the, uh, for the, the Columbus UK or for the Columbus Arnold, but I'm going to try to up it for this next one as well. So I guess I'll just freaking see you for that.