 abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin, abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomasin abomas awake at 6, you know, if I wake up at 3 and go to the bathroom, I'm not staying up. I'm going back to sleep, you know, that would be, that'd be freaking nuts, but 4.45? I mean, what am I doing? If I go back to sleep, then I'm really going to keep sleeping, you know, so we are, we are moving, so plan for this morning is some legs. I think, yeah, yeah, yeah, this is going to be quad obliteration, hamstring stimulation, you know, because if you've, if you've never felt this before, then you might not, it might not click for you. Like, I've heard it said, like, you know, the leg press will work your hamstrings, right, or, you know, any kind of pressing movement will work your hamstrings, and, you know, when I first saw that, or like, if you look at the, at like the hammer strength leg press at your gym, and you see it, it kind of highlights, like, the targeted muscle, it's going to highlight your hamstrings, and for a while in my head, I'm thinking, well, that's not freaking right. A press is just glutes and quads, there's no hamstrings involved there, what are you even thinking about? Not exactly. So, now the more I've gotten into pressing, especially heavier pressing, you feel a pretty substantial amount of hamstring engagement. So, if the plan this morning is going to be a little bit of leg extensions first to get my quads warm, get my knees ready, and then a variety of pressing, well, if my hamstrings are going to get involved during those pressing sets, doing a little bit of a, just kind of a hamstring warm-up in the beginning, I think kind of makes it a sort of this lighter hamstring day, quad-focused lift. So, I started doing this last off-season, and I really liked it, where for a while, I would kind of balance, I'd like bounce back and forth, because I would try to do heavy quads twice a week. So, heavy squats, leg press, sissy squat finishers, everything. And then, by the time the next leg day came around, my quads were, you know, still kind of cooked, they weren't totally fresh yet. So, I would kind of make that, like more of a lighter squeezing, like leg extension, sissy squat-focused day. But, from how I think about it now, I feel like doing that light squeezing day, when my quads are already not fully recovered from the heavy leg day prior, isn't, at least I don't think, is really doing all that much to help my quad development. Now, I would say, I want to do this heavy quad day, and then give myself enough time for my quads to fully recover, and then do it again. So, that's where my typical loop changes every back and forth, where one leg day is going to be hamstring only, and then the next leg day will be quads, which is a little bit of hamstrings, right in the beginning. So, I don't think that's necessarily the greatest way ever, in the sense that I, you know, I'm not going to say that objectively, like, this is how to do it. But, I have noticed that when I do it like that, well, my quads increase in size and strength pretty substantially, in an off-season with food, of course, that's like the primary driver of me actually growing and recovering. So, it's a good approach for me, I think. So, if I, if I want to make any adjustments going forward, well, then I will. But, that makes today quad, quad centric. That's a, that's me lining up my scope on the teardrop, mid-quad, outer sweep, that sort of stuff. So, last quad day was just that three plate set of smith squats to, it wasn't even to failure, but I mean, that 10 reps was freaking hard. Like, that, that felt very heavy. So, I'm not sure if I want to make this quad session, like, the same approach, where I pick a movement, work up to a substantial weight, totally kill it, and then, you know, potentially not even be able to do another set because my quads are already so wrecked from that first one. Or maybe doing a bit more volume, doing a few different sets of presses, but with, uh, with a little bit lighter of a load, if you feel me. So, instead of, like, one crazy set of hip press or smith squats, you know, doing, like, three or four more moderate sets of pressing that overall will add up to more workload, you know. So, it's something to think about. Like, the, uh, it's pretty easy to look at a workout as this equation. Now, there's a million other things that could, that could go into this, but solid workout equals intensity times volume. Right? So, if you do more volume, you're going to do less intensity. Right? And then, if you do less volume, it makes sense. So, you do more intensity. So, just, um, you know, do a little bit of a reflection. How have your lifts been looking? And I'm, I'm always just curious to hear what kind of volume do you think is right? You know, because for me, this quad day, probably eight, seven or eight working sets total has kind of become my sweet spot for a while. And I've done 25 set quad days before. You know, this is like back when I was a beginner, so not recently. But I started working out, all right, 25 sets of body part, twice a week. Chest was five movements, five sets each. Back, five movements, five sets each. Hamstrings, uh, I don't remember if I was doing five different hamstring movements. Maybe I counted legs as one group. Uh, I don't remember. I didn't, I didn't know what I was doing like training when I started working out. Uh, but either way, I was doing a lot of volume. And after watching a couple different videos of people talking about training, uh, not necessarily watching one video and thinking, Oh my God, I have all the answers now. But just hearing people's, uh, you know, different ideas and takes on volume made me think, all right, you know what? I think 50 sets a week is a little much. Let's cut it in half. And that was fucking hard because I like it doing less would give me more results. Well, that doesn't sound right. Like I have more is going to give me more results. So making just that change was kind of tricky for me, but I think it increased the intensity of my set by set lifts and overall has continued to let me make progress. So then I lowered it even further from 11 sets, 12 sets to 10 and then to eight. So for a while in my head, I gave myself this rule, which was basically, all right, I'm doing eight sets for whatever body part I'm hitting today. So if I'm doing chest, the rule that I had for the workout was I'm doing eight total working sets, you know, maybe some super sets in there, maybe some drop sets, but total was going to be eight. So I'm going to make each one of those eight count. I'm really, I don't want to waste one of those eight sets. So that's how I went about, uh, I think that was pretty much my logic for like the spring bulk a few years ago, and then maybe a few more months going forward. But now it's kind of evolved to, okay, I know that by the time I've done, you know, seven or eight or however many sets, I'm going to get this sensation of for one, not only being pumped, but also just feeling like any more work wouldn't give me any more results. Right? So I see a lot of comments. It's like, you know what I'm saying? Why do you only do this many sets on this particular day? Like maybe I do, um, maybe I do a bicep workout or an arm day. And for biceps, I've, I've had workouts where I've only done four sets of self-assisted preacher curls or a concentration curls, like beyond failure, where I do an extra five reps where I'm helping myself in the positive and riding the negative. And I only did four sets on that particular day. So that's depending on the workout, maybe half the volume as what I might do in a different workout. So what's going through my head where I can say that four sets was enough. And it's just this kind of combination of, like I said a second ago, being fully pumped and also just, I don't want to say subjectively because I think it is kind of an objective like sensation where if I did another set for one, it wouldn't make me any more pumps, but also it would just like feel like I'm doing work rather than additional stimulation, you know? And I don't mean work as in like, I don't want to work out, but it's just this, this kind of feeling, you know, when you, if you, I think if you've worked out for long enough, you know, when you've done enough, right? So that's kind of been my sort of progression in terms of volume. But I think that that, beyond that, which I think now is pretty good for me because I can make little adjustments day by day. Maybe I was a little extra recovered, so I'll do a little extra volume. Maybe I was a little under recovered, I'll do a little lower volume, you know, just things like that. But that eight set rule that I was doing for a while where, you know, I basically say, all right, I'm doing eight sets, however many movements, you know, maybe three movements, two, two, two, three, or something like that. That's what this workout is going to be. I think that is a pretty solid approach as well, you know, if you kind of want to simplify it. So if you give yourself that sort of outline of a workout, it makes it easy to change it up. So let's say somebody is thinking, all right, you know what, I'm, I want to get, somehow this guy got into his head, three movements, three sets each, twice a week. So for chest, three movements, three sets each, twice a week. Maybe he starts with a fly, maybe he starts with a press, maybe he start, he, you know, finishes with peck deck. He could roll a freaking, uh, roll dice, and on every side of the dice it had a different movement. Incline dumbbell, incline barbell, hammer strength press, cable press, cable flies. If he did those three by threes, really brought it on every set, he can change his workout up every time, still end up with a solid pump and have, you know, really good variety to his lifts, you know? So it's just, um, I guess what I'm kind of asking is what's your framework for your split, you know? And I'm not saying like, what's your split in general? I'm saying, you know, break down your chest day, like break down your back day. Because I mean, for one, I just want to kind of hear it. Uh, but not only what it is, but kind of your mental explanation of why it's like that as well. Because I think that's almost more important. So this is part of the logic why I like training on my own. I like setting up my own training. I like, you know, reflecting on my training and trying to adjust it going forward. Because if I'm doing, you know, whatever I'm doing, because I want to, and I believe that it's going to, you know, help further my goals of progress, well, I'm going to do it even harder, right? It's, um, let's think, what's a good analogy for this kind of situation? It's like the guy who's cleaning his room because he wants it to be clean versus, you know, like a kid getting told to clean his room. So somebody who doesn't really value the end result or has put a lot of thought into the process of whatever this thing may be, I feel like they're just going to kind of end up going through the motions. You know, I think that's when people get bored of workouts. They say, oh, my split's so boring. You know, odds are they're probably repeating the same workouts. They're not really bringing it. And if you don't really push it, I don't think you're going to get the same like dopamine, endorphin response from training as somebody who completely goes just like buck wild, gets himself really amped. I think that guy gets a, gets the kind of neural, um, you know, whatever positive reinforcement from the training. So if you come in, you just scrap around, you're like, Hey, I'll just do this workout, blah, blah, blah. I don't think it's going to work as well, you know? So it's not only what you're doing, but having an understanding of at least your own understanding of why you're doing it. And then you'll do it even harder and you'll make more results and you'll want to adjust it even further. It's, um, you know, it's like, just have some, have some interests almost. And I know that's kind of, that's hard to say because it's like, how do you, you can't just manufacture interest in a subject. But if you, I mean, if you can try, I think you'll end up doing better. You know, let's say somebody is a total math whiz. They love it. They like the idea of learning, uh, you know, triple integrals and freaking Laplace transforms or whatever. If you know what I'm talking about, then we, we share a certain level of, um, maybe not trauma, but just, you know, what you're talking about. Well, guess what? He's probably going to do crazy good in all of his math classes because he wants to, he's excited about it. And then you put them into a history class or, you know, some other, just something that he doesn't care about. Well, his performance is going to suffer because he, he's not going to feel so just like motivated to improve. So that turned into a little bit of a kind of back and forth ramble, but I think there were some good ideas in there. So yeah, it's early. Sun's not even up yet. I guess by the time this lift is over, we'll be driving home, driving home with a sunrise. Hopefully it'll be pretty scenic, but yeah, I think, uh, hamstrings will just be solo for me. Like I'll do some, some seated curls and some laying curls just to get them warmed up. And then we can jump onto movement number one for quads. So I will see you in exactly 0.0 freaking seconds. All right. I have got a plan. I've got a plan. That's for freaking sure. Now all I got to do is execute it. So I've warmed up my hamstrings. I've warmed up my calves a little bit and I've warmed up my quads. So quads. I mean, you know, what are you supposed to do to warm up? I've seen guys, especially pre squats. They're like, all right, I got to open up my hips. And they really like doing that like side to side knee bend, active warmup. Um, I, maybe I just don't have tight hips because I never really feel the need to get so limber up here. What I really want to warm up is everything from my hips down. That's where I feel like if I'm not properly activated, I might run into some issues, especially right in here. So before I even do this set of 130 single leg, I can alternate, you know, five on each side ish, but started with 40, do a few, take a second, 70, do a few, a hundred, do a few, 130, do a few, just actually feel what the working set is going to feel like. And that's my cue. So right about there is good, even though it is just leg extensions and these are even relatively light. There we go. I still got to make sure everything is, let's just say ready. So I think probably two of these and then we'll pick some kind of press. So I like doing five reps on each side, alternating single, uh, single-sided movements or a single-sided reps for this leg extension set, probably for the next one too. And I just feel like I can bring it, you know, like with leg extensions, if you're doing double leg hard to failure, it's hard. You're, you're fucking bracing, you're holding your whole body down on the machine. I mean, it's a, it's, it's a very demanding set. And in the beginning of a workout, you know, I mean, I guess that's not exactly true, but I feel like I can take my quads further by doing alternating single leg. So if I were to do double leg to failure, I think I get a little more out of my quads. If I do five reps on one side, five on the other, kind of like the rest, uh, like a rest pause style set. Because a regular set, my quads, let's just say, uh, energy is going to look like this. Gradual decrease, it's a failure. Whereas by doing five, five, five, five like this on any given leg, it'll look a little more like, okay, five reps is tiring me out. Then I get five reps of rest. Five reps tires me out, five reps of rest, sort of back and forth like that. And I don't think every set has to be like that, but for these, I mean, essentially warmup sets into heavier quads, like pressing movements. I like this a lot. I don't remember if I saw somebody do this or if I just kind of came up with it. I'm sure I saw somebody do it, but I, uh, I certainly like it. So let me pick a good song and just go freaking nuts. Okay. cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool no One more of those. Same weight. Two. Two. Yeah. Seven. Poof. Two. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Ooh. Now the workout. Really fucking begins. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Let's press something. Now the workout really fucking begins. So four plates on both sides on the hack feels pretty heavy, but not too heavy. So this should be a 20 would be wild. 20 would be wild here based on how the feeler rep felt. quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando quando Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my God. Okay. One more of these. Oh, shit. A little bit crazier for this one. Five plates instead of four. So, I want to take this one to full failure. I'm talking can't stand up, stuck at the bottom. And this is something which I'm very picky about. If you're going to do a leg press or a squat or a hack squat or a pendulum, if you don't have safeties set up, just be wary. You know, all the equipment in here, I physically can't smush myself because the range of motion ends right at the bottom. You know, we've all seen the videos. Just be careful. I'm going to jump on that. no no no no no no Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. I really thought I had that last one. holy shit all right let's move on to some hip press next right after I sit here for a minute seven plates on the hip press is about freaking right so it's heavy enough I'm feeling it but it's not so heavy that I think I'm gonna tweak my hamstrings or anything and that's a that's a concern you know I mean like I was saying in the car if your hamstrings aren't warm and then suddenly you jump on a crazy press and you're really loading your hamstrings I mean what happens if you try to bench your PR cold you know so the fact that I warmed up from those seated and laying curls earlier plus just having already done that set of hack squats this will be good and this machine's a little fancy because it gets lighter at the bottom like a regular leg press the weight just moves straight up and down the the sled so it's the same at the bottom and the top but with this hip press the weight pivots around this axis right so at the bottom a lot of the weight is just being supported by the machine itself you know it's like instead of holding a bowling ball now the bowling ball suspended by this string you can give it a push pretty easily so whether you get the analogy or not this is gonna be a good set I'm just pick a good song to match it come on come on cool All right. I think two more of those will be good. Finish with leg extension. That'll be solid. Oh, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no Oh my gosh. One more. One more. One more. One more. One more. Two. Three. Two. Two. Let's finish with a sissy squat leg extension superset and that'll be all. Okay. All right. This, I guess I can't really explain the reason, but I am, I'm sweating hard. Like this is, you know, I'd showered pre-gym. I always shower in the morning, plus deodorant, everything, but I'm like stinking right now. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that I haven't really been sweating so hard over these last few months of working out. Uh, I don't know. I really couldn't tell you, but this is good. I should be leaving the gym with sweat spots all over the freaking place, but this is going to be just a finishing touch. Getting some extra blood into my quads. Uh, let's do double leg. So, sometimes I'll throw in like, uh, I call it the Jekyll and Hyde set as a finisher for quads. Uh, so essentially what that is, is starting with a light squeezing portion of the set. So pick a weight you can really squeeze and hold for like 10. And then by the time you get to that 10th rep, your quads are burning, double the weight, and then finish with as many like just heavy, nasty reps as you can do. Uh, but after those hacks and hip press, I think just a squeezing set into sissy squats is all I'm going to need. And pump wise, I mean, we can let it speak for itself of course, but, uh, it's going to speak volumes. Let's just say that. So let me pick a good song and then I am satisfied finishing right here, I believe. But if I think I should do one more after that's what I'll do. But I think this will be it. that will be it. no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no oh my god let's push down holy crap that was a good quad session all right what i could really do with would be some breakaway pants and just you know shoot them off but second to that we can just drop them but yeah quad wise i am definitely gonna feel this tomorrow and shit i'm already kind of feeling it right freaking now let me turn the oh yeah there we go so yeah just standing i mean yeah i'm seeing some fucking just well i guess i'm still seeing is a more accurate description some veins on the side of my quads so i'm not getting too soft too soon but yeah that's a substantial amount of separation still and this is fully pumped so when uh i mean same thing with your triceps probably triceps and quads the most and your back too but when you're fully pumped it almost takes away a little bit of definition right like the amount of cross striations that i usually have right here since my quads are fully pumped they're not so apparent but just visually like seeing how swollen they are is really cool and to get tested at is just standing not flexing and then feeling how tense your quads feel like they're completely relaxed and i feel like they're easily i don't know 20 psi like this feels like a like a semi-inflated tire but yeah all these pressing or all that pressing going forward is going to do me good that's for sure so assuming that i make some progress the same as my last offseason i want to see some extra thickness out here on the side like i feel like my quads are starting to thicken up this way out here outer quad from doing a lot more higher volume sets of not even just higher volume but just multiple sets of leg pressing hacks you know everything else so that's what i want to do going forward a ratio of like 70 percent pressing to 30 percent leg extensions i think is probably about right because i still love leg extensions and i do see a solid benefit with them because of the squeeze and burning action you get from the movement which you don't get on any other press you know you're not going to squeeze and burn your quads on smith squats or i mean regular barbell squats or leg press or anything you only get that feeling on an extension but on an extension you don't get that same like drive and you know just load that your quads are kind of meant to handle so it's not a question of one or the other it's more so how to balance them in between to get the most out of your training i've been leaning heavy on leg extensions for quite a while uh to the point where i actually have to make a you know like specific effort to say all right i gotta up my pressing game you know i've been doing a a ton of leg extension volume and i think if i want my quads to keep growing then i gotta change it up so that's my plan going forward but right now on a shorter scale my plan is to go get some food so let's freaking scram my legs are they're already thrashed i am going to be feeling this for a little while for sure that set of hack squats to failure i think was probably the most um sounds working but that set of hack squats to failure i think was probably my best set uh but i don't think i'm hitting full quad failure yet i'm still kind of in that adapt adaptation phase of getting back in the full swing of things like if you could somehow electronically control my body frankenstein style on that set of squats i definitely could have done more i definitely had more in my quads but you kind of just have to get used to that sort of you know failure effort gradually you know and i'm cool with that because i know that it's going to work like uh you know i've been there before with different amounts of weight for squats and not even the weight itself but different levels of intensity of these sets and i can tell this quad day was already better than my um the last one i did uh if better means that i went harder with more volume you know not for just no reason like i don't need to do 50 sets of press or 50 sets of pressing uh but you know you can you kind of got to really get into it so if you're caught in a state where you're kind of bringing it but not really bringing it like you're not pushing it as hard as you can you're kind of just you know you're pushing it but you're not actually getting into that sweet spot zone like that threshold of the last few reps of a set and you're racking it early you're robbing yourself from the stimulus that's going to make your body have to adapt outside the gym um like i'm not the kind of guy who's going to say like you know the only reps in your set that matter are the last five you know as though the first few didn't do anything but the logic is pretty sound that as a set progresses the reps become more and more stimulating towards the end you know so if i were to sit and do um you know a set of dumbbell curls with i mean even something heavy even with the 60s like let's say i'm fresh i'm strong i'm curling the 60s right now well if i only do three reps and then i put it down i don't think that's really going to do anything for me because i haven't uh i haven't challenged my biceps they're more than capable of doing three reps so if i only do those three and then i put it down and i call the set super early like that's crazy early well i don't think it's gonna i don't think that set was as effective as it could have been so how far do you take that before you're at the sweet spot let's say you can do um let's let's pick a guy he can do the 40s for 15 reps of curls maybe the last three he's got a little bit of swinging not terrible but just a little he could do 15 at his maximum output like you know if his bicep was controlled with some kind of neurological like uh electrostatic pads or whatever his biceps are capable of 15 reps at the max well would it not make sense that the closer that you could take that set to those 15 the better the set would be right so if you're a beginner it's hard to reach that full threshold uh and not even a beginner but you kind of have to work up to it you know even i'm still working up at it and of course right now coming off this prep i gotta get back into my full you know swing of things but you know when i started working out every couple of months i'd have a little moment of like you know i should be going harder whether i had a really good workout that showed me how hard i could go or i had a scrappy workout and then i'm thinking to myself what the fuck did i just do like i i should be going harder than this you know no matter what ends up being the catalyst for that like you know motivation you should always be trying to push yourself closer towards that maximum exertion level you know and the benefits are twofold one obviously the sets are going to be more stimulating but the act of doing it like the act of taking a set as hard as you can you know legit failure failure on quads with like a press or a you know light press or a hack squat or squats like real failure on a set of those that's legit like that is a good set you know failure on triceps it's not that hard but taking quads to failure like that's legit a set of squats for 12 where the guy is like there is no possible way he could finish that 12th rep i don't care if the guy's doing two plates that is super fucking impressive just because as we all know quads are freaking hard to hit so for one if this guy takes his sets of squats and leg press to you know damn near failure if not failure or you gotta you know push your legs to you know finish the rep you're gonna get better at taking that set to failure right so you're developing this sort of innate skill of being able to bring it on a set-by-set basis and like anything the more you do something the better you get at it the easier it becomes so it's kind of this um like contradictory idea where the harder you train the easier it is to train hard if you follow me right so as a beginner you know it's hard to train hard but the more you do it the more you get into it and kind of basically raise your own bar the easier it is to go hard and then the easier it is to be consistent with it and now you're making legit progress because odds are you're keeping your bar way up here so it's sort of this um kind of seniority benefit from if you've trained and gone to the gym consistently for long enough because think of the guy at your gym who is the guy you know it doesn't matter if he's a big-ass bodybuilder or if he's just a diced 190 and he's just in really good shape the guy who's really killing it right or the girl you know who's to say exactly you know who i'm thinking of at your gym or i guess you know who you're thinking of they almost have it a little bit easier because they've built up this momentum where now they're used to it and that's a really good state to be in like the gym should become just a part of your daily life i feel uh especially if you really want to get into it uh if you're not really you know a gym nut and you don't really care about it uh i think people should just work out in general you know even a three times a week uh just walk in grab some machines do some stuff uh like if for whatever reason i completely lost the itch to to lift if i said you know what i don't really i don't really give a shit about being big anymore i would still want to train at least at a certain baseline just because i know the benefits you feel good you're stronger uh i mean just literally picking things up is easier um you know everybody should be doing it but if you really want to get into it it's kind of a uh it's sort of a slow investment that starts to pay off pretty substantially because now it's not even a chore right actually coming in and going crazy training really pushing it you're sweating it's just what you do right so it's um it's a positive feedback loop i feel so that's my uh that's my little tip so i know it's kind of basic to say just go hard but think about it in the sense that the harder you go the easier it'll be to keep going harder so that's a just a little bit of a different kind of thought process rather than like you know most a lot of hype is like oh you know what it doesn't matter if you're tired just just go hard anyway it's like you know yeah obviously you need a certain amount of grit to you know keep training really consistently but the more you do it the easier it gets and then the harder you can go the more benefits you get from the training okay to infinity and freaking beyond that's for sure so plan for this post-workout meal i'm thinking 50 grams of protein worth of egg whites and something else some kind of carb not exactly sure what i will figure that out once i'm in the kitchen but quads complete they are oh my gosh yeah i'm even just getting up from a seated position later today and then not even including the soreness i'm gonna feel tomorrow yeah they quads are gonna have to work to get back to normal so i'm gonna try to fuel that process and then i am near certain my next quad session will be more intense more weights maybe not more sets but more intense sets rather so yeah i think there's nothing else to freaking say i will see you tomorrow