 all right, I am approaching equilibrium, I'm approaching equilibrium, I'm approaching equilibrium, it's gonna take a little while, I think, primarily because, well, I mean, the basic setup wasn't really awesome, a regular sickness, a regular sickness, a regular sickness, at least you can sleep, at least you can get a decent night's rest, and you're good, but this whole stomach thing is totally thrown off my slumber, my slumber, my slumber ability, not to mention my circadian rhythm was freaking bananas, because I had a six hour time zone change, so I think all that combined is kind of extending my recovery period, but we're getting a little more normal, I can definitely tell, still a ton of gut, and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin and insulin insulin and insulin insulin and insulin insulin and insulin insulin and insulin insulin insulin insulin and insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin insulin yesterday I watched you do a set of triceps and it's like you're just throwing the weight around you know what the hell are you doing and to that I would say I would preface the question all right well what is the perfect set you know like let's let's try to break it down what should every set look like and do we think every set should be light squeezing totally controlled no momentum to that I say no you know and I've got a few thoughts about how I want to adjust my training going forward in this offseason and what I really want to maximize is probably my training variability so what I mean by that is in all my previous offseasons usually I get it in my head okay let's do crazy heavy sets in the beginning you know maybe three sets of something really heavy incline smith bend over barbell rows squats you know tricep pushdowns with two plates in the stack and then finish the lift progressively lighter so when I'm strong go the heaviest and then as I get weaker throughout the workout go lighter and then transition to more light squeezing work at the end that setup makes a lot of sense to me because it's like all right I'm fresh in the beginning so I'm going to go really heavy once I've warmed up and as I get weaker I'll still go you know as heavy as I can for a good set of whatever you know 10 15 even up to 20 but adjust the weight accordingly to you know accommodate for my decrease in strength so that I'm still bringing it to real failure every set in a row and I like that that's a good workout but I don't want to do every workout like that so then you know I've done some I've gone through phases where in my head I'm thinking all right let's do a you know basically a workout like that for phase one of the split so legs chest back arms let's do all these pretty heavy or at least you know every time I do one have it be a heavier day and then the next time around legs chest back arms lighter squeezing so kind of getting a little more back and forth like quads I think definitely I'm going to keep that routine I really can't do a full-on balls-to-the-wall quad workout two times a week it starts to wear at my knees and I can feel twinges and things one crazy quad day a week and then a lighter squeezing one that's more manageable even just doing quads once a week I really kill it but then it kind of begs the question well what about volume you know that's the intensity side of things how can I change my volume on a day-by-day basis so maybe going forward in this offseason I might do you know some lower volume more higher intensity days I've had bicep workouts like offseason not dieting at all four sets of curls because what I did was four sets of like self-assisted concentration curls like you know seated bent over where I went to failure and then assisted myself with like another five or six reps for four sets in a row by the end of that four because every set was to failure and beyond well I was done I don't think there's any more productive tricep work to do or bicep work to do but I think there's also value in you know kind of having more of just a pump activation day so if I have a day where it's like all right let's go crazy incline dumbbell uh I mean I've done chest days where it's like you know 150s to failure immediately jump to the cable and do some cable press as like some beyond failure work well the the next chest day I think I might you know benefit from doing maybe double the volume maybe do like 10 sets instead of six or five but back off on the intensity maybe increase the frequency you know because there's a there's a few equations you can kind of look at to describe things and that's how I look at it so you've got volume times intensity equals the workout I guess that's a pretty simple one volume times intensity equals the lift so if you increase the volume on a set by set basis you'd have to decrease the intensity if you increase the intensity logic would dictate you want to decrease the volume you know what I'm saying so the basic gist is I want to make sure that all the workouts I'm doing this offseason are different I'm still going to progress I'm going to make sure my heavy sets get heavier and you know my pumps get more and more pumped but I don't want to get caught in the same loop I don't want to get caught doing the same thing week after week after week and this is something I was just thinking about before I got in the car but I think we have a little bit of a an ignorance towards time right time is just constantly flowing it's pretty easy to kill a day I mean shit I basically just felt like a week kind of disappeared because I just was rolling around in bed going back and forth to the bathroom for like six days straight like I mean shit you know that's two percent of my whole year almost fuck not good but I want to make use of that I've only got so many weeks of the rest of this year you know as do us all so I want to make sure that once I get into full swing and offseason or full swing of an offseason I'm making it productive you know so it's going to take a minute to get back into that full power groove I feel like I'm an old um not old but I feel like I'm an engine that hasn't been put through its paces for a little bit especially after this diet and then even more so now that I'm kind of in a recovery sickness rebound I got to get my freaking rpm up but by the time I'm at what I'd call you know the full swing of things probably a few weeks that's where I want to make sure every lift is like okay I'm going to bring it in the gym of course I'm going to make sure my food outside the gym matches that so if I'm bulking or you know gradually trying to put size on I want to eat enough food so the scale changes and I over recover and get stronger not to mention bigger of course that's really the the main focus and basically just finish every day with a big ass green check mark you know I want to say I did it and if I can do that over the course of you know basically 100 200 or so days I don't know how long this offseason ended up being I'm gonna be bigger at the end of it that is uh well excuse me to say that's a guarantee is kind of an understatement you know so I think no more talking how about we just uh just get this quad day or this leg day started not a wild leg day should be a pretty good pump though all right got the dogs out for this one because I rolled up in slippers well let's just start with some seated curls so not too hefty really I've just kind of sat here doing a couple standing calf raises to get my calves warmed up a little bit not like brutally important right now but if you're going to do real heavy leg curls your calves are going to come into play you know it's um it's like doing a forearm or doing a bicep curl it's pretty tricky to have zero forearm activation so the fact that it kind of comes into play I mean I want to warm it up same thing with chest that's why I'm going to camp out on the on the uh just the cable machine and do a bunch of rotator cuff work triceps front delt rear delt side delt everything I want this whole area warm before I put any force through it helps me at least mitigate injury I haven't had a shoulder problem for a little while and I haven't pulled my hamstring or anything either part of that's just being smarter and not um you know doing so much weight that I just rip my you know rip my you know what but half the stack now let's just start with the just a set of squeezing reps I really want it to burn at the bottom I don't know maybe 10 or 15 where I have a real good hold a couple partials at the end and we will see this might not be enough weight to hit like full-on failure or else it'll make a 35 rep set so I might have to adjust accordingly but I'll figure it out I need to get something going hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm hmm freaking feeling it let's go a little heavy for the next one probably just do i don't know maybe three more of these then move on to the laying curl yeah that'll be good and these are i'm gonna feel these that's freaking for sure all right a little technique tip that i'm kind of doing and i you know i can't say this is objectively better or worse but i'm kind of turning my toes inward during these reps so it's like um you know i've i haven't seen anybody talk about this for a while i guess it's kind of people have just lost interest but i'd see a lot of videos where guys would talk about okay well if you want to work the teardrop do a leg extension with your feet really wide or if you want to work your mid-quad put your feet together i don't know if you can bias them so well but your hamstrings are tricky enough i think there's some benefit so for me i think i noticed if i have my legs turned out like this you know feet to the sides i get a little more calves whereas if i put them together and then turn them in a little bit so that like the um i don't know is this the ball of your foot or kind of touching you know it's super easy to see if you don't have shoes on then pulling in that direction kind of helps and i'm not doing rdls today but rdls i do the same thing i kind of stand um i guess the opposite of duck footed and it helps me feel my hamstrings activate a ton instead of my glutes and lower back so i guess i never thought about it like that but yeah you know just maybe try to be aware of how your feet are oriented with lane curls i don't think it's so i don't i'm not so specific but with a seated curl i do notice while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while one more and then let's do a laying curl okay yeah let's get one set of laying curls that'll be enough for hams for today all these lifts over the course of the next few weeks will increase in both volume and let's just say heft there's a lot of laying curls out there and at this point i've used a ton you know i'm pretty i'm pretty well versed i've been all sorts of gyms all sorts of equipment but this has got to be the let's just call it the most humbling leg curl that i've can honestly get my freaking hands on 70 pounds well i'm gonna drop it to 60 actually after all those and the stack goes up to 150 so i'm only doing a little more than a third of the stack with both legs yeah this is good i don't um i mean we'll see deeper into the offseason i do heavy curls like i'll do the stack on that leg curl pretty not easily but it's within range like as a working set but the stack here i don't think i've ever done a real set with this stack and that's what i really like you know when we want a machine that uses the weight so well you can't even do it you can't even do the full weight range obviously sometimes it's just infeasible because like the amount of weight you'd physically need would be a little bit too much but something about right here is solid and it's not like um well if you ever run into an arsenal laying curl i'd recommend it but be cautious so let's get this one done and start some quads all right while! Okay, yeah, let's get some leg extension started. I'm going to feel my legs tomorrow, I guarantee it. But probably not in a good way either. Let's basically do the same thing, you know, lightish starting set. But let's do sixes. Six on the left quad, six on the right, six on the left, six on the right, back and forth until they're essentially, maybe not fully cooked, but beginning to be seared almost. All right. All right. Yeah. um Look how cute I'm talking to you guys while I'm talking to you guys while I'm talking Okay. Okay. Alright, let's get a little heavier. Alright. Alright. Yeah, same shit. And my legs are still feeling heavy. This was probably the freakiest part about the, let's call it the sickest day, day one, was since I couldn't drink any fucking fluids on that Tuesday, and I'm just freaking losing electrolytes and water, like by midnight, I must have easily lost a gallon of water. And even walking from the bed to the bathroom was like, I'm grabbing onto the walls for balance. So, it feels good I can actually freaking drink stuff now, that's for sure. But, let's get this moving a little bit heavier. A little heavier, a little nastier. But, yeah. This is basically going to be it for quads. while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while Look how cute I'm being in the head Yeah, one more like that. Same weight. That's good right there. I'm just going to do a few more like that. I'm going to cut the post down. All right. I pumped out about three more sets over there. No super set with leg extensions or anything. That was kind of just about right at this current fullness state. Let's see how legs are looking. So, obviously not the wildest pump in the world for me. But, hey man, shit. That's some veins. Get some veins in the freaking picture. That's for sure. Yeah, so solid. I didn't pick the best lighting spot. That's okay. Yeah, still a substantial amount of ham and quad thickness from the side. But even just standing, what's really notable is I can feel this tension in my skin. So, it's like without even flexing, just standing in a natural kind of state, I can feel there's a lot of pressure kind of built up. And this isn't even like the wildest freaking pump. So, still veiny. Next leg day will be even wilder. And pressing will be involved. But, shit man. Let's get back in the car. We are done for this lighter quad day. Er, leg day, I guess. All right. Yeah, that feels pretty good. Feels good to get some blood flowing in the lower body. That is for sure. That is for sure. I was about to say something and now I completely forgot. But, either way, either way, we are back. We are on the upswing. Let's put it that way. So, post-workout meal, honestly, I'm not even totally certain. I'll just have to see what's going on. I would not mind something soup-based. I would not mind kind of a bone broth with a little bit of, you know, maybe just a little bit of rice on the side. Maybe even just do all sorts of stuff. Not even really a themed meal. But, just get, like, some oatmeal into my system. Some plain protein. You know, nothing too wild. Because, right now, I kind of get a chill. I'm not eating anything. I'm not eating anything weird. I'm not eating anything strange. Just because I don't want to mess my stomach up. You know, keep the, uh... Just keep from eating anything too funky. So, I'm not going to get a Kaniac combo on the way home from the gym tonight. That's not off the limit going forward. Like, that's, uh... That's not off limits. But, it's not for right now. Certainly not for right now. I think a full-on Kaniac combo. Extra toast. Buttered on both sides. Few extra sauces. Few extra tenders. And a Sprite Zero. I'm not a monster. Of course, I'm sitting here with Sprite Zero. I think that would probably, uh... That would probably thrash me right now. Especially coming off of such a long time of such clean eating. So, just as much as I'm going to gradually reintroduce more calories. I'm also going to have to gradually reintroduce, you know, more... I don't want to say junk foods. But more, you know, kind of fried foods and extra processed foods and things. Because I'm just not used to it right now. You know, I don't think it's a problem. Especially in an off-season. I mean, I've been saying this a little bit. I want to have a good, um... Eh, probably about 80, 20, 75, 25% ratio of plain meals. Rice, beef, you know, canned chicken. Honestly, I think that's fine. We'll see, though. I think I've got to get into some real meal prep. Like, if there's a year that I'm going to buy, you know, like a full cow and get like a meat refrigerator for the garage. This is going to be the year to do it. You know, actually probably pretty soon. Especially going into an off-season. But 75% of my proteins, carbs, and fats come from meals like that. And actually all my proteins, really, or at least most of them. And then being on the sparser side of, you know, things like a Ben & Jerry, things like an ice cream, or... You know, it's just like a... It's just like a... Things on the treat side of things. You know. But I think the term bulk within moderation, bulk responsibly, is kind of what I'm trying to push there. So, we're definitely in a lean, emphasized mentality right now. You know, with all the looks maxing. We're getting into summertime. So, summertime, that's when you're going to want to be leaner. It's pretty typical. You know, it's like we're still wild animals. You know, we're always thinking hunker down and hibernate for the winter. Put some, you know, put some body fat on. And then summertime, shed that extra weight. It's just kind of, uh... I don't know. Maybe it's just ingrained in our minds. I've never really been so privy to trying to make my diet match that theme. I've had a lot of bulks that were during the summer and a lot of cuts that are during the wintertime. But I'll say it's, uh... It definitely is nicer having it be the other way around. So, it's not like I don't see the benefit. You get to be leaner during the summer when you're running around outside a bit more. And then in the wintertime, it's colder, depending on where you live. And you get to just be warmer and fuller and your lifts are crazy. Like, there's definitely something to be said about rolling into the gym at a bulk to weight. You know, extra warm. You're already kind of sweating in the car just because you've got some free in your system. And your heart's pumping a little more than normal. You're warm. You know, not that you're so warm you're going to skip your warm-up. But you're warm. Like, it's, uh... I'm actually getting excited to start sweating again. Which I know is kind of a funny thing to say. Like, obviously, I've been sweating during my cardio sessions. But I went back and watched one of my off-season workouts from, like... Excuse the yawns, man. I'm freaking sleeping. But from last summer, you know, I'm doing legs totally freaking drenched. Like, it's going to get to the point where I need to put a shower in the gym. Especially if I don't get an AC setup. That's actually on my list. I've got a few things I need to write down on paper and put a checkbox next to. Not necessarily any specific order. But just some shit that I've got to get sorted. And that is one of them. Getting an AC installed in there. Or at least get it scheduled to be installed. You know, I can't do it because I'm not the... You know, it's still a rental unit. So I've got to get somebody who they approve of to put that in. But, yeah, that'll be good. Because these last, basically, I mean, really months of workouts... Just the fact that I've had to kind of pull back on the throttle... It's just not as fun. So, yeah, I'm still... We're still easing into it. We're not just totally redlining it off the rip. Because we've got to build that momentum back. Sorry if these yelts are, like, really peeving you. I can't fucking control it. But, yeah, it's going to be good. So, fast forward a few weeks. I think we'll be getting there. That's for sure. But in terms of squats... Dude, it's going to take a minute to get some nasty squats back. Because, for one, I've got to get the form right again. And, for two, I've got to get everything else that goes along with it moving as well. My adductors, I've got to toughen up a little bit. I think an adductor machine is probably a necessity for this off-season to throw in the gym. Not only for warming up before heavy pressing, but also just as a leg thickener. Like, from the front, especially. If your adductors aren't really developed, you kind of get this thinner, like, tapering to the inside of your legs. Which is kind of sneaky, because you never think about the inside of your legs. But it does make a difference. So, even if it's just sitting there playing on your phone, camping out for eight-ish sets. Your adductors are pretty strong. So, from what I've noticed, all you need to do is 10 to 15 reps where it's really burning. Take a minute and just kind of do it again. A little more of a, just get the sets done. Instead of, like, an insane on-adductors kind of approach. But it really does make my squats feel more stable. And not only more stable, but also just stronger, you know, and more comfortable. So, I'm going to get my adductors back in shape. Not that they're not, but they just haven't been exposed to a lot of load over this dieting phase. And then we'll see how we're looking. Because five plates is out of the question right now. Even four is probably pretty wild territory. So, I think I'll probably, I don't know. I might even just call it a three and just start there. I'll have to see. Sometimes I let myself get a little bit excited. Because I start squatting. And then I'm thinking, alright, well, you know, three's actually not that crazy. And then I think, okay, well, let's throw a four on. And, ah, well, you know, we're already at four. I actually think I can do it. That's when I'm going to get into trouble. So, I'm going to make sure not to do that. I'm going to try to remind myself that I have not squatted in months. And I probably shouldn't put double or anywhere near over double my body weight onto my shoulders. Into, you know, free open space. Where anything can freaking happen. Without having gradually worked up and, you know, kind of re-exposed myself to it. But, yeah, in terms of what my leg pressing movements are going to be. Definitely some squats. Definitely some Smith squats. And that hip press is going to get worked. That's for sure. The hip press is probably my favorite leg pressing machine. Just because of the strength curve. The fact that it's heavier towards the top. But it's a little lighter at the bottom. So, I don't feel like I'm going to get crushed at the bottom of every rep. And it's actually a little bit of a break on my knees. Yeah, that's going to be good. But I think nothing else to say. I'm probably going to hit the sack quick. After I get this video edited together. And then I'll see you tomorrow. I would not, um... Very... Tomorrow is definitely potentially a rest day. Not guaranteed. But there's definitely some potential. You know, I'm not anti-rest day. Especially right now. Because I'm in such a state that I could definitely overdo it. But, yeah. I will see you for whatever that brings. So, maybe... If it's not a lift. Some kind of Q&A. Some kind of something or other. You know. We'll freaking see. But, either way. I'll see you then.