 Hey, guys, Stan Eppert here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow, Vertical Diet E-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep company offers free shipping, your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to stanefforting.com and get started. Hi, everybody, welcome back. The Vertical Podcast, Stan Eppert, founder of the Vertical Diet. Here with my, well, not just a guest anymore. It looks like we're gonna be partners on this swimwear adventure. The legend, Flex Wheeler, needs no introduction. And we've got a special guest today that Flex will introduce that also needs no introduction. So, Flex, why don't you get us started? Victor, one of my old homies, man. We've done a lot of things together, we can't talk about that. No, we cannot. We cannot, we will not. But man, thank you so much, Vic, for being a guest, our second guest at me and Stan got going on. And just, it's gonna be very honorable to see you compete in the honor classic again, man. What made you want to get back in the honor classic? No, I wanted to first say thank you, Stan, and Flex for having me in your show. It's an honor for me. Well, to be in the show is to say, let me see what I still have, and let me push a little bit more. Right. And last year I did the honor, it'll be exactly a year ago from the last time I competed. And as you know, I didn't fare too well, but I pushed a little harder, changed a few things, and added chat back to the picture. So let's see what happened. Wow, nice, nice. Yeah, that'll help. Yeah, you're aging well though. You're 46 now. Yeah. I think, and you've been competing as a pro for damn near 20 years. I know, man, where does time go, guys? You know, where? How about your first amateur show? When was that? That was back in the early nineties? My first amateur show was a first amateur show, I believe, I mean, it was almost classic, 93. It was 93 in the first NPC being the Metropolitan, and no suburban in New Jersey, one in New York, metro area. Well, it's truly turning out to be the fountain of youth, though. We've got Johnny Jackson is up there, we've got Dexter Jackson is also gonna be up there. So we've got a whole crew of guys that are really representing just the best of long-term health in bodybuilding, and it's great to see you still in the camera. Dexter's gonna be holding the helm there as the oldest of all of, you know, between me and Johnny, actually, you know. I don't know if I'm second or is Johnny second, whatever, but at the end of the day, you know, Dexter's a big inspiration, and that's why he said, you know what, if Dexter can do it, what can I? Exactly. Hey, before we, I wanna ask you a lot of questions about your current training and diet and what's changed over the years, but before that, I wanted to congratulate you on your citizenship, that's a recent news. Thank you. Yeah, it's been a long time coming, and I heard it was a little hairy along the way. We almost lost you there. Oh, you know, it is. Well, what's life without a little suspense, you know? Yeah. You know, I read something, I read something I thought was really nice that you mentioned that Arnold had actually written a letter to the judge on your behalf. It's gotta be very rewarding. Yeah, he did. It was a tough judge, but you know, getting a letter from Arnold, did it help? You know what? I got a letter from Arnold, you know. Did it help? Yeah. Wow. Nothing else really matters, you know? As far as the judge, he was definitely one of the toughest judges. He had a 90% deportation rate because he set you up on that stand, you know? Right. He will ask you these questions where most of the time, you would step on your own foot, and one of the things I did have, and I said, you know what, I'm gonna study this judge, because I have nothing but time in there. Right. And I remember time, by guys, a few, you know, 10, $15 a commissary, and I interviewed them about their case. Wow. Yeah, because a lot of them were there for about, you know, minimum a year. Most of them, I think the highest guy that was the longest that the guy was there, I think he was about two years and a half. And facing this judge, and I said, man, well, I wanna know what this judge asked. I wanna know his questions. I wanna know what he asked for, because this is my first time, and so when he were asked for certain paperwork, they'll already be there. Right. When he were asked certain questions, I knew how to answer it, you know? So why not be prepared like anything else in life, you know? Especially when the judge just wants you out of the country and, you know, sorry, judge, but, you know, I did tell you, I did tell you I was in a win, you know? That's very smart of you, yeah. And I noticed that your sport and the MHP gear that you've been supported a lot by Gerard Dente, who helped you throughout this process as well. We should mention that. He's been in your corner for a long time now. Oh, man, I mean, there's no words I can explain, you know, the appreciation I have for MHP and the support, again, it's just, there's nothing matching it. You know, I mean, when everybody, especially, you know, some old friends that were around, they were gone, and hard times were always determined who's around. And you guys are no bats and right now, flex too, you know? Yeah, yeah. Hard times will definitely clear the air and you'll see who's there, who's not. And MHP was definitely one of the ones that stood by me. And I want to say thank you, Gerard, thank you, MHP. And everyone in MHP, not just, you know, Gerard, the whole family at MHP, great, great, great. Thank you for the support always. I remember competing against Gerard and just always an incredibly nice guy. And I'd have to say, from my experience, so I don't know all the nutrition owners or all the nutritional owners, but in my opinion, he has to be one of the most nicest and genuine out of all the people in that game, because we both know it's some cutthroat cats in there. But, you know, just the support that he's showing you through all this and everything. I don't think many guys get a chance to spend not long with their company, because the company ended up treating them foul, you know, but obviously it's a tribute to him and yourself to be with him that long. I mean, different times, you know, fast forward, and I've been going through what I went through back then now. I don't think you can hide those things now or all this social media, you know, and kind of like so, you know, I mean, again, but he's still by me. I just been nothing but grateful. And I never saw any other company, but MHP ever since that time, you know, so when you're in there doing time and you're still able to feed your family, that's huge. There's no comparison. Unheard of, there's unheard of. Yeah, yeah. But kudos to you, you got that done. It's a wrap, man. We won't even need to visit that anymore. That's water on their brits, on the bigger and better things now. Yeah, yeah. Now I want to be scared to catch a case, you know. I slept somebody, test me not. No, no, no. Test me now. Let's keep it going. Yeah. You know, you mentioned, you mentioned that, you know, you've got a family to support, you've got six kids. Yeah, I know. I should have never said, I'm stopping at two, you know. Yeah. I believe I never say never because I said never, here I am six kids later. Right. And you're still staying busy. You've got a show that you've been promoting and now you're getting ready for a competition. How do you time manage all of this between the kids and the commitment for the bodybuilding prep and your show and your business and representing MHP? What's your secret? Stan, who the hell said time manage right now? Yeah. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha. You know, I just, again, my kids motivate me and my kids save my life. There wouldn't be no other way and my kids kept me competing. So, I mean, yeah, yeah. I have to make the time, you know, the wife helps me with a lot of the picking. My other kids' mothers help me take care of, they do their part big time, big time. So, I put my hands up and I said, I ain't got nothing on you, you know. I can't say anything because my kids are happy and my kids are healthy and they're very smart. I mean, I'm learning from my daughters every day and I'm very grateful for them and, you know, I mean, the kids are everything, man. No matter, I mean, you go through these hard times, the hard times you're down, the hard times you're struggling, but you look down to the side and look at one of them and you're like, okay, all right. You know, enough of those 10 seconds of down, you know, let's stay up. Yeah, good for you. Well, I don't want to bore you to death because you've heard these questions a lot, but there's a lot of folks out there that get up into their 40s and into their 50s and they've been training a long time and they've got some bumps and bruises like myself and they see someone like you still with a fantastic physique, getting ready to compete again. What's changed? What do you do now differently? What is your training and your nutrition look like that allows you to have the longevity that you have? Well, for one, I'm not eating a pound of protein per meal. Right. That's not, I'm not doing that, you know. I know Flezza was a time ago doing 12, 16 ounces. And I'm sure you stand with the power of that thing. You know, we could put down food and unfortunately you get older, metabolism slows down. So you have to make those changes because you put the food away, your stomach is just going to expand. So you have to now eat the smaller meals now. Not training is heavy because... Smarter but not heavy. Yeah, yeah, smarter and always form. Form has always been one of the things I always followed. I know this Flezza was one of the few that really had any injuries again in the form. Looking at Dexter, that's what keeps him going. His form. And Phil. Yeah, Phil. I mean, there's no way around it. You can go at, bodybuilding always think you're doing bodybuilding. So a lot of bodybuilders try to do powerlifting. And... Yeah, it's bodybuilding. It's go-to. Yeah, you can actually, you know, it's fun. I mean, people hit this PR now with this social media, that, you know, big thing PR, PR, PR. But what I'm saying is, they're not competing. They're hitting these heavy weights, but guess what? Nobody's recording a record, you know? Nobody's recording it. Nobody really cares. This, we're competitors. We're competitors and we want to stay healthy. We want to stay, you know, injury-free. We'll be able to stay up on that stage. So that last serious injury I had was my arm, you know, and I broke my arm before that was my torn patella. And unfortunately, none of it was in the gym. I was going to say, none of your injuries were in the gym? No, no. Small little tweak here and there. I think it was a partial tear before the 2005 Arnold in my left pack and... Pack, yeah, I remember. Yeah, yeah, that was partial. I still competed. I didn't pull out, you know, but it was harder to drop the water because of the inflammation. You got six kids, of course, you don't pull out. I mean, yeah, go ahead and pull out. I got to know my play. I got to know what to do. Yeah, my pull out game is bad. I said it and went there. We might edit that. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not going to ask you for any birth control. No, no, no. But I did see a post recently, you're in the 15 to 20 rep range pretty consistently now. Yes, yes, then 15 again, you know, if I could push out the last five, you know, it's all about tearing that muscle fiber. So you don't want to do 20 and still able to do another 10. And that's not enough. That's not enough. And the deadlifts I stay at right now, the highest I go on deadlifts for 10 reps might be 315, you know. But I like staying with my two and a quarter for 15, 20 reps. We have this thing where I do here with my training partners. And I should put it up on social media. I have to be more active on that. We basically do 20 reps or go home, you know. And we just 20 reps of all the way. You know, I stand for a while, 20 reps to change your life. Yeah, change your life. You know, I spent most of my career, as you know, as a powerlifter. And I always thought the stronger I got, the bigger I'd get. And when I finally met Flex in 2008, he completely changed all that. And he wouldn't let me lift any heavy weights, no squats, no deadlifts and no flat bench, to be honest with you. And I turned out to be the best I ever was and got my prokarta result of doing the very same things you're talking about and Flex keeps repeating. So I'm sold. No, I'm number one injury, flat bench, flat bench, number one injury. And that's why I just stick to the dumbbells. And if I am going to do a flat bench again, because of my arm injury, now, unfortunately, all I could do is two and a quarter. But again, slow, you know, work on those negatives, on the squeeze. And I do a lot of pauses and it's working. It's working. I mean, I'm no 2007 Victor, but, you know, I'm still here still, you know, representing the over 40 crew. Yeah, still look great. Have you settled in on your music yet? There was some talk about what there's a few. There's a few. I think I think there's time when I tell a good story, you know, when I go to the Arnold, you know, it's going to be a story. It's going to be a different collage of these genres. It's going to be a good mix. You know, it's going to be a good mix. Don't expect a handstand like I mean, all right. So right. Anything like that. No splits. No splits for you either. No, no, no splits like Flex, you know, but at the end of the day, I really want to go back into that, you know, yes, his body building board, but bringing the good old classic posing. You know, and thank you for that, because as a fan of the sport, you know, watching Flex growing up back in the late 80s and early 90s, and he was breaking onto the scene with those incredible posing routines. And it used to be judged back then and it was entertaining to watch. And it's really nice to watch your performance as well. So we appreciate how much time and effort you put into that. You pose every day, don't you? You know, six weeks. So yes, it's every day. The roof, the routine, I try to practice at least three times a week. Again, it's just given that time. I mean, when my kids are in school, when I'm not traveling to see one of my daughters again, it's just days full days. Oh, and I got to use every every second, every minute of the day and put it to good use. And right now it's everything for the show, everything for the show. So, uh, tell my friends, I mean, those days, hey, you have a minute for lunch. I'm like, no, I mean, I'm getting ready to pick up my daughter, you know, oh, I'm going back to the gym. Well, I'm just, you know, grocery shopping or something. But, uh, yeah, those times that we took those days for granted, just chilling, doing a whole lot of nothing. Oh, long gone. Yeah. Oh, God, I was laughing because I'm thinking of just different stuff. Stuff you can't talk about on the one. I tell you the one and only time I went out, well, not the one and only time. The first time I ever went out with Victor, it's like, all right, we're going to go here, we're going to go there. And he goes, man, I'm going to get your third pass. He goes, what do you drink? Flexing, like, I don't drink. He goes, you don't drink from the West Coast, man. We get your third passion. So I'm like, all right. And I have a drink and we go to his next club and like Victor, you know, I'm kind of tired. He goes, all right, we're just going to go to his last club and we'll leave. I'm like, OK, man, we come out of place and like the sun is up. And I'm like, my brain was just fried. I'm like, wait a minute, what? It's in the morning. Unbelievable. Finish the story, Flags. All right. That's all I remember. Where was Flags? Flags left me. I don't know. I don't remember anything else. I don't know anything else you say. I agree or disagree on. Can confirm or deny. No. Confirm or deny. You're a CIA, right? That's right. I got to ask you a little bit because I think the audience wants to know and there's all his rumors. And when I was back in New York and you and I trained, there was a representative there from Kuwait from Oxygen Gym. I forget as was it, Bader. When I was in Kuwait doing a seminar, I took the opportunity to go over and sit down with Bader Bodai at Oxygen Gym. And I asked him what they were doing over there because everybody wants to know. But you know as well as anybody because you trained there and you've had their folks in New York with you for a while. So what's the difference? What makes Soul Brother number one become Mr. Olympia from after training in Kuwait and what was your experience? I mean, first one was Dennis James. Dennis James was the one that was definitely one of the ones that was there. He was the first one that explored going to Kuwait and he was just spreading the good word like, they're inviting you. They're inviting you. And I think we were so caught up in just kind of staying within our comfort zone. You know, the guys in LA on LA, the guys in New York and New York and the guys in New York want to go to LA and that's it. We didn't think nothing else. So when Kuwait came around, now you're looking at something that's catered to you and only you. These guys have private gym. They're 40 to whatever 20,000 square foot gym, food, unlimited amounts of food and plus somebody always on your ass making sure you get those workouts in. So and all expense paid, you know, now that doesn't exist anywhere. If you went anywhere, you know, it was really on your own dime. So I think they changed the game when it came to training camp, you know, they took it to a whole new level, you know, where there's one guy at the gym. There was never a time that you actually got to the gym alone or went alone where there was for cardio. You had somebody there watching you do your cardio, whether it was your first training session, there was somebody there, your last training session or somebody there, the unlimited of massages. And again, the food. I remember Abdullah, he was actually helping me out there and he coached me, you know, when a chat show, the one in 2017, 16, actually. Yeah. And yeah, yeah. So Abdullah, he will come in, he'll see a meal that was there from like the day before. It's like he will smell it. He's like, not fresh. And we just throw it out. Wow. And here we order a meal on Sunday. We eating it like Thursday or Friday, you know, right? So it was one of those things that were real stickler to, you know, the fresher it is, the, you know, the faster you eat it, the better you enjoy it. It's about enjoying every moment and not making any moment a drag, you know, going to the gym was fun, working out, eating was fun. You got some of the best equipment there. Yeah. Oh, the guys that change your weights, you don't even have to touch your weight. Got two guys there catering to you, changing your weight and everything. I mean, the only gym other than goes, Jim, that has a powerhouse, Jimmy, a Long Island that has more than 40 different brands, you know, of companies of equipment. And that's just something that you don't hear, you know, right now you go to these. I'm not even going to name the planet if Ness. You know, it's like I got that family. OK. Yeah. So with them and these other, you know, even the big ones, you know, I'm not going to name it because every once in a while I do train in some of those other fancy gyms, but they have like two companies, you know, they just care about their facade and the, you know, the bathrooms mostly, you know, you want to hang out in the bathroom longer than you want to, you know, actually do a workout because the equipment is just so limited. It's like one bench, one leg press, one hack. Most of the times they don't even have a hack. So I think it's a different array of equipment, the level of attention that you got. That's why Quay got on the map and on top of that, you know, now bringing out, you know, Mr. Olympia, you got the Rollies, you got Nathan, Dasha. You know, these great guys. So my invitation was I think I got my invitation back in 2006 or seven. But because of my situation in Travely, I couldn't leave the country for a while, you know, and until that one time that did happen. And finally I did get there. I believe it was in 2010. And that's that was a whole other experience. And that's when everybody was like, oh, I've been there already. That was Ronnie Coleman. Yeah, yeah, the basic Quay. So basically what they do is they eliminate all your personal things that you have to do and they just 100 percent cater to you, shut your brain down so you don't have to deal with just day to day life, food, bills, anything like that. Expenses so you can just home in on your skill. That's a home in on your skills. No bars, no strip clubs, no clubs. That's you know, it's interesting. And I wanted you to say that yourself. But when I sat down with Bader, that's exactly what he told me. He said, you know, everybody thinks there's some magic going on over here. And we used to think there was some magic going on at Golds Venice. I used to go down to Golds Venice in the late 80s and early 90s and watch these guys train every single one of them, as is the situation in Kuwait. Train twice a day, eight, eight times a day, slept 10 hours a night, napped every afternoon. It was just they just lived, breathed, ate and fought bodybuilding seven days a week. And that was it. That's what they did. And they had great training partners and they trained with extraordinary intensity. And that's exactly what Flex did for me when I went down to San Jose. I lived in a hotel apartment right across from the gym, and he showed up twice a day and just killed us on our training and made sure that we ate our seven or eight. I was four pounds of steak a day and 600 grams of carbs dieting into a show. Yeah, eat that now. That'd be on your colon. That is true. That was a good 10, 11 years ago. You know, I mean, technology has changed and we've learned, you know, your body can't really even assimilate that much protein. It's not even necessary. Yeah. You know, but back in those times, we just thought heavier, more is this, more is that. And you know, you learn now, technology is completely different. You don't even have to stress your body in those ways anymore to get growth, you know, but that's the evolution of bodybuilding. That's what it's supposed to happen. We're supposed to learn. I mean, you got to remember also, distorted these, you know, mindset on bodybuilding. You know, you had the door in the eggs coming out with these ridiculous amounts of movements and ridiculous amounts of weight and body, cold women. That messed up a lot about it. But we knew what we were doing. We knew what we were doing is right. We knew we became pro because we're doing it right. But right when you look at them, they just messed you up. Yeah. Yeah. When you when you got the guys who are winning the shows doing certain else, it makes you question if you're doing the right thing or not. You got to be really secure and just say, I'm going to stay what I'm doing. But I mean, as far as Ronnie, I just Ronnie and Chris, you know, I just knew never to mess with them when it came to wait. Don't they're going to hurt you. You're going to mess around and hurt yourself, you know, effing with those guys with throwing a weight around they have. You know, so I just tried to I couldn't throw that type of weight around. So I tried to match the intensity by just a rep range and just everything else, you know, so you just got to be smart. I get caught up in somebody else's situation like, you know, me and you, Vic Rose, you got to stand your own lane or you get bent up. However you want it. Whether it's talking with your mouth, diarrhea, the jaw or anything else, you know, you can stand your own lane. You know, you're right. And that's why I adopted that. And I love that the form and everything I still watch old videos. You just walking around with your tights. No, no underwear. You know, it's crazy if you see somebody wearing that type of gear now, they'd be suspect, you know, but it's it's it was normal. Yeah, I used to go to the mall with that on. Man, I mean, you know, man. Oh, man. Bring it back, Victor, bring it back. Really, really do it. I can even say that I can even what's that on you again, the aesthetics, I think overshadowed your gear. So you'll find you will find you. All right, thank you. Appreciate it. Yeah. Well, I got to ask you. I know you hate these questions, but I got to ask as we get close to wrapping up here, appreciate it's late there. But any Arnold predictions coming from Victor Martinez as you get ready for the show? I've never been good with predictions, you know, I mean, it's just I leave it up to the judges, leave it up to the fans. I mean, I'm a post up a prior couple of pictures leading up to the show once, you know, again, but I'm trying to beat me. Blast. Yeah. So and that's what I was going to ask you. I mean, as far as your concern, you're back with Chad and you're seeing you doing things like, you know, that you did to get you the name and everything you had. Are you comfortable and happy with the progress set that going back to that type of training, eating and lifestyle, are you happy so far? What I was going on, we're going to see a different Victor because of that? Yes, I'm happy. And also because I started so early, you know, I didn't want to take that chance. So, you know, for most shows back in the days, you're looking at 10, 11 week prep. That's all you did. Yeah, yeah, about 11 weeks. And, you know, I mean, and I just said, you know, what, I'm going to start November. I'm going to start, you know, 16 weeks out. You know, I haven't missed the workout since my last Arnold. I haven't missed the week's workout since the last Arnold. You know, I will slow down, you know, as far as intensity. But I picked it up starting the holidays and I say, you know what? I can't mess around. You know, I have to come in with that better look from last year. I can't look worse than last year. I have to come in better if not, you know, you know, more appealing. You know, otherwise, judges are just going to, you know, how they are flexing. You know, the hard on us. They're not going to, they don't give us passes anymore. It doesn't exist. You know, they place you where you deserve. And the only way they can place you is by seeing the hard work. And you can't say you work hard. You have to look like you work hard. Yeah. So that's my predictions. I mean, I don't want to dog myself here, man. You know, yeah. You're going to be better than last year. We're trying to put your head in the news. You're like, I know what you mean. I got you. But even, even when I was, you know, doing great and I was placing great, you know, I mean, a couple of times I would just say, hey, I'm going to win, you know, but I'm like, whatever. That the very minimum, you're going to be, you're going to, you're going to be better or you're right now and you're aiming to be better Victor than you were the last time at the Arnold. That's what you're competing in. Yeah. Yeah. Again, this is a great lineup, a tough lineup. I wouldn't want to compete in any other lineup, you know, because wherever you be, wherever you place it's great, you know, I mean, yeah, yeah, it's legit. So this is great, you know, and plus, stepping on that stage with Dexter again. I mean, never gets old. It's always great. You know, Dexter is top three finisher every at any given time. Yeah. Yep. And Johnny's still killing it. It's exciting to see all you guys up there because that's a long history for us watching you guys. Yeah. Yeah. Last time I competed with Johnny, I think that was the time when he retired a couple of years ago and him coming back, it's great. It's nice. You know, you got Cedric, a previous winner, and then you got this young figure, Patrick coming out, you know, it is guns blazing literally. So it's going to be a nice show. Blazing. And right now, I think we're focusing, of course, a little bit more weight than last year and conditioning obviously was beating regardless of balance and muscle bellies, conditioning is beating everything. And I mean, I never really agree with that. Going back to the, you know, 98 Olympia, you know, when Fletch you should have. Why is my man? Rodney's my man, he said, you know, your love, Rodney. Rodney's my man. Whatever, come on, man. Your aesthetics and the balance alone. I mean, a little film or whatever, crap little water. I mean, like, you should have been yours and Rodney had many, could have dropped one, you know, but you know, I can see him now, you know, listening to it. No, I couldn't. I know, really, right? No fucking way.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere problems. We didn't know when you called me up and you're like, Hey, man, I'm coming down and like, No, no, it's okay, bro. He goes, No, I want to come down. So you always been there for me, man. And I appreciate it, Victor, tremendously true friend and always have been man. Definitely. Thanks for giving me a pass. Thanks for giving me a pass and you know, New York back in that time. I appreciate it. I'm gonna slide. Come on. Well, we're gonna be there to see you, Victor. We're coming out to the Arnold together, Flex and I'll be there and we're looking forward to seeing you just just under six weeks. If God willing, you're gonna be the best you've ever been. We're looking forward to watching you. Yeah, definitely. No, thank you, Stan and Flex. I wish you guys a number of success in your show. I'm gonna stay tuned every time and give me a heads up on your next guest. All right, tag me. Definitely will do Victor. Thank you so much, man. And continued hard work and look forward to seeing you there, bro. Appreciate it. Thank you guys. Hey guys, Stan Eppner here, founder of the vertical diet. We provide a simple, sensible and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, it's started with our easy to follow vertical diet ebook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the my vertical tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our vertical diet meal prep company offers free shipping, your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to staneffnering.com and get started.