 Hey, guys. Stan Efferty here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow vertical diet e-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to stanefferty.com and get started today. OK. Well, we're live. Well, not really live, but we're recording another episode of the Vertical Diet podcast. I'm Stan Efferty. I'm here with my co-author of the Vertical Diet, Damon McCune, registered dietitian exercise of his PhD. I'm going to need him again. Once again, I've invited another guest on my show, our show, that is much smarter than me. And so Damon helps me out of these binds. Damon, why don't you, again, no introduction needed, but I'm going to pass it over to you for the introduction of our guest today. Awesome. Well, thanks for your time today, Chris. Today, we've got the mad scientist, Chris Duffinon, to drop knowledge and teach us all things about exercise. And Chris, why don't you give the audience a little bit of your background and how you got to where you are today? Oh, god. That's a long one. Yeah, there's no little bits. A brief one, yeah. Well, my background is actually engineering and business, but I've been a gym owner on the side for a long time. And in that process, developed and honed my coaching skills and my understanding of biomechanics and really built a kind of foundation before making a move over. I've been training for over 30 years, 16 years, and powerlifting, where I was ranked number one in the world for almost a decade straight, multiple all-time world records. I retired from that about four or five years ago. Roughly around the time, I started Kabuki Strength and moved into this realm full-time. So I'm co-founder of Kabuki Strength, co-founder of Build Fast Formula, and now co-founder of Barefoot Athletics. So the main thing that I'm involved with on a daily basis is Kabuki, where we do... It's an interesting company. It is both education and equipment. So we have principles that we believe in around human movement and loading principles. And our output is where we see gaps in the industry. We develop new and innovative tools. So we have a completely different lens that we look at what type of equipment we choose to make and how it's designed than basically anyone else out there. And so we're all over the place. I mean, we work with 90% of the top MLB teams. We're in the NFL, NHL, MLB, NBA. God, basically all the top colleges, they all use our stuff, like every one of them. So that's huge because of our focus on biomechanics and being able to individualize things for the actual needs of, well, an individual, which vary based on their leverages, their mobility restrictions, what your sport and goals are, all these sorts of things. So we're able to get them in the best position possible while reducing injury rates and developing athleticism with the tools that we do. That's why we're all over those sports. US Olympic sports, mostly shot put, discus, throwing sports. But that's our bread and butter. We do powerlifting, of course, as hobbies ourselves, as I call it a hobby. And we have seminars that we do around the world on a monthly basis, mostly in North America. But this year, our branching out will be hit in the UK, maybe a couple locations, and adding Australia probably the year following. But our staff travels, does seminars. We produce free educational content across social media. And we coach athletes, do private seminars for some of these major league teams and colleges as well, so tailored to their needs. So that's us, like I said. Well, it's a lot, yeah. It's extremely helpful. That's the short one, so. Yeah. You got to keep me by rambling, man. You know that you know me. No, that's fine. I wanted you to kick off with that introduction because I had the benefit of being the recipient of a lot of that great information some many years ago when I was still actually competing. And you helped me out on numerous occasions. I came up to your gym and trained. You came down here and helped me with my deadlifting. And you and I have had the opportunity to talk quite a few times, done podcasts together. And actually the name, the moniker, the mad scientist, was from you. So. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Kick that off. You're like, get this introduction on the fly. And you're like, this is the mad scientist. And I'm like, you know, that's pretty fitting. And actually since then, I've actually been awarded by my alma mater an award for scientific innovation that I brought out. Yes. So I'm officially a mad scientist now, right? Well, and I had hoped that that was, that you would deem that to be a compliment, not an insult, but because I was just blown away by just the amount of knowledge, the depth of knowledge, and how much you were able to give me in a very practical sense. And that's kind of what I try and do. I try and bridge the gap between your level of knowledge and a lot of maybe myself in the middle and then some of my audience who doesn't spend as much time as you or me studying all this stuff and implementing it. They just want the practical takeaways, the things that they can implement. And so I want to kind of bounce through a little bit of what you're doing right now that's practical to our audiences, both lifters and people as they age, just trying to get over injuries, which is, you know, key to what you're doing. So. Yeah, we work a lot in those other, like a lot of people who think of us as like the guys that work with the top strength athletes and we like we work with clinicians and other people that are dealing like the elderly population. She'll notice a lot of our barbell especially are still designed very light because that's one of the constraints we deal with is we work with a lot of people in the 60 70 year old category that we need to get these people more resilient, get them healthier. Like this is something I really strongly believe in. So yeah, this is something we were talking about a little bit earlier and you've done a great job of really bridging that world. We had Brett Contreras on a couple episodes ago and talking about how the clinicians don't necessarily get the strength conditioning exposure or they don't necessarily have the education necessarily to apply it or implement it with their patients and you've done a great job bridging that. Yeah, yeah, the real world that we play in is that kind of it's almost return to play prehab rehab like that's the that's the area where we really shine. So using the tools and methods because that's when you really see those changes come into place you go from like I can't move. I'm in pain to hey, I'll pick up some load and I know how to do it and I can get better and this is actually helping me is is you want to talk real changes for somebody like that can be life changing stuff. Yeah, all 100% I want to get into it. I want to start with the strength feats though. Let's appeal to my meat neck. We're going to we're going to get right down into the dirty you've been doing some ridiculous lifting lately. Tell us about what it is you're doing and why and just your recent post on Instagram what happened with your your your big squats. Yeah, so I actually started this so it was four years ago almost almost to the in March when I do this final feat it'll be four years ago since I announced this that I was retiring from powerlifting. But I still had goals. I was retiring from not from lifting heavy. But from doing things within a certain set of rules and regulations and what I wanted to do is open myself up to really fully display what my capabilities were and then also combined that with being able to do cherry work to support organizations that I believe in. So I started these kind of feats of strength and a lot of this is so the first one was I dead lifted a thousand pounds for almost three reps. It's the Guinness World Record for the sumo deadlift if I just in it for one but you know I did extra and there's a reason now worse you all because I didn't at the time fully disclose what my full goal was which was to be the first person ever to do reps with a thousand pounds for a squat and a deadlift. So nobody's ever done this. So I titled it grand goals. So that was that was the goal you know what I stated four years ago and this has been the plan all along and I've been working on for four years. There's been a few five side steps where I've I squatted 800 pounds every single day for 30 days. Yep. I dead lifted 400 kilograms 880 pounds close to world record weight every single day for over two weeks. It was actually 16 days before I had a sustained an injury which it can happen when you're doing this sort of stuff because nobody's ever done it before. There's no playbook to go off of you can't read up and reach out to anybody because nobody's done this shit before excuse my language but that's that's what it is. Now here's an interesting thing for people to understand. It's all about to be able to pull this off is all about increasing work capacity. So the more work that I can do in a shorter period of time is going to equate to getting stronger. Now when I say work capacity though everybody in their minds is thinking about running doing some battling ropes doing kettlebell swings pushing the prowler and those things are not increasing my work capacity whatsoever. So as a strength athlete most of your work is all what we call axial loading. So it's a matter of understanding what vector the weight is moving in and what vector your body is responding to it. That sounds complicated. It's not like for strength athletes. It means you're loading the spine from top to bottom working against gravity and you're pushing against that. If I was a rower it would be like a front to back movement. Okay. If I'm a sprinter it's back to front. So this would be like you had Brett Contreras on hip thrusters absolutely fantastic for increasing sprint speed forward jump capability these sorts of things but have less application to Brett I'm sure I'm not sure if you guys discussed on the show but like it's going to have less application to jumping higher or squatting or deadlifting more weight right right so so that's it's really important for people to understand and kind of categorize like what your movement is because you can think I'm doing stuff that's going to help me in my whatever athletic discipline it is but you really need to understand is it really aligned is it the stuff that is going to be one I need to be thinking about how much volume I'm doing in my practice and how much volume I'm doing in my training you know you know so that you're managing that as well but am I working on increasing the capacity to withstand load or withstand volume or withstand frequency in those things and I say this and that it's very clear and simple to understand but you see this gap all the time people like I need to get my work capacity up and they all run to doing prowlers right that definitely works. But only for things that applies to right so so it's some of this really simple stuff you know we get down it's not like there's not this super complicated you know matter of strength development a lot of it is just hitting the basics and hitting them really well and understanding what you know what is what is going to be effective so yeah right now I'm in the middle so March. I get I get detoured here Stan you got to get me bring me back in time but that's fine. March I'm going to go for squatting a thousand pounds for three reps if I can do more I'll do more my goal is three though because there's three people that have doubled it in history so. Ray Williams. Kurt Kerowisky and I can't remember the name just read that he just set the all-time record for the raw total. Yeah I'm terrible. I'm terrible that I've got kids now and I watch SpongeBob Squarepants so I don't remember all the names of the incredible things that people are doing. So anyway there's three people they've all doubled it and so I definitely want to triple it so I also have the most reps in that at the same time right but even a double hits my goal of being the only person in history to have done both and the reason that's really big for me is a lot of people are great deadlifters or they're great squatters right because of leverages limb links all these sorts of things the things that from attachment points the muscles and links of arms and torsos. That's why we see these people that are phenomenal at one discipline you know deadlifting 900 pounds and squatting 650 or the other way around right yet those bellies those bellies the big squatter bellies to get in the way of that deadlift I've seen that over and over again yes so that's why I wanted to display that it's it's more than like I was built to do this like no I actually had to develop these capacities to do this and so I'm also demonstrating that the cornerstone of like one of our key philosophy points is the largest global impact on the entire body. As far as movement quality joint position everything that we have is the ability to manage and maintain spinal mechanics through breathing bracing principles. Okay so if that's our number one well I want to be as well want to be damn well best in the world to doing this so I like to set my goals high I'm a little crazy no that's great I think the important message from that is that strength is specific and that you're having to spend the bulk of your time and attention actually working on the squat now when you were doing the deadlift you did just the deadlift so tell people about that because they're thinking they can squat and deadlift and bench press yeah you've got one priority going yeah and that's I see this all the time popping up on my Instagram questions are like when you bench in what accessory work are you doing what what are the other things I'm like no I right now like I did have two squat days one the second day was was still working on some hypertrophy trying to add some muscle in this process so I was doing belt squats so I wasn't doing the axial loading I was working on developing the musculature that supports it right. But as I get closer like I just dropped that this last training cycle so it was planned I was actually not planned to drop it to like the end of January but I missed a couple sessions and I didn't want to just throw it back in for a week or two because then it'd be a spike in my volume and could potentiate injury. So I just left it out for the rest but yeah I'm down to squatting once a week that's it. Yeah that's interesting. It's interesting that's not how we got that's not how I got here that's not what I recommend absolutely clear let's be clear about that so that's not what I did for the past 30 plus years that's not what I've done over the last 9 months so earlier so this is about exercise selection. So you're only going to make progress so far under a certain set of you know parameters. So the parameters are exercise choice intensity level. You know it could be number of reps number of sets. These are all variables that you can play with exercise selection is one of the best so 9 months away from this. My coach so I have a coach his name is Brandon sin. He's our director of education here like you said you you like to have smart people in the room I have smart people to you know right so we have experts at Kabuki and like each individual area he heads up all of our staffing education all this stuff and he's managed this whole process over the last 4 years. So but 9 months ago we were looking at what are my weaknesses that I need to be developing. So exercise and we're choosing less specific exercise choices that would still be moving me in the right direction so one of the things identified as upper back strength to be able to handle and stabilize position so I was doing a lot of bent over rows things of that nature working on developing back strength a lot of good mornings so lower back or rectors those sorts of things to be able to manage and tolerate those positions into building those as strong as possible right. Exercise choices were at the time I started with front squats then I started moving to transformer bar squats within transformer bar squats we had a lot of area to play with because we could change the loading pattern but I would you know have some easier settings that we moved in and then some larger settings that would really tax like that the ability to control the spine at like the TL junction. So just working through that process and also discovering I'm getting older you know what this is like Stan. Oh sure thanks for reminding me. Yeah is I can't still it's all about getting more load in a certain period of time so a lot of time in the past is like condensing the squat sessions down trying to add additional days a week working towards that and I haven't been able to maintain the frequency that I've that I've done in the past so it's also been discovery is that like oh I'm just not able to tolerate what I what I used to do so kind of finding where that medium so we weren't able to pull is densely packed as we could which means I've got to hit more work in that one session that I've got and get more out of it because I only have a number of sessions till then but as we got closer we started then pairing away that accessory work. Okay not all of it but start pairing that out we start getting exercises that are more specific to what I'm going to be doing so we went from transformer bar to transformer bars that were closer to a back spot squat that to then finally using the Duffalo bar in the back squat which is what I'm going to be so I'm in the final phases now where now it's super specific. I'm doing just what I'm going to be doing and let's talk recovery so get back to the core nugget of your question which was around like am I doing anything else. I'm not because I want all of my I'm pushing so specifically and I did the same thing in the deadlift the final piece of the deadlift I did nothing but deadlift then I was tolerating two sessions a week here I was it close to two if we include the belt squat session in there but like I said that's that's changed a little bit in the last four years so as I went from my 30s to you know mid 40s in the process so but people don't understand like to achieve something so big in one specific discipline you're not going to be able to do a lot of those other things like they're all going to take away from your recovery resources so one of the things like people are like oh my god sign up for me you're going to hit a 2,500 pound total I'm like you're not going to hit a 25 pound total with one lift because that's all I'm training like but but to maintain your but but and they're missing the point like I've been training like free and you stand I know the same thing like when's the last time you've done curl stand yeah a long time ago and your arms are freaking massive and they look great they they make me jealous. I'm not better traps good thing I got better traps you so it makes up for it so because I because I squat I on that note I wanted to say that what you're describing is systemic fatigue it's a bucket that you feel and it's not separated by quads or arms or shoulders oh and so you have to back up and say well how how big is my bucket and you're working on making that bucket as big as you can is because I can't and the thing is like it's not like I'm laying around the other six days of the week even to pull this off so here's the thing about the sessions I'm doing it's not working up for a single heavy set actually just calculated I just ran. I'll send the graph to you if you want to throw it into your podcast yeah for sure. In the last 8 weeks of training I've squatted 400 kilograms 71 times over 400 my average load weekly load is gone from 880 pounds per session to 950 plus pounds per session and this is over like eight repetitions per session so my last workout yesterday. I started with 915 pounds for 916 pounds for a double went to 965 pounds hit it for a double went to 982 pounds hit it for a double is there even a difference between 943 and did another double right 8 total reps at 951.7 pound average load yeah I just wonder do you feel a difference between 965 and 982 just a question. Do you even know the difference at that point. Yes 982 is easier yeah I heard you say that to I have to know about that. I've never done it before right so the mental game is much stronger when I walk up to something. Here's the thing like if you if you're squatting over 900 pounds you're even if you're strong you have your game has to be on no matter what you can't just call it in because I'm strong enough like it's got to be there so there's a couple things that are kind of interesting mine mine games here is I have to stay completely calm all the way up until I get into my worksets so some of the hardest stuff that I do is actually the 900 ish pound weights. Because I'm still trying to walk up. Relaxed you're saving your motion for the bigger lifts saving my emotion for the big lift and then. But I have to do it well enough that it doesn't. It's so that it's not so hard that now it messes with my mind because I'm in a bad spot because I'm like oh my God right that didn't move good oh my God that and it's just even though you know it consciously it still wants to play with your head right. Oh yeah so now I got to go 965 well last week I did 955 and 970. So I'm I got to get pumped but when I drop up to 982 like that's the biggest squad in my life right so little easier to pull that emotion and that mental space and be in it because it's it's a different space. If I don't have that I'm probably not even squatting over 900 pounds right I. And so what part of this process one of the most challenges is actually that it's not just physically demanding it is so emotionally and mentally draining to it. No one's going to get it I can say this like they're not going to realize like I I don't even know what the point of saying it because nobody's going to get it. Yeah I have so there's it's spawning so many memories now that you're talking about it because I I remember at some point and this will be the next question for you with respect to the fact that you need to be completely 100% motivated your mind in it at some point at the end later part of my career as 4445 years old climbing under a 900 pound squat. I started to have fear and doubt yeah and so I actually one of the ways I remedy that and I'll ask you how you remedy yours. I bought my own spud straps and brought him to the gym to attach to the monolith and I wouldn't squat just with spotters because that always left in my mind there was a potential that I'd end up on the ground crumbled into the bar watching too many Eddie Cone videos. So I hooked up the spud straps and the second I hooked those up the fear went away because what's the worst that can happen you know I'm I just how about you because that's a big piece of this. It is actually it starts when I look at my training program and I open it up a couple days beforehand and I'm like I got a squat 970 pounds for a double like that's that's scary like I I don't know like but I have a lot of confidence in my team you know this is you know not Jim you know just grabbing in whoever in the gym this is these are all staff members that know me they're supporting me they've been here they know how to do it and I would be doing it and straps myself except the venue I'm going to be at I'm not going to be hauling a monolith to sure so this is what I chose to compete on and so that's what I'm that's what I'm training on right now. Yeah but there for me it's always the fear what can go wrong like you know descending in a squat and having a muscle like when you've had it tear off you can't have this stuff in your mind right so for me it's just like getting in that mental state where you can't have that fear because if you're getting under 900 plus pounds and you know this if you have the fear you're not going to make the lift that's right you're basically going to cause that realization of that maybe not the injury or whatever it is but you're you've got it you've got to be with you know fearless walking into it and okay with whatever outcome is going to happen from it you've got to be okay with it you know you brought up the warmups and I just think it's really interesting how do you balance the world of potentiating your muscle and getting that pre activation before you get to the point where you may have fatigued yourself or over fatigued yourself for those kind of list so you know the mental preparation and how do you approach that. So there's both mental and physical preparation there and so my warmups and I'm not recommending this like I've been lifting for a long time watch my videos of my lifts squatting and deadlifting and you'll see how clean they are how much I maintain position I'm not anymore working on and grooving greasing the groove I'm not working on practice of my sport I'm not working on developing motor patterns. So in a lot of that that's what a warmup is so I move to a lot of like knowing what are the key issues that I could have breaking down or that I need to have on and so I do a lot of like body weight movement prep drills. To get those things turned on so that's going to vary with time it's going to vary with what I'm doing so there's no and definitely by individual to so people want what is it well it's no secret thing it's based on assessing my body and then figuring out what I need to do then I move over to just one plate on the squat bar. And I hit five or six sets of like 12 to 20 reps. That's getting my blood flow and getting everything potentiated and then I make massive jumps. Because I'm not doing those other things that most people are doing during their warmups. So this reduces the total fatigue in there so my jumps are 70 kilo jumps right now. So about 150 ish pounds. 140 150 pounds somewhere in there. So I go from my warmups at 170 pounds for a bunch of sets to straight to 300 pounds 500 pounds 700 pounds 840 pounds for warmups and I'm at 900 pounds don't recommend this during my every day challenges this was even more critical so I push that even further. So like my 800 pounds squat every day. It's every day for a month 30 days I squatted 800 pounds. Well there's 700 there's 600 there's 500 there's 400 every day right right. So I took this even further I did more more movement prep work. And I would do my few sets get the blood flow going with you know 200 pounds or whatever it was I think I had 100 pound plate so I just threw some hundreds on and I do with that. I put 600 pounds on squat it for once and I put 800 pounds on and squat it once right. The total the total volume over that month is significantly reduced so I'm really.  specific about what the event or feat that I'm doing is and really trying to maximize it. And my approach is very different than what most people would have, but at the same time, I don't need to bench to build upper body strength and size. I don't need to do this other stuff because I'm not in the developmental stage anymore. I'm not trying to develop anything right now. I'm trying to manage my recovery and prepare myself neurologically for what I'm going to do. This is not the place that most people are in. But understanding the concepts, I think anybody can help understand the progression as an athlete and what your needs are and why you do the things that you do. So hopefully, it's helpful, understanding these peer extremes can help you understand where most people would be at and why. No, I agree. I always say you can be great at anything, but you can't be great at everything. And at some point, you're going to have to start knocking things off of your list of to-dos in order to progress and peak in one in particular. That's why people always thought I was a bodybuilder and powerlifter. I did one or the other. I had to transition. Like you said, I had to reduce volume and increase rest periods and decrease frequency when I was transitioning into powerlifting. And by the time I actually got to the last... But you still look good and you look like a bodybuilder because you've done all that work for so long. Yeah, absolutely. But the last four... It's not like it's just going to go away. Of course. Well, in the last four weeks, I was only squatting one week, deadlifting the next, then squatting twice a month and deadlifting twice a month because the weights get so heavy. I remember at the time, it was kind of when a lot of the high volume stuff was kind of coming into the industry at the time. And I had the chance there at the end of my career to train with Eric Lilliebridge, who was just excelling at a great rate. And he was still at 275. I think we were both chasing a 900-pound squat at the time. I remember this time. Well, and Eric was training. He was squatting twice a week at the time and I was squatting twice a month. And I remember his father asked me how often I squatted and I told him twice a month and he looked at me and his eyes got really big and round as jaw dropped. He couldn't believe it because at the time, I think that people were thinking that the more volume, the better. And they ended up reducing their volume. And Eric ended up going from 275 up to 308 and chasing a 900-pound squat to suddenly squatting over a thousand. So there comes a point at which you do need to specialize. And with the weights that you're lifting, you've got to manage that system, the systemic fatigue and do a little less. And there's also building to it. So a lot of problems is people look at, you know, with the high volume, high frequency approach, people go, oh, that's successful. I'm going to go do that. You can't go do that. Like my ability to squat the volumes that I do every week, we've been working on developing the capacity to do that for four years on top of the training experience that I already have, right? When I worked up my deadlift to doing twice a week, you know, I started with deadlifting every other week and we spent a year slowly making changes. And a lot of people like, oh, I'm doing this program. I'm squatting four days a week. Well, what were you doing before? Oh, I squatting once a week. You can't do that. You have to make, if you're going to make that approach, it's take your squat workout that you already have. Don't add another one, split it in half and put it on two separate days. Now you're still doing the same amount of work. Okay. And now next training block, maybe add a set on one of those sessions and then slowly start and then over a couple of year period of time, you're going to start getting to the point where, ah, now I'm just got like three full sessions. If that's your approach, you're going for, right? You can't just jump. You have to develop the qualities to be able to do this stuff. But where's the instant gratification there? There is Instagram. Well, on that same note. You can do it. Yeah. And for me, and for me, here's the thing, it's not adding a set. We're talking about evaluating, looking at one training block to the next and it's adding a rep. Like that's the, that's the minutia of the detail that we manage on this to get there. Because you go drastically wrong and now you over shoot your recovery capabilities and you're, you're, you're leaving. Well in Eric's case, a hundred pounds of squat on the. Yeah. Did we freeze up there? Do we lose him? I can't hear him. Stop. There we go. Okay. Sorry. We just had a brief freeze up there. You were talking about Eric got his hundred pounds of squat to go up because he'd managed his overall fatigue. I just want to make sure in case, in case we lost that info for the audience. But I had, I had a comment about that because what you're talking about is patience. It's one of the things that I noticed when I was able to go and learn from Mikhail Koklyev and Boris Shako is that they talked about how they create these five year plans. And now on the day of, of Instagram and, you know, instant gratification, it's really hard to get a young lifter to understand what you just said was, was a very extensive period of time. And in there you also periodized down times and D loads. These are different blocks. This isn't the same block you're talking about. So now there's even in these different, a different, a different, uh, uh, karsdarnit. Now I can't remember his name. No different Russian. I think he trained under Boris as well. The, uh, certain time of the year talks about training for the soul. Right. And it's just like in that phase, like the, so just spending some time like doing what you love to do. And I have those periods and people like, why are you doing one arm barbell snatches? Like what is the secret behind this that it doesn't like they're fun? Yeah, that's, that's, this is my play time so that I can keep mentally and emotionally engaged like when it gets into this time. Because I can't train like this year over. I can't do that. And so there's a whole lot of things to manage. Yes. It's, there's big blocks that you're, you're training that are all very different. And yeah, it takes patience. I talked about, go ahead. I was going to say over the last month, if you look through my comments on everyone on my post starting with like doing triples and or whatever in the lower 900s, people are like, Oh my God, you had another rep in there. Why didn't you take it? Right. The next workout. You had another rep in there. Why didn't you take it? Same thing was made, said with my 982 yesterday. Saw some comment. You could have done that for a triple. It was like, I don't have to have it all right there because then I have nothing for next time. Like this is all a process. Like you can't get there if I take that every single time. And I think everybody understands that now is periodization and you've done this extraordinarily well, but people only really apply it to lifting. And what I noticed is that over a couple of a few times over the last few years, you've periodized like you just mentioned, you've kind of just done it for fun. You periodized your body weight as well. You were up to 280 then back down to 240. You relaxed your whole system and let it prime itself again to go back. How'd you go up on that? Well, the last guy actually was for the couple was the picture of the book right there in front of you. Yeah. I'll get super lean, especially for a power lifter. I'll get around like 5% body fat and stay there for a while. And the reason I did this last one is in prep for this. Because if I'm bulking and pushing all the time, the body quits responding the way that I want to. I don't know if there's science behind it, but I can tell you damn well that that's what happens to me. So when I do these periodic lean way out, I find that every time I come out of that, I end up being able to add a lot more muscle mass. My body starts responding a lot better. And I knew that I wanted to try to push my body weight to 300 pounds. I'm not sure I'm going to get there, but right now I'm sitting at 280. Even though my stomach sticks out, I still got veins on my abs. But I feel and I'm moving better than I ever have it around this weight before. By fall. I just feel normal. And that's huge because it's all in taking the time to do this. I started at 270 pounds, cut down to 240, hung out for several months, and watched until I felt it was time. And then started using that as a, that was actually my plan to get big. If not purely by accident over the years because I was competing in power lifting and body building back and forth, I did that throughout my career. And maybe not selectively so in terms of this benefit that you've received. And find out later that that's a very effective method to resensitize the body. Usually when you gain a lot of weight and hold on to it for a long period of time, you end up with fatty liver disease. You end up with insulin resistance and high blood pressure and high blood sugars. Then you start purchasing nutrients. I got all a little bit back going on right now and I will for the next few weeks. But my plan is like, I'm just here for a short period. I'm here for three months. And then it's coming right back off. Like 100%. And I'm recommending that. I think that's a great way to go. And throughout my career, I've got blood tests every month for the last 12 years of my career. And I noticed that I would, my HA1C would start to elevate, my insulin levels would elevate, my blood pressure would go up a little bit. Every time I got up to a particular weight, I knew that wasn't a healthy place to sit. But I dieted down and now I see a lot of power lifters trying to stay heavy too long. When Hoffthor came to me a few years ago, he weighed 435. The first thing I told him we needed to do after looking at his blood test was get down to 390. And he thought I was crazy. He'd spent 10 years trying to put on that weight. But in fact, he came down to 390 and we catapulted him back up to 450. So you're doing the same thing. Exactly. You'll just go right past and actually feel better. Your blood work will be better. Yep. It works. I want all the meat next, my brethren out there to listen carefully, hanging on to that extra body weight. It's just temporary. Knock it down, drop, I say about 7% of your body weight. Resensitize yourself and go back up. I think you should periodize your body weight just like you periodize your training. For me, it's the other, I like to stay on the lean side. So I only bulk up for the events. Right. I'm not one. I hate being like, you know, I look down like, oh man, but that's just me. Well, you've talked a lot about what you do to get that strong, both adding the mass and lifting the weights. How do you recover from those workouts? What's your system like? I always say that the lifting part's the fun part. That's the easy part. Maybe not necessarily when you're doing 982 for doubles. But the hard part is putting yourself in the position to be successful on those lifts. And that's the other six and a half days of the week. Yeah. And that's a lot of work daily, honestly. So I was kind of alluding to that earlier. I'm not sitting around. Recovery is a daily thing for me. So biggest impact is going to be sleep. Of course. Do you use the CPAP now? Do you have to use one of those CPAPs? I recently tried to get one again. I went in and tested, and it still shows that I don't need one. My wife disagrees. But as long as your blood oxygenation is adequate for recovery, that's fine. That's usually they put that little oximeter on your finger. And if your blood oxygen levels go too low, it's a great idea to get a CPAP because you're not going to recover very well. But if yours aren't too low and you're recovering, then you just sleep a lot. And then if I sleep on my side, I don't snore. So it's like in the process. My next 21 inches. So I have to be really lean for the no snoring thing to go completely away. That's like definitely in the single digit body fat. But sleep, making sure that you're going to the bed at the same day every time, that you're relaxed and not on your devices leading into it. Making sure that you've built up the capacity to fall asleep, not over reliance on a lot of sleep aids. I really like recently I got this Euler chilling pad for my bed. That's been huge because my body, that's one of the reasons that I wake up is my body runs really hot. And a lot of lifters do. So this one's really cool because it'll actually, you can control the temp at various times this or the night set a schedule and it'll actually wake you up in the morning. So I don't even wake up to my alarm clock anymore. I'm like, because it'll just bring the temp of the bed up and you're like, oh, I'm waking up. So right. And then there's a separate system. My wife has a separate one for her side of the bed too. So that's really nice. A lot of the rest of it for me is around blood flow or clearance, right? So a big one is the product I use called Veso Blitz by Buildfast, which is a company I co-founded. But this is one we brought to the market. It's, you know, people think about using nitrates as a pump product to enhance looks or the feel in the gym, but they don't realize that that actual process has huge for actually get, you know, getting the nutrients to the muscles so that you can actually recover and you know, the clearance, everything that comes with it. So we've got a really great set of nitrates and then we promote daily use of it. So this is where people are really missing out. And so the research and Damien, I can afford it to you if you want to take a look at it. But there's some studies showing at 18 days, the use of, you know, the four main nitrates, although we use citrulline and lactate as well. But they're all doing the same, same things in a very synergistic manner, enhance both hypertrophy, endurance, recovery and anabolism. Like that, that's freaking those pretty damn, damn powerful qualities, right? So anything that's going to help with that, you know, if you want to go the cheap route, you could go with tomato juice and some other stuff that will help. I don't have the list on the top of my head, but there's a little bit of beet juice. Beet juice, yeah. Right. So, but the daily use of nitrates. Has been a game changer for me. Also in the fact that it keeps the muscles fuller. So particularly a lot of people think about, don't think about it as a strength athlete, but strength athletes aren't in the gym getting a pump as often as a bodybuilder would, right? So you're coming back to squat. You were squatting heavy twice a week or twice a month. Well, those muscles aren't really filled out from your previous session as well, right? So if you're walking in with those already like fuller glucose levels higher, like you're actually going to have a better training session than if not. So it's really going to help with that as well. So I started this about a year and a half ago and it's been an absolute game changer for me when I'm in, when I love it, when I'm training high volume because it feels great, your vascular muscles are full. And then when I drop the frequency, I've also like I'm walking into my workouts and getting much better workouts and still recovering better. So that's been, that's been a big one for me. I do blood flow restriction post session. So this is a little bit different protocol than your recovery modality. So anybody that's interested in blood flow restriction, we've got some great podcasts on it and Dr. Mario Novo is the gentleman that, that coaches me on this, but it's a matter. So I do some, it's a, my post session is not an active modality. I'm laying on a couch, but there's a big thing with blood flow. You got to know what your venous flow rate is. So at some point you've got to check with the ultrasound and actually know what pressure the flow is returning. So you can actually set the pressure on your cuffs correctly. It's not just slapping some bands on. You could completely not, one, you could actually endanger yourself. Actually the first, the person that invented blood flow restriction, Dr. Katzu killed himself from, from it. So that should be, that should be, you know, something, tell you something like it has dangers, but the other is you could be doing all this work and actually not getting any benefit from it at all as well. So a typical recovery process is more of like a two weeks on, two weeks off with a completely different approach than what I'm doing. I also use a vascular flow system. It's a magnetic system that enhances contraction and expansion of the small capillaries in the body to really cool technology, enhances that blood flow, uptake, all these sorts of things. So it's not really cost effective for an individual user though. Yeah. No, but what you're saying there in general terms obviously sleeps a huge component. Then you said movement and blood flow and vasoblitz has been a contributor, but you've mentioned that you move a lot. I said that, you know, over 10 years ago when I was training with Mark, I put a recumbent bike in my room because I discovered that after a huge squat session, if I laid around the whole next day, I was sore for days. But if I got on that... The movement is the biggest, is the biggest healer there is. So you're going to get more from that than taking a vasoblitz. You're going to get more from that from a movement session than you are from laying on a vascular flow device. These are all more passive approaches. They're going to enhance that. But yeah. And so the off days, I'm also looking at like what are the cornerstone gaps for me in movement quality, position, engagement. And so I'm doing a lot of like body weight or light band type work, working these qualities. So for me, it's around a lot of torso position. So being able... My squat comes down to being able to hold position. And so it's any minutiae of extension at the rib cage, disconnection, oblique sling, talking to each other, doing the cross talk across to the hip. Like all these... I don't want to get too much into the intricacies here, but it's... I'm doing specific movement work based on what my needs are as an athlete. And then also I'm having massage therapy, chiropractic work. The chiropractic isn't really the popping type stuff. I say chiropractic, but again, it's a little bit more things that are... ART. Movement based, ART, scraping. People love to bash on cupping, but that's a whole research issue because how research is done. Does cupping help for back pain? Results are inconclusive. Well, no. Cupping helps with creating space for nerves at the peripheral level between the skin and fascia layers. If they're bound up, it's very effective. Create space, they move better. It brings blood flow to those areas. It's pretty individualistic. It's really... It doesn't work for everything. That's just so... So studies are always going to be a little inconclusive. But when it works, hey, I've got pain down here towards the knee. That's where the Sanfordist nerve output is. Okay. So cupping is no different than skin rolling or some other dermal tractioning techniques, a lot of different ways to create space for nerves. You put it on there, do some movement, pain disappears. Pretty sure that that did something. Didn't actually fix the underlying root issue though. It's helping you... Okay. Now somewhere along that nerve path, I've got something that isn't moving well or was weak or you've got to do some digging. You never rely on these passive stuff, massage anything like that to be your fix. No, but it facilitates the movement so that you can then go move pain free. Now you can go move within... So the same argument is like, this is why we don't do ART or any sort of soft tissue work. It only shows temporary increase in range of motion. Yeah, that's correct. But now combine that with your whole process, which is, okay, now let's go use that whole range and now your nervous system, your body is like, oh, it's safe to... Now we actually get benefit and we see change. You said something important there. So people love to look at snippets of research and not understand, okay, yes, that's 100% accurate. That doesn't say that it's not effective by any means. If we use it appropriately in a larger holistic approach, right? What's my goal? You used an important word there. You said, your mind now understands it's safe to move and people don't necessarily connect the fact that your brain has a big piece of your range of motion. So yeah, if I only do the soft tissue work, I'm going to need to go have to do it again every single day, okay? So one, you got to understand, if you have to have it done, there's a reason you're not moving well. You're training too frequently at a higher intensity than whatever that... There's root issues. But if you only rely on... You're going to have to get that done all the time. I remember talking to you years ago. You're like, I get my ART done every week. I keep having to go back. Well now if we actually were within that and we use that window, that window of enhanced range of motion and actually go do... It doesn't have to be maxing out, but go move and train within that window and use, hey, now I can get an overhead position and lock out my shoulder. I can lock out a snatch without compromising spinal position. Go do some. Walk with a kettlebell held overhead. Okay, now you're going to reprogram the body, the mind, the nervous system to be able to do this. And now, what's the research say if you strength train within a certain range? Oh, oh, the body has an adaptive response. Oh, oh, it means it works if I actually take that passive modality and add it with movement. And what happens to your strength if you've got pain, Chris? Oh, yeah, exactly. Well, you can't. I mean, that's the other... But that's triage work, right? I hate when people wait till the last minute. I'm going to the gym and, oh, I got to roll out for 45 minutes because I'm in too much pain to squat. Well, what were you doing between the last session and the first? You know when my first soft tissue treatment is following my squat? Yeah, within an hour or like an hour, yeah. Yeah, it's about five minutes. Yeah. It's different. It's not deep because the body's already enhanced a lot of trauma. So it's more about like calming it down, dealing with a couple issues. But the longest period of time that I can spend not using compensatory patterns, because if I go for a walk, if I do my 10 minute walks, but I'm limping on one leg, I'm not going to get good recovery from that. So you want to make sure, hey, in my daily life, my daily life can be recovery if I'm moving well or if I'm feeling good. But don't wait till the last minute. And that's what everybody does. Let me, let's expand on that with respect to pain. One thing I happen to know about you is you have an extraordinary pain tolerance. And some people may say that's one of the reasons why you could be so damn strong is because your brain, when it senses pain, will shut off your muscle contraction as a preventative mechanism. And you don't experience much pain. I think you broke a bone one time, didn't even know it. So people should understand and explain why you say you start your rehab immediately, not rolling out an hour before they squat, because any pain that they haven't resolved before that training session is going to impact their max, their ultimate load. Yeah, absolutely. So anytime we've got pain going, you know, and even when there's not pain, if we have dysfunction, the body is great at compensating. This is what we do as humans. So it's going to be picking up, it's going to be changing positions, recruiting other muscles, right? So you're not in optimal condition to move the most amount of weight, right? And you're reinforcing these patterns. So this is where this long ago injury can be sticking with people forever. And they're like, they think that they, I've got a bad shoulder. I've got a bad back. It's long gone and fixed itself. The body healed itself, but we still have some stuff because those pathways, those particularly pain pathways, when they're heightened and turned on, they become like a freeway. So the signals get, they start moving really well because the body's trained that, ah, if I sense something there, that's pain, pain, pain. And so we, and this is in pain science. I'm not talking out my ass here. So that becomes like really sensitized and it can stick with you because now the body is like used to it. So it senses anything out there and it's sending back this pain signal and the body may be healed. And so we've really just got to deal with some of that reprogramming, teaching it, oh, this is the position we need to be in. This is safe. These are the muscles to engage, to stabilize these joints. And this is, and that's why I do what I do because I put all this stuff together and make it happen. That's how you, you know, pull off, you know, things like this when you're, well, you know, 280 pounds and then you're 40 is doing stuff that nobody's ever done before. I hear you. And you know, we, I think it's really important to reiterate and emphasize as you've discussed that things that are done, there's a hierarchy and things that are done to you or for you are not as effective as things you do for yourself. And those are for facilitating movement. So when people say to themselves, well, I'm sore and they have a decision to make. Am I going to go to the chiropractor or physical therapist or am I going to go use my roto gun or whatever it is? All those things may provide some benefit, but not as measurable as if they decided to go take a 10 minute walk or go through some mobility work. Like you're talking about those things are far more effective and certainly more accessible or fix the root issues with your, like your hips don't, this is one of my lines. Your hips don't get tight from squatting. They get tight from squatting like shit. Yeah. Like that, that's, I, I squat a lot. I'm a big fat power lifter. I can damn near do the splits. Like it's not, and I don't stretch. So these things are not like what people think. They think if that happens, like, ah, that's automatically going to be the result. I have to do my stretching to balance my strength training. Now you're have to do that because you're moving like shit, like fix the issue, move better. And now you're actually, you're, you're enhancing the whole process and now go for your walk, increase your recovery. Like, you know, it's, it's really a simple, but it takes, it takes so much really disciplined and knowledge because you say this and everybody's like, oh, that's, that's definitely not me. I'm the person that has the squats nailed. I, I'm moving. I'm doing all this stuff and in reality, very few people are. Yeah. Just sore all the time. Well, I think it's important that we talked a lot about, you know, just, I did a video called, if you want to be healthy, don't compete. And then we sit here and talk about, you know, 1,000 pound triples and, you know, what it takes to recover from that damage. But I want to make sure that we segue into a conversation about the importance. This is for longevity at the end of this 1,000 pound squat that you're going to do for reps, you'll turn on a new phase and that will include training because I think it's important for people to know that, that a controlled, a reasonable progression or stress is important for longevity too. That for retention. So you avoid sarcopenia, you avoid bone mineral density loss. You know, so all of this is. What happens when we get, what process gets kicked off when you start, when you stop training, when you stop using your muscles, you sort of cast on, you put a cast on your arm, you atrophy. It's the process of stimulating the death and dying. Like this is, you have to, is a human being. We are built to adapt to stress. Okay. Now you can't have too much. You can't just go, I'm going to do cross bit workout seven hours a day, seven days a week. Okay. You won't recover. So that's when stress becomes overload. This is, you've got to have rest and recovery periods. So, but this is, this is the human condition. This is how.  how we live, we live by growing, we live by responding and adapting to our stresses. This is how we become stronger and better. And I'm not just talking like the physical nature of it. What happens if you quit challenging yourself mentally, emotionally? It's the same thing happens. This is across the board. I'm getting a little philosophical here, but I get a little frustrated. When I look at a lot of society and I see that everybody's trying, not everybody, but a lot and large portions of society here today are seeking comfort, seeking that cake job that I can get through, seeking that big paycheck that I can retire off of, that easy money. What they're looking for is that is the end. That's when you start moving backwards, if that's your goal. If you're not scared and challenged a little bit with your life, you're not stressing yourself. You don't have anything to adapt to. You're not growing. You're not becoming better. When I say live better through strength is our tagline for Kabuki. It's not just physical strength. It's all aspects. Every one of those is important. Arguably, those other ones are much more important than physical nature. But they all come together. It's huge. It's the user to lose it mentality. People get on the Internet all the time and they whine because they're like, Stan, what are you doing? You're going to hurt yourself. I'm squatting 500 for reps. I'm like, for me, this is hormesis and I'm healthier than I've ever been. I used to squat 900. I don't do that anymore because that might hurt me. I can certainly do what I'm doing now. We certainly know that the science supports the fact that you were talking earlier about axial loading. Your joints actually, the meniscus or the cartilage will get thicker if you appropriately load it over time with adequate recovery. If you don't, it'll get thinner. The idea that your knees are going to go bad from lifting, they'll go bad from too much lifting too often that you don't recover from, but they'll also go bad from too little lifting that you don't apply. What happens to your bone density? The density of the vertebrae in your spine and all these sorts of things when we quit loading. Yeah, that's huge. I've said many times, my dad lives with me now. He's 89 years old and he has little bands that he lifts and he'll do little dead lifts and he'll tie the bands to the doorknob and he'll do overhead presses and stuff. Part of that is just a matter of holding weight in your hands or doing little dead lifts and stuff. It's really important. People will whine about what you're doing and how that's going to affect you long term. Again, if you want to be healthy, don't compete. There are things that we do in life to achieve certain goals that aren't necessarily, we wouldn't recommend for everyone. We're not saying you have to push extremes. When I'm done with this, I'm on the same path as you stand. I'm still going to be training, but I'm no longer doing, this is my last and final. I don't plan on doing this into my 50s and 60s. Some people do and it's fine. My business partner is competing at 70 and he's strongest like 70 plus year old in the world and he loves it. He's vibrant. I call him the oldest 20 year old I know. He acts like a kid. Like it's hilarious. But he's young at heart. He's young in the mind and he's young. He'll outpace most people out there. But my focus is going to be about health and getting my weight down, lingering issues taken care of, being able to get in a condition that I'm producing more content to help other people and I'll be lifting, but I'm not going to be lifting chasing the extremes anymore. I'll be chasing longevity. That is my focus after this. I think that's awesome. Did you want to jump into the research that Chris is doing now? Yeah, so you've been working on some stuff with Vegas Nerve. Can you talk to us about that and what direction you're looking at? Explain it to people first because dummies like me don't necessarily know how important that is. Well, the Vegas Nerve is not a well known nerve because it really doesn't affect musculature. But it's really the connection. It's the brain gut axis. It's also your rest and relax. It's responsible for so many things. And there's some really interesting research going on around that right now. I'm not an expert in this by any means. So I have a condition with my autonomic nervous system, which a lot of that is tied to the Vegas Nerve. So this is actually an issue for me. So I didn't sleep last night because I squatted heavy yesterday and my body has a really tough time shutting down. This is why I don't feel certain types of pain and things like that. So all I knew is, hey, people with this condition also have a lot of GI issues. I'm like, I have GI issues my whole life. It's tied to narcolepsy, a bunch of other stuff that I have issues with. So that's why it's of interest to me. But yeah, it's really interesting. So maybe for a little dummy's explanation on my end, so when you go to a big squat session, your sympathetic nervous system, your fight or flight nervous system is just going haywire. You've got your adrenaline and your noradrenaline. You've got your cortisol release. So you couldn't sleep because that sympathetic nervous system was just going crazy as a result of your huge workout. And now this Vegas Nerve turns on. If you stimulate the Vegas Nerve or calm that, I don't know the right verbage there, but it'll actually kick you into that. And it'll kick like your appetite will come up. And there's some stuff with not necessarily well, E-stem with acupuncture, ways of really tapping into this. So the person that I go to is a doc out of LA named Roy Page. He works for one of our advisory board members, Dr. Craig Liebensen. But he does a phenomenal job of actually doing some research. And so having him tap into that has a huge effect on my body. It affects me for almost a week and actually the months following when I have the opportunity to have him do work on that because that is an area that I really struggle with. But the Vegas Nerve, if you have GI problems, this is what makes us unhealthy in the brain as well. It affects mood. It affects all these sorts of things. When we talk about the brain gut axis, it's a real thing. When we talk about the gut being the second brain, all these sorts of things. And so here's some of the interesting things too. There's recent studies where they've cauterized, for whatever reason, the Vegas Nerve in some sort of surgical procedure for whatever. But the research is showing people with, I think it's, I'm going to start it, different brain diseases. We've got Alzheimer's. We've got basically dementia-related behaviors in elderly populations. I don't remember the specific one if it's Alzheimer's or not. Epstein Barr might have been one. Yeah. So they're finding that it's actually an infection. So imbalance in the microbe in the gut then leads to an infection in the gut, which then actually travels up the Vegas Nerve in the brain and then creates these diseases that we've been battling for years trying to figure out how to medicate. And it's actually an infection that came from the gut and traveled up the nerve is creating some of these cognitive disorders with people that have become these diseases. And they've proven it because it basically can't travel when they've cauterized that Vegas Nerve. Now you don't want to go do that. That's not the fix. Right. Avoid it and someone will go do that. Because again, this affects so many things. But imbalances in the gut, like all the stuff that you're doing with the vertical diet stand, actually this affects the quality of what's going on in our digestive system is affecting our brain and our neurology throughout our entire body. Well, in the Vegas Nerve. So you're not directly related to everything else in the body. It's affecting all the other nervous system that's touching everywhere else in the body. Now is that not interesting or what? It's pretty interesting stuff. The Vegas Nerves, it's your number 10 Nerves, cranial Nerves, the longest nerve in the body. So it's going from the brain to the basically almost all of your digestive organs. And then in between there, it's also branching off and you've got some cardiac stems from there and some of it goes to your pulmonary system. So heartbeat, breathing, basically anything between your digestive tract and your brain, if you are doing anything to stimulate that, it's going to affect everything in that path. So basically all the control, so your body's ability to regulate its temperature, digestion, like all these sorts of like these are all huge powerful impact things. Yeah, definitely. So I'm quite familiar with him because mine always kind of struggle a little bit. Yeah, you're living at real time. It's the parasympathetic nervous system. That's your rest and digest. That's what affects your sleep and your eating. And then when you're not able to digest your food very well, of course, one of the problems is it'll manifest itself often as depression. We see that happen with people who take too many antacids, even the same thing. They end up with higher incidences of depression as a result. My segue into that was to say, well now- Yeah, that's what we talk about the health of the brain. Yeah, it affects anxiety, depression, like all these sorts of things and that's how the gut ends up affecting those is through that pathway. Just digestion. So obviously you mentioned getting a healthier diet certainly helps, but there's other mechanisms that you use. You mentioned and you've always talked to, you know, promoted a lot. One of the biggest things you could do is the deep breathing. You started with me, educating me about the importance of breathing. So what are some of the things that you use to improve that? The more meditative, like controlled, really slow breaths. Meditation. I think it's getting to somewhere around like 10 breaths a minute. Just like taking these really deep breaths. Yeah. We'll actually stimulate when we talk about, yeah, I talked about the acupuncture, but this is a self method for doing that. It's anything above about a five count. So if you're inhaling, it's about a five count inhale and about a five count exhale. It's about the tempo that I've seen in the data. And that'll stimulate vagus nerve and kind of get that relaxation going like you're talking about. Yep. So those are real practical takeaways that you, you know, just things that work in terms of people understanding that when you do a workload like you do and create the fatigue you create and you've got your sympathetic nervous system going crazy with adrenaline, maybe they pop themselves with caffeine and they've got all these issues and how do you calm that down? And then the vagus nerve is the core of that and calming your system down and you're talking deep breathing, meditation, yoga, even your, your myofascial release that allows you to move. All of those things are your 10 minute walks. Yep. Huge. Those all play a role. Yeah. It seems minor because people are like, oh, we're just, you know, talking about the impact of walking, like moving leg muscles. But all these things have pretty significant impacts through the whole body well beyond this. It's hard to understand the full scope of that. I agree. Amazing. You know, there's a couple of speed round topics. Yeah. So, so you're talking about, so I, I have so much I'm doing every, you know, every day, every week it's hard when you're going, hey, what's everything that you're doing? But like, like I talked about, first is that massage, which a little bit of calming, right? Yep. And I go have a nice family dinner, you know, relax. I take an Epsom salt bath. Yep. Again, you know, the magnesium has a little bit of effect on the muscles, you know, on muscles, but I think the bigger thing is just getting in that rest and relax. Having the calm breathing really, like I said, it can be yoga for another person, meditation for another, but these are why these practices have been around for millennia because they help bring about these changes, right? And as humans, we know it when we do it. That's why they've been effective and they've been around for thousands of years. There's, there's reason behind it. And now we're just starting to understand actually the pathways that make this happen. But yeah, deep breathing is a huge powerful self way to tap into that reset in that Vegas nerve. And so, like I said, when you, you'll feel it if you have, because your appetite will come up, right? Stational go down like say that just the, your, your mental state will change to a calmer, more peaceful, the anxiety, those sorts of things that will calm down. That's the feeling that you know when you're getting into that state. Yeah, that's, it's huge. And a lot of people also don't understand the effect of caffeine on the sympathetic nervous system with the adrenaline and how hard it is to come down from that. So how much you take and how late in the evening. You don't give yourself the opportunity to sleep, which is what all these methods are, are we're discussing. It's going to have a dramatic impact on your ability to recover on a systemic fatigue. It's huge. Yeah. So non training days, I, I have, you know, maybe a diet soda or something like that. So maybe 40 milligrams of caffeine. My training days. So we have a, a stimulant based version of vasoblitz for training days. But it has, I take only a half dose of it. So I'm somewhere around 150 milligrams of caffeine on my training days. That's really light in comparison. I think the ISS is recommending four to 600 milligrams of caffeine for a typical dollar flag of 200 pound person. It's pretty significant. Yeah. So our full dose is 375 milligrams. So, but I've just, I'm only training once a week. And so I'm really trying to minimize all my caffeine sources as a whole while I'm doing this, because I actually end up relying on caffeine a lot because again, I, I control, I have issues with this in energy levels and things like that because I have that I have a condition related to this. So if I, you know, manage, if I don't, I might just fall asleep in the middle of talking to somebody. Right. That's just, that's how I rock. I've been, I've been over relying on stimulants for a long time. The condition has also led to Hashimoto's disease for me. So I basically don't have a thyroid anymore. And so again, like controlling energy levels and balancing it when I need it, I ended up becoming too reliant on caffeine. But knowing the root issues, I'm, I'm trying to wean myself basically off. And I'm pretty, I'd say I'm pretty minimal. Like I'm definitely like, you know, having under 200 milligrams of caffeine for a training day where you're doing eight repetitions at an average 950 pound load. I think that's, I think that's pretty good. People on Instagram drink at four bangs a day. Yeah. Hey, Chris, I got to talk about a few of the products that you have out. You mentioned earlier that, that when you find something that works for somebody, that's what you develop. That's what you create to, you know, to provide for them. And one of the things that you introduced to me many years ago that really helped me was the shoulder rock. I had a torn rotator cuff from benching. And so I had kind of stopped moving my arm very much because it was painful. And one of the things I realized over time is that when you stop moving your arm because of, because of pain, then your, your deltoids start to atrophy. And next thing you know, you have more pain and less capability. And I couldn't even pick up my kids at one point. Yeah. I remember that. So you introduced me to the shoulder rock. Tell people about it because it's an extraordinary tool that I got a lot of benefit from. Yeah. So it's based off of what's called the GATA from, from India, which has been around for 500 years, probably longer. So it's the oldest known weight training tool in existence, to my knowledge. And that's because it works. So it's a basically a load of, it's a mace that you swing around your head, which sounds kind of silly, but it works. And it works on kind of a reset on from a, from a kinesi, developmental kinesiology, we're basically tapping into basic neurology, the pathways that we learn as we're growing up. And so this allows us, so there's, there's some issues that we have with shoulders. And when we stop stabilizing the shoulder correctly, we start locking down the scapula which then allows, we talk about frozen back or a number of other conditions that start developing. They all happen from, this is an oversimplification that anybody with a physical therapy degree or whatever, but they'll know where I'm coming from, from an oversimplification standpoint. But we have the wrong muscles being tight around a joint trying to support it and the the right muscles being basically inactive. And so the joint isn't functioning as well. So we take this device, and so I've modernized it. We have better, we have better technology today. So ours is microloadable using standard gym plates in a very safe manner, better balance, all these sorts of things built into this, this tool that allows you to, to, to use that. And essentially we take and move the shoulder through an entire range, the shoulder girdle through an entire range of motion, but forcing it to turn off and on. So a lot of problems is not necessarily just so soft tissue work, we're turning muscles off, but they're, you know, I've got tight, tight hamstrings. So we do some soft tissue work, they loosen up, things feel better. Well, the problem is those hamstrings are tight for a reason. They're trying, it's about the body's protective measure. So it's not just about turning things off, but turning the other things on. So I came and worked on you around that same time with the boomstick and we saw immediate results because I just did the turn off. Well, the shoulder rocks doing both at the same time were basically pulsing the muscles on and off with the length of the lever of it. So this is different than doing a kettlebell halo or doing an Indiana club work with those short lever devices. You can still be on the entire time. That long lever of the shoulder rock is the beauty of what makes it work. To complete a swing, you have to learn to relax and relax in the right timing and then pulse everything on again. So now we're moving everything through the shoulder. We want to focus on rib cage control. Again, that's going to affect breathing patterns, stabilization of the core and connection. That all comes with free education that comes with it. So basically we end up resetting shoulder function in our strength training while we're making it stronger and healthier. So I don't want it to sound like a fix all, but literally every known shoulder problem that I've come across, I have not found someone that hasn't seen relief from doing it. I mean, so many surgeries that have been avoided. So it's just incredible. I'm not going to guarantee it's going to fix your problem. If you've got a functional problem, but even for yourself, Stan, I think you had some bones burrs in your shoulder if I'm not right. So it was like limiting your range of motion. If not, I've seen other people. It's like, I can't do it. It's a, I've got to have surgery to remove the bone. Well, again, if we release those muscles and actually create more space in the capsule, a lot of that stuff can still disappear. It's crazy. People that have hypermobility, they've got a loose and sloppy shoulder that's going to become disjointed easily. They see relief because it actually stiffens it. So it doesn't deliver the same thing to everyone. What's like you said, the job of a therapist. It's making a stronger, healthier joint. What is that not going to help with? Right. You said the job of a therapist is to facilitate movement, and that's what this device does, and it gets you to move through a great range of motion. I'm the proud owner of a number, a bunch of your equipment. I wanted to correct injuries that I had incurred over the years, and two, because I wanted to train pain-free. So I got your transformer bar, which is your safety squat bar, because I was having problems with elbow tendonitis from getting under a regular squat bar, and your duffelobar, with both provide similar benefits, although the safety squat bar, I'll do RDLs with it and stuff like that. Plus, I can fit it in my trunk of my car, which is fantastic, because I would take it to the gym sometimes. It's great to travel with. You can throw it in the backseat of a car as well. It fits everywhere. It's really cool. But it's the only bar in the world. The patent's in process. We should actually have it pretty soon, where we can actually change where the load position sits in relation to the spine and the hip. What people don't realize is the load is always staying over the midfoot, so actually what we're doing by changing the load position is actually changing your spinal mechanics. We can take people that have never been able to do their levers or whatever, been able to effectively squat without compromising technique. This is why we're big in the NBA and MLB, is because they have these freak outliers of torso length, height. People love to throw up videos on Instagram of some NBA star, saying, look, they squat like shit. It's like, yeah, because they can't. They're not built. That seven foot six athlete is never going to squat like you and never can without compromising position. It's not apples to apples. But with a transformer bar, we can actually correct that for everyone. We can actually cue engagement in the right areas. We can cue pelvis to torso alignment, cue the torso stability. We can eliminate butt wink in nearly all positions because of the spinal stability. And then everything downstream starts changing. All of a sudden, athletes are squatting deeper because their legs, hips, and knees are all in better position and alignment. It's really crazy what you can do because we can actually change. It's the only bar in the world. Safety squat bar is one of the 24 different positions that you can have it in. But we can mimic tons of different loading patterns and deliver different results, which is just huge. So that's kind of fundamental of a lot of our design process. Plus, I think the pad on it must be a high density foam because some of them have really shitty pads. And of course, that thing runs across your scapula there or across your traps and feels like shit when that foam all breaks down and you've got metal on your back. Yours is awesome. The next piece... Well, part of that is we actually have a curve in the bar that goes over your shoulder, too. We're trying not to load because in some populations, there are elderly or post-surgery populations, it's easy to have some de-innovation because all the nerves that run through there. And so that pressure on the trap can actually cause issues. So ours is specifically designed to be very comfortable in distribution of the load right there for that reason. Same thing, the handle position goes down lower into this different position because this weird rack position of every safety squat bar out there actually doesn't allow for lat engagement. So you watch every single lifter, if they get close to fatigue or max effort failure, they fail and round at the TL junction because they don't have the lats engaged as a spinal stabilizer drawing the shoulders into our core. And so our handle is actually put you in a position that you can actually turn the lats on with your elbows at your side to allow this stuff. So there's a lot of little minutiae with our products that is built in that people may not capture. Just like our Cadillac bar, our bench-bing bar we just came out with. Everybody thinks it's all about just the greater range of motion because it's curved. And it's all about actually improving stability at the wrist. So we've actually put the load down below. You've used the Swiss bars, right? Yeah. That you come out of the rack and they want to break your wrist and crush your face and touch your chest and it moves again. And you have to choke up on one side because it's always trying to come out of your hands. Well that's because the weight is on the same axis as the handle. It's a teeter-totter in your hands, which means you can never find center. Right. It's an infinitely perfect spot. Walk into a playground, teeter-totter is always sitting on one side. Where we put the load below the rotational axis, which is the same thing as a swing. So where the chains hook up too high, that's where it rotates about. And where the load sits is where you sit on the swing. Where does the swing automatically go to? Center. It automatically returns to center. You walk into a playground, all the swings are sitting where they're supposed to. So we put the load below so that provides that stability and then that changes things for the joint all the way through. And now we can actually add extra range of motion because we've got the joint in a good position. And we see phenomenal change. You cannot get the shoulder in a bad position. There's some stuff with the angle of the hand position as well that affects internal and external rotational bias based on how wide you are. Again, things that other people haven't looked at before. Well I've said many times we've never been, there's never been a better time to be in power lifting bodybuilding because of all of the great information that's out there now and accessible. Particularly for people like you, we've got an aerospace engineer who's also one of the greatest power lifters in history that is applying his knowledge to his passion and we're all benefiting. So I think it's fantastic. And we're not even done yet because I think one of your greatest creations yet, did you just rolled out, is your deadlift bar, the trap bar. I tend to be a big fan of the trap bar now that I'm not competing. It's just easier for me. I enjoy doing it. So this one was awesome because you could tilt it up to load the weights on and tilt it back down and the grips are, the knurling on the grips are fantastic and easy to use. And plus I like doing the weighted carries. I like walking with the bar. And I like having the fact that it's open on one end so I don't feel trapped in it. The level of practicality in your stuff is just insane. I was dealing with all these professional sports teams and I was watching and I'm looking and I'm like, people use trap bars for all sorts of athletic things that are beyond just neutral grip deadlifting. Right. And I'm like, God, there's just, let's just clean all this up and put everything in there. That's why we have the interchangeable handles because they're getting used for different thing. A strongman's going to love having the two inch rolling grip, right? Where, you know, baseball players going to want something different. It's going to change all over the course. Now we have, you can change the width as well. So your teen or small female athletes and then we can meet the needs of the Thors, the Brian Shaw's, the, all the NFL linemen because they're like, Hey, can you build us these extra wide bars that nobody's selling because our guys just won't fit in there? Even the NBA players, not because of how wide their shoulders, but how tall they are. And by the time they get down where the hand position has to be wider again, making the sleeves long enough so you can actually put plates on there. But yeah, the big feature is the openness and the balance. So you can do all these carries, lunges, rear leg elevators, like all this other stuff. And then now we make the money is that roll up. Yeah, the jack built in. You got to build in Jack. Yeah, that's ridiculous. Crazy. So another thing that you're providing is these educational courses. We talked a little bit about it, but that those are seminars that people can attend and there's a lot to learn. Where do, where do folks go if they want to attend those? What kinds of things can they learn? So those are all available on Kabuki strength. If you want to go straight to education, you can just type in kabuki.education and there'll be a link tree to just seminars, coaching services, all that sort of stuff. So we've got three different courses. They're two days apiece. The final one culminating in a, in a certification. The first one is principles of loaded movement. So this is where we walk through.  basically our entire process for prioritizing, assessing, and correcting movement under load. And the goal is to do this in the base movement, so to not get out to where we get caught in rehab purgatory, like, ah, I can't have you squat until you can, you know, month from now when you pass this test. Like, we should be able to do the assessment and the fix in the movement whenever possible, and that's what we drive to, but there's times that we do corrective movements, we do soft tissue, maybe... So we teach this whole process, takes a couple days, and then the second one is program organization. So that's our second course, so it's really talking through a lot of the stuff that we've talked through, but like how to build an effective long-term training plan broken down into short-term plans, pain science, we do more in-depth on our soft tissue stuff there as well, and then the final one is review and a lot of other smaller information that we put in for our certification piece. So there's three courses, two hours a day, or two, sorry, two days apiece. They're eight to nine hours a day. We usually run a little long. They're pretty information packed. And then we're working on adding some online education and courses that will be going out. Mostly a lot of those will be for our certified individuals as ongoing education. And so great, great, incredible resource. So people attending these, if you show up, you're going to be in the mix of all sorts of people. So clinicians, strength coaches in, you know, professional or collegiate sports, just average gym athletes, a lot of people that are personal trainers or gym owners. So a lot of just a whole mixed bag, but definitely a lot of professional individuals as well. Well, it's huge. It's fantastic information. I've been competing since 1986. I became a pro bodybuilder, set world records. I've worked with some of the greatest athletes in the world, and I was working with high school collegiate and professional football players as early as the early 90s back at the University of Oregon and for multiple NFL teams. I've learned more since I stopped competing six years, seven years ago than the 25 years prior from people like you and others in the industry. So these kinds of things, I don't care what age you are or how much you think you know when I, you know, read your information or, you know, attend your seminar. I learned an extraordinary amount. And I think we owe it to ourselves and our clients, particularly, like you said, practitioners and coaches that come to your seminars to learn this information and pass it on to people because it's so practical and applicable. It's not just a book learning. It's street smarts that you apply. Well, that and that's our framework is not just teaching you. It's to teach you to be the coach. So that's what we're really, that's what we're building because that's mostly, that's mostly don't be afraid to attend if you're just want it for yourself. But it's it's really built around being educating the professionals that are out there as leaders in the sport because we're trying to have a huge positive impact on strength training as a whole. And there's some big gaps and we're trying to to fill that where we can. Yeah, yeah, that's great. Well, the last thing I wanted to cover because I've got it here in the middle of the table. You sent me this your book, The Eagle and the Dragon when it came out and I read it cover to cover. It's a great read. I was I was pleasantly surprised that, you know, usually you get somebody's autobiography and I'd be honest that sometimes they're relatively boring. Yours was not particularly because I was born and raised in Oregon and I recognized all the places that you mentioned in there. But there was something I think bigger in your book than just your story and how dynamic it is and how extraordinary it is. You're upbringing and everything that you've accomplished. But the lessons that that you put in the book. Talk about that. Yeah, thank you for recognizing that because that's that really was the point was not the story. I recognize that the story is a great framework to tell the lessons to to share the philosophy of the things that I've learned in my life. My life's not like worst, you know, the worst thing out there, but I've definitely had an incredible life scope. So we're talking about, you know, going from growing up homeless in the mountains, you know, living in tents, condemned buildings, foraging for food, killing animals to excelling through school and in athletics to becoming a corporate executive, doing turnaround work, to walking away from that to reinvent my life in this world so that I could live my passion and try to help people in the ways that I can. And so this book was really a passion project because all my businesses are focused on the physical nature of strength. And so this is really sharing those philosophies that allowed me to accomplish these things. And I said, I did this while did a lot of this too while raising like my three sisters as I was going through this, like I had to take custody of them. And there's some really traumatic things. So there's stories of murders, serial killer, human trafficking, drug running, like it's it's a wild ride that will keep you entertained. But the whole point of the story, every chapter is mixed with a lesson. And not in a preachy way. And then it's really about getting you to dive deeper in understanding yourself. And that's a big piece of the book is getting people to really dive and understand what their values are in life. And then being able to help them once you've established your values. What are the goals that are going to help you realize a life that lives those values? And then the execution piece of that in the real world. And so I think I've learned a lot over this, you know, the scope of the life that I have and a lot of big successes in a number of areas. And I really wanted to share the process for that and not have this come across as a book about Chris, like it's a book about you when you read it and helping you in that process of self examination. And so it all leads up to that. And then the last quarter of the book is really questioning, you know, driving you to question yourself. So read the reviews on Amazon. It's in all formats. But just go on there, check out, you will see that I'm not just making shit up. I think we've got like 105 star reviews, the messages I've got from people like it is, it's changed people's lives. And that's, that's really awesome. And that's what I was looking for. Because this book, like I said, the physical nature is addressed in my work. But I really wanted to hit people on those other areas, mental, emotional, or even spiritual, because these areas are big gaps that we're missing in today's world where we identify and value victimization over accomplishment and really seeking of comfort and all these sort of things that I kind of talked about earlier. I want you to live the best by possible and to be able to realize that. And a lot of people don't know how to do that and don't really know what they want, because our society pushes us to value things and maybe goals like bucket list type things or things like that and not really gets you to understanding what is the life that you want and and really living that because it's going to be very different from person to person. Well, thank you. It was what was my takeaway from the book exactly. And I really appreciate it. I can't think of a better way to close out with you than to have listened to all of that and to encourage people to go to your website, Kabuki Strength, and just take a look at everything that you're offering. You have a lot of free content as well. You're certainly signed up for a course this year. Check out the book and the products that you provide people. It's just a great resource for the industry. And it's just been an absolute honor to know you and to learn from your information and hopefully share with others how much benefits you provided the community. Thanks. I've got a personal website as well, ChristopherDuffin.com. And that'll link you to the book to Barefoot Athletics, Build Fast Formula, Kabuki Strength. And there's, if you follow that link, there is a way to download the audible version of my book for free for a lot of people. So anyway, check it out. Another resource for all the things I'm involved with besides Kabuki as well. Awesome. Thanks, brother. I really appreciate you coming on. Thank you so much for your time. Good to see you again. It's great talking with you guys. Hey, guys. Stan Effnery here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy to follow Vertical Diet eBook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet meal prep company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the U.S. and Canada. So head on over to staneffnery.com and get started today.