 Hey, guys. Stan Effnerding here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow vertical diet ebook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep Company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the U.S. and Canada. So head on over to staneffnerding.com and get started today. Well, welcome back, everybody, to the Vertical Podcast. Stan Effnerding here, founder of the Vertical Diet, and I'm with Damon McEwn, my co-author and partner in crime, registered dietitian, exercise phys-PhD. And we've got a very special guest today, probably needs no introduction, but Damon, go ahead and why don't you introduce our guest. Absolutely, definitely doesn't need any introduction. I believe now he is the most cited researcher on muscle hypertrophy in the world, which is a huge accomplishment. And congratulations on your early tenure, by the way. But we have Dr. Brad Schoenfeld with us today. So Brad, I'll let you go ahead and kind of give the audience a little bit of your background and kind of what you do and how you got there. Yeah, I think what makes me somewhat unique is that I was a personal trainer. I was a practitioner for many years and then went into academia now a little over 10 years ago, went back to my master's, got my PhD. I'm currently an associate professor at Lehman College in the Bronx. I'm a researcher educator. So my primary focus on research is muscle hypertrophy, as you said, but I do strength performance work as well as well as body composition. So fat loss is another area in sports supplements and do a lot of speaking, international speaking. Basically, I'm an educator, so I try to make my work and opinions as available as possible to all that people listen. That's awesome. I'm so glad to have you for that. I bumped into you at the NSCA conference and one of the things I wanted to make sure and let you know is first to thank you for all that you've done to help all of us, the meatheads as I'm referring to us in the industry who've been around for all these years and didn't have the internet, didn't have access to this kind of information and you've done such an incredible job dispelling a lot of myths and just allowing us to focus on the things that work and to let go of the things that really don't have much evidence that they work. So today I kind of wanted to go down some of that. I like to give our viewers takeaways, things they can implement right out of the gates and a lot of the people that I work with, I know folks think I work with just a lot of athletes, but the fact of the matter is the vast majority of our followers now and the people that we communicate with on a daily basis are busy people, just dad, bods and soccer moms trying to find their inner athlete and get the best physique and the best return on their investment. And so we want to talk about today to kick off is really the difference between exercise versus training. A lot of people go to the gym and they move and I'm a big proponent of movement. I've always said the best exercise is the one you'll do, but after that getting the best benefit from it is pretty important. So what we want to find out is when somebody goes to the gym primarily with the intention of building muscle, not necessarily just to burn calories, what kinds of things should they be focusing on for their training, not just exercise? So it's somewhat of a nuanced question because ultimately it depends upon what their ultimate goal is. For the vast majority of people, they can do a minimal workout and build some muscle. So most people that are going to the gym are recreational exercisers that are just looking, hey, I want to tone up and I want to lose a little weight. And for them a very minimalistic routine, you can get very good results doing a half out like a one set to failure, two or three days a week and build some appreciable muscle and probably get 50 to plus percent of your genetic potential. Now my focus in research, and I obviously you guys is on optimizing genetic potential. And for those who want to do that, that is a completely different ball game and that's where the nuances come in. So, and this I think is where some of the disconnect is in the industry. So part of the other issue is that most, well, much of the research has been largely up to this point in untrained individuals who for the first several weeks, if not couple months are basically getting neuro mechanisms. So there's other, many other factors that differentiate them certainly from a guy like you Stan and Damon as well. So is the question then what can you do to optimize the mass or just so if you can clarify where you're going? Yeah, let's bounce through it. So your past the beginner phase, you've got a little bit of discipline, you're going to gym consistently, you've gotten your neuromuscular adaptation from just coordination, from learning the movements. And you want to get more out of your training. I kind of got a little list here, I'll go down to some things that might not be optimal that we may have historically thought. One would be like going in and performing a bunch of drop sets, would that be any better than straight sets in terms of a maximum muscle fiber recruitment and the benefits you get for hypertrophy? Do you need to do the 80s and then the 60s and then the 40s and the 20s? That's a lot of extra work, are you getting the extra benefit from that? So the research does not support, there's not been a lot of research, I actually have the, it's interesting, I haven't gotten the data yet, but I'm collaborating on another paper, we performed one in the past and I have another one that is now in the works, but to date the research really has not supported a benefit per se to drop sets, with the caveat that if you're equating the volume of the drop set with let's say just doing the same amount of work spread out over non drop sets, because really that's the way it's been looked at. There has not been much of a benefit to it. I would say the benefit, but there hasn't been a detriment either. So the benefit really is that you can probably get the same results in less time, it would be more of a time efficient way to train. However, what has not been studied, and at least what would have, I think a logical rationale is the fact that drop sets would be an efficient way to add more volume without really adding on to the session length and that potentially can, volume is a driver of hypertrophy, that potentially could be a greater driver. So let's say you're doing three sets, and on the last set you do a drop set, where you're basically getting two more sets, or however iteration you'd want percentage of a set, that would add on some volume, and that potentially can allow you to get more better results with less time than if you let's say did waited two minutes and then did another set. That has not been tested. So that is still somewhat hypothetical on my part, but I think there's reasons you might want to do drops, but there certainly is no clear evidence that it is a superior way to train per se on its own. Okay. Maybe I should have asked this first, but you've talked a lot about the number of effective, the amount of effective reps that you need to do in order to get a hypertrophy response, if you say do 10 reps and you could have done 20. How close to failure do you need to get in order to get the best hypertrophy response? It's really a great question, and I think as we'll go on with this, you're gonna see that most of my, I will almost always answer kind of it depends, because there's no exact, first of all, research is never gonna provide you with an exact answer on something like this, and there's so many different ways to study topics and to look at them. So I'll say this, that there does not seem to be, and I would say that with good confidence, taking all your sets to failure over time is certainly not a good strategy. You're gonna end up getting trashed, and it's a good way to over train. The evidence really is interesting. We have a made analysis, which is just going into review now. The evidence does not show that training to failure is any more beneficial, so that it would seem to debunk the need to train the failure and somewhere within like the one to three RIR, repetitions and reserves, and being anywhere between one to two or three reps short of failure would be as effective as failure. I am not fully buying that, even though certainly the literature says that. So this is where you have to use your own personal expertise because an evidence-based approach, you're gonna look at what the literature shows, but then you have to take into account your personal expertise, you look at what the gaps are in the literature. I think selectively taking, when you get to a certain level, like you guys are at, and certainly that I've been at for training many years, trained with John Meadows, who you probably know, again, a guy who just is extremely high level, people in that realm, I think would benefit to taking at least the last set to failure and perhaps even beyond doing some force reps if necessary. Again, no evidence that I can present you with that, but I think anecdotally from my experience, that would show that, and certainly you cannot take from the evidence that we have that there's no benefit to training to failure. And I'd also say that one of the issues when we look at research is that you're generally gonna compare one versus another in a binary context. So it's every set to failure versus no sets to failure in a given population. It's never been studied, how about doing RIR, let's say you do a three sets, RIR of two, RIR of one, and then you last set to failure, and when you're really taking it in, where you're gonna have better recuperation. And again, I can really give into the weeds here. Taking a squat to failure is a lot different than taking the lateral raise to failure in terms of its effects on recuperation. So we also have to look at what type of exercise is being done. I've never seen anyone who does a set of lateral raises and says, I'm crushed, I don't think I can train anymore, you know, no one know. Where you do that with some squats or deadlifts, you're gonna be in some, you know, herding shape probably next day, because every after the session, it's gonna make you suck wind. And certainly will affect your recuperative ability more so than a single joint movement would. So these are all kind of the nuances that I can give my impression of it. I can tell you what the research shows, and give you kind of my evidence-based impression, but by no means is that beyond all. We still have a lot more work to do to kind of provide, I think, more hard evidence in that respect. You hit on exactly the reason I was kind of chasing this line of questioning, and that is fatigue and recuperation. And yes, you can build just as much muscle doing, getting within a rep of failure with a heavy set of fives, or within a rep of failure with a medium weight for eight to 12s, or within a rep of failure doing a lighter set of 20s, as long as you're within a rep of failure. We get similar hypertrophy benefits, but what you mentioned was fatigue and recovery. And those are very different things with the exercise that you do, the rep range that you use, and the intensity that you utilize. So if you're trying to plow the path that allows you to train a little more frequently, and recover a little better, because what you do in any one workout doesn't determine the majority of your results, what you do, what you string together over the course of many weeks or months, what you found in your research I've seen consistently is those people who've trained in the fives, or the 20s, or those people who go to failure, you mentioned they build up more fatigue, they have a higher dropout rate, they have a higher injury rate. So based on that information, what's kind of the path for the individual that wants to be the least sore to still get the most benefit and recover faster so they can do more volume? Yeah, and you also just touched on another really important point is the rep range. So we did a study, it was actually my doctoral dissertation work, where we looked at basically powerlifting versus bodybuilding styles of training, and we equated the volume. So basically it was three sets of 10 for the bodybuilding, and seven sets of three for the powerlifting. Now in research, we generally, or at least I do, I make my subjects trained to volitional failure, not because I think it's the best way to train, but that basically baselines it, so you don't have confounders. Because if you're then saying, well, you're gonna stop with one RIR, the RIR is a very effective- That's soft. People who are very good at using it, but people don't have good senses, at least the subjects that we get into the study. And it then throws a confounder in, is that how much effort did they have? So if we take them to volitional fatigue failure, we kind of know where they're stopping. The interesting thing was, there was no differences in growth. It was an eight week study. The caveat to that is that the powerlifters were trashed. But so two of them dropped out, every, to a man, every subject in that powerlifting group said they had soar joint, several of them, just had trouble completing the last few workouts because back issues. So the low, the point that I'm making here is that when you're training with heavier loads, I think going to failure becomes even a bigger issue in that not going to failure, let's say in your five, one to five range, three to five, whatever you're talking in that, would be really, you wanna stop, at least a rep or so short of failure in that. Well, when you start getting to 10 reps, there's less and we didn't find much of that there. There's less of an issue with that. But again, it's somewhat exercise dependent. When you get to like the 20 plus rep range, when you're getting into the very high rep ranges, you need to get closer to failure, if not to failure, to achieve the same muscle hypertrophy benefits. At least that's what our research has been showing. And what I will say is that the early phases of that are brutal on subjects. I mean, puking, like I carried out a study where we do 10 reps for 30 reps to failure. And the 30 rep subjects, especially in the leg exercises with puking, in over half puked for the first week. So your body adapts metabolically over a while and it's less onerous. But this is why a lot to piece together there. I will say that there's a lot of inter-individual variability as far as that goes. Certainly for the average guy who's been training a few years, whereas isn't it serious, let's say he's trained per se, but not highly trained. I think the need to really go to failure is diminished there. I think, again, as you start getting more and more, more closer to your genetic ceiling, the more important it is to at least have a set or so where you're training to failure on some of your sets. Because you're really looking to push that envelope in a way to go beyond the adaptation form. Certainly, we know you get to that genetic ceiling and to adapt takes more and more work and more and more ingenuity. And that's one of the ways to go about it. Yeah, I was a big proponent of the 20s there for a while because that's the way I trained with Flex Wheeler. But I had 20 years of lifting experience, I was performance enhancing drugs, I was just eating, sleeping and training. And so I was able to recover from that workload. But when I started introducing that to my audience in the years, the subsequent years, I found that they were getting crushed. And so I had to be cautious, maybe just do a limited amount of that volume. One question I had with respect to the 20s, maybe the comparison between doing continuous reps and what we would call rest pause. So maybe I can only do 14 reps at 315 pounds on the squat. And before I've reached potentially within a rep or so a failure. But if I stop and I take a couple of breaths, I can do two more. And I take a couple more breaths, I can do two more. Am I getting any additional hypertrophy benefit from doing the rest pauses as compared to just going until muscle failure or maximum muscle fiber recruitment? Yeah, it's another interesting topic. And the literature to this point does not show a benefit to it. But it doesn't show a detriment. And again, you're able to get, it doesn't show when volume is equated. So a lot of times we're looking, is it effective on its own when you're, let's say is there anything special about just rest pausing versus doing more sets? So it depends what you're equating it to. I would again, as with drop sets, say it could be a way to get more volume as you kind of alluded to. And volumes of dry roof hypertrophy, at least up to a certain point it is. And I think there is a rationale where rest pauses can be utilized, similarly with drop sets, to add on volume without kind of getting that fatigue fitness, trying to get in your fatigue fitness zone broccoli. So that you're not overdoing it, but allowing the greater volume. On that same topic, how about the one minute rest periods? You go in and you, or even 30 seconds, you do a set of dips, rest for 30 seconds, do a set of dips. Are you better off in terms of hypertrophy response, waiting the two minutes before you do another set of dips? Are you other things failing, other than just mechanical tension? Yeah, so the literature is starting to be somewhat clear on that. You are better with the greater, longer rest, somewhere in that two minutes plus rest, versus doing the one minute. And the reason seems to be that you reduce your volume load. You reduce, when you're taking the short rest, you have to reduce, like you said, the mechanical weight that you're using, and thus reducing the mechanical tension for that set. We have a paper that should be coming out shortly. We're really interested in findings, and I think speaks to this, where one group did, within subject, where both legs did the same, the same person did one, let's say, three minutes rest on one leg, and one minute rest on the other. So one of them did just three minutes versus one minute three sets, and there was better results in the three minutes rest versus one minute rest. The other group, we then added on more sets to the leg that was doing the short rest to equate with the amount of load that was used in the three minute rest. No differences in hypertrophy. So it's showing, at least what this study showed, was that the reduction in volume load was really the driver, what was impairing hypertrophy with the short rest. Then you gotta say, is the longer time spent in the gym worth it versus taking the short rest, I think they kind of even out at the end. So it was the metabolic fatigue that you're getting, I think then you have to look more at long term recovery, how they might, the shorter rest for as long as rest might affect you. Yeah, last question, this topic, I'm hogging the mic as I usually do, I'll let Damon jump in because he's got a lot of stuff he'd like to cover. The reason I got into this whole topic of exercise versus training is primarily because a lot of the women that I train, historically for many years, they would always want to come in and do a whole lot of more sets and reps and volume and rarely get to failure, and 30 second rest periods and battle ropes, and a bunch of, just running around the gym, because they looked at it more as an opportunity to burn calories. And they looked at, if they were sweating and they were exhausted at the end of that workout, they felt as though that might be the driver of body composition change. And I wanted to try and differentiate between building muscle and losing body fat and get them to focus on diet for the body fat. As we know that exercise isn't the greatest way to, in general, isn't the greatest way just to lose fat. The diet's more important. So how do you design those programs or explain to them where to prioritize their efforts in terms of those two different, very different, paths that they need to take as somebody trying to improve body composition and get lean? Yeah, so first of all, I completely agree that you need to separate. Resistance training should not be a cardio session. If you want to do cardio, if you want to exercise fat loss, focus on your cardio for just burning, from a burning calorie standpoint. That's what your goal is. So that your resistance training should be focused on a specific goal, either strength or hyperperchipure muscle endurance, not on fat burning. You're gonna certainly burn some fat just through the course of the exercise itself as well as some of the post-exercise effects through primarily protein synthesis, which is an energy-intensive process. But a couple interesting things here. Women do have, this has been, I think quite nicely shown in the literature, they have better inter-set recovery. So they can actually, with shorter rest intervals, it might be because the loads they use are lower to start with so that it's not as taxing, that's one of the theories at least, but you generally can shorten rest intervals with women to a greater extent than you can with men without having detrimental effects, and that's number one. But as far as your question, I think that it comes down to education and that to me, the way I've always approached, and I certainly am currently working with a bikini competitor now and have had this conversation, is that we focus on the resistance training for your hypertrophy, your sculpting, whatever you wanna call it. And for me, the primary focus of body fat loss should be diet. I don't even introduce aerobic exercise from a fat loss standpoint until it's absolutely necessary. And particularly as you're starting to come down in calories, when you're doing a lot of exercise, you're predisposition to overtraining and non-functional overreaching becomes higher. So I don't think it's necessary, I think you get more bang for your buck through doing it through nutrition. Now sometimes, perhaps sometimes often, times towards the end, the very end of competition, when you're getting into low body fat, you need some cardio to supplement. Whether I think that that is to me more the last resort after you've exhausted your work, your abilities, your strategies. Yeah, definitely. So this might be kind of beating a dead horse, but let's just back up for those out there that are in our audience that, maybe they're really new to training and maybe they really like going to say an orange theory or they really like going to a body pump class. From our standpoint, that's kind of the exercise and that's more of a cardiovascular workout, even though they may have them move around some weights. How do you define resistance training to people that are not really familiar with the industry? And by the way, that's fine. If for me, the 80% or whatever, 70% of the population is almost completely sedentary, so anything that gets them out. Oh, I agree. Yeah. Orange theory or whatever, but yeah, the benefits that they're gonna be getting are minimal as far as strength and hypertrophy and probably even muscular endurance because they're just not, they'll get probably more in the muscle endurance realm, but they're still not taking their muscles to a point of fatigue where they're building up a lot of lactic acid. As far as I know, I've never taken an orange theory class so long, didn't say what goes on there. But a resistance training, I mean, the operational definition would be moving a resistance. Would be moving, basically that would be it, it would be moving a resistance. That could be body weight, it could be free weights, it could be a machine, there's different, you can have isometric actions, concentric, which is pushing against gravity, eccentric, which is a lengthening action, which is going with gravity. So now there's many different, as you kind of touched on, but many different ways you can go about using it for different adaptations. For me, the three primary ones should be strength, hypertrophy and muscle endurance. And I think that kind of leads into a little bit, you know, lately you've had some really good posts on exercise variety and the concept of muscle confusion. And I think all of us in the industry, the muscle confusion thing, we're kind of over that, but there seems to be something there with the variety. So can you kind of talk a little bit about that? Yeah, so our study, we took two groups of subjects, one of them did a very straight routine, didn't change much. Basically they had some mild changes in the rep ranges, they went from 12 to 10 to eight, I believe it was. But other than that, and it was structured. So 12 reps for two weeks and then I think 12, 10, eight and six. The other group had their exercises varied through a random application, it was a phone app. And at the end of the study, we actually found slight decreases, we're not decreases, but a slight blunting of muscle hypertrophy. Both of them did get bigger and stronger, but there was less of, the gains were somewhat less, they were modestly less in the group that had their exercises randomly varied. However, we also did a motivational survey and the group that had them varied, had the exercises varied, had much greater motivation, significantly greater motivation throughout the routine than those who were given the standard routine. I'd also say that again, when we do a research study, we're kind of looking at polar opposites, so we're looking at complete random variation here, versus a group that was very structured and had an exact routine. I think there is a middle ground variety to me, I think can be used to promote greater hypertrophy. I think if it's done intelligently, like not, random variation to me would never, anything random in a workout other than maybe for motivation doesn't make sense. It's not systematic, it's not the way scientists would think and thus exercises of science. But I think my general strategy on variety is to keep your more complex movements, so more of the free weight, multi-joint free weight exercises as regular parts of a routine and then vary in your single joint, your machine type exercises. And the theory there is that, first of all, the theory is that novelty in itself can be a stimulus for growth potentially. It's not muscle confusion per se, but it's just working fibers in ways that they have, it's not confusing muscle, it's just working them in ways that they're not used to working. But if you do, let's say you do a squat now and then you don't do it again for three months, you're gonna have a pretty shitty squat in three months. Whereas if you do a, let's say a cable crossover today, you don't do it again for three months, I can do a perfect cable crossover in three months without any degradation. So, varying in, let's say a dumbbell fly with a cable crossover, with a, for your single joint chest exercise with maybe a pec fly, machine pec fly, while keeping your bench press is a more viable strategy because you're allowing the motor patterns to be maintained in the more complex moves and then allowing variety to, if it does have effects and that's still questionable, but I think there's a good logical rationale for it, that that will ultimately optimize your results and also keep it interesting. Yeah, and I appreciate your pragmatic approach that I think you've done a really good job too, especially on your social media, of talking about the difference between literature and data that is statistically significant versus something that's physiologically meaningful. Cause that's a little bit of a gray area out there and I think that there's a lot of practitioners that don't necessarily take the time, like you talked about earlier, of really harnessing their experience to really appropriately translate some of that data. So I thank you for all that. Well, thank you. And that's a big hobby or some line at this point. The statistical, the inability to properly interpret statistics for the practical application, I think is the big disconnect in the field. So we can look at something that's statistically significant. As you said, it doesn't mean it's practically meaningful and vice versa. Just because there wasn't a statistically significant finding doesn't mean there might not be practically meaningful interpretations that you can take out of a paper, out of a study. And in particular, the vast majority of training studies have low sample sizes. It's just very, it's very time consuming, difficult to get sufficient statistical power. So you can really, if you're looking at the nuances of a study, you can often see, and especially, what I like to suggest is take a look at some of the graphs. They can be more, graphs can be more telling than a lot of these statistics themselves in terms of what the practical inferences may be. Absolutely. You know, obviously, we're big proponents of weight training. And we recommend that people lift weights. They lift with a reasonable amount of intensity and frequency to get results ongoing. I think that, as Mike Israel told me, I said you can lift long or you can lift hard, but you can't do both. Or you can lift about as long and as hard as that from which you can recover. And that kind of transitions me into the recovery. And you said something that was interesting in just recently here. You said about a blunting effect. So now you've invested all this time and energy into training. And you need to recover. So what types of things are probably going to inhibit that recovery? What do you watch out for? And then what?  will optimize it, obviously, is the second phase of that question. Yeah, so one of my real interests, so we know that the resistance training volume is a driver of my perchance. That's pretty clearly shown in the literature. But we also know that the human body is very resilient and can recover quite well over short periods of time when it imposed a very high amount of stress. So if you're looking at exercise itself as a stress, the dose response would be greater stress, the greater dose would be greater stresses. At what point is there a limit to how much volume you can tolerate and for how long? And one of my, an area that I'd like to study, it's a difficult study to carry out just because of logistically there'd be problems. But my theory has been, and I've certainly used this with a lot of high-level competitors, is to vary volume to periodize volume in cycles over time. So you have a period of lower volume, going to a period of moderate volume, and then a period of higher volume, and then having a short active recovery phase and repeating this cycle. Now each person is going to have different volume needs, different recovery needs, so the length of the cycles can be shorter or longer. It's no cookie-color template that I can ever get for any of these things. But I've used variations of this frequently now with many high-level competitors and found it to be quite effective. There's nothing in the literature that has ever been studied in this realm, but it's one of the gaps in the literature. When we look at volume studies, we're generally looking at a short period of time or even a very longer period of time, and then you don't have variations as to how that could have been structured. So we're looking at either one, again, binary choices. Six months of doing one thing, six months of doing another, eight weeks of doing one, eight weeks of doing another. How about four weeks low, four weeks moderate, four weeks high volume, then having active recovery and repeating six weeks? Whatever it is, these are ways to me or a solution, a strategic solution for optimizing recovery, optimizing the dose-response relationship without devolving into an over-trained state. So that to me is a very important or potentially important strategy that I've used. Just to really quick tease that out a little bit, when you talk about high, medium, and low, let's say somebody is doing 15 working sets a week for chest. I would consider, let's say that's their top. So that would be their high volume. Would their low volume then be just a third of that, like the five sets, or how would you quantify it? Yeah, so it's somewhat intuitive. I will say this too, that my opinion on that topic also is somewhat morphed over time, especially some of the recent research. What I don't look at volume is that you need to do a certain amount per muscle group. Well, I do, but in the sense that it should be focused on your lagging, what muscle groups are lagging and which are stronger. There's no reason to spend volume. I kind of look at it as a budget that you have for volume. Let's say you might do 100 sets a week for your whole body. How much of that is going to be allocated to your weak thighs versus your strong biceps? You might do five sets a week for biceps, even at your high, if that's a strong point where you're doing up to 20 or so. So I think that's another nuance that needs to be factored in. Usually I'd look at something like what she said, but kind of like the 10 to 20 set range per muscle per week is a general guideline. So let's say it's on average 10 sets, 15 sets, 20 sets at your high. You just kind of scale that back. So it's roughly a quarter reduction or a quarter increase, 25% increase in volume each time roughly. So you just go decrease, correct, if 15 is your high, you'd go maybe to 11 and then maybe to seven or eight somewhere in there. Gotcha, okay. So you're talking about periodizing volume and you've kind of designed that to be, I think, more effective than what we historically would just say do a D-load every now and then if you're trained really, really hard for four to six weeks, it's probably a good idea to spend a week doing about half the weight and half the volume just to rest the body. Is that similar? But I think so too. So that's not, D-loads are factored in there as well, even with the lower volume. As you're not training, it's not like you're low volume, you're still training hard. Like I said last set, you're pushing the failures. Every four to six weeks, I integrate a D-load regardless. So the D-load then would be the transition into the next volume phase. Okay. So it's two completely different philosophies there. Actually, they're both important to do both the D-load and to periodize the volume. We've always found is that the D-loads, if you didn't take them, they were historically, they were kind of forced upon you because at one point you'd either get injured or sick and you'd end up resting anyhow. So we figured we might as well just do it voluntarily instead of involuntarily. Yeah. So my point here is that even with a D-load, if you're doing very high volumes over the time, in my opinion, and based on my experience, a D-load is not enough to completely refresh you and say, all right, I'm ready to go back. Let's say I'm at my upper level of volume. I'm just going to hop back in and do another cycle of very high volume. For my experience, that's a way that you end up crushing so. That makes a lot of sense. So now, how about some of the, say, passive recovery? So if somebody trains and then they want to say, is there something I can use to recover better? Can I, does a massage help? Does ice help? Does cryotherapy help? Does foam rolling help? Does taking non-steriline inflammatory help? Does any of that help? And maybe that's two completely different things that I've just introduced there. But talk through, what can you do to recover better? Which things are beneficial? Which things might actually hurt your progress? Well, I'll kind of go through each of the ones you talked about and most of them. Massage therapy has quite good, well, it has some good evidence. Now, it's hard to placebo a massage, but it's going to make you feel better, which tends to help you recover it. I actually recently got one of those massage guns, which are really good. I don't know if you've seen them, where basically it looks like a drill and has a little massage attachments and you can actually massage yourself with them. But going for a therapeutic massage certainly would be a benefit. And there's really no detriment to it. Cryotherapy and specifically cold water immersion, they're kind of, they're different, but they have similar attributes. It has actually been shown that it is detrimental. And the evidence is now really becoming quite compelling that it reduces anabolism. So it is not good if your goal is maximal high-perchupy. Being frequent cold water baths, ice baths is not a good thing. It might be due to blood flow. They're not sure mechanistically why, but reductions in blood flow might be one of the reasons. Do we distinguish between timing immediately following a workout as compared to the next day? Yeah, no, they don't. Generally, it's been shown immediately after the workout, how that would affect the next day is anyone's guess. My general approach in things like this is that until we find out more at this point, if it's not good after the work, I can't say you can't generalize and say it won't be good the next day, but I'd be hesitant to recommend that given that perhaps there are latent effects that still would be present. So if we talk about that in terms of like cardio after a workout, you've created a particular stimulus and you need that acute inflammatory response for the repair to happen. So you probably don't want to interfere with that stimulus either with ice and cryotherapy, but probably not also maybe just a whole bunch of cardio immediately following a hypertrophy session might be something to be best done the next day. Is that? Well, certainly that's been shown that separating the cardio as far as possible from your strength session, certainly doing it afterwards has been shown to be better. Generally doing either like morning evening or the next day if possible is the best approach there to reduce any interference effects. Some of that then will depend upon how hard you're doing your cardio. This is again where it's not a one size fits all solution I can give here or recommendation. To touch on your anti-inflammatories, that's another very interesting topic. So it's been shown that an elderly people taking anti-inflammatory drugs actually has a pro-anabolic effect that it enhances, certainly doesn't diminish hypertrophy. And in several cases has been shown to enhance muscle building in elderly subjects. Yeah, it's actually the exact opposite in younger subjects and younger healthy subjects. And the theory is that elderly subjects are chronically inflamed. They have chronic inflammation, which has been shown to have negative effects on muscle growth. So low grade chronic inflammation is an anti-anabolic mediator. So but the acute inflammatory effect has been shown to have pro-anabolic effects. So there's an interaction there and your NSAIDs will have effects on both. The theory is that the reduction in the chronic anti-inflammatory effects of NSAIDs outweigh the negative effects on the acute inflammatory response in elderly people. So they're basically it's you're here, it's kind of like, yeah, I'm up here with chronic inflammation. It's not going to be as big a deal to reduce the acute effect with your younger subjects. They don't have chronic inflammation. So basically, you're just reducing the acute or blunting the acute effect, which again will blunt the hypertrophic response. So now when you're talking about doing it, what like if you have a motrin after a workout, is that going to kill your gains? No. But it's repeatedly using the anti-inflammatories. So if you're feeling, I would say if anything, if it's a one shot thing, it's beneficial, but that's going to help you get back in the gym the next day. If you had a bad workout where you've got sore for whatever reason. Take a motrin if you want so you can train the next day, but just don't make it a habit where that's a recovery strategy for you. We saw the same thing I think between healthy individuals and unhealthy, I could say, with respect to metformin use, that it was also causing a blunting of the hypertrophy effect in the healthy individuals. Right. Do you take that another step and you see people that come in and they're generally healthy. We'll just say they don't have a high C-reactive protein or homocysteine. They don't have a lot of inflammation. They don't have high blood sugars, that kind of thing. I would presume to think that that would indicate somebody with a good body composition and low inflammation. A lot of those people I noticed will start supplementing with a host of different anti-inflammatories or blood thinners really. High dose of omega-3, curcumin, maybe a baby aspirin, and I start to get concerned, well, maybe that healthy individual that's not beneficial for performance sake. Is that am I going too far past NSAIDs and into those things or is it too nuanced? I don't think you're going too far. I certainly don't think, well, there's not good evidence. It just hasn't been well researched to give you a good answer from a research-based answer there, but I think logically that does make sense and I would agree. I think the omega-3s are an interesting topic. They also have beneficial effects on cellular sensitivity because they also increase the fluidity of cells. How much is there, let's say, anti-inflammatory effects mediated or negated by their positive effects on the ability to make cells more sensitive to insulin and thus as well as other signaling? Basically, a fluid cell is more sensitive in general to all signals, cellular signals. I think the interesting thing there is the balance between your omega-6s and your omega-3s. If you're just doing high doses of omega-3s and keeping your omega-6s low, then you might be creating imbalances and those are things that, again, we don't really have good evidence on to give you a good answer or intelligence. How about things that do work for recovery from a workout? I've always obviously recommended the 10-minute walk, just active, just moving around, just getting blood flow in general, rather, because when I was powerlifting and I had a huge squat day on Sunday, I used to just sit around all day Monday and I was sore. Then when I started implementing the three 10-minute recumbent bike sessions as part of my recovery, I seemed to be a lot less sore. How important is blood flow and what methods can we use to improve that that don't cause more damage? Again, massage is a good one that I mentioned earlier, but active recovery, very important. As you said, that basically stimulates the blood flow throughout the tissues and it enhances the recuperative processes that we're modeling. Another very intriguing area, which is not well researched, but there is emerging research that makes me very curious about it. I'm not fully jumping on the bandwagon, but I think it has a good logical basis as well as some evidence now is heat therapy. Using hot packs, they've actually, a recent study was shown that putting on hot packs before a workout actually stimulates anabolism. Now, that's not the recovery that actually is through. I'm not sure how you can separate that out, but there's other research, another one that was very long-term heat. I think it was like six hours they kept heat pads on these people, but it did again show an enhancement of anabolism. I think that if anything does not seem to have any negative effects, to me it all comes down to cost-benefit. If something is a potential good strategy and doesn't have any perceived negative effects, it's something that I recommend trying. It could be that there's negative effects that aren't latent, that are inobvious at this point. But I think from just from a logical perspective, I would be prone towards recommending heat, especially if you have soreness. Hot baths? Oh, hot baths, sauna, immediately following a workout? Exactly. Or it could be heat baths, hot baths, any type of heat stimulation, which again tends to stimulate blood flow. So that would be the logical rationale why it would have potential benefits. Did you want to jump in on that? You go ahead. Sorry, I've got all this page in notes. Damon's the exercise of his PhD, so I'm the one that's enjoying this more, I think. Range of motion in terms of muscle hypertrophy. On the power lifter, I tried to move as little as possible. Something for me was about just moving as much weight. And it was obvious in the fact that my legs always lagged behind. My ass was huge, and I could squat 900 pounds. But when I got on a bodybuilding stage, that was always my weakness. Until I trained with Flex Wheeler in 2008, and I was able to put on a significantly more muscle on my quads, even after 20 years of training. And one of the big things that he promoted was a greater range of motion. He also took me off of the heavy low bar back squats for a while. How important is it that we hang up our ego and utilize a greater range of motion? What are the best exercises for that in legs? So glad you asked that question. We just got a paper systematic review accepted, which should be out imminently on that topic. There's not as much research on the topic as you'd think. I think there were seven studies or eight studies that met inclusion criteria. So there wasn't even enough to do a made analysis. Better quantify it from a numerical standpoint. But what the literature does show at this point is that, yes, there is a benefit to larger ranges of motion. It's interestingly specific to certain muscles as opposed to others. It's more specific in the lower body. You kind of mentioned the quads seem to have a greater effect, but not as much as the adductor. So there's, again, limited research on some of the other muscles. The quads do seem to have that stronger effect. The upper body, it was somewhat inconclusive. But what I think the important thing to keep in mind too is that it does not, we always think binary range of motion or full range versus short range. You can also do some partial ranges of motion, either to work through sticking points. There could be reasons why you might want to focus on the targeted range of motion for a given either working on the muscle or particularly through a strength range to get more mechanical tension throughout a full range. So I'm a big proponent of trying to teach, let's not think, yes, we always do full ranges of motion. So certainly there's a benefit. Those who never train through a full range of motion will see a detriment to their gains. But I also think it's short-sighted to say that every set needs to be taken through a full range of motion because there could be other strategies why partials might be integrated into the routine. And examples of that, like on the leg press to bring the feet in and down might give you a greater range of motion at the knee as opposed to high and wide and loading, I guess, more of the glutes. And I think that... Well, it's going to change the muscle activation too. That will shift more for your adductors. You're going to get more work there when you're going wider. So yeah, that also will change other muscle recruitment activation strategies. And it's hard because you can lift twice as much weight when you're high and wide on the leg press. When the weights drop, you immediately lean your mind. Right. Your glutes are a pretty strong muscle in your adductors as opposed to just the quads. So when you get the muscles involved, you're able to move more weight. And I noticed that Ben Pekulski was using an angle plate a lot with his athletes so they could get a deeper range of motion. And then more recently, I think there's some good videos of Mike Isretel doing the Smith squat, which of course, powerlifters have always said it was a movement that you shouldn't do. But I found myself, after seeing the development, Mike Isretel's got some really thick quads. And when you watch his range of motion, it kind of reminds me back to Dorian Yates doing hack squats. His range of motion was pretty extraordinary. His butt would go all the way down to his heels. And that seems to be a pretty key component, barring injury, that obviously you pick guys with big legs and you just do what they do. Maybe that's a bad way to conduct science. But I keep seeing that and that range of motion, particularly in the quads, as you mentioned. Something we should hang our ego up for for a while if we're looking for hypertrophy? Well, yeah. So again, if you're a powerlifter, you're going to need to back squat on a barbell. That's what your game is. So we have to look, we have to separate out the goals of training for strength and particularly for a given competition, for competitive. But yeah, I do think that, now look, there's other things that factor into it as well. What is your flexibility? Some people are just not flexible. You have to look at limb length and things like a squat, where some people will start getting knee pain if they're squatting too low because they have long, their femurs are longer than their shanks. So other things, considerations always come into play. But as a general rule, I would agree that hypertrophy is not about ego. I always say that, yeah, it's nice to be strong, but I want to look like I'm strong. Yeah, right. Yeah, they don't know how much you lift on a bodybuilding stage. One of the things I noticed is I have real poor ankle flexibility and so on that Smith machine you were able to put your feet in front of the bar and you could sit down a lot deeper without having as much of the knee over the toe. So I was able to do more, get more recruitment out of that. Yep. And it also, lower back can be taken out of the equation as well. So it can allow you to get a straighter vertical plane in terms of your torso. Whereas with the squat, a lot of people tend to lean forward more, which puts more stress on the lumbar area. So it's important you mentioned earlier about fatigue being kind of a bucket that you fill from all of your different workouts. And if you're hitting your lumbar spine real hard with deadlifts and squats, that systemic fatigue may affect your chest workout and just your general overall recovery. So I guess that's a big consideration as well. Yep. Awesome. Well, we've taken up a ton of your time. I'd say at this point maybe wrap it up for our audience. I know we talked about a lot of all these questions that kind of depends on the person and their goals and their individual structure and so on and so forth. But maybe what are your top three things that people should prioritize when they're going into kind of creating their training program? Yeah. So I know people don't like when I'm kind of equivocating, but that's just the nature of our field. Right. What Stan's going to do, I know people go up to Stan, oh, what do you do? How do you get big? Well, if they did Stan's routine, it doesn't mean they're going to look like Stan. Right. The routine that's going to be customized to their own recovery and lifestyle and nutrition. I mean, I'm going to keep it somewhat general and say that number one, have a plan. The most important thing is to be consistent. So if you're just going into the gym and doing that random work, you know, yeah, I'll do a little of this, a little of that. You're setting yourself up to fail. That's number one. Number two, get in tune with your own body. I think one of the things that people, and this kind of goes with what I was just saying there, is that people, and by the way, I fell into this trap when I first started training. I started, this was back in the 90s, kind of says my age here, but I would go out and finally flex magazine and muscle fitness and like, we would brought us, got our rich guests, and I would just like copy whatever they're doing. And I made some gains at the beginning, but after a while, it's like, I'm not making the gains that I want. Why? Well, that was the second point is that you need to be in tune with your body, learn what you respond to and don't just because someone else is making gains from something, doesn't mean you will. You have to find what works for you. And that's an intuitive thing that happens over time that you need to experiment and don't do things just because people tell you to do them. I can only provide guide research, can only provide guidelines. And when we're talking like this, I can only provide general recommendations based on experience for the masses, for what works for 80% to 70% of people in general, but there's dispersions amongst the mean even there. And then there's significant dispersions when you get your standard deviations going out from there. So that's number two. And number three, I think it would be nutrition is that don't neglect the nutritional component. All the training in the world, if you're not supporting it through your diet properly, and that number one, if you want to build muscle healthy, you need sufficient protein, roughly 1.6, 1.7 grams per kilogram minimum per day. And also if you're looking to build muscle, yeah, you can recompose, you can do body recomposition where you're losing fat while gaining muscle, particularly at the beginning, but you're going to blunt hypertrophy. If your goal is maximal hypertrophy, you need to support it with calories, energy. So you need to at least be at maintenance in general, you're going to have to be in a caloric surplus to really see proper hypertrophic gains. And the higher up you go, the more important that becomes. Excellent. Excellent. Great advice. You know, Brad, like I started off saying, you've been a fantastic resource and continue to be a great resource for me. And I want others to be able to have access to your information. Your Instagram posts are extraordinary. You probably get about as much of them as you would out of a college degree in exercise science or better because you talk about the application of this information. So where do people find you to get more information? Well, they can Google me and they'll come up with the submission. But I'm on Instagram. That's Brad Schoenfeld, PhD. I'm on Twitter. That's Brad Schoenfeld, I think, at Brad Schoenfeld. And then I'm on Facebook, which I'm using less now just because their algorithm sucks. And it used to be a great platform, but it's not as the utility of it is diminished over tons. They can search for me on, I don't even remember what my name is on that. But if you just search for me, you'll find me. And I have a follow-up. Yeah, what's your website? Just lookgreatnaked.com. It's just really fun. Awesome. Great. Well, thank you so much for your time today. We really appreciate it. Great information. My pleasure, guys. Thanks, Brad. Take care. Hey, guys. Stan Efroni here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow vertical diet e-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our vertical diet meal prep company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to stanefroni.com and get started today.