! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Hey, everybody. Stan Efforting here, founder of the Vertical Diet. I've got about 10 minutes before I got to go pick the kids up from school, but the wifey said, got to get a video out. This is something I've been thinking about for a little while. I get these questions a lot from clients. I was just on a call with a client, it was yesterday or the day before, and this was one of the things that he was concerned about. It was about cardiovascular disease, and I looked at his blood tests and his cholesterol levels were high. I wanted to talk through some of the things that I advised him, things I've experienced, implemented myself, and the results that I've been able to obtain from it. First of all, I want to try and determine or distinguish between markers and makers of cardiovascular disease, because you can get a cholesterol test, and that really just tells you maybe your doctor can advise you as to what your potential risk is. You can see some indicators here. Generally, with a cholesterol test, you're going to get a total cholesterol that should be under 200, generally speaking. Triglycerides under 150, I actually like to see those under 100, to be honest. HDL should be greater than 40, and LDL less than 100. Lots of times when I get athletes that are using performance enhancing drugs, things like SARMs, Tren, Windstrawl, and even the safe Anivar, their triglyceride HDL ratios get broadly skewed. Their triglycerides will go up, their HDLs will come down, and the ratio will be really bad, really poor. If these numbers are high and you're concerned about cardiovascular disease, the doctor can assess your risk. There's some other tests that can be done. They're kind of a better indicator of how far along you might be. One's the coronary artery calcification scan. They can show you if you have any calcification. Another one's this, it's the carotid intimimedia thickness test, and that'll tell you whether or not you've got some thickness in your carotid artery, some blockage. And then down here electrophoresis kind of defines the particulates in your LDL. And those are all things that your doctor can use. I've got to be honest with you, I've watched 100 hours of videos probably from these folks here, Dave Feldman, Ivor Cummins, and Peter Atia. He's got a fantastic YouTube, The Drive, where he talked to a couple of guys, one by the name of Ron Krauss, another by the name of Tom Dayspring, who are probably the smartest guys in the world on this stuff. And it gets really, really deep and confusing. And the reason I'm not trying to explain it to you is one, I don't understand it, and two, because to me they're markers. These are just things that say, hey, you better do something about this. The makers are what I'm more concerned about. These are things I think that I can help fix. Of course, work with your doctor, there might be some medical interventions as well. But the makers are all of these things here. These things actually impact or can potentially damage the endothelial cells. It's the lining of your blood vessel. And if these endothelial cells get damaged, then that's when the cholesterol can get in there and there's oxidation, and you can start to accumulate some sort of blockage. So you have to be really careful with your blood vessels. And the things that cause damage to the blood vessels are all part of this metabolic syndrome, which is common in heavier folks. For the most part, it's going to be high blood pressure, high blood sugars, increased high body fat, and that can be a BMI over 30 with a waist of over 40 inches. Fatty liver disease, it's just one of two. It's named non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, or also called non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, I believe it is. But fatty liver disease can be something that just sneaks up on you. It can be developing for years, many years, without any indication. It doesn't show up on an AST-ALT test. It might not necessarily impact blood sugars until such time that it's to a degree that it's pretty critical. You can look at that with an additional test. It's an ultrasound. It's a pretty simple, non-invasive test you can see about fatty liver disease. But of course, a part of metabolic syndrome is the increased cholesterol. One of the things I try and do is I try and find out what are good predictors rather than these lagging indicators. By the time you have blood sugar problems or blood pressure problems, I think that's a little late. So some of the better predictors are, even here in cholesterol, your triglycerides can start to rise and your blood sugars might still seem normal, in which case you might think that this would be a better kind of indicator that you need to check your blood sugars. So let's talk about some of the things that we can do. Here they are here. This is my to-do list that I talked to my clients about yesterday. First of all, we talked about blood sugars. Your glucose reading on your blood tests should be somewhere between 80 to 100 of fasted glucose. And your insulin levels, the range is 2.6 to 24.9. If that gets over 5, I'm kind of concerned. insulin shouldn't be that high. Somewhere around 4 or below, I think would be better. Hemoglobin A1c is tested. The range is 5.7 to 6.4 is pre-diabetic. Below that seems to be a safe range. Above that seems to be classified as diabetic. It's a bit of a continuum. It's not just like a chopped off mark. You should try and keep that on the lower end. Now I mentioned earlier that your triglycerides can rise, but you might not have any indicators in your blood sugars that you have pre-diabetes. That's when it might be a good idea to get an oral glucose tolerance test. That's where you go into the doctor fasted. They give you some glucose solution. They draw blood first to test your glucose. Then they give you a glucose solution, and two hours later they draw it again. If two hours later you're greater than 140, that's a good indicator that you might have some pre-diabetes. That could be one of the things that's causing your high triglycerides. It'll give you kind of a kick in the butt really to get moving. All of these things are just markers. They're all indicators that you should take action. Another thing is inflammation. Your high sensitivity CRP, C-reactive protein is another test to show that if combined with your high cholesterol you also have inflammation. It's a pretty good indicator that you might have some endothelial damage and potentially be causing some cardiovascular disease. This should stay below one ideally between one and three is the risk and greater than three is really high inflammation. Now those can be affected by a number of other things. Infections if you've got a cold or flu or rheumatoid arthritis and heavy training. I remember that they gave a blood test to Hofthor the day after the Arnold last year and the CRP was really high and he was concerned, but he had just dead lifted 1,050 pounds a day before. Same thing with runners. If you do a 10K the day before a blood test you're going to see a really high CRP. This acute inflammation is purposeful, it's beneficial, it's intentional for your body to repair from training, but the chronic inflammation. This is just a snapshot in time. I'd recommend not training within about three days of the blood test. It can also affect your ASTALT, your liver enzymes and also your creatinine for your kidney if you train too close to a blood test. It's nice to take about three days off of training when you get a test so that you can read actually what the enzymes are in the blood instead of muscle tissue breakdown. Then blood pressure is an obvious one. 120 over 80. We like to keep it somewhere around or below that. The biggest offenders for that is smoking and alcohol as we know. The to-do list, and I know these things are going to seem repetitive, but we've got by all measures over 30% of the population has metabolic syndrome. We know obesity is at an all-time high. These are going to be the same things that we're supposed to be doing, but probably aren't. That's the point. I'll remind you again, sleep, that's a huge one. Sleep apnea can cause a 20-point increase in systolic blood pressure. I know people talk about sodium being a contributor to blood pressure, but even in people who are hypertensive, people who are salt sensitive, a small percentage of the population, they might only respond with a 2-7 millimole increase in systolic blood pressure from taking into much sodium. Whereas sleep apnea or lack of sleep could affect you by up to 20 millimoles of systolic blood pressure. That's significant. This is one of the things that Dr. Atia has talked about when he was training four hours a day and still ended up having high blood sugars and high cholesterol was because he was only getting four hours of sleep a night. In addition to that, he was also eating a ton of simple carbohydrates up to a gallon a day of Gatorade and cereal and bread, just to fuel his endurance activities. That was all adverse to him. Number two is a huge one, lose weight. Another in terms of blood pressure. You get one millimole of systolic blood pressure per pound you lose. I did a video on this for high blood pressure. It goes into it in more detail, but drop 20 pounds of weight, you lose 20 points off your systolic blood pressure. So that's huge. It also has a huge impact on blood sugars as well. The next one, number three, is going to be thyroid function, and that has a huge impact. It can be up to 20 points again on systolic blood pressure from hypothyroid, low thyroid, as compared to normal thyroid. And this may not need medication. If you fix your sleep and you drop some weight, your thyroid function could actually improve. Thyroid, I have a whole video on that as well in the Rants and in the Diet, the Vertical Diet ebook, where I talk about the fact that iodine is important. If you're exercising a lot and sweating a lot and sweating out iodine and not replacing it, your thyroid gland needs iodine. That's why the CDC put it in salts in the 1920s to cure Goitre. So it's something very important to pay attention to. You can get a blood test for that, but it would need to include free T3, free T4, TSH, and reverse T3. You'd want to get all of them to see if you actually had a hormonal problem with thyroid. I mentioned under lose weight, and I didn't go down here, and I wanted to talk briefly about what that means. Look, there's many paths the same destination. I've done a video on this as well. And I'm not going to say that a low carb or high carb or a vegan diet or a keto diet is any better. It's what you can comply with. But in generally speaking, I'm going to make the recommendation that you keep your proteins high, fats kind of medium. I'll have you bring your carbs down, particularly if you're experiencing some sort of blood sugar problems. We're going to go with a little lower carbohydrate diet. Does that mean keto? Not necessarily. Kyo could certainly work for some people. I've used it many times throughout my career for bodybuilding. I found it made me very tired, very weak, and I lost a lot of muscle. And so I'm cautious about recommending keto as a very low carbohydrate diet, less than 50 grams a day. But a low carbohydrate diet, somewhere between 100 and 150, seems to be able to provide a similar benefit in terms of blood sugar control, but also giving you the energy that you need. My concern with carbohydrates is mostly that people tend to overeat them, not necessarily that they're bad for you and that the insulin monster is going to come out. If you're at a deficit and you're losing weight, you're going to improve your blood sugars. I talked about that in my obesity rant, about the guy that ate at McDonald's and lost 40 pounds and lowered all of his health markers, blood sugars, cholesterol, blood pressure. So I'm cautious not to be a zealot. Obviously, I sell a diet. I've got a very specific plan that walks you step by step through a diet I'd recommend. But the point of the matter is, in order to manage blood pressure and to manage blood sugars, you're going to want to lose weight and lose a significant amount of weight. Up to 7% of your current body weight, if your BMI is over 30, can have a significant impact. So if you're about 250 pounds, you only need to lose about 7% of that. What is that? 15, 16 pounds? That's pretty doable. You could do that in a relatively short period of time. Next one up there is 10-Minute Walks. I just did my video on how 10-Minute Walks are twice as effective as metformin for lowering blood sugars. And they'll also definitely help with blood pressure. So this is a definite must. This is a daily to do hypertrophy training. This is huge. Dr. Ati was talking about the fact that he was doing endurance work and he'd lost a significant amount of muscle and he had more central adiposity, which is where the fatty liver disease occurs. It's from this visceral fat around the organs, which is I think one of the complicating factors for why he had high blood sugars. So hypertrophy training, the muscles will take glucose out of the bloodstream without the need of insulin. So I would incorporate some sort of hypertrophy training ahead of and in place of extensive cardio. I would replace the steady state cardio. You just got three 10-Minute Walks. There is perfectly fine. And do more hypertrophy training, particularly the legs. The legs will draw more glucose out of the system. The next one's going to be stress. And that has to be managed. High cortisol is going to be very difficult to lose weight. And it's going to have an adverse effect as well. So managing stress is important. I talked about this in my Stress for Success rant. I talked about the fact that simply sleeping, losing weight, getting some regular activity and having a good diet seems to manage the vast majority of stress as it is. There's other methods that you can employ such as maybe some meditation, et cetera. But generally speaking, stress is the worst because you're getting the least sleep and little exercise and your diet's off point. The next one there is vitamin D3. And this really matters most for people who are very low levels, 15, 16, as my client did yesterday. Under 30 seems to be kind of an indicator from the vitamin D25 hydroxy test. If your vitamin D is normal and you take more vitamin D, it's not going to help any additional. But Finland did a nationwide study where they showed that children, they had over a 350% decrease in childhood type 1 diabetes when they started putting D3 into their dairy. And so that could be significant for people who have low vitamin D3. Next one's potassium. And of course, sodium, there's a balance between those two. This is going to help with blood pressure. Also helps with blood sugars. It combines to glucose to form glycogen. Getting 4,700 milligrams a day is kind of hard to do. I did a video on that as well. And that's something that you should focus on. Sodium, we talked about that briefly. If you get adequate potassium, even the salt-sensitive, hypertensive people who respond poorly to salt, their blood pressure will not raise if they're getting adequate sodium or potassium. And that's been tested as well. Magnesium's another great one. For blood pressure, it relaxes the blood vessels. There's a little over-emphasized supplementation here. The magnesium can probably, it helps with relaxing the blood vessels, but it's only going to be good for a couple millimoles in the blood pressure, for the systolic blood pressure, whereas some of these other priorities are a much more significant benefit. Now, down here is a few things I'm going to touch on that people often immediately throw in there because it's something that they can just take a pill or something. And it's not about forcing themselves to get more sleep or actually exercising and dieting to lose weight, taking 10-minute walks, hypertrophy training, those things are the most important. People just want to know, is there a pill? And so often we run to apple cider vinegar. And a whole bunch of folks on the internet have talked about how great apple cider vinegar is, the fact of the matter is. Its mechanism of action is really to impede glucose absorption, carbohydrate absorption. So if you're lowering your carbohydrates, probably not going to be much benefit there, to be honest with you. It doesn't mean you can't take apple cider vinegar if you want, but its benefits are pretty specific to something that you can control just in your diet. It doesn't have any other magical effect. Vitamin K2, I like to get that from diet. You can get that from eggs. Chris Masterjohn talks about vitamin K2 and eggs and how important it is for decalcifying, or I should just say for directing calcium out of the soft tissues and into the bones. Some people will supplement that. That's fine. There's two types that they talk about generally, is the MK4 and MK7. And both, probably MK7 is a priority, should be taken if you choose to take it. I don't think it's necessary. I think you can get it from your diet, and you do get it from dairy. You do get it from hard cheeses, such as cheddar cheese and eggs in particular. Niacin's another one that's kind of mixed reviews. I'm cautious about that one. I looked at a lot of videos on that, and I read a lot of research on that. I'm not sure that the positives outweigh the negatives on that. So I'm not recommending it here necessarily. If it's something you choose to do, that's fine. But don't do any of these in the absence of these. These should take a priority. And the last one's fish oil. And fish oil, again, you can raise HDLs. It can possibly lower triglycerides. But the main mechanism of action for fish oil is the same thing. It seems to impair glucose absorption. And therefore, we'll lower triglycerides. Triglycerides are affected by blood sugars. So there's better ways to do that. Obviously, lowering carbs is one. But if you're going to take fish oil, that's fine. Crill is usually a highly more absorbable form, about 250 milligrams a day of EPA, DHA, and that. I prefer to eat salmon twice a week. That gives you all the EPA and DHA that's ever been measured to provide you the physiological benefit that you're looking for. So eat a couple servings of salmon a week, and you could skip poppin' the pills, if you'd like, and keep carbs under control. Do the 10-minute walks, and do the hypertrophy training. Lose some weight. Get more sleep, and your blood sugars will be under control. So I think that wraps it up. I've talked just about everybody here. I hope I haven't gone over my 10 minutes. I've got to go get the kids. Thanks again for tuning in. And remember, the vertical diet has over 250 pages with 200 references to articles, videos, peer-reviewed published research, all the folks I talked about here today, and all the research that I used to support everything that I talk about. See you next time.