 Hey guys, Stan Epperton here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow, Vertical Diet E-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep company offers free shipping, your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to staneffertoning.com and get started today. Hey everybody, welcome back to the Vertical Podcast. I've got a very special, well, I hope he's not just a guest. We're actually trying to get the legend Flex Wheeler to come join me for a weekly respite here. We're gonna- That's it, we're done. Thank you, thank you. And we're gonna try and interview some of these fantastic young bodybuilders. Flex, I'm gonna let you do the introductions today. Who's our guest? Oh, today we have no honor than the Patrick Moore. You guys have all heard of him. I came to the Olympia stage last year and just crushed it. Actually Pat, I had never heard of you before watching an Olympia. So I'm happy because when you walked out, I was like, who in the hell? You know, and then your presentation and everything like that, it struck me from the guys of old like us and everything. And then going onto your page and finding your Instagram page and following you and just kind of learn a little bit about you. And then later on, you know, we're sitting each other messages and finding out that you're in the cars like I am. So man, it's an honor to have you on. Honor to have you on. Oh man, it's great to be on, man. That's everyone's, you know, everyone's like, where'd you come from? You came out of nowhere. And I'm like, no, I was here. I just was getting last place. And- I've been- Yeah, man, at national shows. It was just one of those deals when I started the sport. I just didn't know what I was doing. I was one of those guys, I boxed, I played basketball. So I was always an athlete. And I never really got out of the gym. And I ran into a guy like most of us do is like, hey, you should compete. You know, whether it's a coach or someone and says, hey man, you should think about, and I had no idea what the sport was. So when I did my first show, I think I died it for like two weeks and I got second. And I was upset about that because that's just how competitive I was. But I didn't really have the knowledge like, you know, I lost to a guy that was maybe 10, 15 years older, but he was knowledgeable. He knew the sport. And I kind of stepped away from it then because no one was there to tell me, hey, this is just how it goes. You just weren't ready. And, you know, when you're an athlete and you used to doing well, and it doesn't go your way, your first thought is that's stupid. I'm not doing that anymore at all. And a couple of years later, I found myself back wanting to do it again. And I actually had some people that were around me to tell me, hey, this is how you do it. This is how you diet. And we know you like to eat pizza every week, but you gotta chill on that. And, you know, I actually didn't start doing cardio until my first attempt at national. Because I just didn't know. And I got blown away. And I got backstage and I was like, man, these guys are crazy. You know, and even, excuse my wife now, but my fiance at the time, she was like, those guys are big. And I said, yeah, this isn't what I thought it was gonna be. And so I got smoked, man. And you get humbled. And I didn't give up though. I was like, yeah, whatever, okay, I'm still learning. I'm new. And I went and gave it a shot again. And I got like 18 places this time, but it was still the same result. And at that show, that's when I ran into Lee Labrada. And, you know, other people were telling me, hey, let us really show you how to do this because you could be something if you could get this thing right. And the next thing you know, man, I won the Texas State and a guy that I'd be there, he went on to turn pro at the national, Sean Vasquez. And so that gave me some, you know, I was pretty excited. And I did the USA as the following year. And that's when I turned pro. And even then, I think it was an article in Flex Magazine and they said this virtual unknown, you know, because no one knew who I was. And even then, I think kind of people were like, okay, he'll be good, but I didn't have a coach. I didn't work with anyone that was still experienced. So you won a USA with no coach or all that. Yeah, I had John Sherman. He just would give me some tips and I had a nutritionist. But they weren't, yeah, the nutritionist keep flying. So he did some diet for me. And he had me doing cardio 15 minutes, three times a week. Yeah, wow, that's it. I like this guy. I like this guy. Yeah. But it was, that's how I came across Chris Isido because his knock on me was my conditioning wasn't lights out. I didn't hit the poses correctly. I keep in mind this was maybe my fourth show. So I'm still new, I'm still learning. And then I got with him and Chris, you know, he's been like, this is how you do it. And he's just been like there from day one. And he's like, man, you're gonna do some good things. And, you know, we're just gonna let your body grow how I want it. And because I expressed to him, you were a big point that I bought up Flex. And I was like, see these guys, you know, and at the time me coming to the sport, Phil was the champion. And so I saw him and I said, okay, man, if I can look like that, I think I can do this sport. And then I started seeing the guys in the 90s. And I'm like, well, man, so this is what these guys, they all look crazy. And so then I did the research and I would see like the guys in the 90s, man, you guys are crazy. And so then that's when I made my mind up like, okay, you know, let's just take a different route and approach to this thing. We know we need to be bigger, but we still want to be aesthetic because, you know, when I saw you guys, I'm like, that's body doing that. Right there, the tight waist, the broad shoulders, you know, just that's what I came to know was what it should be. And so then even being a couple of years with Chris, we still had the same vision. And so, you know, that's how I train. Like you guys, I've watched you guys YouTube and I just studied like any athlete. And those tips you gave me a couple of while back, you know, not, man, let me tell you, I started my back workout with that. Oh, it's crazy, man, but it just goes to show you, like you never stop learning. And there's guys that if you let them show you, you know, the way to do it and you actually listen and take it in, you can do some things with it. It's, you know, you guys are all tools for me to guide me, you know, how to do this. And so I see what you guys did. And, you know, that's my aspiration of being what you guys were, you know, at the top. Well, you know, with Chris Hasido, you definitely got a real one there. He's worked with some amazing champions and Olympia champions and me and Chris go back to these before I was even an amateur. But I tell you, you know, young girl, you're on your way. You know, as I sent you that message a long time ago, I really, really feel if you stay on chart, you know, the direction you're going now, you can definitely be a Mr. Olympian. I mean, you have all the cards and, you know, kudos to you for bringing up your pose because that's one thing I really watch. That's just really, really strong in our era. And I've always looked at it as, you know, like an artist, you know, it's, you want to be an artist after a craft. And I love watching ballerinas and stuff like that. And that's one thing I wanted to be able to do is to be just ungodly, muscular and conditioned, but just take away that stigma that, you know, we have no flexibility. We move around like gorillas and all that. So watching you pose, that's what really brought my attention to you. And then of course, from there, being an athlete, I'm going to get your Tiki and go hard and start looking at everything else. But man, you handed your business. So, yeah, definitely. Yeah, when I trained with Lex back in 08, he had us posing every night, 30 nights of the month, for 20 to 30 minutes. And I remember one time, I've told these stories in years, but I remember what it was like when you talk about the workouts. We would literally be standing in a pool of sweat around our feet. Yeah. And it was, you will understand, that was just from like 20 minutes because you couldn't sit down or rest. You had to stay, hold your composure, keep your waist in. Even when we were training, he wouldn't let us sit down between sets. He's pretty ridiculous, the discipline that we had to maintain. And constantly, even when we were training, walking around, going to a restaurant, he would smash us in our stomach if we let it go out. Yeah. It's a good moment of it's section. Let me tell you, man, you know, guys, I think those type of little things like that are kind of lost now because I remember, and Lee told me this, when you're back there and you're on the line, and even when you're not in a call out, you don't know who's watching. Those cameras are constantly going. People are constantly observing. So little things like not relaxing your midsection, that makes a big difference. And even when you're walking around, like you said, when you're going out to eat, I always notice if I put a T-shirt on or something, I was blessed with a smaller waist, so of course it's gonna be a little different. But, you know, I always pay attention to that when you have a shirt on, because if you're a muscular guy, your shirt's gonna hang in a certain fashion. And once it gets down around the midsection, if you're just all relaxed right there, it's gonna show. And so from those times, and just going to the pool or the beach or whatever, you just subconsciously start to learn to keep your midsection tight. And then you do that subconsciously when you train. And so guys will ask me, you know, how are I managed trying to keep a small waist? And I'm like, well, I just keep my abdominals tight most of the time and keep pressure off of it with certain lifts, you know? And I don't know if, I'm sure that contributes some fashion to, you know, with that. But those little things like that, those little tips, that's gold. And like Blake said, with opposing, Lee was always on me, he would tell me, you know, you have to be like a big cat. You don't wanna be a big robot just up there, you know, hitting most muscular side to side. And, you know, he said it's a show. And what he told me how it used to be in the 90s where guys really put on the show, they would come out in costumes or, you know, different dress and stuff. And it was really something special, which is what gave a lot of flair to the evening show, you know? And so he was on me about that. And he was like, well, if you wanna have this type of physique, it's nothing if you don't know how to present it. Right, definitely. So we took a lot of time on that routine and Lee was super excited about it. It was a tough routine that I actually messed up a couple of times. But nobody knows that. As long as you don't show it in your face, they don't know, man. They don't know. Yeah. Flex, that's exactly what Lee said. But in my head, all I could think was, you know, us and Lee's garage and he's like, wait, well, hold on. And I did it. And I was like, oh man, I messed up right there. But he always just said, just keep going. Just keep going. They won't know this, just keep going. So now that I see the routine, I'm like, man, I should have done this. I should have done that. But it was a lot of nerves, man. It's a big stage for my first time. And, you know, but it was amazing. Yeah, it's growth. And you're always going to be your hardest critic. You know, hopefully you have some really, really great people in your camp. I always did. And even now I had Stan in my camp and he's just a constant, you know, bugging my ear to remind me of things. But you're always going to be your hardest critic. But going back to as far as what Lee Lerbrough, you know, I had the honor of standing on stage with him, my second pro show ever. And I remember vividly the 1993 honor classic, 1993. That sounds so old now, geez. But it is old. But I was so tired and I hadn't yet mastered posing yet. And I was so exhausted in a lineup. I was hiding behind Robbie Robinson. So, you know, I was right next to Robbie Robinson. I would kind of get behind him and then kneel down, hoping nobody sees me. And I'm looking down. I'm looking at Lee. And I'm like, hell, because he's just standing on like a damn statue. And I'd top Robbie on a knee. And I'm like, dog, how does he do that? And you know, Robbie's hard. And you know, he's for real. You know, he's real on me. And he goes, how does he do what, Flex? And I'm like, how does he just stand on like that? He goes, what do you mean? I go, look at him. He goes, damn it, ask him. You know? We were kind of, so after the show, I walked up to Lee and, you know, just, you know, man, what an honor to meet you. And, you know, he expressed his feelings about me. And I was just like, Lee, how do you do that? How do you do what? How do you just stand there on stage? I mean, you pose and you just like effortlessly and you don't breathe hard and then and then relax pose. You know, you just stand in there and you never move. And he goes, he just looked at me so simply. He's like, you practice, Flex. And I kind of looked at him puzzled. Like, what do you mean? He goes, you know, you go to gym and you practice working out. I go, yeah, he goes, you train, right? I go, yeah, he goes every day, right? Yeah, he goes, yeah, you do the same with posing. He's practicing. And then I really, really took that to heart. And me and Rico and Chris, getting ready for a show, five weeks out from the show, we would go in there and we would spend at least an hour just on practice. And obviously when you're about five weeks out, you can't hold your mixed session. Well, you couldn't breathe. And I don't know why pose was always so hard for me, but I could barely hold a pose for like three seconds and I'd be out of breath. And we would do that repetitively. And as I got better, like say, like the third weekend, I would just put on a CD where there's Luther Van Draws or Mariah Carey or Mint Condition. And I would just pose throughout that entire CD, nonstop, just getting used to transitions and so on. So like you said, on stage, when you mess up or maybe you didn't do something on that beat, I was so used to improvising, I'd just continue flowing with transitions. But, you know, I really, really took that to heart. And I think that's one of the things that are missing from today's competitive bodybuilding is just bringing that artistic flair to the stage at nighttime because our sport in like MMA or football or something like that is not really that exciting visually, unless you have somebody who is involved in that sport or family members or whatever, but you're not gonna be just getting somebody walking off the street, going into a bodybuilding show. You know, we're just not like that. But if they were to bring that type of atmosphere, that type of showcase into it, then you can attract. And I'm sure you've gotten messages from people who are not really deep in the bodybuilding, but they expressed to you how appreciative it was watching and so on. So, you know, you hit a dead on the nail, but again, I just wanna remind you, as long as you understand transitions, you never mess up. And I never really believed in making a routine anymore because say I hit a pose and a crowd responds to it tremendously, I don't wanna get out of that pose real quick. I wanna hold on to that pose a little bit and ride that beat, right? So as long as you understand transitions and whatever is your heart hitting poses, man, you can just go from here to there, left to right, whatever, and just work the crowd to its best. So, yeah. Yeah. Hey, Brad, I gotta jump into the questions everybody wants to know is what are you eating, how are you training? So let's talk about your diet right now, going into the show. What's it look like? What's the day eating look like for you? So it's, you know, I put a lot of emphasis that we had low carbs for the Olympia, surprisingly this time around at this time, this far out, or this close, I guess I should say, the food isn't as low as it was then. And that's only being because when we kinda got win that the Arnold was a possibility, we just thought it was best to just not completely relaxed to diet and to kinda stay within realms. And I've never been, for all the shows I've done, I've never been outside of 15 pounds of contest weight. And trust me, I've tried the bulking, the eating, you know, all the calories, my body just does not, it just does not wanna do it and it just burns, you know, it either uses it or it burns it. And so this far, this close in, well, once Olympia was over, we went back to the normal six meals a day, two of those being a shake, one in the morning, one in the evening, and oatmeal for breakfast. So the oatmeal and shake for breakfast, and then we did the chicken and rice throughout the day and the steak and rice. So that was, you know, before this, the prep started for the Arnold. So we kept that diet a good while and now it's pretty funny because the weight hasn't changed, but I wanna say maybe four pounds. And so we're bigger than we were at the Olympia. At this current time, we're only a couple pounds over the Olympia stage weight, which is funny because we actually grew, and Crystal surprised, I was surprised, we grew on just four meals a day. So, yeah, you know, it's crazy, man. We're doing, so I'll have one couple of oats and 50 grams away for breakfast. Meal two is 10 ounces of chicken and one cup of rice. Meal three is eight ounces of chicken, one cup of rice. Meal four and five is just tilapia and veggies. And meal six is A-50 gram weight protein shake. And that's all we're doing. He actually took it low for a couple of days because he wanted to see a jumping condition and it changed overnight because we do the hour cardio at nighttime. And it's funny because guys are like, man, even in your shape, you have to do an hour cardio. I'm like, yeah, you know, this is when you wanna be, when you wanna, you have to beat what you did last time. So even though we started ahead, we still have to do the same work to get a better result. And it's funny because a lot of people, they don't know that it's a whole package, like just because you wanna grow, that doesn't mean you're still not responsible for watching what you eat. You can't just eat like crazy. And maybe some of the other guys did, but for me, Chris kept a pretty tight rope on what we did in transition from this show to a, I guess maybe a three week offseason. That's a very familiar diet. That's a very, very familiar diet. Yeah, you know, it's interesting that fewer people will get further out of shape. The whole dirty bulking kind of thing we used to do. I remember I've been competing since 86. I've seen every fad you can possibly imagine. I've gotten fat more than a few times, particularly when I was powerlifting. It seems like the further out of shape you get, the more muscle you lose dieting for the next show. It's just too traumatic on the body. Man, saying if people could hear you say that, man, I don't understand. And I actually put this on Instagram, the huge jump in weight when guys are, oh, I weigh 305 now, I weigh 280. But then when it's competition time, it's like, man, you weigh 240. You know, so 60 pounds, 50 pounds, you weren't carrying that much body fat and water, were you? You know, so I tell the guys, hey, why don't you try a different approach and people have asked me, why don't I blow up in the offseason? I'm like, well, because that's not showing my true muscle gain. If I'm at a leaner weight, I can tell by the way my physique looks if I'm actually making gains versus the scale. Because, you know, and I'll, whenever this prep is over, I'll match the scale weight as what it was for the Olympia, but I'm a hundred percent sure I'm gonna be lighter than I was at the Olympia, but bigger. And it's crazy because guys, they think that that scale means everything. And it's, it does not equate to muscular gain versus fat gain. And I think when these guys gain all that mass, and then they have to get it off, how do you know what's muscle and what's fat other than what you can visually see? You know, and so I really think that, like you said, man, more and more people are trying to get away from the dirty bulking, because that's not legit weight. You're gonna have to get, it's not legit muscle. I mean, the scale might go up. Flex used to always tell me, you don't own it. Yeah, yeah. Wait, what do you mean I don't own it? Look at the scale. I'm like, nah, you don't own that. And you know what, you just answered another one of my questions, cause I was gonna ask you, what governs your mindset going into a show? Is it the scale or is it the mirror? And I know in our era, it was more or less the mirror because there was no different weight categories. So you'd have a guy coming in at 198 competing against a guy 280, and the best man was gonna win. So you've already answered my question as far as, so you let the mirror master, what you're gonna look like and start being worried about the scale. Yeah, great. Yep. And you know, it's crazy, cause I get that from you guys, because I heard you guys all, you know, when you would say your weight, and I would go look at the footage, and I'm like, there's no way to flex weight, 212 right here, it's no way he weighed 280 right here. And it was crazy because then you guys would stand next to guys that weighed 240, and you weren't small, you know? So for me, Chris asked my weight, but he only asked because he wants to see what my body is physically doing. Yeah, but man, we don't, I've learned, like I said, from looking at you guys, being at weights that aren't 260 and 270, and matching up with guys and beating guys, that weight that much, I don't let that mess in my head. And I think that does affect some other athletes though, because once they see that weight start to decline, I think in their brain, they're like, I'm getting smaller. And you know, I think that's just a bad route to go to trust that scale, because if I go and have a pizza tonight, of course my weight's gonna jump up four pounds, five pounds because of water retention from the sodium, and all these different things. And you know, I think it's very misleading. So I even tell my clients, they're working that scale, use the tape, if you want proof, tape some inches or something, but like you said, man, the mirror, look at yourself, you know, you can tell. Bodybuilders in particular, as you diet for shows, there's certain little key, little tiny indicators, the length of a particular vein in your ab, or how deep the line is in your inner costal, or so you're looking for one marker, you know, how long it takes to get a glute striation. Hey, you're right, man. For me, it's my fingers here. If I can put my fingernails in my abs in the center, and I know I'm on track. And that's always for me about five weeks out when I can do that. And I'm like, okay, we're good. And then another week, the glute striations start to follow in the hand strength separation. So like you said, there's those little markers. And that's how you tell. Nobody never asks you how much you weigh when you're on stage. Nobody never asks. Nobody asks you what are your size of your arms or whatever, what size of your legs. They just bring it to you. And unfortunately for me, nobody ever asked me how much I bench-press on stage. Look, I don't want a few shows if they'd ask, but nothing. That's the number one question. How much do you bench? I'm like, I mean, I don't, it just depends on how I feel. I mean, but you know, it's funny because guys, like you said, that's what everyone, no one takes it in account. And I remember Lee told me, he said, man, you know, when I used to go to contests, he said, I would never really worry about the guys that look big and close. He said, I wouldn't worry about the guys that look smaller and close because you knew when they came out of those clothes, they were gonna be shredding. And it was funny because I go back and look at the Olympia when I did it this past year and they had the cameras in there for the athletes meeting. I looked small in those clothes. But then when I came out of the clothes, I was like, man, you did pretty good this time around. Yeah, those are the ones to worry about. And I also remember that, you know, I used to focus everything on how much I lifted. Flex wouldn't let me lift any heavyweight. He wouldn't let me do a single deadlift, not a single squat. We didn't even do a single flat bench press through the whole three month prep period for the time I won my pro card. Everything was just about volume, feeling the muscles, you know, everything like that. So it really didn't, the heavyweights didn't even matter. What I think one of the first things I ever heard Flex say was, you know, we're good at telling our bodies what to do, but we're not all great at listening to our bodies. And that's how I train because people will ask, oh, you know, they were making this one, a Goldman comparison. And I'm like, guys, I don't aspire to be that. I can respect that 100% because he was crazy. I mean, that's insane, you know? And the line is just a different animal. And people wonder, well, why don't you lift this much? And you don't lift heavy enough and you're gonna burn out like this. And it's funny because then those people have to go back and eat their words when I improve every show. And they see that, you know, because I'm lifting this weight, but I'm like, guys, you don't understand that. I'm communicating with my muscles when I lift these weights. So they're a tool, you know? I'm trying to create a work of art. I'm not trying to be a bull in the China shop where I just throw some weight and hope for the best results. Very nice, very nice. You know, yeah, because when you shred down, like I said, you see, you know, like Flex was telling me, Flex had crazy detail in his bag. And I'm not gonna share the secret he told me because it's my information. And I'm not gonna share that with anybody, but he told me something that I immediately felt when I tried it, what he meant. And I was like, I would have never thought about it had he not told me, hey, when you do this, this is how I did this and you should try this. And I did and I'm like, man. And so now doing that, I can see how he developed his back with those couple of things, you know? And it's just crazy, man, that a lot of people don't really train in that fashion. Like you said, Stan, it's the heavier the better. No one's really thinking, well, am I targeting this muscle group correctly? You know, because when you're on stage, you can't live. It's about how well did you sculpt that body? Like how separated and defined are you? And it's gonna be determined by the way that you train. Yeah, so tell me about the split then, Monday through Sunday, what body parts, what days, AM PM, what's it look like right now? So for me, it's all AM training, afternoon training. Chris really wants me to train after meal two. Sometimes it doesn't happen. More often times than not, I train on after meal one, which is one couple of votes. So funny story with me when I started your sport, or actually not started the sport, I started, I picked up my first weight with the intention to get bigger, just as I wanted bigger arms at 18, 17 years old. You achieved that, I see. I, yeah, you know, and I train arms every day for six years. And it's funny because no one there was to tell me that, hey, that feeling, that soreness, that means the muscle trying to repair it. So you need to stop, but I didn't stop. Cause I didn't, I didn't know any, but I didn't talk to anyone. I'm not going to approach the bigger guys in the gym cause I don't want to get laughed at, you know? So I would just do arms every day. And one guy told me, he said, man, you should try to train as a mother group sometime. But I trained fasted for years, literally years. And so when I started bodybuilding and I would hear guys complain about training on lower food, it's funny cause it just doesn't affect me, man. I was actually talking to Phil's wife, Therese, and she was asking, cause I'm going up there to train with them for five days, you know, just like a little mini camp. And she was asking, when do I train? I said, I mean, after meal one or after meal five, it really doesn't matter. You know, so I train in the morning or the evening, just based on the schedule, but my body doesn't feel any different either way. You know, so that's the one benefit I have because I'm used to training that aspect. So when Chris drops the food, it's like, okay, whatever. I'm used to it. But so I'm doing this. I have always trained every single day. I know which is bad, man, what people say it's bad. It works now, dawg, listen to people. It works for you, works for you. I've been doing it every day for the past 17, 18 years. And I don't think I know any better. And so I used to run like a single group per day, you know? And I still do the same. And they were all on assigned days. As my body started to change, and I noticed that that wasn't enough. Instead of like upping the training in weight-wise, I wanted to up the frequency. So then I started training on this four-day split. So the way this four-day split works, my leg days are always on Sunday and Wednesday. So that will never change, right? Those days say where they are. And so on that Monday, let's just say I do chest. And then back on Tuesday, legs on Wednesday, and shoulders on Thursday. Well, now the split starts over again, because it's four days later, and it's time to train chest again. And so then on the next day, it's back again, because back was right after chest, and then it's leg day again. And then it's shoulders. And so it's just a continuing, you know, rolling four-day split. And what it does is it allows me to train each muscle group twice within any seven-day period, because frequency works for my body. And that's enough time for me to recover, honestly, with the weight that I'm training. So I haven't assigned a particular other than legs, because I know I need that rest time, but everything else, man, it's just instinct. And I come in and sometime I'll train chest, and I'll throw in some lateral raises, or I'll train arms, and I'll throw in some presses for chest, just instinct training. You know, I just listen to my body, and it seems to work, man. I,  because we all have those days where it's like, oh, man, it's arm day. I don't really want to train arm. So I just come into gym with the mentality like, hey, this is what we need to train today. We need to get better here. But if you're not feeling it, fix it up a little. Get yourself going. And this way, you can connect with your body. Because every gym session, it's not worth it if you're not connected with your body. So I just try to switch it up a little bit. So on average, how many different exercises, how many sets of each? So we can idea of how many total sets you do in a given workout. And how long is the workout? So every workout for me is always 30 sets. So I'll always do 30 sets. And that allows me to pick roughly five or six exercises, just depending on what the workout is that day. And the sets will always go from five to six sets. So I've noticed from my body on five to six sets, that gives me room for one to two warm-up sets. And then I'll have three or four working sets. Ones I actually have to try to push my body on. And the rep range for me is always 20 reps is what I shoot for. Of course, once you get to the heavier weight. Because guys don't realize. One thing I, it's funny, man. I'm telling you, I have this buddy of mine. He loves to lift heavy, right? And so one day, he was running behind on time. And I said, man, you can just come train ladies with me. Because he didn't have a gym he could go to. And he was in town. And he was used to doing like the four and five. Let me tell you, 20 reps. That's it, came to a place he did not want to go. Yeah, yeah. And he was, he was sick. He literally, he was sick, man. And I was like, yeah, you see, this is much different. And I tried to tell him that the body always does not know how much weight you're lifting. But what it does know is failure. It knows when it can't do anymore. And so most guys want to, it's funny, man. I'll post a video, 20 reps is too much. That's, yeah, that's muscle breakdown. You're not going to gain like that. And Michael, well, I mean, it's something's working. So the 20 reps is, I live by that because we're being a former athlete. My endurance is a little bit higher than normal. So I'm just not a fan of the two and three reps. You know, it's just not, if we're a bodybuilder, man, I think that that's not enough for us to really sculpt and train the muscle for what we're trying to do. Now, you know, guys that lift crazy heavy, I respect it. Man, that's just, that's not in my gene pool, you know? And so I just kind of stick with that, with the higher rep training. But the difference with me, I think why I'm gaining is because I still increase the weight. So for instance, if I'm squatting and I get up to 365, like I posted an Instagram video the other day, once I finish 10, I just take a short 30, 40 second break and I come back for the other 10. That said, is it complete until I do that 20 reps? You know, so this way I make myself accountable to train as hard as I can every time that I'm in the gym. So the 30 sets would take care of both quads and hamstrings on leg day? So on legs, since I'm playing catch up on that, these guys have a head start. So I have my primary quad day and primary hamstring day. What I would do is on the end of each day, I attach one or the other. So on quad day, I'll do the four main big compound movements that I need to get done that day and I'll attach two hamstring movements. And then on hamstring day, the same thing for primary hamstring and glutes. And then I'll attach leg extension and leg press or some quad movement. So this way I still get that frequency in there, but like I said, I have to try to find every little inch I can to try to catch up with the rest of these guys. Yeah, and then on push day, you're doing chest, shoulders and tris. You're picking 30 total sets for all three. Oh no, so on those days, yeah, when it's chest, it's all chest. It does no all chest. And that's why I was saying, I might throw in some side laterals, but that's why I posted up that today I had a side chest and I was joking around and saying, you know, yeah, Arnold would say damn, and you know, guys are like, man, that's show. So what I do on chest day, because I noticed when I would look at flex and Arnold, all the guys back then they had this impressive upper chest. Right? And I did flat press for years when I first started cause I thought that's what you're supposed to do. And then I started seeing those guys do incline and shoulder work and stuff that will build this up. And so I was like, okay, so now that's really the only way I try to test because when I hit certain shots, whether it's a most muscular with hand clasp or a side chest, the chest really pops out. So I'll do a press and a fly and then four all heavy incline movements. Because, you know, that's just a vision I have for my body when I see, from what I've seen. You only can build off of what you've seen and I've seen these guys, you know, do it. And so then I mimic them and I just pick and choose what I like for them to develop my cuisine. I found it so interesting that you said you would train arms every day. I was just down in SoCal working with a big boy from Strength Cartel. And he's real popular, I don't know if you heard him. Yeah, he told me back when he was little, he was in the pen, he used to train everything every day. He would do push ups every single day, chin ups every single day. And he's just massive. When I was a teenager, I used to do chin ups every single day and I'm kind of known to have the back as the best body part. And it seems like when you're building a base that it's not unheard of to go in there and just grind a body part out for, with a lot more frequency and volume than what you might suspect to be optimal at a later stage. 100%. That's what I did once I transitioned from arms every day and moved to training chest and arms every day. This was still an inexperienced stage. So that's when I started, guys were like, man, your chest is, you have a good chest. Well, I trained it every day. And I kind of equated that to the fact when I would see whether it's male or female cyclists or track ones. Who said that? You know? Yeah. Really? Like so to the same thing 10 years ago, you ever seen those cyclists, the sprinters? Oh man. Yeah man. And you think to yourself, how was that possible? And then you start to think, well damn, they train like that every day. So if I want to build a muscle group, I need to try to get it to that level to where I can train it every day. And a poofs and a foot of mat or if, if legs, y'all said the same, that's crazy. Yeah. I didn't believe in 20s. I had never done a 20 reps set in my life. I'd been competing for 20 years. You know, me, it was always sets of five on the squat. And when I came to work with Flex, he threw me on 20s right away. I remember I used to do like, I don't know, it was like 16, 18 plates on the side on the leg press and have two people sitting on top of it. And I was always proud of that. But I had my feet high and outside. I was loading my glutes and I was pushing on my knees. And Flex brought me in and he started doing the 20 rep sets with 90 second rest periods that he made me squat down. And by the end of that workout, by the third set, I had six plates on the side. It was embarrassing. Yeah. But you know, what's crazy about that, Sam, what I think a lot of guys and a lot of athletes can't say, in my whole 18 years of lifting, man, I have not had an ache or pain or not one injury. You know, because what guys I think, Peltzer realized our muscles will feel great. Because that's what they do. They're designed to perform. What some guys don't think they're attention to when they're doing these heavy lifts are the internals. The internal parts, as muscle starts to grow, they're gonna constrict on those ligaments and tendons. And the more they start to pull, I noticed guys who lift heavy like that, they slowly start to suffer one little injury here. Who you talking to now? One thing. Yeah. You talking to me now. I had plenty of those. You're so dead on point. And it's really interesting and great to hear that you studied your craft. You know, one of my biggest fears. And it's also great to hear that you bought into the system with Chris. When I started training with Stan, I was so terrified because I already knew that he knew more than I did education wise. He went to school for all this. And listening to him, because I interviewed him for a long time before he trained, I was like, man, I'm like, you know, I don't want to lose this client. You know what I mean? I don't want to lose this client. I go, but I have a different belief than he does. And I just said, okay, well, you know, this is my belief and this is why I sat down and I explained it to him. And to his tribute, he just bought into it. He goes, you're an expert. I'm not. So I'm just going to follow your lead. So that's great. But you know, your analogy on training the body part every day, I've always thought that because I always got challenged. I always thought about it because I know some of the biggest chests and biggest arms are they belong to guys in present. You know, you hear about Kat, put a coat can in their chest and make it pop. And a coat can would jump off. Kat's in there with 24 and 25 guns and they're not fat. And I was like, yeah. And then, you know, like you said, Olympic cyclists, Olympic speed skaters, and some of the roundest, thickest quads and hamstrings hanging off of them. And I was like, so that completely goes against what we believed in bodybuilding, that you can't train a muscle group a certain amount of times, a certain amount of repetitions. So I just kind of took that analogy. And I said, if it works for them, then it has to work. That just explodes everybody's theory that you can only train a muscle group a certain amount of times with soap and rep or whatever. But it's like, you know, me and Stan are kicking each other on the table because man, I've thought that all the time and it's just great that, you know, you're smart enough to be aware of that because it's just so true. I mean, these guys have been doing this for years. You look at any cyclist, right? And I used to post pitches in their quads. Just you can't compete with those round, used, thick quads. And it's just great, you know, just from the things that you're saying and your insight, you're buying into the system. The other thing you said about it is for a stress load of going super heavy. You can create that same stress load by just upping your reps, not upping your weight, but upping your reps and it's healthier for the body. Also, I always thought, you know, sitting into the strongest bodybuilder in history and training with them. One thing I always understood is I need to stay to F in my lane. Because if I F around and try to mess with his weight, I'm gonna get hurt. So I gotta swallow my pride. I gotta dive into myself and just let his intensity push me. But the other thing about it is you really have to learn how to focus in and home in on that muscle. You know, it's like tutoring. You go to school, you can have 50 students in a class with one teacher or it can be a one-on-one situation. So I mean, it's just really dumb-finding and enlightening to hear some of the things you say because that nail helps me understand your mind frame and the person that you are and why you're probably gonna achieve a lot greater goals than what people think you are and probably why you have a lot longer Jevity in the sport. If you just don't get F'd up and I'd BS with, you know, so-and-so next to you is training, having it in you or, you know, this guy looks better than you in a gym. You know, I would always say, I don't care. You know, I mean, I trained with Chris Camere who's noted to do some crazy, crazy things in a gym. And I just always knew I need to leave him alone about that. You know, I just need to go in and do my job. But at the end of the day, then they don't ask you how much you squat on stage. You know what I mean? So nobody cares about that. So wow, just super, super enlightening and fun to hear some of the things that are coming out your mouth. You know, because man, you know, place people will ask, well, Patrick, why don't you have a training partner? I just never, I never have because of that same reason because you got guys like Stan that are super strong and they're gifted in strength and they're just gifted in different areas. So all of us as athletes, that's how we're no different. And so I feel like if I have a training partner, he's gonna have some different strengths. Yeah, we may have the same goals, but his approach is gonna be different because he's gonna like some different type of exercises or rep range or whatever. And if I'm there and he's my training partner, then I'm gonna be pressured to wanna do what he's doing. Everybody's version, you know, if I train in a certain fashion, he's gonna be a little more perfect to do what I'm doing. What I found by training by myself, like you said, is when I come in the gym, you know, even before I get here, I'm communicating with my body. Like, hey, you know, what we have to do today, you know, this right here is the mother boy. It controls everything, every little neuron. So it's like, if I have a day where I come in the gym and I'm a little bit off, I'll take my time starting my workout because, you know, that's how you get in there and you could possibly get injured because you're not in communication with your body. And if you aren't communicating with your body, like you said, man, I just started wearing a belt. I don't know, after however many years of training, legs and back, and it's pretty cool, but, you know, I'm not a huge huge fan of it because I feel like when you wear a lot of straps and wraps and knee wraps and all these different things, you're trying to protect stuff that shouldn't need to be protected if you're trying to target a buster, you know, and I get the stability aspect of it, but I'm, the one time my buddy tried that, he heard a little pop in his knee, but he had a sleeve on. So he didn't really know what was going on and he kept working, he kept working. Then he ended up taking it off. And I think a couple of days later, he ended up injuring something because he could not feel the pressure on the internal parts because he thought he was protected by the knee sleeve. And if there's so much weight, his brain wasn't in contact with his body saying, hey man, this is too much. And I feel like, like you said, when you buy into that system, like, okay, I'm training a muscle here. I'm not a power lifter. You know, I am human. These parts in here, they break and they snap and they strain and they tear. So I probably, when I approach this thing, need to be in constant communication with my body as to what it likes and what it doesn't like. There are certain movements I refuse to do because my body just doesn't like it. And what that forced me to do then is I either go and watch you guys, and I'm like, okay, well, how does Flex do this? How does Stan do this? How did Ronnie do this? How does Phil do that? And then I kind of pick and choose and I try it. And then I implement it. And, you know, I think a lot of guys, maybe they're not humble enough or whatever the reason is. Like you said, they don't want to study this crap, but these guys, you guys have done this before us, and it's like a dictionary. You know, you don't want a dictionary and use every word. You develop your vocabulary based on, yeah, I think I like that word. I think I might like the way that sounds. And so you use it. And this is no different. I see what you guys did. I saw you develop your bodies. I try it. If I like it, right? If I don't, you know, but I'll never say, I'm gonna squat 800 pounds like Ronnie to get big quads. I can't do that. You know, Stan has always said, your universal training belt is your core. You know, and I never really said that, but later on in life is like, now it makes sense. As you get older and you find out how important your core is to protect an entries. Yeah, again, he's a brain of it. So. Well, what was interesting is that Flex started us off doing mind muscle connection exercises. If we were gonna work quads, it was a single leg extension with a hold at the top and down under a controlled negative, you know, not a eight second negative, but two or three, you know, and that would give us, we would do that before we got on our leg press and did our blast exercises so that we were feeling just our quads on the leg press and he made me bring my feet in and down. So it was just quads. You just said something I thought was really important. We're training a muscle. Powerlifting, we're recruiting all the muscles and in bodybuilding, you're training a muscle. And when some other muscle helps out, you're no longer training a muscle. You know, you're training two or three. The impressive thing Stan is your role lives. And that's just true as to some guys are just crazy ass strong, you know, and that just like, so you got to stay in your lane. And so for me, like you said, with the leg extension, I don't, some guys maybe don't pay attention. When you're on a positive movement, you can see the muscle flex. No one really pays attention to that on a negative. You'll see those little fibers. Yeah. Twits and I'm like, all right. So I tell my clients, hey, that means that muscle is working even in the negative. So use that. Don't throw five plates on a plate loaded leg extension and just throw it around and then you're done. No, how about you try to actually engage that part and then just control the motion like all the way through. And so I did that yesterday with some squats. It was only 365. But let me tell you, when I got to like rep number nine, you feel it. And so I think you just got to keep that in mind, man, when your bodybuilding versus your powerlifting, like you're flexing, you got to stay in your lane when you're doing this sport. You know what's funny is that everybody who knows me remembers the videos of my 200 pound dumbbells that I tossed around on the incline. Well, what they didn't see is the heaviest I ever went in the three months that I trained with Flex, getting ready for my pro card. And the best my chest ever was by far, deep and full and strided, we never went over a 90 pound incline dumbbell press at once. Yeah. It's crazy, man. It is. I got destroyed one time up in Denver with Phil doing shoulder press for 30 pound dumbbells. He made me do this type of press that was deep. And I mean, it just healed my shoulders. And I was like, this is insane. I'm used to pressing 100 pound dumbbells. And it was just crazy that you, that was the first time I think I was really seeing someone who was more advanced than me. That just confirmed like, hey, what you're doing is working. Because look at this guy, he's seven times this Olympia. Look at Flex. He trains high rep like you do. I look at all that and I'm like, it works. So that keeps me, like you said, Flex to not worry about the BS on the non-center, on the side. I'm like, no, I kind of got this. I'm sorry, I'm learning more and more. And when I see the guys that look like I want to look and they've done it, it's just confirmation I'm doing the right thing. So I just don't even pay attention. It's a great thing, Phil paved the way because years ago he used to get teased a lot for all his hammer strength, high rep stuff. Because Ronnie was the previous Mr. Olympia and he was doing 800 pound deadlifts and squats. Everybody thought that's what he needed to do. So Phil's now paved the way, both for the quality of his physique and conditioning as a result of doing those exercises, but also his longevity. He's as healthy as can be. And I guess when people look at Johnny Jackson who lifted a ton of weight was a power lifter and with Branch and all that. Look how his endurance, look how long he's been competing. He's in the Arnold coming up that he's got to get damn near 50 now, doesn't he? Yeah, yeah. But over the last six years he changed his training quite a bit to earn that longevity. At some point we all have to, but that's really important that now, that's the example that's being set. Yeah, but people, you do man and it's crazy. We get these cars, we buy these vehicles that have all these electronic touchscreen dash and just everything you can dream of. You get in the car and it'll drive itself. But yet still in the fitness community, like you said, we have these amazing machines that are in the gym are usually developed by engineers that are studying the human body, range emotionally and all these different things. And yet you don't take advantage of it. So you're still running a carburetor engine from way back in the day. Yeah, we're not, exactly. So it's like you have all this different stuff. And so like you said, I think when Phil was doing that and putting that content out there, it just shows and even inflates some, it's some mixed content that put it in stuff. He uses machines as well. So when I hear a guy say, oh, I don't use machines, I only do free weights and my brain, I'm like, so it's for you, you'll be done in five or 10 years because the body, it just, that's wearing tears. Free weights are great, don't get me wrong. But at one time, they're still prehistoric tools and you just use them as such. They aren't meant, use them in conjunction with the technology we have now if you wanna last in the sport. It's just smart. Dexter is also known to one of the Beatles guys that use a lot of machines and so on. They do have their place, they help you with stability. So say if you don't have stability in other areas, it keeps you going in that proper range of motion. I remember when Hammer Strength came out and Flex Equipment, I mean, it was just, you got on that machine, you could just fill it. You know what I mean? Yeah. It was the best thing that you could fill. So again, just very, very enlightening with this interview. I mean, I've studied you and I see your posts, you know, regardless of whether I like or comment, you know, I watch your posts, but the insight that you're sharing what is now completely helps me to understand the person behind it, man. And it is gonna be very exciting watching your career. I mean, I'm a little irritated right now because you know, you got your guns in a view and all I can see is those big, I look like you hanging like two and a half so something like that right now. You don't have to hide them. So I'm gonna put it back up. Because how you do now is now you show me these big kind of ball shoulders. So it is what it is. Yeah, man. But I just have, I'm where you guys, I'm just following your footsteps. So at least you guys know and I tell people. Follow Flex's footsteps. I never placed an approach show. Never made the living stage. It's sad because a lot of times we're viewed successfully based on natural gifts that we have. Now you can take those gifts and hone them and be just just incredible, but you know, they're natural gifts. They don't really tell the worth of a true man or champion. So if you won an Olympia, your viewed upon is one of the greats. If you did, you did. You know, if you're super smart naturally, you're viewed as a great person. If you're dyslexic, you're not. So, you know, I understand what's said and standard really said, but it doesn't show the true value of a champion. You know, I've always said, you know, winning is easy and everybody wants you. Contracts coming in, girls like you. Depending on what you went to, you know, other people like you. But I've always said a true champion displays himself when he goes to adversities. Whether it's for his family, whether it's on stage, whether it's losing or whatever. And kind of going back to what you said, you know, you're very upset, very irritated that you didn't win, but the champion and the athlete inside you said, let me fall back and start learning more. And I know in our era, you know, it was very viewed on that a lot of guys would get mad and say you're taking money off their plate. You know, I know even some of my, I won't say friends, but some of my buddies and homies wouldn't even talk to me. If I went in multiple shows, they'd be like mad at me. And like, man, I'm trying to, I'm trying to make money like you are, you know. Yeah, yeah. It's always easier when everything is going, you know, for you. So I've always understood, you know, you don't really know a person or their character. So all that falls off. And all that falls off, you're gonna really see what that person's all about. I'll leave it at this. I won't say the girl's name, but and everybody's gonna know I'm talking about it. Hopefully it's not viewed negative, but there was a champion who just demolished everybody in MMA. Just a monster. So gracious and humble winning and everything. As soon as that person got lit, you heard it all come out. You heard it all come out. So I really feel that you never know a champion until, you know, he goes to his adversities and his comeback after that, it's really displays him a champion. Maybe he doesn't win. And I don't think a champion is defined in winning. Also a champion is defined in the heart of that person. You know, a lot of times people ask me, you know, why did I take my medallions off when I took second, the second time behind Ronnie? And it's truly because I don't know if you ever been at a show where a person is rewarded first and another person is rewarded second. Then within like five minutes they come back, oh, we made it to say, you know, the second place is really first and the first is real. So you see they're both their whole demeanor just change immediately. So the person who won goes to be in a failure and a person who lost who has a winning goes to be like a champion in their heart. And I just like, man, it just dawned on me. I'm like, you know, this medallion represents failure, represents number two. I'm not gonna wear this. I'm not number two, I'm number one in my heart. You know, you're not gonna make me feel like myself worse, my self worth is based on your opinion about me. So, and I think that's what a real champion is all about. You know. I always thought to myself, man, there's no difference between winning and losing looks up how to outside world music. That's it, you know, when you give 100% for something, that's the victory in itself. You know, like you said, Stan, man, you may not have, you know, worn pro shows and whatnot, but you contributed to this sport. You contributed to Flex's career. I think a lot of people like Flex said, based, you know, being a champion off of actually achieving that ultimate goal. And sometimes the goal you achieve, it may not be what you expected, but you know, for all the guys, even ahead of me, like I'm all these guys, you know, I'm Flex's legacy. I'm Fils, every one of those guys, whether they win or lost, if I achieve that goal, I'm a product of what they left behind. Because I saw it and I envisioned the same vision that they have and whether I accomplished that goal or not, God willing, I will. But when I'm done with this sport, you know, people will look back and say, hey man, you're gonna get a tattoo more, man. He may not, maybe he didn't get Mr. Olympia, but damn, he made a mark. You know, cause people were saying, man, we need to go back to the 90s again. We need to, you know, diss that and the other. So I don't really base my success on victories. And I think what makes me a, you know, great opponent for a lot of these guys, those 16 place finishes, that taught me to not worry about it. So when people were like, man, you should have got fifth or sixth at Olympia. You should have got them like, guys, I'm not bothered. You do realize I just placed 13th at the New York pro-lash here. And then 16th at a couple of national shows the year before that. So it's like, that's nothing to me because all I know when I don't win, all that means is I was not the best that I could be. You know, so when people were like, man, you should have done this, you should have done that. No, I have to be honest with myself. Okay, let's just say an asteroid hit and I won Olympia in 2019, but I'm not ready for that. It's just, I'm not at that level yet. You know, I'm not, I'm just not. Now, well, I get for that level, that's a totally different story. But where guys get into this sport, I see a lot of them fall. I actually have a friend I won't name him. When I placed 18th in Miami nationals, he placed, you know, last two. And it's crazy because he had a good physique. And I just will never forget him. When we left, I said, man, let's go eat shit. I just want to eat, I'm hungry. You know, whatever, I'm gonna make sure he got off of that stage. I'm done with this sport. I'm, you know, this, it's this and it's that. Great physique, man, great talent. Only to a couple of years later, see me turn pro and then win a pro show. And I saw him at the Gemini like, man, it's crazy. I still remember, you know, when you got last place. I say, yeah, man, you know, it is what it is. It's like, I don't really care. Because when I, like you said, Flakes, if I didn't feel like a loser, I accomplished my goal. I took the instruction I was given. I did the best I could with the knowledge I had. And that was that the outcome was the outcome. And so I go back to the drawing board when I revisit the plan and see where I can improve and change again. And the benefit I have from that is now, ever since 2016, everything has been an improvement for me, you know, on Flakes. So, like Chris told me, he always said, who would have thought the 13th guy, 13th place guy to be the pro would get this much buzz after the Olympia. And I was like, yeah, I didn't. I didn't have an expectation of to beat anybody. I just needed to beat the guy that everyone saw four months prior in California. And, you know, and I had something to prove to myself because guys, I'm sure people were like, oh, well, you know, he did a third tier show, you know, that he's not going to be a real threat. I just did the show because I liked it. I mean, I liked the production, most of the content put on a great event. And that was that. And so I knew once I got the opportunity to where I could be in front of everyone, I was like, okay, we're going to make a statement. And so it was received well. I stuck to the game plan. And so now going forward, whether I place whatever I place at the Arnold, it's not going to make a difference because I'm still going for that championship. And I'm five, six years in this sport. I feel like I have a good while left. And I'm just going to continue to study the guys before me. It's going to make me better and better until they're not going to be able to hold me off. Right. One of the greatest coaches in the world in basketball, coach Wooden, had a cliche that he said, one less learn how to lose without being defeated. And that's the whole point of that. Well, I don't think we could have said it any better than that. You know, we're both going to be at the Arnold. We're looking forward to watching.  watching you compete this year. What would you say to the young cats that are coming up that are trying to do what you did and following your footsteps? What are some of the most important things they can do? I think the biggest thing I have to say to the younger guys is it takes time. You'll see a lot of guys that are already at point Z. You don't know where they started. You don't know how long it took them to get there. And you just have to stay in your lane, like Flick said, because it's your race. I mean, your body is only gonna develop based on how you treat it and the work you put in. So you can't really go on anyone else's timeline. And you guys have seen me lose multiple times and I just come back. Well, you have it and hopefully you won't. Yeah, there you go. And you just have to keep pushing, man. This is a sport, just sport is just fitness in general is about perseverance. I mean, there's gonna be times where you're maybe not motivated and wondering if you're actually changing or just resting in the fact that if you're doing what you're supposed to do and you're putting in the work your body more than likely is changing. And if this is something that you wanna get into, your bodybuilding especially, you need to do it for the love of the sport. It can't be, oh, I'm gonna get rich. I want the sponsorships because that's not gonna keep you in this sport. What keeps me is the fact that I just love lifting and before bodybuilding was ever a thought, I will come to this gym at 12, one o'clock in the morning and then matter, empty stomach, full stomach. I just wanted to train, I just loved it. So develop a passion for whatever you're doing and hopefully it'll take you to the top. Those damn worms. I know. Geez. We'll edit the arms out. All right, so first question. You're coming up to your very first honor classic ever, right? So congratulations on being invited because it's by invitation only. Now, I want to be brutally honest, forget all the BS and everything. As an athlete, as a warrior that you are, how do you feel that you'll fare at the honor classic based on your lineup, if you bring your 100% best look ever? At this particular lineup, what's I think is a great lineup, with everything aside, all white noise aside, and I'm judging off of my particular physique. And I guess I would say off of me seeing the best that some of these guys have, I think it's highly likely for me to crack the top six, maybe even top five, because also based off the fact that, during the Olympia, I was a new guy, and I think the judges, if any of them are the same, they're probably gonna be looking to see, hey, has he improved any? Has he, because I did communicate with Big Steve and ask him, hey, what do you think? And he gave me some words of encouragement and said, hey, do this, do that, and then come back. And so I feel like I have accomplished some goals that were my instructions in between that time and now. And I have more safe experience. I've learned some more things about my body. And of course, when you hear, I don't really buy into the hype a lot, but when you start to see that people are receiving your physique well, it is motivating when you come in here and you train because now you kind of starting getting confirmation from others, legends, like you guys, that are like, hey, man, you're doing the right. Just keep doing what you're doing and eventually it'll pan out. So I expect a place, well, because I'm bringing a better package during Olympia, and I made that statement way before the Olympia. Every time these guys see me on the stage, I'm gonna be better. And that's the one benefit I have about being a quote unquote smaller competitor. I have room to grow. So if these guys are maxing themselves out, well, every time you just better expect a better Patrick more and, you know, so I expect this show to actually be a tougher show than the Olympia, but this will be one where I think I can actually arrive and see how I really fare against some of these top guys. Cause I know some of them are gonna be looking, I think seven or eight of them are from the Olympia. So I know they're probably gonna be looking to bring an improved package as well. And that's cool for me, cause I love the competition. I can't really better myself unless I know these guys are trying to push themselves. And I don't wanna push myself regardless, but you know, you already know, Flex, you get that little edge when you know everyone's trying to go for what you want. Yeah, it just, yeah. And so I like that. You know, I, when, when they said that Raleigh was out, I'm like, damn, I wanted him. Yeah. You know, because he beat me at the Olympia. And so I, these guys are mile market for me. If I can pass, you know, one person, two people here and there, and they're in my review, then I know, hey man, you're on the right track, just keep going. Well, I think that's a short sale on yourself. I think you're gonna fare a lot better than that. If I know Chris and from the man that we're interviewing right now, and being very respectful to everybody else, if you don't place higher than at least top five, I'm just being real with you. It's a disservice to yourself and your gift. All right, so I'm just being real there. My second question is, everybody always argue and I guess is okay for talk. You know, I'm gonna hit you with the same question. The 90s versus your era now. So what do you plan on doing? Cause we've texted each other before and I understand that question. But what do you do? What are you trying to do to make your era the marker that they'll talk about years later? Man, you know, 2020 or 2020, man, you know, just that and other blah, blah, blah. What are you trying to do to transition, take that weight off of off the 90s and make it be your own in your era? So I think that there's a lot of great things to be taken away from each generation. I'm a higher product of the 90s myself and my mentality and the training. And I feel like especially now with social media and so much attention, more attention being on the sport from a lot of fans and stuff like that. You had to take in that account, you know, where everyone, I think it was a big shocker at the Olympia with the way that my physique was because when social media came around, people only saw what they saw. And at that time, I think Jake Butler was a champion and Phil was a champion. So people who weren't really hardcore bodybuilding fans, I don't think they really knew a lot about the 90s. And then you have some of these other pages that bring up the 90s, the golden era, the golden era. And you guys are getting the respect you deserve. You know, people are starting to see that. And I think what's happened, sadly, is for the aesthetic physique, you know, cause there's gotta be more out there. I don't know every single athlete, but I know that they're out there. The mindset has been, you know, you only do the open class if you're huge. You have to look like this because we can only set a standard by what we see, you know? So for me, it was different because me and Chris, we knew, well, you're not as big as these other guys and that's okay. But you're gonna be different. You're gonna do something different and you're gonna catch your eye and then you're gonna work with that. So in an era right now where everyone's physique is pretty similar, because it is versus an area where it was more diverse, always equated to like the homes being built now versus the homes in the 80s and 90s. You go through a neighborhood in the 80s and 90s. All those houses are different designs, different dimensions, everything's different. You go to a neighborhood now, it's all kind of cookie cutter a little bit. They're track homes, they just made to get them up, build it come then, contract them out and get out and that's it. Except this one, this one is different. Except, yeah. Yeah. So, you know, others have other advantages. But, you know, I think for me, my mark and what I need to do for this sport is that I think there's been a shift and it started to come with the introduction of the classic physique, a classic bodybuilding that some people call it. And I just wanna be the guy that people can say, man, you know, I remember in 2019, 2020, he started to shift with that guy Patrick because he kinda stayed true to what he believed in from the jump and they didn't really conform to what everyone else says because that's all everyone's telling me now. Blow up like Ronnie, blow up like Ronnie, get bigger, get bigger, 20 pounds, 20 pounds. Well, I'm gonna let these guys know that, I'm gonna do it my way and that's the only way it's gonna be. And whether someone comes into this game and they wanna be huge, more palatable, but you can be successful in this sport if you stay true to your beliefs. And so that's really what I wanna represent is that anything's possible. Beautiful. Yeah, man, that's awesome. It's been such an honor to talk to you. We're excited about what you got coming up in the future. Where can people reach out to you or follow you? What's your Instagram page? What's your YouTube, anything like that? So people can tune in and make sure that they're watching you throughout this process. So my Instagram is PatrickTmore, T in the middle. Some people will forget that. And then my YouTube channel, it's just PatrickMore and you know, usually it'll pop up because now it's more searched. So it's starting to come up as people are kinda starting to see the workouts. Soon I'll have a website up. It should be done, you know, coming up shortly, but with so much things going on, I'm only one person. And you know, thank God I have Labrador, you know, behind me, Labrador Nutrition and they take care of a lot of things and help me with a lot of stuff. But I'm still growing and I'm getting adapted to all the attention because, you know, I still have to stay grounded while still communicating with the fans. So it's a lot to take on, but I am very good about getting back to everyone on social media, especially that Instagram, you know, I've actually been back in four, you'll see it flex today with people all day because I made a statement on there. And you know, you can't say anything if you're a bodybuilder, because then you're sensitive and you're, and I think what people misunderstood when I told them is like, hey guys, I have guys that I look to that are older and have done this, and have coached and judges. Yeah, they tell me where I need to improve. But guys get on there, hey, you need more real deal. Hey, can you lean back more and tilt your elbows? I'm like that. Insta experts. Yeah. Insta experts. Insta experts. And so, you know, it's a never evolving thing, but you know, I appreciate all the fans, man, and I appreciate you guys having me on the big time. Well, that's awesome, man. And to the set of you, man, it's been great. You know, is there anybody you want to thank or, you know, I mentioned a name for your support in helping you get here where you are today? Oh, man, I gotta thank, of course, L'Brotter Nutrition, because Lee's been huge, huge in my life, a mentor, you know, helping me out just in a ton of different ways. So definitely for sure, Chris Isido for taking me in, because Chris doesn't work with everybody. And, you know, he's always riding me, man, even when I, you know, he's expressed some concerns about something, he's like, just do it. And then he does it, and then he's right, and then it's awesome from there. Of course, the NPC IVV because they give us athletes, you know, a platform, you know, a chance to compete and, you know, do what we love to do. But my wife obviously deals with me every day, all the craziness, so she's standing right over there. But, you know, and anybody else, man, my buddy Gabe, he's the guy that got me started in bodybuilding, of course, Phil, you know, he's my big brother, man. He's, I'm looking forward to going to get some content with him because, like you said, man, he's part of my team. And it's just great that I have people like you that mess, you know, because you take in what you want from who you want. Right. And I'm just blessed to have a lot of positive people around me saying, hey, you're doing the right things. Keep doing this, you know, stay on track, stay focused. And it just helps my career, man. So I'm just appreciative of everybody that's a part of the process of me becoming, you know, who I'm destined to be. Well, for me to end this, man, I just, I'm a fan. I'm even more so a fan of the person. I love the content you put up on Instagram. Kitch is it you and your wife, beautiful lady. You guys look like an amazing couple. And when I, when I learn about and hear about and read and meet people like yourselves, you make me feel that our sport has a future. It has this future because I definitely think you're a huge light coming to the sport. So man, it's been truly an honor to be on this podcast, this Instagram and interview you and I mean, like Stan said, we're going to be like, we're going to be peeping you out and we're going to hold you accountable. We're going to hold you accountable to your craft, man. So thank you so much for myself of being a part of this. Thank you, man. Yes, sir. Thanks for coming on. Thank you, man. I appreciate you guys, man. And anytime, like I said, I'm, I'm, I told you, if I can lay you down, man, I, I, I'm locked in. I see everything and I hear everything, but you know, it's, it's, yeah, so it's, it's tonal vision. And I'm just going to enjoy this process, man, and have fun because I saw you guys enjoy it. I saw, you know, just all of Ferguson, just the, everything that comes with this sport and chasing what you love. So I'm, you guys legacy, man. And so, you know, I think we'll see some great things come to fruition here over the next few years and it's going to keep at it. Looking forward to it. Man, Stan, be looking forward to seeing you compete, meeting you and shaking your hand and your wife and just a team line is a couple of weeks from here. Actually a few weeks from here. Yes, sir. Absolutely. Definitely. Yeah. All right, man. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you.