 Hey, guys. Stan Epperting here, founder of The Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow vertical diet e-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to stanefferting.com and get started today. Welcome back, everybody. Stan Epperting here, founder of The Vertical Diet with Damon McEwn, registered dietitian, PhD exercise fizz, a whole bunch of other alphabetical names that I've since forgotten. It's actually almost finished with his MBA as well. He just got bored in the middle of his PhD thesis, decided to start getting his MBA at UNLV, which is great. Well, we're back here again with another episode of The Vertical Podcast, very special guest. Somebody had been following for a couple of years now, watching every podcast she's done, read all of her stuff, following her on Instagram, an incredible resource. Damon, I'll let you do the introductions. Yeah. So today we have a guest that really doesn't need much introduction. I don't think I'm very well known in the industry. She was actually just on The Doctors. Great segment, by the way. Dr. Gabrielle Lyon. So I'll let you go ahead and give a little bit of your background and let the audience know what your specialty is and what you do and how you got to where you are now. All right. Well, let's just say that I've been in school way too long. So about 17 years later, I can't even believe it. So I am a physician, and I have a really unique path. I did my undergraduate training under Dr. Donald Blayman in vitamin mineral metabolism at the University of Illinois. After that, I went to school, and then I did a residency two years in psychiatry. Brutal. Switched out of that immediately. Then I did family medicine for three years, and then I did a nutritional science postdoc. So that is after medical training, I did a fellowship in nutritional sciences, geriatrics, and obesity medicine. And that was at WashU. So to sum it up, it's a lot of medical school debt. Yeah, I'll bet. I'm going to try and change gears here a little, and I hate to do it because I've been scrolling through microfiche since the late 80s, just passionate about all of the research and the science. And you know just such an extraordinary amount about this. A lot of what I've watched you for has really been digging into the mechanisms of action, looking at the research that you've done. You just have a great way of culling through all of the misinformation, Daman, of course, being a PhD and a registered dietitian. I could spend hours just talking to you about all the stuff that you've kind of already covered, which I don't think benefits our viewer necessarily. Because what I've found more and more recently as I go and do seminars, just a couple of weeks ago I was in Cincinnati, and the gym owner said to me, who's a long time friend of mine? I got done with probably three hours of presenting on nutrition. And I talked about a lot of the stuff that I've learned from you over the years and from Daman. We talked about the epidemiology and IRC and dispelling myths about things like red meat and a whole host of them. And I feel like I spent 80% or 90% of my time trying to convince people that this is the right path to take rather than just introducing to the path. And so my friend said to me, he said, you know you had them at hello. And the rest of the time I felt like you were watering the lawn with a fire hose. So what I want to try and challenge you today, and what I really try and get through to my audience, because I'm a bit of a meat neck and I feel that I'm more of a bro science guy at heart, is to see how much actual practical takeaway information we can discuss and relieve ourselves of the responsibility of explaining all the misinformation that's been put forth by all the stuff that you did on doctors was most of the time just felt like you were trying to dispel bad information and myths. So here's the things I think that you're uniquely qualified that people will appreciate. You're obviously an expert in all these things, but just recently you have a beautiful baby girl. And I get lots of questions, oddly enough, over half the people at my seminars are now women and some of them are older women. And they ask about, whether it be from DM or in DMs or emails or texts, they ask about pregnancy, nursing, and how they should eat for good health, how their children, how their infant baby and their children should eat for good health. Let's dive into that. I'm so thrilled that we are talking about something other than protein. I mean, listen, it is my mission to dispel myths and to bring good understanding to the public. I feel responsibility to do that. But I also love the opportunity to talk about other things like my practice, my baby, my Navy SEAL husband. There's so many other dimensions to what I can offer your listeners so that they can take it and become better themselves. So I'm really excited to be able to talk about that. Great, great. We're excited to have you. Before and during pregnancy, what was on the top of your mind? What do I need to make sure I have so that my baby's healthy? In terms of pregnancy, so I had a very interesting pregnancy. I was actually sick for 10 months and my husband was still active duty. I was alone for the first eight months of my pregnancy and I had that condition where you vomit all the time. So that being said, my perspective was a little bit different. I was unable to consume the things that I would normally consume. Really, any kind of red meat, any kind of protein made me vomit, which was interesting. No idea why that happened. For women who are undergoing pregnancy, I would say that they have to have a good prenatal. You have to have good fish oil. These are things that are hard, it's hard to ingest that much in the diet and good hydration status. And I still train throughout my whole pregnancy. So I would say the nutritional aspect, the supplementation, and then the training are three essential keys to maintaining a healthy pregnancy. Yeah, let's touch on the exercise real quick because I know a lot of people are under the impression that if you get pregnant, you can't go to the gym or you shouldn't lift weights. And so maybe let's touch on that a little bit. Sure, there's not that much, being kind of a nerd, there's actually not that much data in training in pregnant women. If you were to do a Google scholar search, there's not that much. That being said, your biggest way to protect yourself against gestational diabetes is maintaining your muscle tissue. For me, I had just transitioned into kettlebells, doing a lot of kettlebell movements, single leg bilateral movements, single leg movements, bilateral movements. And I just kept training. I mean, obviously your goals are different. I'm no longer training for body composition. That would be a disaster because I swear, you gain weight in the first, before you know you're pregnant, you think to yourself, oh my God, I mean, what happened? Truly, super ripped, really fit. And then all of a sudden, you don't know you're pregnant and it's just totally blown up. You're looking at food and all of a sudden, your pants are getting tighter and things are happening. Yeah, and that's actually putting it nicely. So thank you. I think you said something that's critical for everyone to know. And you talk about it a lot in terms of protein consumption, but also the benefit of muscle. You mentioned, you talk about it as an endocrine organ. Again, I hope not to take too deep a dive here, but we've now discovered after historically not recognizing such that we thought that was a dormant, was dormant in the body and then we find out that it does release hormones. And you're mentioning that the enzymatic action or the glucose absorption action is a pretty critical function, like you mentioned, in terms of gestational diabetes. And then last week we had Ben Bickman on and he talked about the fact that it can reduce insulin increase by up to 50% having active muscle tissue so were you primarily lifting weights or just exercising? No, no, no. I mean, a core fundamental value of mine in terms of my own fitness is resistance training. And we know that when you are exercising muscle, you have an increase through, you have an increase in glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent that doesn't actually even work higher in the slime. So it's a two-fold. So muscle allows you to have the capacity for glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. And then exercising muscle has even a different pathway for glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. So yeah, resistance training was key. And I think women are under the misguided impression that if they exert themselves, they might cause some harm for the baby. And so they feel as though maybe just walking or doing some light cardio is more important. And in fact, you're stating that it's just the opposite is true. That is probably a big mistake to do that for women. I mean, we are a big problem of individuals now is they're very domesticated. What I mean by domesticated is, I've been sitting for the last couple of hours, I'll use the elevator to go downstairs, we're largely domesticated. And we have more luxuries than we've ever had. When you're training and when you're pregnant, I would say to continue to not domesticate your body is really important for the fetus. My daughter, she's a maniac. She was super active in the womb. She's super active. She was sitting, she was able to hold her head up by four weeks. Wow. She's rolling over by six weeks old. In terms of an intensity maybe for the audience, for those women listening, what would be, maybe I know people talk about percentage of one rep max and that's probably not a good indicator here, but maybe like a rep range for exertion. Like what would you say? Well, again, I was really sick. Every time I went to train, I would have multiple throw up sessions in between. So it would be 12 reps throw up, 12 reps throw up. Can you imagine? God, they were probably so happy. That's quite a workout, yeah. Right. What I think what's really important that we encourage women to go do the weight training because not only is it about muscle loss, as you mentioned, so important for glucose uptake, but also for bone mineral density. And that if they're losing some of that calcium in the bones, that can be detrimental during pregnancy and for the back and everything else. Yeah, you definitely want per quality bone health, you want to have high quality dietary protein and resistance training. And of course, optimal calcium intake, those three aspects really help bone formation, bone maintenance, and of course your hormones. Estrogen is really important for bones. And for guys too, by the way, I have a lot of guys that come to me that have been on anastrasol or aromatase inhibitors. I take them off immediately. If you look at the bone density of it, right, that's antiquated information. You look at the bone density of those guys that have been on anastrasol and you look at them before and after, they're put on aromatase inhibitors, it's lower. You should guys shouldn't be on that. Yeah, I agree. And of course, me being from the competitive bodybuilding and powerlifting industry, I see it all the time. And it seems now even in the HRT clinics up to today, when a doctor prescribes testosterone almost concurrently, they prescribe anti-estrogens for that same individual. So I've been speaking out against that for years. I think eight or so years ago, I started doing videos and telling people that they should be monitoring their testosterone dose in a more responsible way as to minimize the estrogen conversion, because taking anti-estrogens puts them in a real compromised position. Absolutely, we know it's good for heart, for bone, for brain. When I was in my fellowship, I did at my fellowship in geriatrics and you look at cognition. One of the things that they wanted to see was that your hormones were optimized. And they looked at intranasal sprays. It never panned out, but that's science. The recommendation that I make, of course, work with your doctor, get your blood test, is to just microdose, use smaller amounts of testosterone therapy if you're gonna do that, with more frequent injections, and then try and wean yourself off, if not completely get off of the anti-estrogens, and then pay attention to your liver health, because that's where the estrogen conversion takes place. And a lot of these guys end up taking medications or drugs that will compromise their liver health, and then that compounds the problem, the estrogen conversion. Yeah, or they'll overdo it with some of the drugs and it'll start to affect renal issues, and that can be, that's something nobody wants to deal with. Don't let Stan steer off into a bodybuilding conversation here, it's bound to happen with me. That was kind of my fault. No, that's okay, it's really important. I think those are reasonable recommendations. So now your baby's born, and what are you thinking of in terms of, I mean, certainly, your nutrition is necessary to provide her the nutrition that she needs through your milk, and then subsequent to that, when she transitions to food and what kind of food. Well, first of all, I am still breastfeeding, but she is actually, and I'm really tiny, hard to believe, but I'm only five foot one. I am a very tiny human. And I am not able to keep up with production fur. She drinks a minimum of 25 ounces of milk. That is a lot, and that would be a full-time job for me. So I've recently started to supplement, and I use goat milk, which is the most similar to breast milk, and I get a formulation from Germany, it's called Holli. I think it's H-O-L-L-E, something like that, to supplement breast milk. And I add in D-H-A, which is important for brain function, and vitamin D. Although I'm taking it, it tends to be low in breast milk. And, Anne, Ziazanthin. Ziazanthin and Lutein, which is really hard to get. The babies don't have it, so you have to supplement. Say it again in case I glossed over it, because a lot of moms, they end up maybe don't have enough milk, and the baby needs additional supplementation on top of the milk that they produce. Can they go to Costco and get a formula, or are there some things to be concerned about there? High fructose corn syrup, soy protein? Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't feed my child that. I think that. So what would you feed? What should they go get as a supplement? Well, I mean, like I said, I actually ordered it from Germany, and I use this company called Holley. And I think it's a great product. Yeah. And it's goat milk. So I use goat milk for her. OK. Gotcha. And listen, all your women listeners, the ones that are just getting pregnant and having babies, they are not going to want to supplement. They're going to want to do everything to protect the baby. They're not going to want to train hard. They're really not going to want to supplement. Probably not even going to want to give the baby a pacifier. I mean, these are all things that I experience. I'm telling you, all the women I know, and all the women in the training space, and all the women in our space, really, it's just a very underrepresented conversation that we're having right now, which I'm excited that we're able to have it. Just for the women to relax a little bit, the baby, I swear the babies are born with a particular constitution. I mean, Mike, she's tough. Right. So they also, they don't want to restrict. When you're pregnant, what you eat is then for their baby's health and eventually going to be for your baby's feed in the milk. So what I'm concerned about is that they start demonizing certain foods. And we know what those foods are, because the health industry's told us that you have to avoid red meat, you have to avoid fruit, and you have to avoid dairy, and you have to avoid salt. How important are all of those things to keep including in the diet for a pregnant mother? It is really important. I mean, that's an absolute no-brainer for me. It is really important. You need to get, you know, typically women put on weight so that you can go a year of breastfeeding. Your body is designed to then put on fat. Not very exciting, but it happens so that you can feed your baby for a year. I mean, the increase in prolactin actually decreases fat utilization. Yeah. And the silver lining there is the breastfeeding does increase your daily energy expenditure. So as that year goes on, that will actually help your body lose that weight. So it's a natural occurrence. Yes. And it's a surprising one. Everyone talks about how you start breastfeeding you lose weight. I did not find that to be true, actually. I actually found it to be the opposite. I'm like, what is this over here? I'm like, what is this? A fat? I've never had a fat in my life. I think. So yeah, so having a balanced diet. And when I say balanced, protein requirements go up in pregnancy. And I was looking at some of the recommendations. And, you know, they say it's between, you know, one group says it's between 70 to 100, which I think is much too low. And then there's a gram per kilogram amount that people could just Google. You know, for me, I recommend eating a gram per pound body weight, not per pound lean mass, which is really a lot of the data supports lean mass. But I find that it's very hard for women to get that protein in particular, just in general. Women are not thinking, oh, man, I want to have an extra chicken breast. They're thinking, man, I want to have extra Twinkie or whatever they're eating. You know, so. Right, right. Yeah, we tend to agree with you there. Yeah, and use full body weight, not lean mass. And one of the reasons that we suggest that is the body composition measurements are just so variable anyway. There's a whole lot of accuracy on them. So just use the number on the scale and one gram per pound. I agree. And fortunately, with a lot of the work that you've done and other professionals in the industry, we're starting, people are starting to get comfortable with that, about a gram per pound, starting slowly, of course, some of the opposition. It's a really slow transition. I can't believe the misinformation out in the media. And you know, I'm not particularly a zealot one way or the other. I just actually see real people. I see patients and I see, you know, I've seen them for years and how they've suffered. And I ran an obesity clinic. I mean, nobody wants to be dealing with this stuff on their own. And it's totally unnecessary. It's very convoluted there. Well, after you've gotten your gram of protein per pound of body weight, your macronutrient, at least the most important, I think, macronutrient, we start to worry about, well, what types of proteins do you eat so that you get the micronutrients that you need? I think one of the worst things that happened in the professional dieting industry is what I call bodybuilding figure physique bikini. People I've been working with for 30 years. One of the worst things that's happened is that the general population has started adopting some of their highly restrictive diets because they see these women in what they appear to be the best shape of their lives getting on stage in bikinis. And they think that that's something that they should replicate. Unfortunately, those women are eating egg whites, white fish, and broccoli. And usually to compensate for all of the deficiencies are compensating for the muscle loss with anivar or some steroid. They're compensating for the low thyroid function by taking thyroid. They're increasing their metabolism by taking clombuterol. They're amenorrhea. And then all of the female triad occurs, the anemia, the amenorrhea. The general population doesn't see that. They just see this woman in the best shape of her life, what they presume to be the best shape of her life. And so now you've got some folks that might presume to think that that's a healthy diet. So the proteins that they eat, it's important that they're what kind of proteins, not the egg whites, white fish, and broccoli. But what kind of proteins do you think are most beneficial? I think you hit the nail on the head. And especially with your vertical diet, you do a lot of micronutrient-rich foods. Obviously, red meat, liver is a great source. The whole egg with choline, fat-soluble vitamins, really the rich are the nutrient sources, as long as calories are accounted for. Having that high bioavailability of iron, anything red? Yeah. Salmon. It's so unfortunate that the red meat's been demonized, but it's three times the iron of chicken, and it's six times the zinc, and nine times the B12. And you get pregnant women that go in and end up coming up with deficiencies in blood tests, and they get shots of iron and B12. And it's very- Very preventable. Yeah, and this is something we've talked about a lot too. You know, with women, they're a smaller human, like yourself, right? You're 5'1", you're caloric- You're smaller. Right? So, but their energy requirements are gonna be less, right? There's a lot of women out there that, you know, it's, they're lucky if they're, they need 2,000 calories if they're a smaller stature. And so how are you gonna get all the nutrients you need if you're only eating that amount of food? So they need to be very nutrient-dense foods. And that's actually, I totally believe that that's the way the future. Really streamlining what people are eating and coming up with plans that are micronutrient-dense. Micronutrient-dense, that's definitely the way the future. Yeah, and when, it was interesting, I was at the airport not too long ago and I'm standing in line to get a water or something. And the guy in front of me had two kids. I've got a five-year-old and a seven-year-old. So I think about this a lot, of course. Congratulations. Yes. I now know what that means when you say that. Yeah, I'm past the no-sleep stage. Yeah, it's a lot of work. But I don't know any way to say it, but the way I feel it, and the guy turned around, he looked at me and he's like, he said something to his kids about eating broccoli. And this isn't an anti-vegan statement at all. I'm just saying this is for a growing child. He looked at me and I'm a pretty big guy and so he's like looking at his kids. He's like, right, tell him. They wanna get big and strong. They gotta eat their vegetables. And I said, actually, they need to eat plenty of steak and eggs if they wanna get big and strong. And he looked at me like I was the devil. His eyes got this big and I'm like, I just gotta say the truth. So that kind of transitions us from the pregnant mother to the nursing mother to the infant into adolescence. What do you anticipate the children's protein needs being and what kinds of proteins do you anticipate feeding them as your daughter grows? Well, I wish I, there's definitely, they do have a recommendation. I don't know that number because we know that the RDA is wrong. So whatever the number of the RDA is for growing individual, I think that up until 14, and I don't wanna misspeak, but I think it's 1.2 to 1.4 grams per kilogram. I'm not sure. I don't remember, but I would say probably double whatever the RDA is for growing children. We could just easily look that up, but I know what my daughter's gonna be eating. Yeah, yeah, it was interesting. I was at the NSCA conference last year in DC, and Dr. Jose Antonio got up and presented. He has two daughters who are college-age athletes. He's the president of the ISSN. Yeah, he's great. He does a lot of protein overfeeding studies. Yes, exactly. Well, one of the things he said, he did a presentation on feeding adolescents, teenagers. And he said, I know people really, they worry about this a lot. He said, get him a gram of protein per pound of body weight and you're good. And he didn't take a deep dive into all the other micronutrients and like. They'll probably figure it out within those requirements. He said, and they'll achieve, they're probably their potential from that. So obviously you and I like to control a few more variables, but I thought that was, it was kind of relieving as a parent. That you don't have to micromanage every bit of that. And if, yeah, I like them to get a steak and an egg, but if they do a PB and J, and I look at kind of the days total, and kids will be kids. And we all live in the real world, but if I can manage that part, I think I can do that pretty consistently. I would, I really loved it about it, is he didn't over complicate it. A lot of the information out there now, it's this juice cleanse, this crazy diet. It's very complicated and it doesn't have to be. Good nutrition, having a core foundational plan is not hard. Yeah, right. The barrier to entry for excellence, isn't that hard? I agree. Let's transition. You get a lot of clients in your practice that come to you. And I've found that as they get older, they tend to have more digestive problems, more hormonal problems. I see this more in the women that come talk to me that are in their 40s and 50s. And I'm sure you do too. IBS problems, maybe Crohn's autoimmune disorders, maybe some menopause hormonal deficiencies. I'm lumping a whole lot of stuff into one category here. I'm saying for that individual, I get a lot of, I take a break at a seminar. Those are the ones that come to me and they've got very specific questions about their current challenges. What do you do when somebody comes to you and they've got a lot of gas and bloating and IBS problems and their digestion's been bad for a while? Where do you start with those people? What's something they can do right away? This answer is probably gonna be different than another answer if you ask a different physician. Sure, yeah, fine. My perspective comes from, is it a multifactorial perspective? So I see seals and combat operators that are deployed and are coming back. I see them and I see their wives. And then I see these women like you're talking about and the symptoms, shockingly, are very similar. So the first thing that I do is I send them to an old school parapsytologist infectious disease guide. Hands down, his name is Kevin Cahill. He's about 900 years old and he has hair out of every orifice. The guy's eyebrows and ear hair could probably, you could probably break them. I love this guy. He sees diplomats from all over because the current way that we have to identify pathogens is really poor. When individuals say, oh, I gave this three day stool sample and it came back negative and their clinical symptoms don't match up and that's where the science and the literature and actually being in clinical practice, kind of you have to bridge it. So if the patient has symptoms of strong gloities or whipworm and they're having itching and rashes and it's cyclical and they're eating a lot of sushi or they've traveled to Mexico or they went abroad, you gotta send them to parapsytology. Number one, number two, then you begin to check off the list. If you screen them, you do a SIBO test, you may do a HPILORY test. You know, I have a very low threshold for a professional evaluation. I think that that's a big mistake that happens in the functional medicine world is that this person is coming here and they haven't had a proper GI workup. They haven't hoped, they haven't been imaged. The treatment has to match the severity of symptoms. And that is absolutely, if people take away nothing from this, I'd want them to understand that, that the treatment has to match the severity of symptoms. So if an individual has been struggling for years, I'm not gonna put them on an herbal remedy, right? I'm not gonna say, wow, you've been struggling for 12 years, here's your bottle of herbs, see it in three months. I'm gonna say, okay, have we identified what's your blood work? What are your inflammatory markers? Tell me your hormones. You know, we're gonna look at everything. And you are going to go to a parapsytologist. We're gonna get a comprehensive view. Now I like how you're getting in front of the problem because oftentimes when people come to me, they start telling me all the stuff they're taking, which is reactionary. They'll tell me- 100%. 100%. Particularly if they've got menopause. Now they're, well, they gave me estrogen and then they gave me antacid medication. Right. Then of course that usually evolves into antidepressants as a result of the antacid medication and the malabsorption of nutrients. So, matter of fact, I just heard this two days ago when I was up in Fort Worth, Indiana. I'm giving you basically the same questions that the client gave me, the individual that came to my seminar about disclosing too much information. But that's, and it's painful to listen to because they're in this symptom managing position. Yes. Yes. And they're on six different medications as a result. If it's not better in eight weeks, it's the wrong diagnosis, it's the wrong treatment. If it is not getting remarkably better, and listen, some things take time to treat. But if it's not better and you're utilizing, like you said, these external, extrinsic factors, more caffeine, now you're at from 200 milligrams to 800 milligrams and you keep increasing to make up for the deficits, you're doing the wrong thing. You haven't gotten the diagnosis right. Yeah, and almost out of the gate, two things happen when people present with digestion problems. Almost immediately they get prescribed an antacid, which is a dead end road and it leads to all of those other. And generally, if they have sleep issues, they get ambient.  so now you've got a lack of rem and stage 4 sleep and they're exhausted and not recovering. When they start with those two medications, it's just dominoes from there for all the problems that they're going to have ongoing. And so my recommendation is they've got to find out how to get off of those and get in front of the problem, which can be, as you just mentioned, between the paricytology and the SIBO test and H-pylori, it just takes the right kind of practitioner with the kind of understanding that you have. And it's been my experience from 30 years of dealing with general practitioners and even with HRT throughout many of these years and they would make recommendations and I would kind of think, that doesn't sound right. And so I would go to a specialist, either an endocrinologist or somebody who had much more experience and get a completely different answer. So I think that our clients have to not outsource their long-term recovery to any rate. That's pretty active in asking questions, getting second opinions and someone like you is, I think, a great resource for that. And another aspect of that is when they find someone, really be able to stick to that and execute the plan. There's no benefit. It's like an individual who's going to multiple different trainers, getting multiple different opinions, oh, well, this day I'm going to do metabolic conditioning, but this day I'm going to do my heavy load. I'm sure you've seen that, especially with your celebrity patients. They have a ton of input and I think really finding a teammate who you're going to go through a with and who can quarterback like a corner man. That's what people need to feed up corner. This is kind of how this conversation started because the reason we spend 80 or 90 percent of our time dispelling myths and getting people on board and convincing them this is the right pathway because they need to comply and stick with it and buy into the solution because immediately as soon as they walk out your door, they're going to get hit with a video or an article or the guy behind the desk at the gym or as Damon said earlier, their massage therapist is going to give them some idea whether it's a celery shake or I don't know why you're doing that. You should do this. Watch the game changers and now all of a sudden you haven't addressed and they use a few big words. They throw out some mentor pathways and some AMPKs and next thing you know they're like, oh, this guy sounds pretty smart. Right. And you didn't spend 90 percent of your time explaining this to your client, nor should you I think. I think it overwhelms them. Again, that's the long with fire hose. So you do have to get them to buy in at some point because of what you said. And you know, I feel fortunate and you're probably at this stage in your career. The people that are coming to you, like your friend said, you have them at Holo. They are there because they want to be a part of what it is that you're offering. And I would say that there's a very low threshold for resistance on my patients. And I'm sure this is definitely. Well, I think the next transition is to geriatrics. You have a specialty there in the next room. We're out at my house here in Las Vegas. This is where we do this from my studio. Right. In the next room is my 89 year old father who's doing quite well. Congratulations. Yes. Thank you. And five years ago, he was on medications. He was on statins and he was on some other medications. And we've been able to get his blood work right. It dropped a little bit of weight, got him moving around a little more and got him off the red wine. Too much. That's really big. And he's quite healthy and he is doing very well. What kind of what are the important factors? Not just diet, but we talked earlier in terms of muscle retention. What are the most important things that someone can do for their parents now? That is a bit of a loaded question. So the nutrition part we know that the most important thing for an individual is the ages for high quality protein because of that natural process that decrease in satellite cells, decrease in mitochondrial biogenesis, all the functioning aspects of the muscle decrease in motor neurons. So maintaining your muscle tissue is primary and that's through resistance training and exercise. Now I talk a lot about that when it relates to sarcopenia and sarcopenic obesity. You said something really important and that is decreasing alcohol. For sure there is a decrease in cognitive reserve and cognitive capacity as an individual ages. So you need to remove any external insult. Drinking, I pull that off the table. When I was seeing geriatric patients they shouldn't be drinking. Medications, sleep medications, pain medication, all that stuff should be off the table. Keeping them active in terms of mentally active, being out and learning new things. Those are all key life styles. You've got to get them sleeping. Any unnecessary surgery every time you undergo anesthesia it decreases your cognitive capacity which is it decreases the capacity of the brain and we see a sharp decline in memory when that happens. You know that's a huge deal because alcohol again like ambient impairs REM and stage 4 restorative sleep. So while you might it might help you get to sleep it's compromising the quality of that sleep. So maybe that's the pathway by which it brain function declines is just the sleep inhibition, cumulative effect of that. It could be the alcohol itself as well. I'm not trying to demonize things for people who have glass of wine here but generally people think that they drink at night right before bed. So it has its most significant effect on sleep at that time. That or they'll drink it with a meal and they don't understand that the body is going to prioritize you know taking care of that alcohol before digesting the food. So there's a lot of the meal that doesn't get digested because the body is going to prioritize getting rid of that toxin or the alcohol that's in there and I hate the word toxin in the body but that's alcohol is probably one of those things that would actually fall under that category and it actually gets treated that way. Well and you're recommending protein even in even more than what you would recommend for say a middle-aged person because they don't absorb it as well. Right they have decreased plankton extraction their ability to actually extract the amino acids and then utilize the amino acids decreases with age. So having a more optimal protein diet is key for sure and interestingly the literature supports having a higher blood glucose. So hemoglobin A1c is higher and also blood pressure higher to improve cerebral perfusion blood flow to the brain which is very specific for a geriatrician versus a family practice doctor. Right I've seen some research on that as well it's important because some people will think if they've got a slightly elevated blood pressure they need to go in and get on diuretics or something or they've already got them. You should manage that with a geriatric doctor. And that's important as you know it's interesting in our space it's a younger crowd but you have baby boomers and an aging population and I don't know where they go to for information. Those individuals are going to be considered radical to hear this information and implement this information not necessarily my information but the information in this space and it's it's important we have a responsibility to get that correct for them. Right yeah definitely. I certainly know there's other ways to get protein but in terms of micronutrient density we're still recommending my father I still put red meat in his diet. I still have whole eggs in his diet. He can tolerate dairy so we put some yogurt in his diet so we're getting those as the primary protein source and he's getting well over a gram a pound for per pound of body weight a day. I would say well. That is amazing he's lucky to have you aging individuals there's some data to support that minced meat improves muscle protein synthesis and it's probably for the it's probably based on the ability to absorb it but minced as a ground beef. Yeah I don't know if you said that on purpose because you know I'm the the originator of the Monster Mash of course. You know what I have actually have gotten messages about it. I think it's blended and then someone was asking me about blending rice you're blending rice and meat and stuff together. I'll make bison burgers on the grill and then I'll use a little little Walmart mashing tool to put a little bit of white rice in there. I'll make a whole egg and put a little bit of spinach and peppers and I'll mash it all into like a little hearty and it's some bone broth. I'll throw a little of that in there. So it's kind of like a hearty minestrone soup and you know we started the meal prep company the vertical diet and it's one of the meals we sell is the Monster Mash and people I said well it's just burger and rice. I'm like no no no no no no no no no it's the Monster Mash. We trademarked. I mean that sounds pretty high speed so. But it was generally it was like you said it helps increase because of your increased surface area it increases improves absorption and digestion of of the meat so we definitely do that. And one of the other things is this stomach acid decreases as you age so adding a little digestive enzymes would say hydrochloric acid is really helpful. Potane HCl is can be really helpful and individuals if they wanted to do testing there's something called the Heidelberg test actually shows you where the stomach acid is you know where the your range is you know where you're at how much you would need. I'm so glad you don't want to do that just take some. Yeah I'm so glad you hit on that that seems to be one of the main reasons of course when people are taking antacids it's from low acid generally. The majority of reasons for for acid reflux is low acid problems and then eating a high gas food that causes reflux. So we often recommend that B-10 HCl pepsin for those people as a way to improve that problem and for elderly people who have a decreased stomach acid. Also the acid is so important for the micronutrient absorption you get a lot of folks that just aren't absorbing their women in particular their iron or their zinc or their magnesium and that of course is one of the reasons why that those antacids could potentially lead to other disorders the the depression being one of them that I see linked so closely with digestive disorders. Yeah I mean it's dangerous the antacid while people think they're benign I had a woman who had a spontaneous hip fracture and she had been on an on ant acid for years and she just was the doctor didn't put two and two together that it really does affect nutrient absorption. Yeah how about that poor girl the athlete the distance runner in Oregon that was that was working with Nike and if you remember that story came out in the newspaper recently she actually fought a lawsuit against against Nike they were of course underfeeding her as they do most of their distance athletes I used to work with athletes at the University of Oregon Marathon runners and sprinters and they starve the heck out of them and we know it's quite common for high school and collegiate women who are in distant sports to to suffer from the female triad they get amenorrhea and they get anemia and she had those problems and then started having recurring stress fractures as a result she just wasn't it didn't have the bone density anymore that was supporting that that workload so that's another you know just like you explained there those deficiencies can you know manifest themselves and things like broken bones it's pretty severe. Yeah and the key like you said is to get ahead of it is to really kind of be aware of your weakness I'm sure at some point she was aware that she was under eating really having acute awareness to the things that you're predisposed to and what you're when I mean predisposed I mean behaviors I don't mean illnesses I mean knowing that say you're predisposed to over consume caffeine like my husband or predisposed to yes I'm totally putting him under the bus so when he hears this he'll be drinking his coffee and putting it down but you know we all have behaviors that we're predisposed to do and and staying ahead of those really can allow for a more optimal outcome because we can change the trajectory of how we age right and especially people that are doing it right for the bone mineral ball yeah for the bone mineral density for a lot of people out there you know if you don't have access to a dexa machine which is what it would be pretty much the gold standard for measuring that just in general terms most people are you're accumulating bone mineral density up until about the age of 30 and then you've got what you're going to have and then it's this battle of trying to keep what you've got for the rest of your life so the unfortunate thing is that for like these dissonants athletes you know during that time in their life when it's the most optimal for them to be taking it in they're probably not getting enough and so that's kind of putting them behind the curve and women are at a greater risk long term because of the loss of estrogen through menopause and things like that so I guess get into a question here but so what would you recommend in terms of like at what age would you say people you would recommend them getting a dexa scan and how often would you want them to get it so that is a good question it depends on there and there are I'm sure the the endocrine societies have recommendations I can tell you what I do and what I recommend and that is if an if a woman has gone through a period in her life where she's not where she is a menorrhea I will get a baseline bone density scan even if she's 35 or younger you definitely want to see where she's at and then in terms of recommendations the who you know primary care doctors will do a regular dexa scan once a woman hits a certain age I don't know I don't remember if it's 60 or what but you know for me it's based on for me to do it earlier will be based on symptoms so I would definitely monitor that cool and we should probably mention too with the those who aren't familiar with the scan you can do a total body scan and you can segment the body as well and so I've done hundreds of these scans with the athletes on campus here too we did it as a preventative and there are times if you're going to get when I would recommend getting all of the segments if you can or have you order written for all the segments that you can because if you do a total body that is then going to assess your total body and it could mask some low bone mineral density in a localized place so right so depending if it's a hip or spine so that that's actually really good advice yeah you mentioned the importance of protein for you know maintaining lean muscle mass and then also we talked about getting some resistance training for that benefit as well equally as important for bone mineral density to have some sort of loading and usually people shy away from that and I just got a text this morning asking if it was okay for a 70 year old to lift weights and my response is absolutely look at the folks from barbell medicine they're prescribing this to people as as part of longevity not just lifespan but health span so someone over 70 we'd still want to put some have them do some exercises that would require some sort of when I say axial loading I mean either a squat or a deadlift or a weighted carry or even like a partial rack deadlift I have a little thing in the gym here and my dad will go out and grab the bar and he only moves at six inches but and holds it there for a little while and that loading it's so important to have the right stimulus in order to utilize those nutrients well are you recommending your elderly patients do that as well I mean I don't I'm not doing a ton of geriatrics now but absolutely I mean my dad is 70 and he's a beast I mean he wants if he has to take transportation if it's a three hour walk or less he'll do it himself if it's over three hours he'll take transportation wow yeah that's incredibly beneficial for for elderly people to lift because the I think I heard you recently talk about or maybe it was it was dr. hyman's interview where we talked about the fact that longevity can be measured by strength right yeah and if you think about it if an individual gets injured their amino acid reserve their muscle tissue is what's going to save their life nothing else it is their capacity for their body to recover even cancer a look you know catexia is what you know there's a there's different things that kill people from cancer but catexia is certainly one of them if you find in the geriatric community that a lot of those folks are there just because they're frail not necessarily because of some other yes problem yep frailty is an illness and if they fall and get injured as a result of of the weakened bones or the weakened muscles they're much more likely not to recover from that kind of thing absolutely and with the decline in muscle tissue there's all kind of metabolic dysfunction that happens their ability to utilize glucose their ability to utilize fatty acids and that that tissue is their metabolic currency which then decreases and we know that glucose is toxic glucose is toxic I mean obviously you know you can have a certain amount your body can dispose of it so excess glucose is toxic to the cell yeah well and with your diet recommendations being at a gram per pound of body weight yep and then of course understanding that you should get an adequate amount of fats in just for general health it doesn't leave a whole lot of room for sugars anyhow in a responsible diet it's it's you'd have to eat much less protein to get much more carbs so you've kind of already created the macro percentage that's that's optimal for most people spread those throughout the day exercise regularly work your muscles and I think you're managing that blood glucose pretty well yes absolutely and you know for my patients I don't recommend more than 40 grams per meal of course it depends on that you know if it's a guy like you or maybe is training but for the average person they don't need more than 40 grams of carbohydrates per meal 30 to 40 grams you know you've said many times they have to earn their carbs you if they have a high workload then they might have to fuel that particular workload but otherwise they're relatively unnet well they're completely unnecessary that's right as far as requirements go so and I love how you said that that there's a responsible feeding pattern there's a way in which you can responsibly eat because I think people don't quite understand you know when I was at Wash U we would image people's brains and when you saw midlife obesity and you saw the the damage in the tissue you know there's there's flattening of sulci and and you know you just think they don't really have a concept of what is to come and we know that the wider the waistline lower the brain volume and that's all bite that is literally by dietary choice no 100 degree you know one of the things that that becomes difficult most diets work when they're strictly adhered to but a lot of people regain the weight I think that we set people up for failure we give them to too restrictive of a diet plan they get hungry and get tired or we implement probably too aggressive of an exercise program and they just simply can't comply or get you know tired and hungry as a result of the exercise so do you have kind of a a minimum something that people can do regularly and consistently and compliantly over time in terms of what their exercise should look like well you know you're talking about the recidivism rate the rate of relapse and you know when I think about that I really think that the mind is their primary organ at that moment their mind is primary and you don't address their mind frame they will be constantly chasing habits to become a different individual and they will never succeed if you can get your individuals or patients clients to become deeply become a quote different person then the habits become easy for example I'm not the kind of person that's going to eat cake if I'm at a party and someone offers me cake I don't say oh no I'm on a diet I just am inherently not the kind of person that is going to reach for that so and I know that your question was on exercise and and I would really say you know that really depends on the training status and talk to a professional who prescribes it I mean there is you know individuals really go through you know for excellence like I don't program any of my own stuff you know so I don't recommend specific plans I say you know reach out to the experts who do only that all the time but that being said it's for them in terms of success it is all mind frame driven what are your when you have a client that you that you give them a program whether it be a nutrition program or a supplement program or what have you what do you look at most in terms of compliance how do you how do you design it such that they can stay on the program how do you monitor it long time long term it has to be easy to understand and easy to follow I am not someone who's going to say here's 50 supplements go do this my philosophy is here's a foundational plan figure out your protein balance the rest of the carbohydrates get your healthy fats really have an understanding of how you're going to do it what's your eating strategy it's easy and you can accomplish it and then in terms of supplementation it's not it's the minimal effective dose how much you know the least amount that you can take is you know what is going to be what I'm going to recommend and we go through cycles right can you repeat that again for our audience minimum effective dose yeah the minimal effective dose it is not taking 500 supplements and I have access to everything I but I don't it is not effective it is not responsible there are different seasons of life you need different things during those seasons but the goal you know I don't keep people on supplement protocols indefinitely indefinitely I love to cycle them off you know there's a consequence for everything you do even if it's healthy for example if you're if you are taking a lot of a particular vitamin you may down regulate your ability to utilize it so there are consequences for example caffeine if you're going to be drinking a ton of caffeine your body will down regulate the capacity to utilize it I think having an awareness and taking a step back of this you know the multitude of information that's out there and really thinking okay what can I do long term there is a certain amount of sacrifice that is necessary for excellence all of us here can probably agree to that and then once you determine what that is where where are you going to be on that spectrum what are you willing to do and then that becomes your new norm oh I think that's excellent and it probably changes over time too because your your goals may change over time and your needs are going to change over time so it's it's something that needs to be revisited but it's not something that probably needs to be revisited every day right because we see that too people are like well you know we're in this time of instant gratification where you know you want to happen right now and so tomorrow you didn't lose the 15 pounds that you wanted to and so oh my god I got to change up my program and it's probably at least a weekly or like every two weeks would probably be a revisit to you got to let things work you know totally so I said and the one question yeah and the one question that I always ask is it did you execute the plan it's consistently right consistently right for that whole period and and all of it soon as they start with oh well I'm no no yes or no you either did it or you didn't end and it's it's comprehensive that you have to do everything if you can't like I've always said you can't take your five grams of creatinine only sleep five hours a night right it's completely worthless so I have a friend that owns a number of HRT clinics and I always asked him is that a good business he says his retention is not very good he's after four months or so people kind of drop off and I said well why is that he says well the first month they come in and they get their testosterone dose but they also improve their sleep they change their diet they implement an exercise program and that first 30 days is euphoric the changes are miraculous he says then they start they stop going to the gym they start going back to their old eating habits and next thing you know they're in there saying hey this testosterone is not working and really it was them that stopped working not that's a person excellent point it was just an adjunct you know and what I find is also that that people stop doing what they're supposed but I think they're responsible for sleep obviously which is 99 percent personal responsibility just turning off your phone and getting to bed on time and allowing yourself a full unless you have a new baby yeah oh my goodness and I do get questions about that a lot and I lived it I understand it fortunately because you know and I was able to split time with my wife so she would spend one night with the baby and I would spend the next or and I do have some clients who are competing who are in the financial position that maybe one night a week or two nights a week they can bring in a night nanny so they can at least string together three good nights of sleep throughout the week and I often recommend that they try and employ whatever methods possible to manage that because I get a lot of questions from from new mothers about that well I have a one-year-old two-year-old three-year-old I mean and it also kind of depends on how long the mother or the father allow the child to sleep in your bed because even if the child squawks in the middle of the night or kicks you in the head you're coming out of REM sleep and although although you were in bed for eight hours you didn't get eight hours of sleep so yep and it's hard just to say you know tough it out you've got a two-year-old and but part of it is that but then just trying to do the best you can with with the resources that you have again we split time and and that helped and some other people may do a night nanny like one night a week or whatever is within their budget it's really important I see mothers really declining throughout that those times and I'm cautious to recommend some sort of of help or intervention so they can be strong and efficient to you know to for themselves it's tough you know I mean I can speak for myself my baby is five months I'm not sleeping through the night and I right and I I feel a responsibility so my husband just got out of the SEAL teams in July after 10 years and he's in a second career now in medical school I already did it so I understand I really don't want his experience to be compromised he needs to be able to think and he has I mean otherwise he'll fail out I mean he's a smart guy but still he's at Rutgers it's it's pretty rigorous so for me I'm taking the the night shifts I'm taking the shifts and man I'm more inclined to do it myself than have someone else there and and and even the nights that she sleeps through this is interesting I'm very hyper vigilant so I'm still checking on her I've gotten into this pattern it's it's really interesting that whether she sleeps or not I'm still checking on her four or five times a night that's outrageous yeah my little one had the flu last night 104 degree temperature I was on an airplane coming back from Indianapolis landed like 11 p.m. and we were at the at the hospital at midnight at the 24-hour pharmacy getting our Tama flu at 1 a.m. you know so we we live it and we understand it and and I guess the end of the day I don't have an answer for that and I did a video many years ago when people asked me about you know how'd you compete at the level you did and do the things that you did and I so I the video was called why I'm a hypocrite and it was the fact that I didn't I didn't have kids when I competed you know and I so it was an incredibly selfish endeavor and so I'm very sensitive when somebody comes to me and says well I'm a nurse I work 24-hour shifts you know so I can't you know tell them to sleep eight hours a night that's an answer for them and so we have to just try and manage everything else around it as much as possible and I think just understand that those are definite hurdles for some people and you're just gonna have to do everything you can and there's a time frame there for you it's gonna be a few more years yet before you see yeah assistant sleep and right sacrifices you make as a mother for the the rewards that you get but and I'm willing to do it it's all about how you interpret the experience there's a big big toe frankles victor yeah victor frankles  mansearchformeaning, right? It's all about the interpretation of the external experience, how you respond as that pause. So bring it, baby. I'm ready for number two. I love that you said that. That's a great attitude. And as long as you're getting your regular exercise and you're eating healthy and you're going to lose some sleep, that's given. But if you can control all the other variables as best you can, I think you've got a fighting chance and you've got a strong attitude for it. And you're helping a lot of other people along the way with all of your great information that you're putting out there. So I really appreciate you having on. I thank you for taking so much time with us today. Yeah, thank you so much. Thank you for using the new day in clothing. I want Gabrielle to have a chance to tell us where people can find her and what kind of projects you're working on that they should follow. My pleasure. I'm most active on Instagram, and that's Dr. Gabrielle Lyon. I have a weekly newsletter that so if people go to my website, which needs a total rebrand, they can send it for my newsletter. And I include where I'm speaking. I'll include what podcasts or shows I've done. Interesting people that I've seen in my clinic without obviously saying who they are, what I'm reading. And it's short, sweet, won't waste your time. And it's valuable. I try to make it very valuable. I am working on a book, and that is a process. It is. You know, the goal will be to be out in a year, but it probably won't, probably be more like two years. We'll see. I'm gonna work on that. Yeah, and that's really it. And for anything up to date, they can find me at, you know, Instagram, website, Facebook. Same name. Awesome, awesome. Well, thanks, Gabrielle. It's really pleasure talking to you. I'm glad I find, I feel like I know you already. I've been watching your videos for years, and all your Instagram posts, and your family, beautiful family, and I'm just excited for everything you're doing for people. I really appreciate you having you. Wish your husband luck on med school. Yes, that's right. That's right, yeah. He needs it. Thank you, Gabrielle. Thank you. Just talking to you. Yeah, thanks for having me. Take care. Hey guys, Stan Efforty here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy to follow vertical diet ebook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our vertical diet meal prep company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to stanefforty.com and get started today.