 Hey guys, Stan Efforty here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow, Vertical Diet eBook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep Company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to stanefforty.com and get started today. Welcome back to the Vertical Diet podcast. I'm Stan Efforty, founder of the Vertical Diet here with my co-author, Damon McEwn, registered dietitian, PhD, LD, RD, XYZ, all of the others. So just in case anything is mentioned today that I don't understand, he's here to help me. We've got a very special guest today on a topic that is a very emotional topic, and we're gonna try and subdue a lot of the emotion here today and just talk kind of practically about the science. And that topic's gonna be about organic versus conventional. We're gonna stick with fruits and vegetables today, the GMO conversation and the meat conversations, probably a completely, probably a podcast unto itself. Probably three more. Probably three more. So, but we are gonna talk about organic versus conventional. And we have a very special guest with us today who's an expert in all these matters and has a Instagram called food science babe. It's Erin and she's with us today. She's gonna help us kind of make sense of this landscape with organic versus conventional. So Erin, welcome aboard. Why don't you introduce yourself in your expertise, your credentials, so we can ask you some questions about this topic. Yeah, so like he said, my name's Erin, AKA Food Science Babe. So I have a BES in chemical engineering, and then I ended up getting into the food industry after graduating and getting into more of a food scientist role. So I've worked in the food industry now for over 10 years as a food scientist. I've worked at large conventional ingredient companies. I've worked at small natural and organic companies. I actually used to be an organic foods consumer myself. So a lot of these myths that I kind of debunk now, I once believed them myself. So yeah. Well, that's important to mention is that you work in the food industry but you work for conventional and organic food suppliers. And you're a former athlete, you were a triathlete for many, many years, and you have a young special needs daughter that you care for. You have as much incentive as anyone to be concerned about your health and the health of your family. And you work for companies that produce both organic and conventional. And many of the farmers produce both. They're not just doing one or the other. That's what I seem to see in the industry. Is that what your experience is? Yeah, definitely. I mean, I know there are farmers that literally have both an organic and a conventional farm. And so yeah, that's definitely true. And everybody knows that I own a meal prep company, the vertical diet, and we have the opportunity to sell whatever we want. I can have an organic menu if I want. We have some grass-fed beef and we have fresh salmon. We have grass-finished and grass-fed bison. We make bone broth. We get from organically grown grass-fed and grass-finished cows. So we do have a lot of things on our menu that we take advantage of, you know, a variety of different food options, pasture-raised chickens, all of that. But, you know, generally speaking, we didn't dive into an all-organic menu because we didn't see the benefits and the advantages. And I want to kind of talk through that with you today. Generally, this argument, and this isn't supposed to be positioned as organic versus conventional, this is really positioned as a... What you promote is your hashtags, facts, not fear. And you're trying to dispel some of the myths and the fear-mongering that goes along with, you know, the misleading sales practices from a lot of companies that are trying to scare people into not eating conventional fruits or vegetables. And it kind of goes into four different categories, and I'll just review them here and then we'll dive into each individually. Some people think that organic is more nutritious than conventional. Some people think that it's healthier, and specifically in terms of toxins. Some people feel as though it's more ethical with respect to the environment. And we could talk a little bit about taste or emotion, also as one of the topics. I want to kick off with nutrition. Damon's a registered dietitian. He was former head of the Dietetic Department at UNLV and an instructor there, well-equipped to have this conversation with you. Let's talk over the comparison on nutrition between organic versus conventional. Is one more or less nutritious than the other? So I also just want to say too that I don't have any stake in saying, you know, one is better than the other either. Right now I work as a consultant for startup food companies. So ironically, a lot of the companies that I work for do market their products as non-GMO and organic just because that is sort of the trend right now. So, you know, I don't have any bias in the matter or any reason to be on one side or the other. So yeah, as far as nutrition goes between organic and conventional, there are several large meta-analyses that have been done on different organic versus conventional. And I mean, the overwhelming evidence shows that organic foods are no safer or more nutritious than conventional. There can be just as much variation within organic from farm to farm area to area, year to year, and within conventional. So it's not that organic is any safer or any more nutritious than conventional. And that's what the evidence shows. Yeah, I think something that I run into as a dietitian a lot is people have this notion or this misconception about organic that there's more vitamins in there, or they're getting more antioxidants. So like these specific factors, there's more of them in there. And we just know that that's not true according to the data. So I really appreciate you bringing that up. This is something that we're all in this together in terms of dispelling the myths and like Stan said, this isn't an organic versus conventional. This is just trying to dispel any misleading information that's out there. So really glad to have you on. And I think that one of the larger meta-analyses that you may have referred to is the 2012 Stanford study where they said, and I'll quote, we did not find significant differences in the vitamin content of organic versus conventional produce. And I think the reason that's most important, and that's things like vitamin C, potassium, magnesium, in particular, there were. There was a difference in phosphorus, but it's non-consequential because nobody's deficient in phosphorus. But I think the biggest point to make in terms of nutrition and comparing the two is that if you're fear-mongering or using misleading sales practices to discourage someone from buying conventional fruits and vegetables, then they're discouraged them from eating fruits and vegetables. And I think that's tragic however way you look at it. Yeah, definitely. I think that's the most detrimental thing as far as these myths go. It's not just that you're putting misinformation out there. This misinformation is really preventing consumers from potentially eating more healthy fruits and vegetables. So consumers hear that if they hear organic is more nutritious, and then they feel that they need to buy it, and they can't necessarily afford much of it, they're going to be buying less than if they would just go with conventional. So it really is detrimental to people's health, this type of misinformation that's out there. Well, and the worst of the misinformation comes under the next topic that people discuss. And that's whether or not it's healthier in terms of toxins. This is something that you've specialized in, and I've seen some of the conversations on your Instagram page that are quite heated. People really believe. And there is some literature, but it's very biased and misleading. And I'll have you explain that to us comparing organic versus conventional in terms of synthetic versus natural pesticides and fertilizers. So why don't we cover that topic? Yeah, so I think that's probably the biggest myth surrounding organic is that people think that organic doesn't use pesticides. But organic definitely does use pesticides. So the only difference is that they have to be naturally derived. So they have to be derived from natural sources. So again, consumers, that sounds good to the consumer, but in reality, whether a chemical is natural or synthetic, doesn't tell you anything about its toxicity or its safety. So there is a large variation within and between natural pesticides and synthetic pesticides. And actually, the regulations surrounding organic and not allowing farmers to use synthetic pesticides that can potentially be better for the environment, can potentially be used at lower volume than these naturally derived ones. These regulations are actually preventing farmers from using more efficient farming practices. And then it doesn't translate into the end product being any safer either. So a lot of times you hear that organic has less pesticide residues. But that's not necessarily the case, because the pesticide residues on both organic and conventional foods are regularly detected at levels hundreds to thousands of times below the ADIs, which are set hundreds to thousands of times below the lowest possible value where they could show any sort of health effect in humans. So we're talking about parts per billion levels. And just to put into perspective, one part per billion is like one second in 32 years. So these levels of pesticide residues on both organic and conventional are almost undetectable. So when people say that there's less on organic, I mean, we're talking about parts per billion on both of them. So there's really no reason to be afraid of pesticide residues on either organic or conventional. What's that? I just keep going. Yeah. So yeah, it's a myth that organic doesn't use pesticides, but they do use pesticides. However, that doesn't mean that they are unsafe as well. Both organic and conventional foods are extremely safe from a pesticide residue perspective. And there was a study done that showed that 99.99% of the pesticides we ingest are produced by the plants themselves. So out in nature, the plants have their own defense mechanisms. They produce their own pesticides. And we're ingesting those as well. And people don't seem to have a problem with those. They only have a problem with this 0.01% that the farmers are spraying onto the crops. When in reality, there's no reason really to be afraid of these incredibly small residues. Agreed. Now, there was a study that came out recently that was quite confusing for people, because when you dig down into it, they didn't understand how it was conducted. And it said that conventional agriculture had more synthetic fertilizers than organic agriculture. Why is that misleading? Well, because organic can't use synthetic fertilizers. So they use, again, they use naturally-dried fertilizers, things like animal manure. So obviously, that's a lot of these studies. I don't even really like to call them studies. But a lot of these studies that are coming out that you see that test children urine, and there were less synthesizers in their urine. So then after eating an organic diet, they say, oh, there weren't any synthetic pesticides detected. Well, that's because organic can't use. Literally, they're testing for only things that are used in conventional farming. So obviously, they're only going to find it in conventional farming. So those studies are so misleading. Right. They didn't test for all pesticides. But yeah, an organic is using fertilizer as well. Exactly. And they didn't test for all fertilizers. They only tested for synthetic fertilizers. If they had tested for things like copper, hydroxide, and potash, they'd have found those in greater quantity on the organic vegetables. And wouldn't have found any of that on the synthetic fertilizers. You could flip the study around to say just the exact opposite. So it was very misleading. Exactly. It does make consumers mislead some, and it makes them concerned. And unreasonably so. That's part of the fear mongering that's out there. And then we have, there's organizations out there pushing this agenda too, right? So we've got the dirty dozen from environmental workers group that makes it sound really scary. And if you actually go look at the list of the fruits of vegetables that are on that list, the fruit itself has a very, very thin skin, right? You would have to use a little bit more to protect it from the insects versus the stuff that's the clean 15 is stuff like pineapple or kiwi that has a very hard shell. So insects would have a hard time penetrating it to begin with. But there's stuff like that that goes on. So why don't you give us a little bit of your insight to the dirty dozen? About the EWG in general, not an unbiased organization. Yeah. So the EWG, a lot of people think that they are not biased. They're putting out evidence out there that isn't biased. But the EWG is funded mostly by the organic industry. So they put out the dirty dozen in the clean 15. It's not based on science at all. So what they do is they take, so the USDA tests for pesticide residues regularly every year. So you can go on the USDA website, look up the PDP. So they test for residues on both organic and conventional. I will say that they don't have methods to test for all of the organic pesticides. So we don't have a clear picture of the total pesticides on organic produce. But anyways, the EWG takes that data, which is showing us that our food is incredibly safe. It's showing that the levels that they regularly detect are hundreds to thousands of times below a harmful level. So they take that data. And what they do is they only account for the number of pesticides. So I'll just make up an example. This isn't necessarily true. But let's say they take strawberries and let's say there's 20 different pesticide residues. And then they take blueberries. And let's say there's 30 different pesticide residues on the blueberries. Blueberries would be at the top of their DERDEE does list. They don't take into account what the chemical is, what the toxicity of the chemical is, what the concentration of the chemical is. They're literally just saying like, there are more pesticides on this one. So it makes absolutely no sense. They're not taking dose into account. They're not taking concentration into it. They're not taking any of that into account. And they're taking this data that the USDA publishes to show us that our food is extremely safe. And they're using it to scare consumers. Never mind the fact that they don't even mention that organic use of pesticides. They literally don't mention it once. So all they're doing is taking the conventional data that shows that our food is incredibly safe and using it to scare consumers into buying organic when organic has the same level of pesticide residues, but they fail to mention that. Right, understood. And you know, EWG is a perfect example of the kind of people who are probably discouraging folks from eating healthy fruits and vegetables because of that kind of misinformation and fear mongering. So I think that's reprehensible. I think the information they put out is highly biased. I think people should eat fruits and vegetables whether organic and conventional as we discussed. I'll give you a real softball question here with respect to you just mentioned the USDA. And of course, I noticed in going through your posts on the internet that people actually said things like, well, we don't trust the USDA. How do you respond to that? Yeah, I find that really interesting when it's an organic proponent saying that they don't trust the USDA to test for pesticides. I mean, what is the organic label? USDA certified organic. I mean, you can't say that you don't trust them when it comes to conventional, but you trust them when it comes to organic. That doesn't make sense at all. Exactly. And you know, sometimes you can't make sense of what comes through Instagram, but nonetheless, I wanted to address it for those people out there who weren't aware of the same organization that regulates conventional also certifies organic. So we should probably make a quick point too. You know, the organic labeling, there are different levels to the organic label. And a lot of people aren't aware of that. And so the different products that have the different labels can have different amounts of organic ingredients. And so that can vary from product to product. And you know, the true definition of organic is it contains carbon, right? So that's the marketing and food labeling organic is a little bit different than the actual scientific organic terminology. Right, yeah. And the USDA, what's interesting is the USDA certified organic seal is part of the USDA's marketing website. And they specifically say that it doesn't tell you anything in terms of the safety or the nutrition of the food. So it's purely a marketing label. It doesn't tell you really anything about the nutrition of the food. Exactly. Next up for you, Damon. So the other thing that we run into is there's the ethical or the environmental concern. And so kind of talk to us a little bit about that. You know, there's a lot of misconception about organic is better for the environment or so on and so forth. So what's your take on that? Yeah, so that was a huge reason why I used to buy organic. I wasn't really sure if it was more nutritious, but one of the reasons I used to buy it was because I thought it was better for the environment. When you go on the website, the USDA organic website, you read the regulations, it makes it sound like it's better. You know, natural pesticides, natural fertilizers, they're not allowed to use genetically modified crops. A lot of those things sound really good to the consumer. It makes it sound like it's better for the environment, but in reality, it is quite the opposite. So the fact that they are not allowed to use genetically modified crops, genetically modified crops allow farmers to grow a lot more on less land. They have allowed decreased insecticide usage. So they have allowed for a lot of different, more environment-to-leaf-friendly farming practices, and organic is not allowed to use that. So one of the biggest reasons why organic is worse for the environment is just the fact that it takes around 20 to 40% more land than conventional. So they're growing a lot less on more land. Another reason is that they heavily rely on tilling the soil, which obviously creates a lot of emissions and then it's, you know, it degrades the soil. So conventional uses herbicide tolerant crops in order to either not have to till the soil at all or use reduced tilling methods. So the organic regulations actually make it so that organic is not as good for the environment, whereas people think that those regulations are in place to make it better for the environment, but that's just not the case. Yeah, they use more land. They have more nitrogen runoff. The plants can't utilize manure as efficiently as the chemical nitrogen, and so that runs off and creates these dead zones like in the Gulf of Mexico. They have over 6,000 square miles dead zone. They've got dead fish and starfish and sea animals floating up onto the shore because of nitrogen runoff. So there's definitely not a cleaner option. It's kind of equivocal, but I find interesting is that organic and conventional growers tend to use, when they have the opportunity, tend to use some of the best practices from each other. I was just gonna add to that a little bit. So a lot of the organic proponents talk about different methods that organic farmers use that they think are better for the environment, but if they actually are better for the environment, then the conventional farmers are gonna use them as well. So a lot of the arguments that people have for organic farming, I mean, conventional farmers can use those same practices. Exactly, exactly. I think the next one on our list is, those are the big, heavy ones, but there's some little stuff that people talk about, some of the emotional stuff, the feel good stuff. One of them is taste. What can you tell us about the difference in taste between conventional organic? Cause people are just convinced that one is better than the other, but the science says something very different, doesn't it? Yeah, I mean, so taste is very subjective, obviously, and a lot of it has to do with also, I mean, you go to the store and you pay more, our brains are probably thinking like, oh, I paid more, it should taste better. So a lot of it has to do with the placebo effect. You pay more for it, you think it's better for you, so you think it tastes better, but that's not, I mean, that's not the case, and it doesn't even really make sense why, all of the organic stuff would taste better than all of the conventional stuff. It just doesn't even really make sense. I mean, if you go to the store and your store is in close proximity to a conventional farm and it travels a shorter distance, like it's probably gonna be fresher, the conventional is gonna be probably gonna taste better. So it's very subjective and, I mean, it really doesn't have to do with, organic versus conventional. One store that's next to an organic farm, all organic produce could potentially taste better, whereas another store, that's close to a conventional farm, that can be the complete opposite, so yeah. You said something important there that I skipped over in terms of the environment, and that's if you're buying fruits and vegetables from overseas, that kind of explodes the whole environmental, protecting the environment argument, because these are generally produced in greenhouses years around and put on ships and then trucked here. So how much fossil fuels have been expended, bringing that orange to you in December in Michigan, from China or wherever it's grown? People tend to forget that a lot, if you're not actually getting locally grown seasonal fruits and vegetables, they're gonna have to take a lot more resources to get to you. Yeah. I would say one more thing on taste, and that's what they, this has been studied extensively, they've done a lot of blind taste tests, and when someone sees an organic label on something, they may write, they perceive it, or you say from the placebo effect, they'll write it down as tasting better, even if it was conventional, just with an organic sticker on it. And I liken it to the wine tasting specialists who when you blindfold them, the $3 glass of wine taste, they can't taste the difference between that and the $3,000 glass of wine, those studies have been done repeatedly. And so having said that, I can't convince somebody that, like you said, it's very subjective, and that's not my goal, but if you feel as though organic fruits and vegetables taste better, eat them for that reason, but don't convince people that they're more nor nutritious, better for the environment, or healthier in terms of toxins, because those aren't valid arguments. Just eat them because they taste better, but don't discourage anyone else at the same time. There was one other thing that came up on your discussion, and that was regarding the lawsuits that have been ongoing regarding glyphosates. Talk about those lawsuits, what they mean and what they don't mean. Yeah, so the whole thing, a lot of people single out glyphosate, which is an herbicide used in conventional farming. What's interesting is glyphosate is one of the safest, most effective herbicides available to farmers today, but people just keep hearing about these lawsuits, and I mean, courts don't determine the truth. Science isn't done in the courtroom, juries don't determine scientific evidence. So whenever anybody brings up the court cases when we're talking about the scientific evidence behind glyphosate, it doesn't matter. Whatever the court rules, it doesn't change the science. It's an international scientific consensus that especially the pesticide residues, the glyphosate residues on foods don't have any harmful health effects. And then there have been huge studies done with people who actually apply the pesticide. So obviously they have way higher exposure than somebody just getting it through residues on foods. And there is not even one study showing that glyphosate causes cancer. So a lot of people are hearing the lawsuits, and they think that that somehow proves it, but the actual evidence doesn't show that. So it's just not true. And the other thing is that with glyphosate, it's been able to replace a lot of different, way more harsher chemicals that used to be used that were way worse for the environment, way worse for the health of the people that were applied to the environment. And so people that want glyphosate to be banned, I mean, it's gonna be worse because what's gonna replace it? It's gonna just get replaced by all the things that were worse. So I mean, I always tell people, if you really actually care about the environment, you would advocate for glyphosate. It's gotten blown way out of proportion in the media. And unless you actually look at the studies, people think that it's causing cancer. And that's not what the evidence shows. Right, it's really easy to scare people when you can take a picture of the people applying it in these spacesuits, right? And then why are they wearing that? Well, it's not to protect them as much as it is to protect you, the consumer, for what they may contaminate the crop with. Well, and the other thing too is, I mean, so obviously the people applying the pesticides, they're getting exposed to it at a way higher dose. So obviously they're going to use the proper PPE. And if you would look at people applying organic pesticides, they'd be wearing the same thing. Exactly. The fact that they're wearing these suits isn't bad. I mean, they're protecting themselves from it, and they would be doing the same with organic pesticides. Exactly. Well, wow, you knocked that out of the park. I had all these things down here I wanted to touch on, but you just went through them, I'm crossing them off as you go without even having to ask you about it. You have such a great grasp of this. The organic food industry is now a $37 billion a year industry. It's growing rapidly and good for them and good for the people who want to buy organic for whatever reason they want to buy it for. I just want to be sure that they have all the facts and that we don't discourage people from eating conventional fruits and vegetables thinking something that's not true. So I really commend you for what you've done on your website. You just started up somewhat recently. I just found you less than a year ago or so and been following you ever since. Just a little over a year ago I started my page. Yeah, it's extraordinary. And you have the respect of our peers and the academics in the industry for the kind of information that you put out there. It's well researched, it's sensible, you don't have a dog in the fight, and I see a lot of people commenting on there that I know and respect in the nutrition industry. And you cover a ton of other additional great important topics in terms of the fear mongering and the advertising and all of that. So I'd encourage everybody to go to Food Science Babe and read through a lot of her posts because you cover a lot.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere I just said something funny out there and I knew I was going to get blocked and I just It was great. I saw it. When you challenge people on their bullshit, for lack of a better word, that's I guess that's what this industry has come to. One thing I really enjoy about the social media as it started to develop is that we've got people like you, academics, intelligent people who are doing the research and providing science and the rest of us are starting to see that and we're starting to, I think, move towards listening to more people like you and fewer unscientific fear mongers like Food Babe who has a long history of providing that same kind of misleading information to people. And I, you know, it's just really awesome that you're out there. I don't have to do all this research. You did it. I read it when you put it up there, but you go through all the meta-analyses, you sift through all of the little one-off, bias, cherry-picking research and you compare it to the body of evidence and you give it to people in such a way that they can enjoy it. It's extremely refreshing. It is. We appreciate all the work you put into it. Yeah, I appreciate you guys sharing it too. Thank you. So what's on your agenda? What's your outlook like as far as developing this and the kinds of knowledge and information that you want to provide for people on going? Yeah, I mean, I hope to keep doing it. I'm just kind of doing it. So like you had mentioned earlier, I mean, I take care of my daughter who has special needs and then I still consult in the food industry. And so I just kind of started this page, like not even really thinking it was going to go anywhere necessarily. But yeah, it kind of took off. And so I hope to keep being able to do it. People seem to enjoy the information that I'm sharing and so many people message me. And of course, I get negative comments all the time. But at the same time, I get a lot of really positive messages of, you know, a lot of them are moms and parents that used to be afraid into buying organic foods. And now, you know, they tell me they go to the grocery store and they're just like, they don't have as much guilt anymore. They don't have as much anxiety over it. They're eating, you know, so many more vegetables because they can afford more of the conventional and they're not worried about it. So yeah, it's really, I like to hear that because I was in the same boat as well. And it's, you know, it's not fun to have anxiety over your food and you shouldn't be afraid of it. So yeah, one of the biggest things that I promote is, you know, using facts rather than fear when you go to the grocery store. I think that's huge. I can tell you, you know, from my experience that anxiety around food is more common than probably our audience realizes. I mean, maybe they do. Maybe they're one of those people, but it's always astonishing to me when I would sit down with people just to see their apprehension about basic food items. And it's revolved around, you know, some sort of fear mongering that they've heard that's misled them to believe that. In addition to going on Instagram and following Food Science, babe, are there any additional resources? I think you have a Patreon there. You spend endless hours putting together this research and then responding very kindly and with information. To people who are misinformed and you can follow an entire thread and just become incredibly educated about all of these different matters. So is there any other avenues that you're pursuing or if anybody is interested in utilizing your services, how would they get in touch with you? Yeah, so just my Instagram and then also my Facebook page, Food Science, babe, and then my Twitter, Food Science, babe. But yeah, I try to respond to comments. I try to respond to messages, especially when it's people asking legitimately for information. I really try to help people because I know how hard it is to find factual information out there. You can do as much research as you want, but if you're not looking at the evidence-based sources, you're not going to get the correct info. So yeah, I really try to respond to comments and messages. So feel free to ask me questions. And in the absence of a chemical engineering degree, it might be hard to decipher some of these research studies. So thank you for that. Well, it's great to have you on here. And there's a few other topics that we'd love to get into that I think are our podcasts unto themselves. And so I want to invite you back and we'll have you dig into some more of these topics that people are interested in. Yeah, for sure. Definitely. Awesome. Thanks for coming here. Yeah, thank you so much. Thanks for having me. Take care. Bye now. Yep. Bye. Hey guys. Stan Efforting here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow Vertical Diet e-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet meal prep company offers free shipping for your favorite meals delivered to your door in the U.S. and Canada. So head on over to stanefforting.com and get started today.