 Hey, guys. It's Dan Eppner here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow Vertical Diet eBook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet meal prep company offers free shipping, your favorite meals delivered to your door in the U.S. and Canada. So head on over to staneffnering.com. I guess so, hey, everybody, welcome back to the Vertical Podcast. We've got a very special guest today. I'm here with my partner in crime, Flex Wheeler. And I'll let Flex do the introductions. This is an exciting time we got going. Yeah, definitely. So I'm extremely honored to have Sergio Jr. Everybody knows his dad, his dad meant the world to me. I've told you to Sergio, but just to sort of yours, I had the amazing opportunity to meet your dad when I did my first Olympia and actually had a chance to say, can's, would'em, and tell him what I thought about him. And I'll just remember him telling me, don't worry about that, so Flex, you won at Olympia. But I was like, who cares about the Olympia? I just met you. That's the top of my career. So welcome on, sirs. Thank you so much for just being our guest. We know you're getting ready for the honor classic. It's a very trying time for you. So thank you for taking some time out to be a part of our show. Of course, always. And I'm glad you had a good experience with that, too. You must have thought I'm in a good mood. I asked this every time someone tells me a story about my dad. I have to figure out what year they met him. Depending on that timeframe towards the end, I mean, you know more than anyone. It's a business. And sometimes they will do you wrong. And I think towards the end, my dad was really bitter towards the IFBB. So sometimes that came off on his fans and I saw him stuff like that. But no, of course, I didn't even really even understand who my dad was until I got into bodybuilding. You know, to me, he's the cop. I've never even seen my dad flex a muscle in my entire life. Geez, that's crazy. I do who that guy is. And I wish that I had got into it a little bit sooner. I didn't even start working out until I was 20, 21. I wish that I had maybe done some team shows. Not only we could have done that together, but it also what it helped me realize early on who he was. And it probably would have changed a different type of respect for him. And the police department, being a Chicago cop, let alone a cop for over 30 years, that does serious damage to you, too. Nobody's calling the cops for good stuff. You're only calling them for bad. Everyone's a liar. Everyone's trying to get on over you. And him being able to turn that off when he got home, he wasn't. It's hard to do. Yeah, obviously everybody knows. I went through police academy and I worked for the jail system. So for me, it was like every time I went to work, it's like I was in jail. And just to smell and deal with just, you're just dealing with the worst people. But I think it's one of the most honorable things in the world to do, to serve your people and your country and everything like that. And I salute and I support them tremendously. I agree 100%. You know, Sergio, people probably don't know this, but I just recently discovered, too, is it true that your mom was also a pro bodybuilder? Yeah, you didn't know that? Yeah, she actually. Yeah. Yeah, I've actually only been in the gym with my dad one time. And it was for photo shoot for most of the fitness. I'd already been competing. The only person I've ever been in the gym with training was my mom. Yeah. Yeah. She taught me a lot, for sure, just like Lee's mom. Lee Priest's mom is a pro. But I actually think Lee's the only, besides me, and Hunter, of course, is the only person who even had any parent that was a pro and that became a pro. Yeah, well, it's exciting news. But people will just assume that you're just this genetic gift and not look back at your humble beginnings. And you started out, your first show, you were 175 pounds. At six foot, I had no business being on stage. I just kept working out and not did the competing thing. But I wanted to find out early on if this was for me or not. And we all know doing a show is the easiest way to figure out not only if this is for you, but if the people in your life are going to stick around too. I say all the time, if you want to figure out who's good in your life, do a show, because it'll figure it out for you. Well, 176, me doing middleweight at six foot, and I'm going against people that are 5'5". You know, getting my ass beat by them should have scared me like, oh my god, maybe this isn't for me, but I just fell in love with it. I loved it. It didn't matter what I placed. Yeah, I did my first show back in 1986. I was 158 pounds on stage at six foot. You can imagine the whispers behind my back. You're not cut out for this. How much of that, particularly in the shadow of your father, did you have to endure? Right, exactly. I mean, the funniest thing is that when people would come up to me, and be like, hey, when are you going to start working out like your dad? People are like, I've already done three shows. Shit. But I make the joke all the time that I was so skinny that I could do a front double buy and a back double buy at the same time, because you could just see right through me. I was so skinny. It was just a good cage. I had no bit of a steer relationship. You both were killing me. You're talking about how much you guys weighed in your first show, and I barely weighed 100 pounds in my first show. So I mean, like, you know, I was only 175. I was 130. I'm like, hmm. And then you spend the rest of your career trying to get as ripped as that guy. I want you back to that condition. It's all true. Right. So what was that road like? You went from 176, and then within 10 years, you were 276. What was that road like? Was it a go mad, you know, gala on a milk a day, you know, pizza pasta, pancakes, or was there a deliberate process? Talk me through it. Yeah, there was a lot of bouncing back between obviously things that I had read about like my dad's day and then trying to implement that into like exactly like you said, the gallon of milk. People don't even realize that that was like a staple back then. Like my dad had to knock out a gallon a day, and I was like, I'm going to do that too. Then I learned that's definitely not what I should be doing. But I did I did a show every year, and I did two shows in each weight class. So I did two in middle weight, two in light heavy. But yeah, every every year, a year and a half, I went up a weight class. And then once I got to about heavy weight, it took me a few years to go to the supers. But man, it really was just a lot of trial and error. And because I was doing it on my own, when I first started this, my dad didn't support me. He told me not to do it. Which like any any dad. I told my son the same thing. He went to go in a bodybuilding. I cried right in front of my select, please don't. Yeah, I say I make the joke all the time. I hope my kid becomes an IFBB judge. Not. But I get that now on this end. I still believe after, let's say your son now is a pro, you're not going to still keep trying to talk him out of it. At some point you have to hop on and embrace it. Right. And he never did. So luckily, she was my biggest support and she didn't want me doing it either. But once you realize he's going to do it with you or without you, you might as well help him out and think that I had her. But in the beginning, I was so because he wasn't supporting me, I'll do it on my own. I literally got in a car at 18 and drove to Florida because he would call gyms and tell him not to let me join. I remember I found this gym that was in a basement and I was like, no, there's no way he'll know about this gym. And yeah, one day I walked in and they're like, Hey, your dad called and we got to refund your membership. So that was my last call. And that's when I was like, you know what? I'm moving to Florida and I just literally got in my car and I drove. So in the beginning I was like, I don't need anyone's help and I can figure this out on my own. And if I read every encyclopedia bodybuilding, that's all I need. And I was just so stubborn that that's why it took so long. If I had any possible guidance at all on any level, I probably would have had a way shorter timeframe of when I actually was competitive. So when I lived down in Florida and I lived in this mobile home and I was just so gun-ho about trying to be a pro. And I remember, it's my favorite story is I saw Phil and he had just went pro. And because I'm so, I'm so tall, you're going to fill out faster in the beginning. You know, everyone knows gains weight. So I think I gained like 40 pounds in like the first few months and everyone does it. You think 40 pounds and four months times five years. I'm going to be a pro in and I'll never forget. It just shows how out of touch with reality I was. I saw Phil, he just won his pro card. And I was like, yeah, you know, I just started working out a couple years ago. I'm going to be a pro in like a couple of years. And then he totally could have just been like, maybe if I met Phil now, he probably would have been like, you're a fucking idiot. It was, it was still the fresh young Phil. He really was like, man, you know what, just take your time and be patient. He really did give me some good advice. But looking back, man, if someone came up to me, it's almost disrespectful that I'm saying faster than you are. Right. Now, I don't even realize I'm coming off like that, but it just shows for sure how out of touch I was. So I just kept plugging away and I just thought like if I just kept doing the same thing over and over again, but I worked at vitamin shop and GNC, you know, that was like my job. So I was all about the, the subs. So this is all you need, the intro, the pose. And I'm eating like three times a day. You know, I'm having so ass backwards that that's what took so long. It took me probably a good eight years of just bullshitting, you know, trial and error. So once I learn, you know, it's actually the food and not just trying to lift really heavy and have a good connection. That's where my body changed. And I want my pro card. Like it was like within a year or two, it was really fast. Yeah. Well, that was a long learning curve. I had a similar experience when I was training six days a week, two hours a day and eating, you know, the same thing, the guy behind the front desk at Gold's gym was eating, which was tuna fish and rice cakes. Couldn't figure out why couldn't grow. And finally I bumped into a gym owner that had some competitive experience that flipped that script for me. Who did, did you kind of figure it out for yourself? Or was there some people that kind of helped get gotten your ear when you're in Florida? No, yeah. I mean, I had a, I had a buddy who kind of helped me out a little bit. But yeah, I never had someone that was like, what are you doing, kid? Like, I was, you know, it was my main thing. You, you remind me you said that the tuna, I was doing chicken out of a can. I don't know if you're that. God, that's so horrible. And I remember I used to think, oh, as long as I'm eating chicken, it's fine. I was going to like, what a burger down there, get their chicken strips. And I'm like, man, I'm gonna be a pro in like a few years. You know, so no, I never had anyone that kind of gave me that reality check. I think just doing shows over and over again and watching people backstage. And another memory I had that was probably the biggest reality check was when I did Junior Nationals. And I'm backstage and I'm eating asparagus and I'm eating diet food. Right. And I'm looking at this other guy and he's eating Pringles. He's drinking tequila. And I, and I, I'll never forget, I'm like, I'm going to beat this guy. Yeah. Wait a few more hours to cheat on your diet. The idiot, anyone, anyone, the whole show. And, and I was like, I'm doing something wrong. So it was actually just doing shows. And thank God I did so many shows that that's actually where I learned the most from is just kind of talking to people backstage. Yeah. Calories are certainly King. You mentioned it. You don't represent a supplement company currently. I'm actually doing my own supplement company and I'm going to launch it. Arnold. Yeah. I'm just meant. It's funny talking to, you know, because Chris is staying here, Cormier, so it's been cool to talk to him and just someone giving me the stories back in the day. People want to argue all day about the physiques of the golden era and the nineties and blah, blah, blah, but man, no matter what, you guys did not have to deal with this social media life. And you guys had to compete with each other for sponsorships and to one up each other. I have to compete with the guy who's never done a show and he's probably never even really worked out for a bunch of, you know, years. He just looked good for a short amount of time, post pictures for the next few years, sells a bunch of ebooks and now he's getting a sponsorship. And I just got sick and tired of every time I sold for, I went, I went to New York, right? I went my pro debut and then I get approached by old school labs and I'm like, man, it's perfect. It's almost made for me. And I, I talked to them about, Hey, what's a good idea? We should start having all the old pros become like a team, you know, get some ear Tom Plax was having to be living with me at the time. And I was like, man, I can get Tom to come on and blah, blah, blah. And they do. And now, now look at them. They have all these older pros and then they call me to tell me that they have no money for me and they drop me and Tom, Tom's still the face. Sameer still the face. And I got them, you know, so that, that was it. And then watching Sean Rodin get dropped for, uh, DJ Khaled, you know, and that's just what is in the center season where all they're doing is tracking numbers. Who's, who's giving the biggest lines at expos? Who, who, you know, who makes these guys feel like their dicks are bigger. And that's really it. They're not really caring about educating people and having a good spokesman for your supplement. So just all those years of that, I'm just gone. And Gatt was the final straw for me. I was, I finally made it with a, with the hardcore company. Like third, their slogan is hardcore bodybuilding. And they dropped me after they said that they were going to resign me and they still haven't even picked up a bodybuilder. They don't even have a bodybuilder. They dropped me for a men's physique guy who's all tatted up to his neck. He doesn't even do shows. He's just an Instagram person. And that's like, man, what am I going to do? You know, am I going to keep playing this game over and over again? The, the, the job security is just such a stress when you're dieting of, are you going to drop me when I'm getting ready for a show? So I just decided, man, you know what, I'm going to do my own. And even if I break even where I'm not making any money, just the fact that I can prep for a show and I don't have to worry about some calling me a month or two before a show and saying, Hey, we're sorry. Was a big thing for me to start. So I'm launching it at the Arnold. I'm really excited. And so yeah, we'll see what happens with that. That's a whole other world. I'm glad you said all that because I was kind of headed that direction. The reason I asked you about supplement representation is the fact that you've always been so honest and so candid. You're one of the few people that can just speak his mind and the industry, everybody else's hands are tied by whoever's paying them. And their image for that person. So I appreciate that you went ahead and jumped right into all of that because that's that's what people really appreciate about you. Is that you wear your motions on your sleeve. That's just the way it is. You are who you are. I know some other guys like that. Yeah, gets in trouble all the time. I wonder what's his name. So tell us, man, first of hearing the Swiss name yourself from the company. You have a website already. Let everybody know because they're going to see this. Yeah, I'm actually about to get them a website that's going to be done any day, but it's going to be cosmic industries. So we're doing a booth at the Arnold, but I'm still like, I just picked the flavors for everything. Like it's still just literally being made. But well, back to what you were saying about just, you know, I do, I speak my mind. I seem to get a lot of respect from people that are older than me and the real bodybuilding fans and the people that are coming up that have never been to a show in their entire life and they judge shows off their phone while they sit on the toilet. Are the people that hate me the most? And unfortunately, they're the majority now. There is way more mass amount of non real fans. And I think a lot of bodybuilders today and supplement companies, they're starting to play to that because man, there's such a mass number as you can't not, you know, it's a business. But me, I just don't care. I don't care about the opinions of people that have never been to a show. And if you say that to something that was never been to a show, they're so, they take it so it's the wrong way. And I'm just trying to bring back class into bodybuilding. I feel like there's a lack of class, a lack of respect, and especially for the open. So when I, when I speak, I feel like I'm talking as you guys, you know, and I'm speaking as people that have already competed because I'm not saying any lies. I'm not saying that's not right. You know what? I encourage you to continue. And I have this saying, there's more people who would drive by in a car and flip you off than are people who walk up to your face and flip you off. So don't get caught up when in masses just because there's more of them. Don't mean it's a good thing. Those numbers, I understand completely. What you're saying, most of them don't buy nothing. They just want to be lucky, lose anyone that, you know, attach themselves to your co-tail, but they're not real people. So kudos to you for getting to that phase of your life so quickly. And, you know, I'm proud of you that you're trying to take your future into your own hands. So man, big up to you for that. I like that drive-by analogy too. It's true. I think a big thing too is watching, you know, I've literally grown up in this sport. There's no one that has been since, you know, literally my dad raising me up as a baby and then me hanging out at expo's as a kid, having no idea what bodybuilding is. I have lived my whole entire life. I might not have understood bodybuilding, but I have seen the downfalls of a lot of people. I've seen people that were so great and everybody loves them. And then all of a sudden they're alone. They die alone. Nobody supports them. Backstabbing. So I think me already knowing that getting to the sport prevents me from being in those situations and I just have a different outlook. Like, like you said, with people and the kind of respect that I want for people, I know that I could get a lot of followers, but if something were to happen to me tomorrow and I can't compete again, they're gone within snaps. So where maybe a few guys that are in my generation, they don't really understand that yet. They're still doing these. And this is my thing. I'm not going to be the bodybuilder who's going to sit in a bathtub full of protein powder and just drink protein. I could do biscuits. It's just not me. No, but they want on social media. They want these goofy, you know, clickbait things. And it's just not, I'm so old school that I don't even think I could even Oh my God, you're killing me. You know what else is fun to watch is that you don't clean up your site. Somebody comes on there and says some stupid stuff. You tell them you said some stupid stuff and you leave it there for everybody to see. I enjoy that about you. You don't go through and delete all the negative comments. You leave them there and you respond and put those people in their place. I think that's great. Well, it depends if they're a follower or a fan, they get a different response. And I try and explain to people that there's a big difference of someone who gets follow on an Instagram and someone actually supports you. They've gone to these shows and you don't have to support me. Even if you just support bodybuilding in general, you have my respect. You don't have to be Mr. Limp. You don't even have to be a pro. But I do think you have to have seen a show live. If you've never seen a show live in person anywhere in any country, then you're not a real fan. You have no idea to comprehend one with these marvels look like it. Like people when I'm getting it now, it's funny you say that I'm getting it now, people will message me, you're going to win the Arnold. And I come off like negative, like you don't know what you're talking about. And someone who's never been to a show doesn't understand to walk into the Arnold is like someone who got drafted in the NFL saying, I'm going to win the Super Bowl. Yeah. Yeah. No, you're not. You're not. You can want to, you can have the drive that you believe you are. And yes, someone could mess up and you could do well. Of course, that would be great. But in reality, if you walked into the Olympia your first time and one, then bodybuilding is kind of weak and bodybuilding is not weak. And there's no, Phil, Phil changed the game for people's perceptions because you think now you can win your pro card, win the Colorado pro, win another show and then be top four in the Olympia. And maybe back in your day, you and Kevin, you guys place really well fast. It's not happening anymore. It's just a completely different game. So when you say that, people are like, that's their first response. Well, not with that attitude. You're not. No, I bet you a million dollars. You've never seen Big Rami in real life. You've never seen bone. Like I haven't seen these people in real life because you understand that I can be training better than them. I can be taking all the supplements in the world. I can have the most drive and heart, but they still have 20 years of time under tension on me. And you're not ever going to surpass them in a year. Like anything's possible. But try and explain that to someone who doesn't want to hear that. Right. What's your time? Right. And that's that's my when do you, when are you educating someone or when are you wasting your time? Yeah. Well, you also got a clothing line. I do. Yeah. Victory clothing line. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what? I really just started because I couldn't find clothes that fit me. And that's right. It was the thing that was the thing. And then once I got that going, I actually found what I really liked the designing of them. And then I always wanted to put my dad on clothes. There's just so many insane pictures that I want to do. But a big thing that I really wanted to do when I started my career is to not ride on his coattails. I wanted to be my own thing. So I didn't even put him on a shirt until about a year ago. And then now I'm finally going to do the pool stick picture, you know, which is so famous. So now now that I've kind of established myself a little bit, I'm having the best time with it, you know, and I'm actually like enjoying the comparisons of me and him. And I'm not so negative about that comparison, you know. I'm excited to see that. You've certainly earned it. You built a world-class physique. I see your pictures and your last shows. It's phenomenal. And then to see that cover, the Flex magazine cover, how epic was that? I think Flex, the magazine ending, and I was like a few months before it ended, made it even more crucial for me. And again, I have also matured a lot. And just in the last two years, I went through a divorce and just exactly all the businesses that that failed and sponsors that dropped me. So the person I was when that Flex magazine came out, I was like, man, my first magazine cover and I'm with my dad, you know, and I'm just like, man, what do I have to do? How many shows do I have to win where I can just get my own respect? And then the magazine doesn't exist anymore. You know, my dad's not around anymore. And now I'm like, I fucking love that cover. I was iconic, man. You know, and right, who else has that? Who else has done that? And and now that it's gone, no one's ever going to be able to share a cover with, you know, their father again, you know, but who better than it should be? You to be on that cover any damn way, you know, and, you know, I, I love your maturity from us talking before all of us grew up. And it's hard growing up in a spotlight. It truly is because they see your your your shortcomings and everything else. But, you know, that's just iconic. I mean, I was sad to cover with your dad on it. You know, I mean, that would just be iconic. So it is beautiful that you're embracing that and, you know, reading some of your posts, I don't always comment. Sometimes I just silently read. And when you are talking about, man, you know, what do I have to do to exceedist physique, you know, they talk about my arms, my axiom's measure bigger than his, but you know what? Take this away from that. Only reason they compare in you is because they see your greatness and your potential. How about they never even compared you? Like, yeah, you know, your dad was Sergio, but I mean, you know, good luck with that. So you got to look at it like, who are they comparing you with? One of the founders and one of the greatest, in my opinion, Mr. Olympias of all times, especially what he had to go through to get there. So that's a compliment. That's a compliment, man. No, you're right. And it was cool. You know, I just did that picture with Arnold Son and you're right. No one's really comparing him to his dad because he's so not even close that no one's even thinking about that. No one's even, right, putting two pictures together. The post about the arms that you're talking about, I was more making a point that people pick and choose when something is good. So my dad, right? He's noticed one of the best arms ever in the history of bodybuilding. He doesn't have a peak. He does not have that tennis ball softball. It's long gated softballs that are known as the greatest arms ever. So now here I am with the same genetics. That's like the same exact arm. And that's all I hear is about how this needs to be better. I need more of a peak. God, if Robbie Robinson tells me one more time that I need more arms, I'm going to lose it. He's only comedy like three times and every time it's like no peak. Like I can't. But that's stupid. I'm sorry. That's stupid. Listen, I don't want to blow the world up, but you know, these books of how to build the best arms, how to build the best, you're down line. Those are your gifts. You know, I mean, that's like me, you know, saying how to build the best. I hated training arms. They came so easy and to say, you know, you need to supernateness that and other. But that's a goddamn lie. Your arm is going to be your arm. However it's designed to be. It's there's no way of change. It's like, you know, the other bazillion but studies work out. So you have a man unless you have that extra chromosome, that gluteus maximus chromosome, I don't give a goddamn what you got. Your butt might look better. It can be no bazillion, but you know, so yeah, that's funny. Doing the Olympia changed my whole perception of bodybuilding. I think when I won New York, I finally quit with the don't compare me to my dad thing. I felt like, you know what? I've done something on my own and I'm okay with it, but I still wasn't like excited about it. But once I did the Olympia and I had literally had people coming up to me, either coming up to me or messaging you, hey, I'm coming to this Olympia. I was at the 84 when your dad held you up. I haven't been to an Olympia since then. I'm only coming to see you. Like you can like me or not. You can, it doesn't matter. No matter what that's history, like that's shit. You can't write and me being able to do that for other people is just right. It's like I say all the time, it's just something that you can't write it. So that I'm actually starting to appreciate because unless Hunter starts to really kill it and he goes to the Olympia and he maybe even takes, I think lead took second or third, he took second to lead. He's right. Unless he takes second and actually matches his dad, there's not anyone ever going to be able to do something like that. And I like the Simba Mufasa comparison, holding me up and one day going to come back and take over the kingdom. You know, I think that is just really cool. So I'm starting to really enjoy the history part of it rather than why can't I just be judged by myself? You know, because when I first started competing, I used to say all the time, no matter what, when I'm going to call out, there's always an invisible person next to me. I have to beat my call out and I have to beat my dad every time. Even since I was 176, no matter what. And now my perception is completely twisted and I love it. You know, I wanted to give the takeaway to the rest of the skinny kids out there that are coming up. It's something I talk about a lot is my struggles gaining weight. What do you think ultimately stuck with you in terms of your diet plan? Was it was a particular food, a macro type? What do you think that's a big reason you're able to start holding and gaining size weight? I like I was saying earlier, I got off the supplements, you know, because I was all about the calorie shakes. Man, I found Russian bear. I heard that. Oh, yeah. I remember that. Oh my God. It was so bad. I was like 5000 calories. And once I stopped messing around with easy fixes and I just set an alarm. That went off every two hours, two and a half hours. And of course, in the beginning, you're not hungry. And I literally would just take a bite, you know, whatever it was, eat as much as I could. And then when it went off again, I would, and before you know it, I was hungry every two hours. I just trained myself because I was setting that alarm that no matter what, I was hungry, how much food I can hold in my stomach. That took time for me to be able to take down some big meals. But that was it. I literally realized. Stop messing around with these, you know, magic pills, because that's what they are. You know, and they're not magic because they don't work. They don't work. And if you're not hungry, it's what they were doing. Yeah. I remember they had the Weeder. I think it wasn't Weeder. It was Gainersfield 1000. Megamass 4000. And then and then they came out with the Gainersfield 2000. It was just a double serving of the Gainersfield 1000. And it was sucrose, glucose, maltose, dextrose. I mean, every oce you could imagine. And did you get the diarrhea to with those 5000 calories? You blow out more than you put in. We used to think that that meant it was working. Yeah, it is for your your septic system. Yeah. Oh, those are good times, man. The hot stuff. The remember the cybergenics, you had to mix them together. They were so potent. You couldn't you couldn't mix them until you were just about to drink them. Yeah. Yeah, I did the same thing. And then and then, you know, what was interesting is even in 2008 when I started training with Flex, I did a video, a YouTube video on my rant. So I said, training your metabolism. And it was exactly what you just said. Flex just said, eat what you can consistently. And then when you're hungry again, add a little more. A few ounces here.  morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, what's been, you know, there are a few things, because my dad never taught me anything, but I would hear conversations, you know, so I would pick up these little things. So I had that. And then when I knew that I was going to pursue trying to be a professional bodybuilder, I just read every book there was. And I would just read, read, read. But again, how can I read other people's material when realistically no one, like you said, my mom and my dad are pros? Like I have to have some kind of different genetic breakdown than anyone else. And even if you don't, even if your parents aren't a pro, no matter what, how are you reading Arnold's, and you're going to apply that to yourself. So I had all these things. And I think once I tried to figure out what was best for me, that worked. But the workout, I literally trained two and a half hours when I was eating two meals a day, or seven meals a day. So I, I like high volume. And that's definitely something that I got from my dad. I doing guest posing. It's really cool. It's another thing I get to do now is I get to guest pose at places, my dad gets posed. All these like stories about how he would pump up for like two hours. They'd be calling him on stage like Sergio Leibon. He's like, I'm not ready. I'm not ready. And that is in me. I definitely, and I was just talking to Cormier about it too, that now at the pro shows, they don't have weights backstage. It's like, it's like some legal safety thing. It makes no sense because bands don't work for everybody. So I learned that me doing bands or some push-ups, it doesn't work. I actually have to have a full blown workout backstage. So I would either start sneaking weights back and my gym bag and stuff like that. But in the gym, no, it was still, and it still is to this day, except for Cormier, because now I'm trained with him. I'm, I'm literally done in an hour. He's literally killing. But I do like a higher volume. I like a lot of sets. Not so much higher reps, but a lot of different exercises. So the exercises actually didn't change at all. Me having a better connection and understanding, squeezing and having a mind and muscle connection and not just up down that change drastically. But so what a trademark. Yeah, that's, I was going to say, I was going to bring that was the next thing I was going to ask about was your experience with Chris and how that's been, how long have you been training with him now? Yeah, so this isn't the first time that we trained. We got together a little bit when I was an amateur. He would spend some time, excuse me, in Wisconsin and I would drive from Chicago and meet him in Wisconsin. We would train together. So he actually helped me for USA's and the nationals when I won my pro card. But we both can agree being an amateur and training for the Arnold Classic are complete two different things. And it's, I think it's different for him too, because him training me to get my pro card, he just has a love for it. And he had obvious respect for me and my dad. But now us getting ready for the Arnold too, which let's remember he has the most second places of anyone. You can tell that I mean, nobody wants it more than me, but man, he almost wants it as much as I do. And I feed off of that. I mean, people comment on the time, every time they take a picture of us working out together, you can't tell who's doing the set from our faces. Chris's face is squeezing. He's doing the workouts with me and training with him the training is great. The knowledge is great. The, the just having someone that I finally like, it's almost like a father figure that I'm kind of doing this with and and me not having that is just it, it's just something I can't explain. And it's, it's fire under me that I've never had before. But the knowledge about going about the training different, because when you guys trained with Charles, it wasn't how Chris trains now, he doesn't squeeze and honking and the negative. And it's just a complete different training my body. So, so I would do pyramid sets, you know, up to 12 and that's it. And my dad would tell me too, if you, if you end on a, on a whole number, you're not training, right? So if you end on 10, that means you were just trying to make it to 10, you did whatever you could to make it to number, rather than what was when you're done. And he even, he even told me too, but of course back then, well, you know, right? And so I should listen to him, even making doing nine means you tried better because you really died out on nine and you weren't just trying to just get that extra rep and you really didn't even use any muscles. So now I'm understanding that because this guy does not count. He does not freaking count at all. Cormier is a maniac and he literally reads you figures out you're dying out when he's going to come in to help spot. So to answer your question, because it's like a bunch of things, I feel like I'm kind of training with my dad. Yeah, that's extraordinary. You know, and it's kind of deja vu as you're talking through it, the flashbacks for me from when I went down and trained with Flex. It was the same kind of intensity, the same kind of passion. And I didn't really understand until many years later when I had retired and I had started training other athletes, the emotional involvement, I could see the passion and flex, but you just don't realize how much you know, you're a guy like Chris or guy like flex pours into their athletes. Yeah. Because they've been there, they've experienced it and they want it for you, like you said, probably as much or more than you do. And I can remember it was a hard emotionally for Flex throughout those years of training because we also worked with Keith. Yeah. It took him a little longer to break that top spot. He kept running into some really phenomenal winners. He took second probably more times than anybody cares to remember. Right. What a phenomenal experience. And you know, you kind of hit on a couple of important things for people. And that's your I always lifted too heavy. I was always the power lifter that thought you'd get bigger if you lift heavier. But you're focused on what Flex taught me back in 08, the mind muscle connection and really getting enough reps to stimulate that muscle. Then you said something interesting that you that Chris doesn't let you train more than an hour and Flex was the same way with me. I used to train much longer. And and he would say that, you know, you can train longer, you can train hard, but you can't do both. Yeah. And so he had that great saying of stimulate, not annihilate. And I would always say, you know, people ask me questions like, you know, the biggest difference between a pro and an amateur, a pro knows when to walk out an amateur doesn't. So they think they got to continue doing more and more because they just they're not in connection in tune with that. You know, but it's just, you know, it's beautiful to hear, you know, what you say about Chris, because obviously we train together over half of both our careers. And that's just what we do. But I think we're gonna see some amazing things come from you first, because I think now you're really with somebody that you bought into the system. You believe them, you trust them, you know, he's not there to harm you. So when you have somebody like that, your wit, you can just turn your blinders off and just say, OK, whatever you say. Well, we talked about the gaining. But how about the cutting? What's your what's your method now? What's your diet look like? What do you know the markers are that you're going to be successful? Yeah, usually cutting is usually the easiest thing is my battalos wants to go back to being a skinny kid. But it's so weird because I finally got my life. So I took last year off, because the year before that it was the worst year of my life went through mad depression. And I was in a real dark spot. And then I took a break from bodybuilding. And it was the best thing not only did I put on so much weight to give now a Cito and call me or something to even work with. I always make the joke all the time that a Cito has to pull rabbits out of his hat with me because my life is falling apart. And he's having to somehow pull my greatness out of me. Right. So now I've got my life together. And now I don't have any problem. We don't have a flat tire that we're having to work around. So now the diet's different. Usually I drop weight, over dieting, stressed out, I'm strung out. And I literally put on my story the other day, I couldn't believe I weighed myself and I was like 285 and I can't understand how I've leaned up so much, but gained so much muscle at the same time. So the diet's actually been this is the first time I'm actually eating a lot. I'm doing way less cardio. I used to do two hours on this. Two hours of stairs a day, right? More, more cuts. And I already look better than what I ever have in any show prior. So that helped both of them. I call it Chris squared because I have Chris, Cormier, and Acido. And I kind of gave them a good foundation to start with. So this diet's been different. I'm eating a lot and I really need the food to train with Cormier anyway. So thank God, not on A-50 gram carb diet because I'm trying to get my metabolism to do something. So I don't know. I'm figuring out as I'm going, this is a new venture for me. I mean, I'd say this all the time, I'm either going to show up at the Arnold my ultimate best, or it's going to be the worst. Or somehow I'm so off that I was actually so out of touch with reality and I'm not actually doing as good as I am. But I'm going to bet that it's going to be the best ever. Because I feel it. I feel really great. I feel really happy. I know my cortisol levels aren't attacking me the whole prep because that's usually my, just to figure out what supplements I could buy and to help with my cortisol and stuff like that. And still, come the day of the show, no matter what, you get a lot of pressure and anxieties and stuff like that. But I think knowing that he's going to be back there with me, it just calms me down. And you know Chris. Chris is a strung out guy. He does not stress anyone out. He can literally, like he tells me stories when he's running from the cops trying to get ready for the Olympia. And I bet you if you talk to him when that was going on, you wouldn't be able to tell him. You mean, or he's just a regular day. Yeah. So that helps. And that's the best thing about the CETO. There's been plenty, even New York, I want New York. People don't know that I barely made it there. I had no money, one way ticket. I'm lining up to come out. I lost my trunks. I don't even have my trunks and they're lining up. There were so many, I had this like huge breakdown the night before I'm crying and a CETO, you know, calmed me down. So thank God I've had a CETO this long because he's actually helped pull right my greatness out of me when people just watch you on stage and it's like, Oh, wow, he killed it. Look great. When if you would have went 24 hours behind, I'm just crying on a mess. So having both of them and how they are is the perfect combo for me because no matter what, I've talked to Dexter a little bit, you know, because man, if I had to pick the most confident person I've ever met, it is Dexter. And I think it's once you, you know, you're doing your job right, you don't stress out, there is no stress. You can have that Dexter walk as you come out. You did your job. And I think once I do this, Arnold, I'm gonna, I think I'm gonna be on that level because now I'm not scared. I'm not intimidated, you know, and I don't, I don't feel like I'm living in the shadow. I'm not good enough. But in the same, I have tons of work I need to work on. I have to do so it's, it's, it's straddling that not being too confident, but also no, you did your job and I need to be scared. Yeah, I feel it. I was a skinny kid too. And every time I dieted for shows, I was doing cardio and egg whites and white fish and I would lose a massive amount of muscle and get up there kind of stringy and then flex fed the hell out of me. It was four pounds of top sirloin today that he would make me eat. I was cooking at the time in a form and grill. Imagine how tough that steak was. And it was the first time no cardio. This first thing he said, we're not gonna do any cardio, you're gonna eat four pounds of steak a day, you know, about every two hours or seven, eight meals a day. And that was the time I held on to all the hard earned muscle that I had spent so long. And people hate us for that. They're like, Oh, you can get ripped at the drop of a hat. You're working. It's your, it's, it's to work a lot. Like you said, thank God that you're eating so much or else you would just burn away because of the hard workload that you're stressing with Chris. And I've always said your workload will determine your caloric intake. And as far as getting, you know, to a show, I would always think of like an airplane landing, they'll say 30 minutes out and it starts slowly descending. So as you're getting in shape and you're slowly descending into a show and each day you look better and each day you look better and always you look better in a morning than you do at night. And as you continue doing, and each day you continue getting better and better, you start kind of getting a little relaxed, you know, okay, things are going right. And then when you look good in the morning and you look better at night, you like, it's on now, right? But you start to feel comfortable that, damn, when am I going to look like when I wake up in the morning? You know, first thing you do, you want to look in the morning. Even when you, you wake up at middle night, you're squeezing your glutes, I have still there. But once you start realizing over weeks and over weeks, you've gotten better and better and better. Didn't you start to say, yeah, I know I'm going to look better in the morning. And that takes that stress off of you. That's so wild, man. That's literally what's going on in this prep. When other preps, I wouldn't look, I wouldn't look at a mirror. Because I would only find, I would only see the discrepancies, I would only see the negatives, you know, what's not good, what's deflated, what's deteriorating so fast, when now you're right, I wake up and I am so excited to see the changes every day. Man, that's so well. Yeah, it's true. I think that's a true understanding of when you're getting better. And, you know, I mean, it's interesting, we talked before, you know, we had our conversations before, but it's very interesting how many similarities we have, the low self-esteem, the doubts, the struggle with depression and so on. Am I good enough? And, you know, even, you know, me, all the times that everyone on stage at the Olympia or the Arnold, I'd be terrified. I'm like, man, I'm going to get my ASS handed to me. But, you know, like I've always said, you, I learned at an early age, when people figure out what your weakness is, they're going to use them against you. So you just have to create this aura of cockiness and almost arrogance. And they look, why you're cocky, you're arrogant. And then back at my brain, I'd be like, you have no idea how terrifying I am, but great. You think I'm cocky and I already good, I'm doing my job then, I'm fooling you. But it's going to be so exciting, man, to see what you look like. I kind of go about bodybuilding a little bit different than most people. Like most people do not, not most people, my generation, my generation is so different. It's about, it's about what you can get out of bodybuilding. You get in, you build your businesses and you get out. I want to see what I could put into body, what I can bring back into the sport. If I never win any titles ever, but 10 years down the road, they're like, Hey, you know what, we put a little bit more emphasis into the routines now, because I remember when I saw Sergio, he actually did a routine. If it's for $10,000 or not, he always had a routine, just little things. When you dress up for the Olympia, you don't go in a stringer, you don't wear gym clothes to these shows. You're supposed to like bring class to these things, just to be a show art. So little things like that, I want to really change. And of course, in the social media realm, it's really hard for them to understand and comprehend. But there is a few people that actually care about the sport and the art historians, and they hear me. And that's what I do. And yeah, being able to do this routine in front of Arnold, because I know I've talked to him a few times, and of course, I've seen him since I was a kid, but he's never really like cared about my career. Like I know he's never seen me. I know he's never seen me on stage or anything like that. So me being able to do that in front of him, and in front of the world, I'm really excited to kind of like change the criteria of bodybuilding. Of course, you need to look good and stuff like that. But just a different kind of composure, that's just not really around anymore. And it's funny because you were saying we have a lot of similarities. I used to make this joke all the time that whenever I started getting bigger, and I'm a lot taller, people stopped comparing my dad, they started comparing me to you. And it's just the facial features. And I get that a lot too. Definitely man. The splits, my routine, and stuff like that. And I used to make this joke all the time that I don't know I made it when someone says someone else looks like me, because you look like your dad, you look like Flex. So it's really cool. And that's something I've talked to you about is that I just study so much tape of routines. And I've seen every single one of your, I had this conversation with Flex where he posted something. And I knew the song, like I knew everything about the song and where he hit the routines. And he sent it to me like, Oh, this is the song that it was. And I was like, Flex, I have watched that 80 times. Like I know it now. You can get with this, you can get with and I'm really excited to let's say, let's say I don't even place well at the Olympia, at the Arnold, no matter what, I want people to go home talking about me and just saying, man, you know what, it's like a breath of fresh air. It's just different. And I feel like bodybuilding, you know, Arnold's been throwing these little bashes about bodybuilding and what he doesn't like and stuff like that. And, you know, he did that thing where Kai won and he embarrassed him. He was like, Hey, why don't you hit a vacuum? He did that on purpose, you know, he knows Kai can't hit a vacuum. So I feel like him and bodybuilding are looking for this excuse to not go back to the golden era, but maybe someone who can still weigh 27280 on stage would still have old lines, but they're not going to go from this is our this is our priority. We're going to have eight years of this guy, eight years of even bigger. And then we're going to switch to a completely different small streamlined person. So I feel like they're looking for something kind of in the middle that is both. And that's what I want to be. So also you're telling us that you you're going to prepare to put on a show for us. Come to Arnold, I'm winning that best pose or what I'm going to win cheer and every single year that I'm a pro, I promise you, unless Kai comes back because Jesus, he is he's the next level. Well, I was just about to head there and you beat me to it because that is certainly one of the things that you're well known for. And I commend you and thank you for that because it's a pleasure to watch. And I wanted to say that that certainly is something you're passionate about, but it's also something you work hard on. That's also something that Chris was well known for. Yeah. And I remember when working with Flex. So tell us now or a little over five weeks out, what is that specific skill look like with Chris? Well, don't let Chris fool you because I learned he made up a lot of his routines on the spot. Like, yeah, me too. Yeah, I was even talking to him about this one Olympia where he came out and him and Darren Charles used the same song and how much better his routine was than Darren Charles. Darren Charles is a great poser. Yeah. Yeah. Chris is like, Oh, they played the wrong song. So I just played it by ear. Like, what? So I'll never be able to be on that level to just come up with something on stage. Like, I literally will practice 10 seconds, then the next 10 seconds, then I'll go back and play those 20 seconds. Like, I take it to a whole nother level. He's helping me with my mandatory. The mandatory poses are it's so funny. My routines is probably the thing I feel like I'm the best at. Right. But the mandatory is I'm easily the worst. My conditioning, how I hold the pose, all the little pushing out with your toes and your feet. And I suck at it. So he's helping me with those greatly, completely changing my but with the routine, I'm not even letting him see me practice. I'm not letting him know the song. No one's ever in my life ever known what song I'm going to do, ever see me practice. It's kind of like my I want everyone a part of my life to have a show too. And, and man, these shows are expensive. You know, I don't want to go to a show and you do 13 different most musculars walking back and forth doing the whole Colgan. Like it's just, it's just boring and begging people. Wow. So the routine I've actually just been kind of doing on my side. And I'm excited to show Chris too. Because even when I said that to him, everywhere in my life is used to it. But he's like, I don't know, I'll help you. And I'm like, no, no, no, I want, I want to do it on my own. I want to come out and come here. It's like, man, he is good. Yeah. I don't think people appreciate how hard that part of the show is, especially at your level where they do as many comparisons as they do and call outs as they do. And when flex was taking me through posing back in 2008 2009, they were brutal sessions. They were like you said, long yet to hold the poses, you're standing there in a puddle of sweat, you're gasping for air. He won't let you sit down or lean on anything because he knows the judges are watching. Even when you're relaxing, when he gives you a break, he's like, I'm watching you hold your stomach and all over you. And people don't appreciate that. I can remember when I competed and won my pro card, that when that whole thing was over and I walked backstage, it took me like 20 minutes to recover. I could taste blood in my throat. That's how hard it was. But on stage, perfect composure, holding the whole time, trying to breathe with those little sips of air into your chest and holding it like that. So that's what I was trying to get at with Chris is I know that he's a task master. That's why he's so good at posing even off the cuff is because these guys practiced an enormous amount. We're posing hurts more than anything else. It's lonely. If you can embrace that, then you can't go be a diamond on stage. I always said, you know, a diamond is created in the most hostile environment and it takes a long time. But that's in a day you got a beautiful diamond. And that's what I looked at as far as training, dieting and posing is it's horrible. Horse environment. I don't like this. It is. I guess it's so mad at Chris, man. Two more rounds and then we'll do two rounds. Like one more. I'm like, come on. I'm really mad at him, but I should be. That's the level I need to be at. It's the same thing with playing when I play football. Practice was supposed to be way harder. So that when you came to the game, you're not huffing and puffing. Yeah, it's it's that's been the biggest change for sure is him. And you you lean up faster and better. You do do that right. I'm getting you do cuts in my upper legs because I'm shaking and I'm trying to hold it. And I wouldn't have had those if he wasn't grilling me. Right. And you you can pose less effortlessly when you're on stage just the slightest movement of muscles. That's his trained. It's used to respond and immediately. So it's great. It's great, man. I'm really excited to see that he's passed on the towards everything that we kind of learned back then. And, you know, like you said, when we train with Charles, it's different. But we evolved. We train with him and we're also the athletes so we can see it from different aspects. We can pass that on. Getting heavier and doing my routine, though, is something I've noticed is not as easy. It was very adamant about my routines when I was a light heavyweight and a heavyweight. Well, yeah, now as I get heavier, you actually years and years ago, I don't even know if you even knew who I was when I was talking to you. But I was talking about doing the splits. You actually told me to not do them in guest posings. And and I was in guest mode, because you're the heaviest and I was still trying to do the splits. You know, I'm a heaviest and that's how you get injured. So that's actually something you stopped me from doing. You said it to me a long time ago. I don't do it in my routines anymore for guest posings because it's very dangerous. Yeah. But that getting down and now I get it because I used to be like, man, why isn't Paul DeLet and you know, yeah, right. I thought you're talking about the splits. I didn't mean posing. I thought you're talking about doing the splits. He couldn't even hold his mandatory right either. But why are they getting down on one knee, you know, or doing these classic poses? Yeah, because man, your joints and your body, it's unless you're stretching and you're doing that on the regular, your guts or something. Yeah, definitely. I remember you talking about your posing and how much you put in the pose and and that's your knees were all scuffed up and torn up because all making them always bleeding. Yeah, to do it beautiful, you have to drag it and prolong you can't just come up and embrace it. It's mechanical then. You know, like I said, in one interview, you know, I want it to be like smoking in the air. How it just like just just moves effortlessly in the air, you know, so it's painful. I remember a number of times I've happened, you know, rose buds on my knees or what not on my elbows from spinning off of this that and other but it's for the craft, man. I love it. Absolutely. It's so true. But I like the the Vince Taylor, the quiet storm. I like that idea of if people are applauding, I mean, of course, if you if you hit a pose and you're you're commanding that and they applaud it, that's different than when you're doing it and waiting for them to applaud. If you're really good, people are quiet. That's right. That's right. And that quiet storm name that he would put on is such a perfect analogy that I want to be. I want people to be quiet when I'm watching. I want them to be such an all that this 511 six foot person is doing the same thing the classic division was doing. And then when I'm done or you hit like the victory pose or most of the things that command that pause, otherwise they're just watching. Usually the people that are waiting. That's not a funny. It's funny. You know, again, it's your echo and so many things that said I've always picked my music slow because like if you go to a symphony, nobody's like their pen attention. Everybody's so I would pick music that I want to keep just to sit down and be quiet and let me display this on my role. This is like movie. I have my head. But I know after a while they'll get bored of that. So always the last 30 seconds, I'll put whatever whatever's pop or whether it was you know, I mean, whether it was dad's, Dale and Gerra, whatever, whatever was the famous B. I put that on because immediately they get up in a starboard and crazy. So you want to take them into this valley and watch them, watch you, you know, execute your posing as an artist. But you got to bring them out of it or else they kind of like, you know, kind of kind of hum drum. So it's it's really beautiful to hear you say some of the things, you know, that I've always thought and to see that you're carrying it on. I remember Lila Brata telling me how bored he was of going to shows anymore because he said it's boring. Nobody puts any effort into posing. Yeah, it bothers me that the sport itself doesn't care about it. And then they make this classic division and now all of a sudden we care about posing again. It's just weird how we can pick and choose when it's important. What still blows my mind is when you're giving away $10,000 and you still have two routines in the whole Arnold last year. And I love Josh. Josh is a really good close friend of mine. But that's not a $10,000 best poser award routine. He gave it to him because he's literally besides Cedric and his stupid blindfold, like, like we don't know where the crowd is, what your body goes, like if you're blind, right, right. But that was that was only a routine. And they had to give it to Josh. And I, I used to get so worried when I'm going to these shows, because I'd be like, Oh, I'm going to win that. And then I start watching, you know, we doing a routine. And then you're literally giving it to Freddy Smalls, because he's break dancing or some stripper routine that someone else is doing. I think myself in my head, I was like, man, if they get rid of the best poser award by the time I'm able to win it, I'm going to be so mad because so many people ruined it. I know the Lorna's are like, this is what we got to give 10 grand to. Oh my God. So excited when it pains into the ad corny award, I knew they were going to keep it around for a couple years at least. And I know this year that I know they're going to be like, you know what, this was what we need to do. The problem is I want it to be, even if it's not for $10,000, I want people to want people to buy tickets to get their money's worth, you know, and you don't have to be Kai, you don't have to be me. You just don't have to just do your manitoids. You did it pre judging. It's the same thing, except you're doing it to music. And that's something that I've been getting on people that are in my generation, you know, even if I help them and kind of give them little tips and stuff like that, it makes all of us thrive and it makes us better. And I, I want tickets to be sold out every year because they're excited, not that they just only go to the Olympia or they only go to the Arnold. I want, even if it's just a regular local show, I want you to be able to do some kind of, I think there should be a mandatory you have to hit two classic poses. Like, why not? Why can you not hit one pose other than a mandatory pose? And but you have to have the love of the sport. And that's like you said, you can't teach that you can't force people to watch, take bodybuilding. Everyone gets into bodybuilding for different reasons. You know, there's tons of people that get into it because they were bullied or they're a fan. They have all these issues that saved their life because of bodybuilding. But that doesn't mean that they understand the class and the art and the craft of posing. So sometimes that gets lost. And now you throw in that the judges  are going to reward you for it. That means now you have to go, I say all the time, I wish there was eight days in a week, because I need an eight day to practice my routine, because I'm already training seven days a week. So now you have to go, take the time to practice your routine, and they're not even going to reward you at all for it. They're not going to give you any money, no trophy, you're not even going to get a point for it. They even took out the symmetry and the posing round out of the Olympia, it just boggles my mind. So I'm hoping that's something that maybe in the next eight to 10 years that I can maybe bring back, because can you imagine if Mohamed Makawe was Wow, yeah. bodybuilding today? Yeah, Frank Zane, any of those guys. You think it's the last place. Because of their stature and how they were able to demand attention, they placed well. We're in today's day, I think that would just be overlooked and not care about, because they don't have strata glutes. Yeah, yeah. So we'll see. Well, sir, thank you for being so honest and taking us on that trip. I know that your stomach timer must be going off. You'd probably do another meal. I just want to say it's really been an honor to have you on the show. Flex and I are going to be at the Arnold this year. We're going to come watch you and certainly stop by your booth and say hi. And it's really going to be great to see what you do and perform up there. I'm so excited. Thanks, guys. I appreciate it. Hey, guys. Sten Epperton here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy to follow Vertical Diet eBook, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet meal prep company offers free shipping, your favorite meals delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to staneffertoning.com and get started.