 Hey guys, Ryan here. Welcome back to another Meals in a Minute, or however long it takes. Today we're gonna cook some spectacular salmon. I got a balance with you. I'm not a big salmon fan. Vertical diet calls for salmon twice a week. I gotta get those omega-3s in. Not a big fish fan, but it just so happens that I've got a salmon meal that's perfect every time that you'll absolutely love. First thing that you gotta do is get this baby right here. This is the Ninja air fryer. Now I had a different air fryer and everything that I cooked in it was just gray. All the way through. This air fryer is amazing. They have McCosco, they have my Amazon, but this Ninja air fryer is the real secret to a fantastic salmon. Next, you gotta get a fantastic salmon. And you guys all know how much I love my Costco. This is my Costco salmon. And this one in particular has the skin on the side. Next thing you gotta do is get some parchment paper. I tore off a piece right here, and I just put the salmon on the parchment paper. I'm gonna set that into the Ninja grill just like that. Turn this baby on, and you cook it. I mean, you can pick your preference somewhere between 8 and 12 minutes to kind of depending on the size of the salmon and how well you like it done. I like mine cooked through. My wife likes hers a little more raw, I guess I should say. And so while that's cooking, now you don't have to do anything else. Just leave that alone is gonna be perfect when it comes out. And while that's cooking, I'm gonna do a potato. And I already peeled this potato right here. And potatoes usually take a whole long time to cook, but I got this little trick off the internet. And what I do is I grab a few paper towels here. It's like three paper towels, and I roll the potato up in there. Like so. And then I just wet that. I just get it soaked like so. Pop that into the microwave. And I've only got to put that in for about eight minutes. It'll be soft all the way through. It's about half the length of time. It would take me if I were to cook that in the oven or even in the air fryer. So we're gonna come back in about ten minutes and take a look at that salmon. All right guys, come back. First let's grab a potato. Check this out. It only cooks for eight minutes. But since it's in that wet paper towel, it steams in there somehow. It cooks all the way through a lot faster. There it is. It's nice and tender. Look at that. It breaks right open. It's nice and soft. And the salmon's almost ready. I'm excited for this moment. In the meantime, let me grab a bowl. I'm gonna eat the salmon. I'm gonna eat the salmon with a salad. I already prepared the salad. You guys might remember my video with Gavin where I did the skinny salad and the sports salad. Well, I make this giant bowl of salad. Show the size of this bowl of salad right here. I threw some tongs in there just for the video, but in fact usually I just grab it like that. There's my salad. Tongs back in there. Oh my goodness. I hear the salmon is ready. All right, come take a look at the salmon. It's right here. There it is. Look at that. Do you hear the sizzling? It's sizzling. It's perfect salmon every time, so I'll take that out of here. And I'll pop it right in there to my salad. Look at this salmon. Look at this. It breaks open. It just comes apart, perfectly cooked every time. Sit that right there. Put the mess away. It is so tender. It's awesome. Alrighty, we'll plate this up. Hey, I forgot to show you guys. I'm up here. I forgot to show you guys what it looks like behind the scenes of a big dollar operation with my camera crew. Let's say hi to my camera crew. Wave to the camera, Bob. So when you spend the big bucks, that's what you get behind the scenes of the camera crew. All right, this is it. Got the yogurt, the milk, the potato, the whole nine yards, a little salt if you like it there. And that is another episode of Meals in a Minute and my spectacular salmon. And hey, if it's too much time and trouble, you don't want to go to all that work, you can always log on to theverticaldiet.com and order my salmon and I'll ship it to your door. Thanks for tuning in, guys. See you next time.