! We're here with Damon McEwn, co-author of The Vertical Diet. We've got a very special guest today, our very favorite person, one I've been following for years. Greg Knuckles, hello Greg, how are you? I'm doing well, how are you guys? Thanks for having me on. Yeah, it's our pleasure. This goes back many years. I've been stalking you since you were making little Facebook posts probably four or five years ago. Just everything that you would put out was such great information, so practical. And then you started your mass research review, which is kind of what I wanted to talk about today with you. One of the biggest questions I get, and I travel around and do seminars or when I post videos, DMs, etc., that people send me, is about where do you find good information in the industry? And invariably I always point them to you first, because you have such a broad and deep information base that you're providing people. Even in my seminar, not sure if you saw it, but up in Iceland with Hoffthor, it's been some two years ago, I include in all of my seminars a slide that references you as a resource that I think all trainers and coaches should be referencing to be able to access the information, the best I think compilation of information that's out there in the industry. And we'll talk about others as well. But I'd like you to introduce what mass research review is to our audience so they can understand just what it is you provide. Sure. So first off, thank you so much. And just know that the stalking was in fact mutual. So mass is a monthly research review, stands for monthly applications and strength sport. There are four of us who write it and produce it every month. So it's me, Eric Helms, Mike Zordos, and Eric Trexler. And so me and Mike are on the powerlifting side of things. And Eric Helms kind of does a little bit of everything, but has been most successful with natural bodybuilding. Same for Eric Trexler. So they kind of handle the physique and nutrition side of things. Me and Mike mostly handle the strength side of things. And yeah, we just look at the research that's going to be most useful and relevant for strength and physique athletes and coaches. SIF through, God, what is it up to? Probably like 140 journals or so every month, pull out the articles that seem like they're going to be the most directly useful and review them for our subscribers. It's extremely comprehensive. I got to give you some credit on that because it is extremely comprehensive. Yeah, and you know, the neat thing about it is is you've made it, you've boiled it down. So it's easy. I call myself the bro and Damon, the science of our operation over here. Nothing, everything that I talk about is things I have experience with, but I have to marry that to the most recent science to make sure that it's applicable to the vast majority of people. And Damon, he's a registered dietitian. He's got his MS, his PhD, or he's just finishing up his research for his PhD in exercise physiology. So he was an instructor at UNLV, and so he's got a lot of experience. And he and I got together some time ago, about a year and a half ago, to make sure that we attached all of the necessary science to the information that we put out with the vertical diet. And a lot of the stuff that I do in the vertical diet is introducing people like yourself to my readers to show them where I think the best resources of information are. And so I link your articles, your mass research review, as well as some other folks in the industry that I think are pretty highly regarded and level headed. One of the things I like mostly about what you do is you're so pragmatic that you don't dive into conspiracy theories or get too carried away with any single thing that just doesn't show benefit. And that's what's really important that you've, I think, over time acknowledged that as the research develops, sometimes you change your opinion. I think that's great as well, that you're not locked into some specific dogma. What you've put out now from my most recent review, over 280 articles and videos that people can easily access, and you just recently put in a search by topic. Tell us about that, too. I think the search by topic has been there for a while. I'm not totally sure. My wife is the one who manages the actual website and backend tech stuff. But yeah, the total mass archive is pretty big. I think about 3,000 pages of content in total. I should know these numbers right off the top of my head, but I don't know. Something like 60 hours of video give or take. So yeah, I mean, there's a lot in there. And we've tried to make it reasonably easy to find. There is a search functionality on the member site, so it won't be like, oh, there was an article about blood flow restriction that I read last year. Let's just click through a dozen issues and try to find it. Yeah, I don't know. Hey, Damon, what is your dissertation research going to be on? Or what is it on? I'm looking at carbohydrate manipulation on resistance training. So the concept came from, there's a lot of research out there on carbohydrate recommendations for endurance training down to the gram per kilogram, but there doesn't seem to be a whole lot of information or research done on the strength side of things. So I tried to take some of the common approaches for carbohydrate use in endurance athletes and carry it over to see if it would work in strength training. So I'm doing a series of three studies and using squat. So that's the other thing is that a lot of people that are looking at research in the strength community aren't necessarily using that movement. They're either using a bench press or a leg press or something that's really easy to get in the lab. Or isoconetic knee extensions. Right, which don't really tell you a whole lot, right? So what we did, you know, and you're well aware in endurance as well as in strength, there's a whole spectrum of differences in how you train. So a lot of the other strength research is done on a lower rep, a higher one rep max or it's on a one rep max performance. And so I wanted to look at more of a normal, quote unquote, normal training session. So I have them doing five sets. I standardized the weights. So everybody's using the same weight and it puts them below about 75% of their one RM because they're doing at least 10 reps. So first three sets, they do 10 reps. The last two sets, they go until they aren't comfortable doing another full rep. So till quote unquote failure. And so we manipulated the carbohydrate they received. And so in the first two studies, they actually drank a beverage. They came in fast and then they drank a beverage and it was to see the difference between water, crystallite, and essentially the concentration of Gatorade using the two to one glucose fructose solution. And then the second study was seeing if the dose mattered. So if we double that dose of carbohydrate or we take it in half, does that do anything? And then the third study that I'm finishing up right now is probably the most interesting to me in terms of what I've had as results and it's the mouth rinsing. So there's only been about five or six publications on mouth rinsing and strength training and all of them were done on bench pressing. And the last one that was done out of, I think the team was out of Brazil, used leg press. So this is the only full body competition movement using mouth rinsing and I've had some interesting results. I haven't been able to run any stats yet, but I've almost collected all the data. So we're getting there. Well, sweet. Keep us posted. I think Mike Zordos reviewed the leg press study out of Brazil with mouth rinsing. So if this one gets different results or just uses like more meaningful and applicable exercises, it's very likely that we'd probably want to update that. Yeah, definitely. Is Mike still squatting every day? You know, I don't know. He's just miking along down in Florida. I think he's still squatting every day. I think that's just kind of what he does. Yeah. Say, Greg, I also noticed here more recently that you've also, you're offering CEUs through A, C, E, N, S, C, A and N, A, S, M and A, C, S, M for people who read your articles and you have a testing opportunity. I think they get to take a quiz and they can get those CEUs for reading your articles. That's another great benefit that you put together for folks. Yeah. We, I mean, man, I think, I think there's, I think it's good that continuing education is expected of trainers to keep their qualifications. But I also think that there's a bit of the CEU market that's almost a racket. When we were looking into offering CEUs, there's databases you can look through of who has been authorized to offer CEUs for these organizations and what courses they have. I was looking through a lot of them and a lot of them just kind of seem like just people finding that little niche in the system of like, well, people are going to have to recertify. So like, let's just put a lot of low quality courses on the market and if we can get them approved, we can then run ads to trainers and like whatever. So I'm definitely not saying that about all CEU providers, but it, I kind of got the feel that that's a thing and talking to trainers, like that's a common experience I've heard. Like, yeah, these people are coming to town. They were doing something for CEUs. I went to it. It was a complete waste of time. And so like we surveyed our audience and we're, I think like 45-ish percent of our subscribers are either personal trainers or coaches have some sort of certification. The other 55% are just athletes who want to stay up to research or stay up to date on the research for their own purposes. But since about half of our subscribers were people who were going to need to recertify at some point, we figured, well, screw it. They're already paying us for information. We may as well give something back to them and let them get some CEUs out of this and not have to pay extra. Just because like, you know, some trainers do really well for themselves, but the median income for a trainer in the U.S., last time I checked was something like 18, 19,000 a year. Like it's not, it's not much. So like, so most trainers are out there struggling and, you know, if we could help them get some CEUs without having to pay anything extra, just get them for a product that they're already subscribed to. We just figured that that was, you know, an easy way for us to give back to people and save them some money in the process. No, that's great. That's awesome. You know, what I've found a lot of trainers is they feel as though they don't have enough knowledge because they see how many great, you know, coaches, I don't want to say coaches or trainers, but, you know, folks that are kind of behind the scenes, the academics now, really, just in the last five years, probably since social media has been so active, that you see a lot of the really smart folks like yourself that are both highly accomplished academically and in sport. You set world records in natural powerlifting, so you're actually applying your trade. When I studied exercise science back in the late 80s, of course, we didn't even have the Internet. We didn't have the kind of resources that are available today. I always say if I knew then what I know now. And so I always want to tip people off to the best resources, and they feel somewhat as though maybe they're underqualified because they're constantly comparing themselves to the, you know, to the litany of great people out there, the Brett Contrerases of the world and the Brad Schoenfelds and yourself and Eric and the Lane Norton's, you know, people with advanced degrees who are also highly accomplished athletes. But you know, I spin it just the other direction. There's not enough of you guys to go around. You're a resource for them. And that this obesity epidemic and the, you know, the decline of our health as a whole, there are far more customers than the academics can provide for and that they just need to utilize you as resources. They don't have to reinvent the wheel. They don't have to get PhDs if they can't afford it or don't have the academic capabilities to do so. And that's why I kind of like to funnel people towards the professionals. It's a lot of what I do now is just try and bridge the gap between the knowledge that's out there and the application of that knowledge to the end user because there's obviously, you know, tens of millions of people who need help. And we're losing that battle pretty, in a pretty bad way. We've got, you know, 90% recidivism for weight loss and regain, et cetera. And so I really, I point to you guys, not because they need to know what you know, but because then they can just offload that resource to you. They can give their clients great information and say, here's where I got it. And these are the people that have, you guys have filtered your way to the top as being, I think, not just highly credentialed, but well respected by other academics in the community. We're starting to see now who the real purveyors of quality information are and who, you know, are kind of some of the hacks, some of the bro science folks are starting to get exposed in this industry if they don't have, if they aren't making reference to, you know, some of the great research that you're doing. And I, you mentioned earlier about Lindsay behind the scenes, your wife helping you with all of this. And I remember it was, it's been some years ago, I think when you first started Mass Research Review or the like, you had mentioned about how you had, she had helped so much with the formatting of it. And one thing I noticed with the Mass Research Review is how easy it is to read, how you guys compile all that stuff and give it to me in a dumb, dumb way that I can, it's super simple. You summarize it at the beginning and at the end. And then you go through all of your scientific, you know, machinations that you do, some of which I can't follow and don't bother to reread. I'm just astounded by the level of knowledge that you have in terms of your, your mathematic ability to, you know, absorb all of this information and make sense of it. You know, I studied calculus and statistics and physics in college. But the level of analysis that you do is extraordinary and then making it really easy for people to read, I think, is what's so great about your resource in particular, is you don't have to be, you know, a very smart guy to, because you boil it down to let them know that this is exactly what you need to do. So thank you for that. I don't mean to go on this whole bromance with you, but I want people to know, because I get asked this question so many times, that this is a very easy resource and it covers every aspect, you know, from, like you said, from the training to the nutrition to the rehab, all of the, every single, I think, topic that arises, whether popular or not. You guys covered the game changers recently and talked about, you know, vegetarian diets worth versus meat-based diets. And you have articles on how vegans and vegetarians can better optimize their performance. And so you don't take a side, you're just trying to fed her through the information that's out there and give it to people in a way they can use it. So I don't know if there's a question there, but I wanted to give kudos to Lindsay for all of her contribution and say that on our end, the reader's end, that you guys have made this thing so incredibly easy to read and to absorb so much information that's actually practical for our clients. So thank you. Yeah, I mean, Lindsay's great. We would not be where we are today without her. I mean, so a lot of the expertise she brings to the table is marketing related. I have a reasonable idea of how many subscribers the other research reviews out there have relative to, like, you know, how large the constituent members, like social media followings are and whatnot, like how big their imprint on the industry is. And I mean, I think we're doing considerably better than them, even though like a lot of them are backed by people who have larger followings than like the four people behind masks. And a lot of that is due to Lindsay being really good at marketing. But a lot of those things you mentioned, so there's a fair amount of research in like science that goes into our product behind the scenes that a lot of people wouldn't notice. So you mentioned that it's easy to read and you mentioned like how some of the sections are laid out. One thing that I think a lot of people in, like, you know, exercise science and nutrition research don't... I think one thing a lot of people don't look at is the research that's out there on like learning and information retention. Because theoretically, if you're trying to educate people about stuff, you want them to be able to easily consume that information and retain it reasonably well. And there's research out there on learning because, you know, I mean, when kids go through school, you don't want to just like talk to them for six hours a day and hope it sticks. Like you want the most information possible to stick, like to use that time the most effectively. And so there's a fair amount of research on that stuff. And so, you know, when we... like the way mass articles are laid out and the way most stronger by science articles are laid out is we'll have like key points at the beginning. And then like a longer article that gets into those things and explains the more in depth. And then we essentially restate the key points at the end, but slightly different. And that's like a very, very simple thing. But the main things we want people to get out of each article, we're saying them, you know, first thing when you open it up. So that like frames everything else. And you know, like, oh, these are the important things to look out for when I'm reading. Then you read the in-depth version and then you get a restatement of it at the end. And so something as simple as that, it helps with retention and adding that stuff at the beginning and end. You know, maybe adds 100 words total to the document, but it's going to help substantially with retention. And then as far as easy to read stuff goes is like, there's a lot of research on typography. And like, you know, what fonts are the most readable, how like what type of line spacing is the most readable, etc, etc. And so that helps with how quickly people read and also how well they retain the information. And so like a lot of that stuff is what Lindsay's bringing to the table. And it's not something that most people would really think about. Like they may note, they may pull up the PDF and notice like, oh, this looks really nice, but they're not going to be thinking like, oh, that's a sans serif font with appropriate line spacing, which is optimal for reading and retention. Like that's not stuff that's going to click with people, but it is something that helps make sure people do actually, you know, learn and retain the information better. So yeah, we I don't think many other people out there, I mean, a ton of other people out there in other industries know that stuff and worry about it. But I don't think many other people in fitness worry about stuff like that. And so I think it I think it helps with user experience. Absolutely. And I guess that was my point is that not even knowing everything that you just said, the reasons why you do it, just knowing as someone who reads enjoys reading your work more than other similar types of work, that that's the reason why. It's nice to know now that because you put it in such a way that it made it really easy for me. And I tend, you know, like a lot of folks in the industry, they tend to be really busy. They don't have time to dig down into the research and read a bunch of individual studies. And so, you know, I talk about the fact that you compile it all. You read, you do the meta analysis. You look at all the studies. You determine their weight of them, whether or not their epidemiology or their, you know, whether or not they're peer reviewed meta analyses. You guys do a very good job of trying to put the right amount of weight on it. And then, you know, you also talk about whether or not the study is practical to them or whether it's, you know, an animal study or it's an in vitro or, you know, kind of what the differences are in terms of the results that have been had and compare it to other research. So it's just awesome that you've done all that. I think it's very valuable. You mentioned one time, I think it's been a couple of years ago or more, I can't remember, but that you actually write out a lot of your stuff by hand. I find myself doing that because I'm an old timer, but is that something that you still do? It depends. So I don't generally write mass stuff by hand. I do write a lot of stronger by science articles by hand. With mass, it's somewhat paint by number because we, so, I mean, not entirely, but, you know, we're generally reviewing a study. There's a set layout for each article. Sometimes I kind of want to go on a tangent in the discussion, but for the most part, it's the writing process for that is reasonably straightforward. With stronger by science articles, generally, I just have a general topic I want to talk about, but I have no idea where the article is going to go. And so I find for that type of writing, writing by hand helps me. I don't know that be more creative is the right way to express it, but I think, like, get into something deeper, maybe. Just because if I'm not on my computer, I'm less likely to be distracted. And I think better and can make better associations, I think, when, you know, because even if you only have a word processor pulled up on your machine, you know that you can go down and like click on the Firefox tab and then the wide world of the internet is still accessible to you. Whereas if you're not looking at a screen in the first place, like all you're looking at is like your table and your paper. So yeah, I have different writing processes for different kinds of writing. Yeah. You also just so folks know, we're not trying to sell something here. You have the mass membership that I've been a part of, and that's still right around $30 a month? Yeah. So it's generally $29 a month. Whenever a new issue is released on the first and second of the month, it's discounted to 25. Just if people want to get a better deal. Also, run on Christmas time each year, it seems that you offer a lifetime membership, which I eventually jumped into myself, which was an extraordinary deal. When you look at the length of time that I've been subscribing and anticipate subscribing. So that's another opportunity. But also, in addition to that, you guys put out more free information than anybody I've seen in the industry. Really quality. Your definitive guide to squatting, benching, and deadlifting is extraordinary and very lengthy and detailed. People could learn a lot. I used to just scroll through your Facebook page and look at every post you made or every reference to an article you made and read it. And it's an extraordinary amount of information they can get just for free as well, just by getting onto your site and looking through. Eric has published dozens of articles that are fantastic as well on nutrition. That's on your site and linked. So I think it's fantastic what you do there. Well, thanks, man. I was going to say that you also enjoy the respect of your peers in the industry, as I've gone on and on about today. And I've noticed that a lot of them will also refer. I see them commenting on your posts and your site. And that's, I think, probably one of the most rewarding things to know that everybody's seems is looking at you and to you for information and sharing it. I see it all around. And so who are some of the people in the industry, you know, when I recommend you as a resource, I recommend a host of other people. But I wanted to know who are some of the people in the industry that you also recommend, in addition to the ones that are already within your mass research review. So I'm glad you gave that caveat, actually, because a lot of the people whose work I liked, I now work with, which was purposeful. So, you know, I liked and respected Eric Helms' work for a long time. Eric Trexler wasn't putting out that much work in the industry, but I mean, I've known him for a long time. I knew he was really smart. I actually, like, stole him away from academia and I think he's a great person. So, I mean, beyond those guys, I think my favorite person just to talk training with is Mike Tashier. He has a ton of free information out there. He also has a ton of paid information out there. So Mike is really, really smart and hyper analytical and he's a great person. He's a great person. He's a great person. So Mike is really, really smart and hyper analytical and I always find it really valuable to talk to him because I think our brains work in similar ways, but we approach things from completely different perspectives. So, Mike, I think, respects science, but doesn't really take the time to read that many articles for himself. But in, like, I coach, but that's not the main thing I do anymore. So he has a huge, huge database of client data to draw from, but doesn't read that much research. I still have quite a bit of client data, but nowhere close to as much as he does and mostly focus on the research. But we're both, like, pretty hyper analytical and so we're drawing from two completely different, like, two completely different things. Like, bases of information and often reach, like, similar conclusions, but we came to it different ways. But I just love to talk to the guy because he's really smart and really articulate and very often has insights that had never occurred to me before. So, love Mike Tashir. Yeah, I think I'll comment really quickly on Mike as well because I've been following him for years. The things that I like to look at is, I think everybody should have a coach. Even coaches should have a coach. And whether it be just for nutrition or just for training or even for their business, you know, to improve their business, of course I reached out to Damon much the same way that you did to your team because he was, he's engrossed in academia. He's almost finished with his MBA as well as all the other degrees that he has. The list of, he's almost got an alphabet after his name. But Mike's been coaching some of the people who I think are some really smart people in the industry. I think he works with Jordan Faganbaum and Austin Baraki at Barbell Medicine. So, that's kind of, to me, that's the pinnacle when you've got a really bright person like yourself or like, you know, the Barbell Medicine folks reaching out to someone like Mike Tashir that kind of tells you he's a whole other level. So, I just wanted to throw that in there before you continue. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So, Mike's great. Man, so another person who I really, really enjoy talking training with is Danny Lennon. I think most people just know about Danny through his podcast, Sigma Nutrition. The podcast is great, but I think most people just know of Danny as a really good interviewer. But the thing about being a good interviewer is you need to know, you need to have a pretty good handle on the stuff that you're interviewing someone about to be able to do. And if you just look through the archive of Sigma Nutrition and you see how many interviews he's done with people from drastically different areas, and then you think to yourself like, oh shit, all of those were good interviews, Danny knows a lot about all of that stuff. He is really, really bright, knows a lot about a lot of things. And I think he doesn't get as much respect as he probably deserves. People just know like, oh, he has a good podcast. But Danny himself is super, super bright. So, I really like Danny.  amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he fantastic. And for anyone who's interested in going into PT who, you know, not just wants to read good information and good articles, but also like chat with people who have been doing it for a long time and, you know, are just really bright and interested in teaching and helping others, the clinical athlete forums are a really, really good place to go for more information and just conversations with really smart people. Man, there's a lot more, but those would probably be my top ones personally. Well, I've kind of blathered on here. I don't know if David had any additional questions for you, Greg. I know that we really appreciate your time and we've carried on longer than we thought. I was really just hoping to promote you and Mass Research Review and your team there. Did you have anything left on? Maybe let's sum it up on where you'd like to see the industry go and the research go from here in the next 5, 10 years. Oh, that's a good question. Where I'd like to see the industry go. So, man, I feel like there are some pretty major structural problems within the industry. So I think first and foremost, there are a lot of people out there who kind of want to do what I do, which I don't know is really that net beneficial. I mean, there's a ton of people putting information out onto the Internet. Ultimately, I think when you look at society, what we need is a lot of people who are really good trainers because there's a lot of people out there who really need to get stronger, really need to lose weight, really need to get healthier. And you're going to get that better from someone who you're working with in person, who is competent and cares about you and knows what they're doing. Then you will, I think, from an online coach and certainly more than you will just from reading articles on the Internet. There are some people who, for sure, for sure. And so I think we need a lot of really good, competent, personal trainers. And I mean, I would assume personal trainers listening to this podcast are, you know, you're doing this to learn more, continue your education, you probably actually give a shit about things. I would assume you're good. I would assume, I mean, I'm not assuming. Most trainers out there really aren't very good. And I think there's a lot of reasons for that. One is the barriers to entry are really low. Two is like we talked about before, the pay isn't great. And, you know, within a capitalist economy, like generally people are going to gravitate at least to some degree towards the best paying job that they can get given their intelligence and abilities, etc. And so like there are absolutely a fair amount of like smart, capable people who are just really passionate about this stuff and go into personal training. But I think that overall, mainly due to levels of pay and then also like, I think societal stigma as well, like I know a lot of people when they heard I was going into the fitness industry, they were like, what the fuck, Greg? Like that seems like a waste of your talents. I'm like, yeah, fuck you, man, it's going to be fun. But yeah, so I think a combination of poor pay and kind of bad societal stigma kind of lowers the average quality of trainer one could expect getting into the industry. And so I think in some way, shape or form, we need to figure out a way just to entice more people and more like highly skilled, passionate people to get into personal training in the first place. I'm not totally sure how you go about doing that. If I'm going to be entirely honest. So there's the whole should we have licensure debate or not, which relates more broadly to does personal training become an allied health profession. I think you could make a reasonable argument for that because, you know, not if you're talking about like training bodybuilders so much, but if you're talking about training, Gen Pop, I think personal training is to some degree, at least preventative medicine. So I think you could make a case for it becoming an allied health profession. And then personal trainers being able to accept insurance as an allied health provider, which, you know, I think would would be able to start increasing pay and then also how personal trainers are thought of within society. And that may start making shifts. But then of course, there there would be some consequences of that as well. Because if we went the licensure route, then there would be higher barriers to entry. Some people who are currently in the industry, but under qualified would be forced out or forced to go back to school and spend a bunch of money to keep doing what they were already doing competently. So like that that wouldn't be without downsides either. So really what I'm saying is I don't know exactly what should be done to accomplish that. But I think just in general, if we could figure out a way for the average trainer to be to make more money and be more respected within society, that would help a lot with regards to getting more people into the industry and getting more people who actually like give a shit into the industry. Because I mean, for a lot of people, it's it's not what they want to do. For a lot of people, it's like plan B or plan C. If you look at if you look at the average amount of time someone spends as a personal trainer, it's less than two years. Like it's I think for a lot of people, it's just something they do in between what they view as real jobs. It's like, while I got laid off, I can get a training cert within a weekend. I'll train people for a little while. And then once the type of job I actually won't opens up, I'm going to get the fuck out of here. So we need to figure out a way that that doesn't become one of one of the main ways people get into the industry. You know. So anyway, I feel like that's kind of a bad answer. It's a great answer. You concluded exactly where we started. People reach out to us all the time, whether it's seminars or VDMS, wanting to find out how they can become better trainers and where they can get information to help them do that. And that's why we had you on today. I wanted them to know that your resource exists and they can have all of the information that they need. They don't have to get a PhD or a master's degree or be a world-renowned expert on any particular topic or spend dozens and dozens of hours each week pouring through literature like you do. You've done it for the work for them. So I think what you said is exactly what we think it needs to be done. We've looked at the research as well that clinicians are very poor at getting success with clients. That's the people on the front lines. It's the trainers that are out there. They just need a little better information. The most challenging thing with training folks is the recidivism. If you're, we talked earlier about physical therapists and chiropractors, most people when they get an injury, it's going to heal spontaneously within 60 to 90 days. And so they have about a 90% success rate from everybody that walks through the door whether they do anything or not. And we have about a 90% failure rate for anybody who walks through the door for a weight loss program and we get them started on some exercise and a diet program and most of them fail. And whether that's 70 or 90 kind of depends on who you ask. But the fact of the matter is that it's kind of discouraging. It does lead to job security. Everybody's a client. Everywhere you go, whether it's the gas station, the grocery store, drostanolone, everybody you bump into wants to improve their fitness or their health, their body composition, their energy levels. And these people on the front lines are the ones that are best able and equipped, maybe not equipped, but best able. They're in the position to get the best results if they're actually touching the client. One thing that we suggest is that they train two clients for that given hour and that way they can optimize their income. Some great trainers the gyms I travel around to, the ones that make the most money, train more than one client to any given hour. Some up to three, maybe four clients in a given hour if they're very good and can keep them engaged. And they make a hell of a living. They've quit academia. They've quit, got a couple of trainers that I just talked to two weeks ago that quit their, they were the Division I NCAA school doing strength and conditioning for the football team. And they left and made twice as much money personal training, but they have to train three people at a time and they have to be good at marketing and be part of a gym that encourages that kind of thing. So the opportunities are out there kind of back to where you finished off and we started. Thank you for being such a great resource. I hope more people will dive into the information that you have. It's so easy to use and get good results with her clients. So I appreciate having you on today. Thank you, Greg. Thanks for having me. Thanks, Greg. Take care.