 these are the top three weight loss strategies according to research. Dalofa. Hello, and welcome back. I'm Stan Efforting, coming to you today from one of the many roadside fruit and vegetable stands here in American Samoa, where fresh local produce is available every day. Thanks to a combination of brief tropical rains and 360 days of sunny year, this island has some of the most fertile volcanic soil on earth. It's a natural greenhouse, powered by the Pacific Ocean. The fruits and vegetables here are so abundant, they literally fall off the trees. Things like mangoes, papayas, coconuts, breadfruit, and avocados, always in season. Village gardens are overflowing with pineapples, bananas, taro root, carrots, sweet potatoes, cabbage, tomatoes, beans, cucumbers, I could go on and on. The fruits and vegetables are picked fresh daily and displayed at these markets, on every roadside, often not but 100 yards between them. Now welcome back to part four of our part, our five part series to help you lose weight and feel great. Now let's talk about the top three most powerful weight loss strategies according to research. Number one, meal prepping. Whether you prep your meals yourself or you use the meal prep company, we've seen this work for decades with bodybuilding, figure, physique, and bikini competitors. Carry around their six-pack bag full of meals and Tupperware. Now that's because it works. The meals are always ready to go. They're far less likely to do impulsive eating, like a trip to a fast food place. Now plan ahead, even if it's just one or two meals a day. Number two, tracking. That which gets measured gets improved. You don't need to obsess over every calorie, but tracking what you eat keeps you honest and helps you stay aware. Now I ask all of my clients to send me their morning weights, their hours of sleep, their daily step count, and a picture of each meal. It only takes a few seconds and it works wonders to help them stay accountable. And number three is coaching. Whether it's a coach, a friend, or a support group. Accountability works and research comparing doctors to registered dieticians to personal trainers. The personal trainers have the best results for weight loss because they interact with the clients more frequently. And this leads to better outcomes. Now you don't have to do this all the time. Get a coach, or a spouse, or a friend to do this journey with you to help support you along the way. And you don't need to be perfect. You just need to be consistent. Now these tools keep you on track when motivation fades. Now next time I'll talk about the best type of exercise for fat loss. And it's probably not what you think. For coaching or other services I provide, be sure and check out the links below. And if you want to learn more about the island, or maybe come share some fresh pineapple with me, you'll also find a link to the American Samoa Visitors Bureau. See you next time. Fa'afatai.