 Okay, so here we are again, this is Vertical Podcast, Stan Uphreding, founder of the Vertical Diet here with Damon McHughne, my co-author, partner in crime, registered dietitian, UNLVPHD, exercise phys. Exciting day-to-day for me, so I'm going to take a walk back in time, back to when the dinosaurs roamed the earth and invited a very special friend of mine to talk today. I figured it was fitting, University of Oregon just won the Rose Bowl this year, which was really exciting news, and it got me reminiscing a little bit back to over 25 years ago, 26 years ago, when I was working with another Rose Bowl athlete from the University of Oregon, so I wanted to invite him on today. This is Dino Filia, and Dino, just give us a little intro of who you are and where you came from, and we'll get to talking and rapping about our history. So, I'm going to take a big set on Dino Filia from Dudley, North Carolina. I came up to Oregon, get a chapter in college, prior to that I was a, got a job at Hainesville, the 14th ground by the Cleveland Indians, played Myronley baseball, before I actually came up to Oregon, played Winnebac, and ran track in Oregon as well, was drafted into sixth round by the New England Patriots, so I played a few years in NFL as well, and I'm currently still residing in New Gene, Oregon, and we run a successful catering business. Awesome. Well, this, a lot of what I do here now is a lot of what I've always done, and what we did together all those years ago is just try and help athletes, and I've worked with a lot of athletes over the years, football players ever since our inaugural year back there in 1993, I think when you and I first met. And ever since then, I've been working with athletes, high school collegiate and professional athletes, a lot of football players, and I get not just the professionals that reach out to me, but the parents of the kids in high school and college reach out to me for help with their kids. So, I thought a lot of what we'll talk about today is going to provide them a lot of good information while we're kind of walking through this history. So, I want to rewind the tape way back to 1993. You had come out of Tap Junior College, that was an amazing college for track. You and Keith were both running there at the time. My fans will know Keith Williams, who at the time trained with us and played football, also became an IFBB Pro bodybuilder, and somebody I've worked with and been in the magazines, and we trained with Flex later years, we'll get to that. But that was someone that you trained with back in 1993, and it was actually in Oregon at the time we met that came out of Tap as a sprinter. So, it's kind of an exciting time. So, that's kind of what, how was track at Tap? I heard it was savage. We actually originally, now, we're in track out of Rumi, and these were known as Stanley Johnson. His girlfriend at the time was a track athlete from Louisiana. And Stanley was like, hey, D, we should, we should run track, can help us with our football. I had never ran track. I had never been on a track. And so, they talked me into, you know, coming out. So, we both originally went out just to work on our speed. Well, you know, me not really knowing how fast I really was, I was actually good enough to be on the track team. So, I was good enough to actually be on the relay team because the first race I ran in, I think I ran like 10-6, and I never ran before ever. I've been in a pair of blocks, just jumped into blocks and just, the gun went off and I just ran. And one of the race, and from then on out, coach was like, okay, you might want to take this a little more serious. I think you have a little more talent. And I continued to run track at Tap, and we had guys that were, you know, Mr. Ohio, Mr. Florida, Mr. Georgia, Mr. Texas. We had guys from all over the country. That was exceptional. I mean, I even ran with one guy that actually ran in the Olympics. So, it was loaded with talent, loaded with a lot of people that had great opportunities after you left Tap. That was really good. So, for me, running track was kind of like, you know, hey, why don't we just come out, run a little track, and get faster for football. And that's really how I got introduced to track. Yeah, that's an important lesson to learn. I've always said that genetics reign supreme. A lot of what we do in strength and conditioning is, you know, we try and optimize talent, but we've said many times that the fastest kid in fourth grade is generally going to be the fastest kid in college. Right. And what you can do to optimize their performance from there is important, but that genetic predisposition is great. And you played sports, of course, football and baseball all your life. So, you had done a lot of running, but that's pretty incredible to have a 10-6 first time you ever came out of the blocks. And that even got better. So, then you get to U of O and you start running track for U of O. Who are you running for at the time? At the time, Coach Dillinger was our head coach. Coach John Gillespie was our jumper coach. And George Walcott, who's the head track coach at NCU right now at Northwest Christian, he was our sprint coach. And so, he was able, you know, with the limited time we had with sharing between football and track, I was able to get my time down to like 10-3. And so, I actually finished second and packed 10s back then and the guy that beat me back then was Otto Bolden, the bronze medalist of the Olympics. Yeah, that's interesting to ring a bell. Otto Bolden. Yeah. Anybody who knows track knows that name. Is the Olympian. So, that's who actually beat me and I was a part-time track guy and obviously he was a full-time track guy. And I'll never forget him telling me that I needed to actually focus on running track. And back then, I'm like, well, they're not paying track guys any money, so I think I'm going to stick with this other thing called football. And so, that's what I decided to do because track wasn't like, you know, they weren't paying the money that they're paying kids now. I want to set this scenario up because you mentioned you ran for Bill Dillinger. He was a five-time NCAA champion. He was a coach for the U.S. Olympic team. He was arm-in-arm there with Phil Knight creating that University of Oregon. For those who don't know, it was nicknamed Tracktown USA. Which reminds me, is that Pizza Place still up there? Tracktown Pizza? Tracktown Pizza is still here. And it's going well. Anybody who's ever been to go to the University of Oregon knows about the 2 a.m. Tracktown Pizza. That was amazing. I got to get back down there. But that just kind of sets it up to understand the quality of that program. They run the Olympic trials there. It's just a phenomenal program. And those are just legends in the sport. And the reason I set that up is because when you started working with me, one of the things that I asked you was, is what's your priority football to track? And, you know, for football, we wanted to get you stronger. And Taster was certainly a byproduct of that, as I always discuss. And one of the things that concerned me was overtraining at the time. Too much running, too much distance running. And so you told me a story. I asked you, can you reduce your workload at Track? You talked to Coach Dellinger and you told him that you weren't going to be able to put in as much work with the Track team. And to remind you, at the time you came back the next day. You kind of had your hat in your hand and you were discouraged because he had kind of, you know, insulted you in front of the whole team that you weren't a team player and you were all about football and not Track. But you and I had met up beforehand and talked about how that was going to make you a better Track athlete because we had to consider your entire workload. So, you know, see if you remember that conversation. You know what I do. And I think what you find is in athletics, and now you see a lot more even in high school where, you know, coaches are wanting the athletes to themselves. They're not wanting to share them. But what they don't realize is, and the one thing that I learned from, from big years ago was, it's not about the quantity of what you do is what you do. And you have to rest. Your body has to rest. And I used to tell you that your body has to listen to your body. Your body tells you everything you need to know. So, you know, don't overdo what you're training because your body has to rest and recover was important. So it almost felt like it was kind of, it was almost like going backwards in time because I felt like, well, the more you do, the more you gain. But it wasn't because the less we did, but we was effective with what we did. We had bigger games. So I'll never forget even going into my junior year. We didn't do a ton of high reps or we didn't, I mean, we worked out every day we pick, we had a body part and we worked on it. And I'll never forget going into my senior year, I went from 175 pounds to my senior year. I put on the extra 15 pounds of muscle that I hadn't got before. And this was after leaving coach Radcliffe, which a lot of people know Jimmy Rad. He had a great program, but it wasn't, you weren't going to gain muscle as much as you was going to gain flexibility and endurance and, you know, this long term tight strength instead of size, you know, size and more strength. And I got bigger and I was faster when I trained bigs and I didn't, and we didn't work as hard. Well, we didn't work hard. It was days when we did throw up, but, but we rested though. The rest was huge. Yeah. So that was important. Hey, can you kind of maybe for the parents out there are people that aren't really heavily involved in athletics or college athletics. Can you kind of give an overview of what the actual schedule is like? Because a lot of people may not be aware, you know, these programs are kind of condensed in terms of the time they get to spend with the athletes. And so some of this may get condensed into certain time periods. And so what did that kind of look like for you? And back then, what did it look like in terms of like nutritional coaching? Okay, so I mean, back then the nutritional isn't actually back then the nutrition part I got. I got from bigs. So we didn't really have a nutritionist back then. Right now we have a on staff nutritionist and bigs would tell you I was when it came to eat and have us. I was the worst. And you had you had Keith Keith was like he'd followed down to a dot and I was like, I had to cheat a little bit. It's like dude, I need a little more of this. I need a little more sweets. And you know, I'm back then I might have a couple drinks, but you know, died for me because I was already pretty lean. But for me, I mean, I didn't lose a little bit because I wasn't as how do I say it because we didn't have nutrition. So it wasn't about okay, you need to because now they have it where every single kid has a file, right? When they go to the cafeteria, there's a scale. There's a file. They have their own like box with whatever vitamins and nutrition they need to take all the way down to what they need to be at each week, how much, how much impact they need to have, how much food they need to eat. And so one of the things that I can tell you what Coach Cristobal changed up here at Oregon was was we've been caring for the team prior to that. But one of the things that he changed up was he wanted the kids to be able to come through and eat as much as they want because some guys had to gain weight. Some guys had to lose weight. So there's always so much protein that we had to have out available so that those guys can get their gains. And so even with your with your shakes, like certain guys have certain type of protein shakes, you know, so many vitamins and calories that they got to take every single day. And they have this one nutritionist. She has a system to machine monitors everybody's intake every day. Yeah. And they include know where these guys are at every day. We didn't. So we didn't have that. All we had was we just had training day. Right. And it was a year round. So it was like sometimes big to take. He fed us a lot of times. I mean, because we were sorry. So we didn't get the intake that we need to get back then. So back then they didn't have the resources that they have now. And the reason why a lot of kids get games when they get to college is because now they have someone a nutritionist on staff that give them the nutrition that gives them the workout that they need to be on. And even the guys that are overweight to help those guys slim down and build that and build muscle instead of, you know, fat. They have that person is dedicated to making sure that each player gets to the optimal weight where they need to be. Man, there's so many important things that you said there backing up to when you you talked about the fact that the coaches wanted you to all of their selves. What we know now is the multiple multi sport athletes, the ones who play two or three sports and junior high and high school and even college become the better athletes. Yep. And so specialization is not encouraged now. Of course, back then we thought that if you played one sport, you'd be better at that sport. Now we're seeing it's not the case. So that was pretty important. You also mentioned with respect to the fact of just your diet and your recovery days. I always said back then to you, you don't grow in the gym. All you do is break down muscle tissue. You don't grow in training. And so we had to find out we had to maximize the days off the growth days. And you said something there that I recall I used to bring food to you guys. I had this huge bag and at the time a lot of times it was shakes, post-workout shakes. It was calories. And I'm kind of known now as the guy shakes or for fakes, eat steaks. I'm not a big fan of people pounding down protein shakes all the time because I don't really look at them as supplements. I look at them as food. And if I can feed you food, which I would often do, I try and get you guys to eat. And I remember at the time telling you, and now I'm kind of known for it as well, that you weren't going to get big on just boneless, skinless chicken breast. And I wanted you out there eating the skin and the red meat. And I just I needed to get calories in you guys to grow. I've been harping on that for now, you know, 30 years. And so that was one of the big things is that we gave you more time off and we tried. I tried to feed you as much as possible. And then we did those little, like you said, those workouts were intense, but they were brief. And it was just creating a stimulus. And then you had to go to coach and say, look, I can't run all around. And what was really interesting about that is if you ever seen Bo Jackson's 30 for 30, when Bo says he goes to his coach and he says, hey, coach, I'm not running all them laps. It's just really unnecessary. And, you know, he's Bo Jackson, so he can go do that. But at the time that you tried to present that scenario to your track coach, he was harsh on you. You did it. You held to your guns because we talked for a long time before that meeting. And you were really discouraged when you came back and talked to me. But and we discussed the fact that how important it would be and how you would be better and just to hang in there. And you did you you short. You didn't do the long distance stuff. You were just doing your 40s. Yeah, you didn't do seven days a week of running. We cut it back to half that. And, you know, like you said, you started gaining muscle and strength and you got actually got faster and stronger. What happened when you actually did go back faster and stronger and took second in the Pactin Championships? What did Bill Belanger then say? Well, then it was OK with the results that I had. I came back. I actually was big. So when I finished my one Pactuato championship, second, when I came in second, I was at 195 pounds. I mean, I was way heavier than I had ever been in my life. And I ran faster. And I used to tell all of us that you know, pound for pound faster because he wasn't with 140, 45 pounds tops. Yeah, but I was bigger. I was stronger. I was explosive. But I do remember he was he was happy of the results because he he then saw. OK, what we got out of because most track people think the more you run, the better you get. And it is so not the case. And I tell my kids that all the time, it's like, no, you got it. You got to get rest. And that's why all my kids are athletes and we make sure they play more than one sport. Because I understand that they're parts of your body has to rest. And one thing to always do is they're on their feet all the time. I'm like, I'm going to get the best pair of possible shoes because if you're on their feet, 24 seven, they need to be in their best. They need to have the best possible equipment so they can be more efficient and they can be successful. How much pushback did you get for gaining the weight on the track team? I got zero pushback because I had I got more I got faster. So me being bigger and faster was it was it was it was a plus to them because that mean I was getting points. And if I'm getting points, that's the benefit to the team. And so, you know, I wasn't officially on a track scholarship because I was a football guy. I was being blown down to track to run football so I can hold my gun a little bit more only because I was a track. I was a football guy and they weren't giving me money, but they needed me for, you know, they still needed us football guys to have a decent track team to be successful. The reason I asked I worked with a lot of track athletes myself and that seems to be something in that community that is really put on the runners is, you know, you need to get to this running weight. And I see it a lot more in the distance athletes or whatever, but it may not always be the most appropriate weight by that time, right? Because if you're coming from high school and going to college, your body's changed, right? So your fastest weight in high school may not be what your fastest weight in college is going to be. But there's a lot of coaches that still try to really drive that. They think weight is a big thing. And I'll give you an example. You have Roy Scremming, his senior year at Oregon, the previous strength and conditioning coach wanted, they wanted him at a higher weight. So he felt like for Roy Scremming to be more efficient, he needed to be heavy. So if you notice Roy Scremming's production, his runs over 30 and 40 yards were less because he was bigger, he was more bulkier, but he was more effective in the 220 range than he was in the 235-240. And so I tell the kids now, you know, because they still harp on these kids' weight. They're like, hey, don't worry about, hey, just go out there. It doesn't matter what weight you're at. If you can move, you can get around and be effective and you still can be explosive. I said, don't get caught up into that weight thing. I said, because that weight thing isn't going to get you any more yards. But as a run-back, I can always stand in wanting five more pounds or 10 more pounds because they're going to take a beating. But if you're a scat-back, what difference does it make if you're 200 or 190? Yeah, it's that strength to weight ratio that's most important. And you know, it wasn't just with the running backs. Who was the lineman that trained with us in 93? Paul Wittes. Well, not Paul. He only came in a few times. He was a big white guy that had, they had told him to cut weight because he came in too early. I'm terrible. I can't remember his name. He broke his ankle playing basketball. He cut like 30 pounds and he was all weak and tired. So he came into us because that's what I'm just as an example of what I'm trying to get across here is that when big guys try and lose weight and they do it wrong, when they cut a bunch of calories and do a bunch of cardio in order to lose weight, they end up losing more strength, more muscle than fat. And then his big complaint was that they were, he was getting pushed all over the field. And that's when he came to us to work with us, get on our diet and do our training program at the time. So that's just an example. I don't need to recollect who it was so long ago, but I just remember that something on that sprinting that kind of reminds you. One of the most incredible memorable moments for me was at odds and stadium when I was sitting in the audience watching you sprint and one of the sprinters that you were sprinting against. I can't remember what event it was, but time was Pat Johnson. Yep. And you remember Pat was this blazer. He was this really speedy. Was he wide receiver? Yep. And he was probably 160 pounds, 155 pounds. He was a smaller guy. Yeah, Pat was a smaller guy. And everybody, and it was kind of, they were trying to size him up against you in terms of speed. He was one of those guys that had the rabbit feet, you know what I mean? He was really, really fast. He was a little bit, but he was small. And what I remember is one of the things that we talked about when you were training for track is we didn't do a lot of the, we didn't do any of the ladders and any of the foot speed work. We were mostly interested in strength. And Pat was one of those guys who had incredibly quick feet, but you had a massive amount of power, your stride length, and then the force production when you planted your foot and took off is like you were digging clay up under your foot. And, and you can remind me of what event that was, but you and Pat were running. And you must have been 200 pounds and he must have been 150, 160 pounds. He just looked like a little kid next to you. It was like a man amongst boys. And I was, I was at the finish line. You got me some tickets for that event, as I recall. And I'm thinking I remember you won that race, but it was ridiculous. What was the lead up to that? What was that sprint? And what was it like, you know, proving that that bigger, stronger athlete, you at the time after everything you'd been through was the fastest athlete as well. It had to be the hundred meter. It was on. Yeah, it was. It was in the hundred meter. I don't think it was indoor, but I think it was out. Outdoor, yeah. It was the hundred meter. Yeah. And, and, you know, and you were like, I killed him. I remember that, but that's what it was. It was the way it was. It was the way he was full time. He was a full time. I was a part time guy and he was on full scholarship and I was a part time guy and I, you right? Yeah. I mean, for some reason, he thought he was going to beat me, but that didn't quite happen. No. And then when you came in that year to work with me, you were about 175 pounds and there's another, there was a pretty big strong running back right next to you and they were splitting time with you guys. I remember it was frustrating for you. You remember who that was? It was Ricky. Ricky Willow. Yeah. It was extremely frustrating. So he had been splitting time with the guy previous to him, which was Sean Burrow, who was upperclassmen. And so when I came in, I was splitting time with this guy and obviously I felt like I was better, but that's not what I was. But like I was better, but at the end of the day, you know, coach coming, you know, squishers back and forth to try to get the most out of both of us. And I mean, for the benefit of the team, you know, we wanted to back to him and playing Rose Bowl. So I can't, I mean, I can't complain because I mean, obviously you like to think that you can get all the reps, but sometimes it don't quite happen that way. Yeah. But at the time there was some concern as to whether or not you were going to lose some playing time and they were going to pick him. And as it turned out, you added that weight and that strength and that speed and that size and they started playing you more. And then you led the team. You set a record for the most touchdowns in a season that year. And it's pretty phenomenal transformation. These are just things, memories that come to me from, from all that, all that time back then things that happened. I remember the emotional part of it at the time. You use the sounding board back in. I mean, I use my outside of the, my only confidence because when I first started working out with you, I was the only person I was only got to do my own thing. And once everybody started seeing how I improved in all my games, and yet everybody in there, my own, now they only come over and work out. You know, I started just on my own, you know, doing my own thing outside of over here. And I had my own person help training me mentally and physically. And once everybody started seeing that it was like, whoa. Yeah, it is loaded from there. You brought Paul Wiggins in and then the Malapie brothers came Pulo and Tassie and Steely started training with us. Akili Sen started training with us. We had a, we had a hell of a group there for a while. Well, and the proof's in the pudding. So, you know, take us to the next phase there. You guys win the Pac-10s, you go to the Rose Bowl and it's draft time. Talk us through your NFL portion of this history line. Well, I mean, what I started doing was I started focusing on the combine and getting ready for it and knowing all the things that I needed to work on for that. And I knew that, you know, once I went to the combine, I needed to perform. And I knew that I had an idea of what they were looking at me for, which was I was probably going to be a third down on situation type guy. And, you know, that's actually what Coach Parsley was asking Jackson Jackson before they wanted me to replace Dave Negget. So I get drafted and he's like my mentor, the guy that's supposed to help train me and get me up to speed on how to be a third down running back. And there's a lot of things I did really, really well when I had the ball. My biggest issue was when I didn't have the ball, which was blocking. And blocking is more mental than anything else. But when I had the ball, I was just as good as anybody else we had. And so I was in that same draft class with, it was Tyler, who's the Hall of Fame defensive back, and Curtis Martin, who's the Hall of Fame runner back. So we played in the same back row together and we still talk to this day being Curtis us. But, um, Athletic wise, speed wise, size wise, I mean, there wasn't much difference. The only difference was, was this. And so sometimes when you're training, you have to train the mind just as much as you train your body. And those are the small things that give you the edge over the guys that you're competing against. Well, anybody, anybody who knows the name Bill Parcells knows it's no picnic to train for him. What was that? Or to compete for him? What was that like? Mentally for him. And I'll never forget what Coach Parcell says. He said, you know, he said, the more you can do, the more you can do the better opportunity you have of being on my team. He's like, I don't have any guys that can do more. And he was, he was, he was a psych, he was a psych major. He would study guys as, you know, how they thought, how they trained, why they did things. And he didn't treat everybody the same. His motivation was different for every single guy. And he might be, we might be a practice and I might, he might be chewing me out, right after practice. He's talking to me like we're best friends and give me a ride up and we're, I mean, we're all chump. But he was all about trying to get the most out of each guy. And he would always say, he said, you know, the day that I shot right in you is the day that I'm giving up on you. And so I always was feeling encouraged knowing that, you know, my coach is telling me that as long as he's riding me, that means that he's still in my corner. And so when I remind kids that the day your coach stops pushing you and encouraging you, they've given up on it, you know, but the one thing you got to always realize is you can't give up on yourself first because they see it. And you can't smell it. Everybody sees it and smell it. So I remember one of the biggest benefits to having, you know, me there training with you is because I did everything you did and set kind of the pace as far as I was stronger. Ready to. You got to tell that story, but we had Keith there too. And Keith was just an unbelievable workhorse. And as it turns out, and you might recall, you guys competed on every single set, every rep, you watched each other. The exact same thing happened for me 15 years later when I trained with Keith when Flex Wheeler trained us for our IFBB Pro body, bodybuilding competitions. Keith and I went head to head every set, every rep, every day. We timed each other's rest periods. We counted every repetition, whether it was a full rep or a half rep. We called each other out if it wasn't. And it was brutal. And it took me back to when you and Keith did that to each other, even though you weren't playing for the same team at the time, you were going to U of O and Keith, I think, had a Minnesota opportunity or something like that. At the time, as I recall, but what was that? What was that like? Because I felt like you gave more than, you know, I didn't know your history, but you gave so much more than you might otherwise have given in a, you know, in a group setting at the university, possibly. Well, the unique thing was, you know, we came from a gym college where we both stayed the same position. And competing, if you're a competitor, you don't want your counterpart to do more than you. And what we did was we would push each other, we pushed each other as far as we could go. And the beauty behind that is, is we always knew that when we left the gym, we gave everything we got. We worked out so hard, we would either throw up, crap it up, because we would push ourselves to the limit. We knew what our limit was because once we got to our limit, we couldn't do anymore. And we knew that. And that was the beauty behind having someone that wanted it just as bad as you. So our atmosphere, if you, if you.  and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, You were stretched out, laid out, just trying to figure out, hey, maybe I went too hard. No, you didn't go too hard. You went as far as you can go. You went to the edge. Yeah. It makes me laugh because do you remember how many guys I can't count would come down and because you'd go back to football practice and the guys would see what you had accomplished and then a lot of them wanted to come train with us. How many different guys, as you recall, came in and did one leg day with us, went out back and cued and we never saw them again? And that's what we found out. Who was real and who wasn't real. Everybody wanted the benefits of what it takes to grow and to better themselves, but everybody's not willing to do the work. And we had quite a few guys that it was too much for them. That was too much work for them. The funny thing is, is you look back and like those are the same guys that are still trying to figure out how to get over that little hunt because it's just a little too tough. And the neat thing is, is when you push yourself to as far as you can go, there's no regrets. And that was the beauty about working out with Biggs back in the day when all of us was together and we was training. We all had a goal. And our goal was to be the best. And Biggs job was, I'm going to give you every tool and opportunity to be the best you can be from getting enough sleep, eating right, to trying to correct weight, getting enough rest, and eating as much as you can. And he knew we didn't have much. We had a Wednesday piece tonight at the DAC. Come on, Biggs, let's go. We're going to go, oh, you can eat pizza on Wednesday nights at the DAC. We go eat pizza. We go, I mean, he fed us so much. I knew Tracy at the time, the guy that he was with, was like, hey, you can't keep feeding these guys. I enjoyed a few times. You just got to eat your care. Well, calories are king. Galleries are king. I knew how important it was. I was breaking you down. I had to build you back up. And that was one of the messages I keep trying to get across to these athletes and coaches and parents is that, man, you got one or two hours a day you can invest into training. And then the other 22 hours you need to spend recovering. Remember I used to dog you guys, it was really hard with the Malapie Eye Brothers. Every Friday and Saturday night, I'd be all over you guys. Get to bed early, get to bed early, don't go out. And of course, the Malapie Eye Brothers would always be out at the clubs every Friday and Saturday night. Oh, man. Yeah, still are. They were fantastic. They're great. They're great. They're great. They're great people. I tell you what, they're great family guys. But you know, training right is for everybody. And you always want to know how hard people want to work. Everybody wants to benefit of being a guy. But if you're not willing to do the extra, I tell my kids, if you're not working in your game with everybody else to sleep, then you're not going to be better than your computer. If you know what you're doing, you can forget it. You've missed the boat. Yeah. And at the time I was training, I wanted to be a pro bodybuilder and a powerlifter at the time. And people always ask you why you're training with the football players and not with the bodybuilders. And so because the bodybuilders don't train as hard as these guys. And I just wanted to find the hardest training people I could. You guys train incredibly hard. And that's what was so. He trained really hard. He trained really hard. You trained really hard. Did he try to hurt us? This is a lot. He's like, no, you can do it. No, you got it. You got it. You got it. So I remember the whole gang. I brought my Jeep out to the parking lot across from Watson Stadium. And Kevin Parker and Paul Wiggins. And we all went out there and started pulling and pushing the Jeep across the parking lot as part of our training session. And remember KP used to jump in the driver's seat and put his foot on the brake when we were trying to push and pull the damn Jeep. Yeah. So that was a good time. You got to see if we remember the story the same. You talked about that one time that we sprinted together. I did everything you did. That's what I wanted to do to show you guys, you know, to kind of lead the way. I don't ask anybody to do anything I won't do. I've always been that way. So I think you and I were in the practice field. It was an indoor stadium when it was first built. Stan J was there. Stanley Johnson was there. And kind of jokingly, we got up and we were going to sprint together. You and I got on the 50 yard line and started to sprint. And so J called it and we took off and about 30 yards in, you look over at me and I look over at you and you kind of had this look of shock on your face. This 280 pound meat head power lifter guy. You were stride and stride. And then what happened? You had another gear. Oh yeah, I thought you put your hand on me but you know I had more gears than that. I was shocked. I think you were kind of surprised I was still anywhere near you. Well I was surprised that you could move that fast. Because back then all we thought to do was the stair step and that was it. So your bigs couldn't get his knees out and couldn't get going a little bit but he was actually moving pretty good. I'm quite to be surprised he was moving pretty good back then. And then Dino turned out, he looked over at me and I looked over at him and we're like doing this at yard 30. And next thing you know he just goes shh shh shh and he just takes off and it was like lightning. But what's funny about that is you know I would run with Paul. And Paul was 300, 305 pounds and I would go out and sprint with him at Hayward field in the morning. Remember he used to come in and tell you how frustrated he was that I would beat him all the time? Yeah. Yeah. Well he just, he had to assume he changed the athlete too. Yeah I played soccer since I was 6 years old. So I did have a little bit of wheels left even though I was 280 pounds. But it was fun. It was part of the process I guess is the point. I used to go out with Paul in the mornings at 6am and block with him too and that wasn't very good for me. Because he was, he was just, oh my god he had those long arms and he was about the 6'4", 315 pounds and he'd been playing that position since he was 6 or 8 years old. And I never felt anything like that when I went to block against him. It's just like pushing on a brick wall. So you know what, I mean, when I look back on it, I think about this. Paul and I were the first two guys that you worked with. Yeah. And then Biggs worked with. We were the first two guys that he worked with over there and both of us were draft teams. Both of us got draft. Paul went from being soft to filling out. He was a round guy. He went from being a soft round guy to a defined big guy that played offensive tackle. You know, I mean, I can credit my games to Biggs for me. I can. I love shit Paul probably can too because we had to get something different. We had to train different. We had to be a lot more serious about what we were doing because back then we didn't have the resources that even though I was in a Power 5 2, we didn't have the resources that the kids have now. And I talked to the kids on a regular basis. I'm always in the kids here talking about getting reds, making sure that they do this, take care of their brand and just doing all the little things. We didn't have that. We had it when I met Biggs. That's when we got that other side that the kids are starting to get now that a lot of them don't realize how important your diet is. How important your diet is to healing when you get injured, what you're eating, how much risk you're getting, not overworking yourself. That's what most of the kids don't understand is eating right, training right, getting the proper risk and doing the little things to allow yourself to be successful. Yeah. I remember Paul's first workout. You brought him in and he trained with us. At the end of the workout I said something to you and you told Paul. You remember what I said? I don't quite remember but I don't think you thought it was going to be as hard as what it was. I said to you at the end of that workout after Paul left in you and I were talking and I said, that's a starting pack 10 college football player, Lineman. You told Paul and then he doubled down. He came back the next day. He didn't quit because I was kind of shocked. I didn't think he was muscular enough or strong enough. It's the way I felt about that. I was just being honest that if he's going to play in the NFL, he got to get stronger and so I just verbalized that to you. You went and told him, Biggs doesn't think you're bigger strong enough. Back then he wasn't because I think I was doing just as much as he was on bench. I was a little guy. One of the things that Biggs taught me how to do was he taught me how to lift. So it's like people don't realize this but I haven't lifted weights in maybe four or five years. I go to university right before they went to Rose Bowl, put like four or five on one and still did it. Because I know how to lift. My technique is on point. I know how to get up underneath that weight and I know how to push it. I haven't lifted in three, four years. The last time I did that much weight was when Biggs came down. Years ago when me, you and Paul worked out that it goes. That was the last time I worked out that heavy was then. Before that, I hadn't worked out. It's been a while before I worked out that again. Well, I want to keep walking through the timeline. You played a bit for the Patriots under Bill Parcells and you won't even you played for the Panthers. I remember you got me some tickets for their San Francisco game. I came up and watched you there. And then you released after you worked for the Panthers for a while, you were released and you came home and I wasn't aware at the time. I think you might have been disappointed or discouraged. You didn't want to share it with me. I read an article in the newspaper at the time that you had retired from football and you were starting a business. If you recall, but I cut that newspaper article out and I came down to your business and I showed it to you and I was challenging you. I said, really? You're retired? What happened then? I got remotivated and decided I wanted to go back and play football. I had two of my hamstrings. It was a high hamstring care and it took me over a year to recover from it. Yeah. And while I was working, Ben Biggs would get up at 6 o'clock every morning and go to this low school or in school, which was right around the corner from my house and we would work out every morning. He did everything I did. He would run with me. He would run me to the drills. He would throw me balls. For me, getting bad balls was big, throwing footballs would be the best. Bad balls for a rent-a-back is still a good drill because it allows you to still catch balls. Every ball is not going to be important. We got up every morning at 6 o'clock and worked out every day before I went to work until I went back, trained with New Orleans. My agent had a couple of workouts for me and I went down on my very first workout after me and Biggs had been working out for quite a while at 6 o'clock in the morning. I go to work out and they sign me before I left the building in the awesome. That was an awesome experience. That was a great season too. He had over 50 carries for almost 1200 yards for the Saints that year. That was incredible. I ended up having over 1000 yards on kick returns. I was starting kickoff returning for the Saints at the time and I went from on the street to starting kick return for the New Orleans Saints. That was the problem season. Those 6 o'clock workouts were the first thing in the morning and Biggs got up and he did them with me. He did everything with me. I figured if he wanted it just as much as me, then I can get up and I can go out and work and do what I had to do to be successful. I'll tell you a story. Nobody knows this and I'm not going to mention any names because it's still kind of in the works. But just before Christmas last year, I was reading a newspaper article and I don't really follow football much now. I work with Lane Johnson from the Philadelphia Eagles, the offensive linemen. I did his nutrition forum last year and been helping them out. But other than that, I don't really watch much football. I work with some other football players as well. I'm not a fan of the sport necessarily. But I'm reading probably on Yahoo News or something. I see this article about where are they now. We're talking about an athlete of football running back. Quite a good one. Had a 1200 yard rookie season. But he got cut. He was overweight. I just sent him a DM out of the blue. I got on the Instagram just after reading the article. Don't know him from Adam. Never met him. Never talked to him. Didn't even know who he was. I sent him a DM and said, hey, you want to try and get back into the league. I told him who I worked with and that I could help him with his nutrition. And just after Christmas, he sends me a DM back and he says, hey, I'll give it a try. So I've been flying down there once a week now for the last four weeks and we'll continue for the next three months until tryouts late April. And I haven't disclosed yet who it is and what we're working on because it's real early in the game. But it's just a passion that I've always had. I don't get anything out of this. I'm not tied to his contract or anything. It just kind of took me back to that very moment when I read that article and I came down and talked to you when we started training at 6 o'clock in the morning. Here's an incredibly talented individual who either suffered an injury or in this case just didn't have the right nutrition program or the right disciplinary knowledge with respect to his diet. So I just think it's incredibly, it's a great opportunity for someone who has the skill. Obviously you've been playing football since you were six and this running backs and playing since you were six years old too. If somebody comes to me for help and they don't have the skill set, there's very little you can do in a short period of time. They come to you for help and they don't have the strength or they don't have a good nutrition program and a host of other things that are controllable factors in the short run. That's an extraordinary opportunity for people. I just wanted to throw that in there, that's kind of a teaser that something I'm working on now that I hope to be able to share with everybody here in the near future. It's obviously a long shot. You get released from the league to try and come back. You've got to be on your game because coaches are not just interested in your performance but they're interested in whether or not you're going to be a good fit for the team. And just reminding Viggs that this kid, just reminding him that it's not going to go as he thinks it may go but just let him know that mentally he has to realize that any rep that he gets, he has to be impressive. Anything that he do, he has to be impressive. And reminding him when he gets that opportunity to get back in that building, reminding him that what it felt like not to be in that building. And so what he has to do is he needs to beat the coaches there and he needs to leave after the coaches leave. First one in, last one out and they will see it but he has to put that time and effort in because he has the rest of his life to run the streets, hang out or do all the other unnecessary things. When you think that when you're in the field, you're supposed to go do all the other things that come with it which is hanging out, going to parties. And when you look and you see the guys that play for long periods of time, they're the guys that take care of their body, they take care of their nutrition, they take care of their financial part. And then later they decide to start doing all the business stuff and if they want to hang out, they can hang out. But by then you're just kind of over it because you knew what it took to get where you were going. So if he goes back with the right mindset, it sounds like he might have got there and got comfortable and forgot what it took to get his mind right, his body right, have the right nutrition, make sure he's getting enough sleep, make sure he's trained the correct way, make sure he has the right people around him. Those things are important people that if you're not adding to that, you're not going to get in value, they're taking value. So just make sure that he has that good core group of people that believe in him and expect nothing but good things for him in return for their support. And that's it. That's an important message on a few things. One you said when you were coming up in football at the University of Oregon, they didn't have the training tables, they didn't have the organization and the monitor and the supervision and all of that. This athlete's a younger athlete who had all of that in spades. He was followed around everywhere and told what to do all the time and never had to make a personal decision with respect to his whole college career, etc. Then he gets the NFL and nobody's really supervising. You just have to be there on time. So nobody's monitoring his diet, nobody's monitoring his sleep. You know who was really good at that and you followed the team closely over the years. You're still there in Eugene, Oregon and you still participate with the team. Chip Kelly, when he was running the dogs, he tracked everybody's sleep. He had bed monitors. Like you said, they tracked every meal, how much they ate, all of that. And then when he went to the Eagles, he didn't have control of anything off the field. And everybody's like, oh, well that hurry up offense didn't work in the NFL. I think it had a lot less to do with that and a lot more to do with the fact that he, Chip, had controlled the athletes to such a degree that he had made them better athletes. Kind of what I wanted to transition into next was the difference in the training between the athletes historically at university had been a bit smaller and a bit maybe better conditioned and rightfully so because they ran the hurry up offense. The problem was, and we saw it, I don't know, it was five, six, seven years. I don't remember specifically because I'm a too avid a football follower, but I remember that the defensive line was getting pushed around. They were getting driven down the field by some of the big Midwest colleges. Yeah. And even Stanford. Yes, yep. And that started to be a problem and that's kind of what got people transitioning into these bigger, stronger guys and brought in the whole new strength team, which you mentioned earlier headed by Aaron Feld and Jeff Eaton. Name some of these players and the transition that occurred. These guys came out of Carolina, you said? Well, actually Coach Bill, he came from Mississippi. Well, he played a college ball at Mississippi State. He was a long snapper. He ran into Coach Crisaball at Alabama. So he went from Alabama to Georgia and then he came out here. Well, one of the things that when Coach Taggart originally came, the stigma on us because he came with Coach Crisaball, came with Taggart the first time out. Well, the stigma was, our guys were soft. They were soft and they weren't strong and they weren't big. And so one of the things that Coach Taggart did, he bought in a guy that wanted to get the guys bigger and stronger. Well, the problem with that bigger and stronger was they weren't flexible. And so he was more about getting bigger, but it wasn't about the flexibility and the explosive plays and all those type things. And so what Coach Crisaball did when he bought Coach Field in was to create the explosion and being strong and getting mass. Coach Field is about, he's about explosion. He's about, you know, just jam. Just knocking the guy off the ball, being explosive. So everything that they do now is about explosion and gaining, gaining girl. Like I'm giving an example, you look at Justin Herbert. Herbert Pryor and Herbert Nell, he went from a guy to a dude. I mean, if you see him now, he looks like a, I mean, he looks like a dude. And that's from the program that transformed his body into, he looks the part of it in that fail all pro quarterback. He looks the part. Every single player we got, I told Coach Field, right, not too long ago, I was just thinking about like, hey, just watching these kids, when these kids walk around the community now, they look like football players. Yeah. They look like, you know, football players before they can blend in and you wouldn't know who was who. But now they look the part. And the cool thing about it is the guys are stronger, they're faster and they're, and they got a lot more explosion in their, in everything that they do from their hands to their footwork to everything that they do because it's how they train now. But the program is completely different where it's a lot of the same things that coach Rad did without, without now they're getting a mess with that. More food. And they're getting, and they're getting, and the cool thing is, is they're getting more food than they've ever gotten before. So they get to eat, these kids get to eat as much as they want. When we cook for them, I mean, it's like we put the food out, they get to eat. Like they get to eat as much as they want until the, and then they get to eat as much as they want. And then guess what they get as you're walking out? To go play. Yeah. Yeah. They got to go container to take food with them. Okay. Yeah, that's something new in the last, I'm going to screw up the year here, but the NCAA, they used to regulate very highly how much food the athletes could eat. And now recently with the deregulation, they can do that, but I mean, as much as they want. Yeah. They used to be scrutinized bad. They bring in pallets of fluids for these guys to take. So these kids would be leaving with maybe a couple cases of getting each, leaving the facility. They make sure that they stay hydrated. They make sure that, I mean, it's unreal. I'm just kind of like, oh my God, what is somebody taking time off? They make sure that they're hydrated. They make sure they get as much food as they need to get. They make sure that these kids never have to worry about being hungry at all. And they get a lot of high calorie stuff as well. Yeah. I came up to Oregon a few years ago and you toured my stepson through the, is it the night center, the new $60 million. The HTC, they called the Heifer Downing Center. Yeah. Yeah. The $60 million facility. And a couple of things that stuck in my head in particular, other than the fact that they had football leather on the walls of the media room and those big Ferrari leather embossed Oregon seats in their video, in their big video hall. Two things that were huge. One, they said they flew in cooks from culinary school back east to cook all the food and their training tables were ridiculous. And it wasn't macaroni and cheese and stuff. It was salmon and steak and chicken and they had just massive amounts of food. And I think on the wall it said something like, something about eating, eat to grow or eat to win. Big, you know, written on the wall up there. And they did, they tracked all the players' meals as well. Like you said, they have a monitor. The other thing I noticed is that when the players came off the field, before they got to the locker room, they were handed shakes that they had a whole group of people back there making shakes and writing their names on them. And I leaned over and asked one of the guys that was prepping shakes for the players so they could get them. They were supposed to drink them before they go to the locker room and then they could go change and whatever and then they have to go eat after that. And that was every day after every practice. And I leaned over and asked the guys, what kind of mixture? He goes, well, some people have their own special shake and he goes, but a lot of them are just chocolate milk. I thought that was funny. They were just trying to give them calories. Salt, protein, carbs, just right after training. So that's been a huge... And they still do that till this day. And right now, I think Jumbo Juice is the one that supplies their shakes now. So come out, there's Jumbo Juice is all ready to go and the guys come out and then they might have some supplements that they might have to take too as they're coming out replacement too. So, I mean, this nutritionist thing is like, well, it's kind of a big deal having someone that to monitor these guys' weights and gains and losses. And I mean, I'm going to be honest with you, it's unreal how they try to maximize these kids' potential with making sure that they're well taken care of. Well, and it's very different from school to school also, because I know here at UNLV, I was pretty much the first one that worked with our football team closely and that was in 2015. I mean, we're talking very recently and there's a lot of other colleges out there that don't necessarily have the resources that U of O does. And that's about resources. Yeah, and so that was a big part of their recruiting was us. Like if you come here for the Mountain West, we were one of the only schools that they were going to get access to somebody like me who was going to help with their nutrition. And it's a big deal because there's a lot of schools that still don't have that. So they don't have a nutritionist either? They do now, but that was new as of 2015. And we built it out and then the athletics saw the value and they put in a faculty line for it. But there's a lot of schools that just they haven't budgeted that that line item yet to hire somebody. So a lot of it falls on the strength coaches and a lot of them are very knowledgeable, but they're they're trained in these guys. You know, they can't do everything. So, you know, there's there's just a lot of colleges that haven't quite figured out necessarily what that budget looks like yet or or how to implement it. So yeah, and the strength coach and nutritionist work hand in hand with the kids need to. Oh, yeah. They have to. And I know that the coaches stay on top of the kids with, hey, you know, such and such is down five pounds. Hey, what's hey, hey, he's down five pounds. It's almost like, whoa, so it's like we got to get back up. I'm like, are you serious? It's like, yeah, five pounds. It's just five pounds. But everybody has been smart and a place to be. And this is I'm going to be I mean, it's crazy. Everybody has a way where they supposed to be at. And they make sure that they hit those numbers. Yeah, it's a huge deal. I remember working with Lane, he had a registered dietitian working with them, but the diet they had given him, he's three hundred and twenty five pounds. He needs to pull down five, six, sometimes seven thousand calories a day, depending on his workload. He couldn't eat all of that food. See, I having been a guy that went from 140 pounds to over 300 and back and forth with me, bodybuilding and powerlifting, I've had to eat a lot of seven, eight thousand calorie days throughout my career. And I know the difference between what foods you can and cannot eat in that quantity. And so I was able to design a meal plan that was feasible, something he could actually eat, not something I read in the book and plugged into a chronometer and handed him. So that was the big thing is because those guys, he in particular is a pretty lean guy, and so he would lose five, seven pounds real quick. And so that's one of the big things in terms of keeping weight on people. You have to get them enough calories, but the calories have to be the kind of food you can eat day in, day out without getting bogged down. Yeah, the calculations are worthless if it's not logistically feasible. So you mentioned the transition into the new strength coach, which has had a huge impact on the size and the strength and the explosiveness of the players. They're not getting pushed around over the field anymore. And obviously that has been a big reason why they were so successful this year and were able to go to the Rose Bowl and win. They had a little bit of a hiccup there when they transitioned. They brought in a strength coach that worked them a little too hard, and there was a couple of boys that end up with some high creatinine, maybe some preliminary RABDO. They did some supervision, but they were all fine. And I think that, rightfully so, they kind of monitored that. You've got to be careful how quickly you transition these guys. But it was understood that that was the goal, was to get these guys bigger, stronger, more explosive. It seems like they settled in on a great team now, and you've a great strength group now, and you've had the chance to see a lot of that in operation. Have you been working? I know you did some stuff with South Eugene High School, with Chris Miller at one point. Has that been some years? Are you still involved in football with teams or individuals now currently? Well, we're not individuals. The most I get involved now is, is I get the opportunity to feed the kids a lot. So we'll feed the kids where there is. I mean, some victory meals or Thanksgiving meals, or just meals. Yeah. You know, the post game meals, we get to feel. And those are usually those high calorie counts where we, you know, we bring in, you know, tons of mac and cheese. So they might go through like eight or nine deep pans of mac and cheese, or a normal, or a normal same amount of people will go through like three. But they can get as much mac and cheese as they want. Collard greens, beans, candy, and brisket chicken.  alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, alfalfa, really everything else is taken care of. And so when you mentioned protein, that's one of the keys in order for a kid to grow up through adolescence and the teenage years and to maximize their genetic potential. They just need adequate protein to repair and to build and all of that. And so that was important. The second thing you mentioned was hydration. And children in particular, they don't have the, what would you call it? The thirst mechanism. The thirst mechanism that allows them to go get water when they're thirsty. It's delayed. And so you got to stay ahead of them, especially when it's hot out and the like. And not just with water, but with the electrolytes. Yeah, they need the sodium along with it. They need salt, for sure. So those are two big things. His kids, they'll run and run and run and get all purple and red in the head and have, and not have the same mechanism to run for water. You got to stay on top of it. I remember one of the coaches where my son was playing football, he wanted to get water and he said, water is for the weak. I went through that too. Yeah, I was shocked. This is a high school football coach. And I was just shocked that he would say that, particularly for young, you know, for adolescents. I grew up playing hockey and they would take the water bottles off the bench. Like, we couldn't even have them at practice because you were considered weak if you were drinking water. As a punishment. Yeah. Well, D, man, anything else you got going on? It's been an awesome walk down memory lane for me and a lot of great lessons for athletes and coaches and parents along the way. Yeah, maybe what's your top three for the parents out there, you know, that are looking to get their kids pretty serious into some athletics? What would be like your top three recommendations? You know, one of my big recommendations I always let parents know with the young kids is when kids are in middle school, there ain't no college coaches out here giving them scholarships. So, I mean, let the kids have fun. It has to be fun. Fun is important. It can't be about you and what you didn't achieve. So make sure the kids have fun because if you're not having fun, then it becomes a job. Because once they get an opportunity to college, then it becomes a job. So you want to have as much fun as possible. So when it's time for them to reach back later, they'll remember how much fun they used to have. Because once you get to college, it's a job. I mean, let's just be, it's a job. And then, you know what? Let your kid play multiple sports. It's important. They need, and they need to play with their friends. That's important. And don't feel like you have to shop your kid to the best available high school out here. Thinking that going to the best high school is going to give them a chance. No. Just, he or she can be the best athlete on that team. Because you know what? They still have to play on those same really good teams. And so if they're still doing really well with working with nothing, against a really good team, the coaches are like, who's that kid? Not the kid that's on the staff team that's doing good, but the kid that's on the team that's really weak doing good. So don't feel like you have to shop your kid to the best high school or transfer him to some private school because they're getting a bunch of scholarships. We are getting a bunch of scholarships. The team is stacked. So that's where everybody's at. So, I mean, let them play with their friends. Let them have fun. And if you're good enough, they'll find them. That's great advice. Yeah. Well, Big's awesome catching up with you. I got to get down to Eugene again, eat some of that food, hang out with you, maybe go bench press. I mean, get a rematch of our sprint. I don't know who's going to win now. I'm just trying to block snap. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thanks a lot for joining me, Big's. Have a good day. Thanks.