 Hey, guys, it's Dan Eppnerty here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible, and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy-to-follow vertical diet e-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet Meal Prep Company offers free shipping, your favorite meals, delivered to your door in the US and Canada. So head on over to staneffnerty.com and get started. Hey, everybody, welcome back to the Vertical Podcast. Dan Eppnerty, founder of the Vertical Diet. Here with my permanent co-host in this bodybuilding world, this is the great Flex Wheeler. And we've got a very exciting guest on today, someone I have a little bit of a history with. I'm excited to talk to him. And I have extensive history. Yeah, those Flex Wheeler. All over the world through Turkey and everywhere. Absolutely. Hey, my wife, when I told my wife, she was getting ready to head to the gym. And I said, hey, and I got your text. And I was like, oh yeah, that's right. And I said, Flex and Stan is about to call me. She was like, Stan, I said, yeah, Stan Effnerty. And she was like, isn't that the guy you had to fight with? Fight. I love it. I love it. I love it. She was like, isn't that weird? And I was like, yeah, that's a good forever ago. That's sports, man. So it's the great Johnny O. Jackson we've got on the site today. He was the 2001 NPC national champion. First and overall, got his IFBB Pro card. And man, you have been competing a lot. I looked back at some of your years. How did you manage to do five shows, six shows, seven shows a year? I have no idea. I've learned I've done 80 shows over my career. So yeah, it's pretty amazing. I wasn't counting, but I'm a doer. And if I'm not doing anything, I think I'm lazy. And I'm going backwards. And I grew up in very humbly beginning. So if I'm not active, I'm going back to that. My biggest fear is living like that again. So I constantly like doing, trying to make money, whatever, so I can avoid going back to where I came from, actually. Well, you're doing what you love. And it is hard work. But I can remember a brief story when I was a young man and I was working for a property developer. And it was a difficult time in the business. And anyhow, I asked him, I said, how do you do this? How do you tolerate all this stress? And what have you? I was a teenager at the time. And he looked at me and he said, young man, I was in Vietnam. And it made me think here that you yourself were in Desert Storm and Desert Shield. So this probably has to seem pretty easy to you by comparison. Oh my god, yes. And mind you, I turned 21 over there. We left country January 7th. And my birthday is January 30th, actually, a couple of days from now. So I was sitting on a cot over in Saudi at 120 degree weather going, hey, I'm 21 today. Lucky me. See, I think we lose sight of that. A lot of people think they're going to war in the gym. And you train harder than anybody. But just to put it in perspective, that this is something that we get to do, not something that we have to do. Yeah, for sure. That's somewhat why I'm the way I am. Because this is such a blessing. And guys really lose focus on that. Like, not everybody gets to do what we do. And especially at the highest peak of it. You know, of course, I would love to have a career like Flex Wheeler. Like everybody else. I know. You got to be careful. It's a total honor, Flex, for sure, to be here sitting, not physically with you, but still across from you, talking with you. It's always an honor, man. I can't explain it to you. I really appreciate it. I'm sure everyone would feel the same way. Much respect. And it's such an honor just to hold conversations with you, for sure. I really appreciate it, Johnny. The same is you find out who your friends are when things are not going your way. And we've always hit it off. Never had an issue between us. And that's rare between athletes and everything. But I consider you a true friend. Love watching you compete on stage. And for no geese like me to see somebody like you out there still kicking butt and taking names, man, it's going to be very pleasurable sitting in the audience watching my boy up there get down again. Yeah, man. Well, to see you guys eyes on me is definitely. And just to hear the little backup, for sure, inspires and motivates me to keep doing what I'm doing, for sure. And that's one of the things I told Branch, is the response of the peers of the older guys that means so much to me. And to see here you guys say stuff like that to me. And I've never reached you guys' placings or your guys' status or not even close. But you guys still talk with me and treat me with respect. And I really appreciate it. And you're setting some records yourself. You've got to be damn near. 13 Mr. Olympia's already that you've competed in. This year. It's pretty incredible. I don't know too many people who have had that kind of longevity. And you're still killing it. Flex and I have talked to a few of the, I don't want to say older, but at 48, there are some guys there that are younger than you. And most of them tend to train now a little more conservatively, myself included, to be honest with you. At 52 years old, I can't do the stuff I used to. You, on the other hand, are still in there just crushing it. How is it that you are still able to do that, train with the amount of intensity that you do? I don't know. Just how I'm programmed. I mean, it sounds weird. But I don't know any other way. And I guess once I'm, I can't train that way, I don't know if I hopefully learn how to train without training that way, with a little bit more self-control and stuff like that. But for now, that's just the way it is when I walk in a gym. It's turn on time. And I like to get it done. And it's still, the incentive is, of course, competing. And stuff like that. Even when I wasn't thinking about competing and bodybuilding, I still was doing a little bit with Josh Bryan, with the power lifting. And we were putting out some deadlifting eight week deadlifting, how to improve your deadlifting, and stuff like this. So I'm the type of guy that I'm not just going to talk about it. You get a lot of guys sitting back, talking about it, talking about it. But I'm going to show them. I like to get out, show it, get my hands dirty. And I'll be like, I'm not just talking about what will work. I'm going to show you what will work. And hopefully it'll work for you. So yeah, like I said, I'm a doer, not a talker. So it's either put up or shut up. Yeah, we've seen that throughout your career. And obviously, the results speak for themselves. And just for people who haven't been following very closely, Johnny's still pounding out 315 pound close grip bench presses for reps and 400 pound squats for reps and 100 pound dumbbell raises. You're doing some ridiculous stuff in there. My body aches watching you do that stuff, to be honest with you. But I also noticed that you do a lot of sets really, really under control with some lighter weights with very strict technique to get an enormous amount of volume in as well. Is that working as well for you? Yeah, for sure. We've always done it. We've not always showed it. But even this last ordeal with branch and stuff like that, and having a little bit of trouble filling some stuff out. So we now, more than ever, we'll do our heavy stuff, but we'll still at the end of the sets or at the end of the exercise, we'll choose a really light weight and just pound out some reps just to move that blood. Because we use heavy weight and get a lot of blood pumped in the muscle. Now we need to move it to where we want it to be moved to. So we'll get lighter weight and decide what to exercise. And let's say chest, for example, we want to hit the upper chest a little bit more or want to fill that out a little bit more at the end of the four or five sets. That six set will drop down more than half the weight and then pound out between 20 and 30 reps just to get that blood to move and incline, don't incline, maybe incline dumbbell presses. So to get that blood moved up into the upper chest more, all that blood that we got pulled inside the chest, kind of get it moved into that area. So yeah, for sure, we love lifting heavy, but we try to be smart about it. And then it looked like we're out of control and stuff like this. But either the positive maybe movement may be out of control, but the negative is totally under control. So one way or the other, we stay in control so we don't hurt ourselves. But if you're on the outside looking in, it just looks like chaos. Have you always been strong even when you were younger? I mean, sports and everything like that, have you always been strong? Yeah, I'm kind of weak now, considering when I was younger. When I was younger, I was just, dude, when I was a little kid, in high school, for example, when I was a freshman, I remember this guy, Nunzeal Costa, I think his kid weighed 200, he was like 275 pounds or so. In high school? And he was a senior. And we're in the high school gym, messing around and stuff like that, all the football guys, I think we were weighing in or getting pads or something like that. And there was Max on the ground. And everybody challenged me, was I able to pick him up and body slam him? And so they challenged Johnny and here we go. He went for a ride. So, and I was, of course, when I was little, I was short too. So everybody on Nestor made me because I was so short. Sure, I'm still shorter than everybody, though. But it was even worse when I was smaller. But yeah, I was incredibly strong. I worked on a farm, Henry Bonato's farm also. OK. And I was the littlest kid. I was 12 years old. The littlest one on the farm of all these Mexican guys. And I was the only one. I was the one, the only one at the end of the belt, you know, stacking the box, the peach boxes. So all these guys, older guys are like picking the ones out, you know, the bad ones out down the belt. They were, you know what I mean, doing whatever. And then it all get into his box and I'm like stacking these boxes, seven feet high, like, you know, I'm on my tippy toes trying to get them up on top of the, you know, pallet and stuff like that. And I'm like, at one point I'm looking like, why am I down here doing this? And all these grown men are up there picking peaches off the line. And that was crazy. But I was always super strong. You know, Johnny, you mentioned Branch Warren and I did a video, a YouTube video one time back. It was called The Reason Why West Side Barbell Athletes Are So Strong. And the gist of it was is that they were training with savages under Savage Coach with a bunch of great hardworking athletes. How important has it been? And it's so great to see you reuniting with Branch for this Olympia or for this Arnold. How important has it been to have somebody like that pulling so much out of you on a consistent basis to compete against you? Oh, my. I can't even explain it. I was, you know, we were talking about this the other day. I was talking to Branch about this and, you know, tell him, you know, don't make any mistake. Like I'm so motivated because he's he's got my back. We're going to tip for Tat. He's there every day. He don't have to do this at all. He's more of a family man. Got all these businesses going. Busy is all get out and he shows up every day with me. And it's someone I look up to, I admire, you know, as a human being, you know, as a businessman, as a family man. And for him to do that is is awesome. As like Flex said, when you find out who's your friend when, you know, push from the show where, you know, you get backed up in the corner. And I feel like I'm backed up in the corner because, you know what I mean? They got the Arnold and the stacked lineup. And but I'm ready to fight because I got him, you know, who better backup, you know, could you have, you know? And it's awesome. But I have to say he need to he need to call me say thank you because he's gotten big is all the last three weeks. I was looking at him like, holy crap, man. So yeah, he did. I tend to come back. The improvements to. Yeah, I know I've traveled extensively with branch. And man, he's always spoken incredibly high of you and how true your friendship is. And even in certain situations where somebody was putting, you know, someone down and man, I mean, his whole face and demeanor would change. And he would speak up and then mention about you. So you got a true friend there. But I've always asked him, are you going to come back? And he goes, man, I train like it. I want to. But and then when I try to come back, he's like, damn, well, maybe if you're doing it, I can try. But I'm wondering now that he's actually getting in some real good training and stuff like that. Is there any temptation of him potentially coming back? Well, for sure. Of course, I know, you know, the inner and stuff like that, the inner workings and all that kind of stuff. And yeah, he want to compete way worse than I do. To be honest, he won't tell you that. But yeah, he's biting at the bit to compete. But, you know, he's proud and you're prideful. And, you know, he set a standard for himself. So there's no way he'll step back on stage, you know, unless he can bring that same package or better. Actually, then when, you know, he decided to step off stage. And, you know, we're a little bit older now. No, not at all. Like this. So, you know what I mean? Whether that happened or not, you know, you know, I mean, we all know branch. He has the will, you know, to do whatever the hell he wants to do if he put his mind to it. And that's the God on his truth. And like I said, he wants to do it. But I'm sure he wanted to do it. If he did it, it would have to be in the right way. We have to look, you know, magnificent. And so he can, you know, continue to spread his word and his ideas and, you know, his motivation out to his fans and the world and stuff like that. So I'm sure, you know, any imperfection, you know, is going to affect him. And he's going to, you know, he's going to back off of it. So you never know. Stranger things, it's happened. Everybody has asked me if I'm going to compete in powerlifting again. I'm like, are you kidding me? Once you once you reach a certain level, you just, you know, after that, you just kind of, you know, you don't want to go back and do less than that. But it's extraordinary. It's very time consuming, too. I mean, you have to commit a lot of time to it. And you have a you have one child. Just to have to be 10 years old now, your daughter. No, she is here. She's biting that to get on. Yeah. Oh, is she? Well, yes, she's got to say. There she is. She's 11. 11. Yeah. I can remember you just had her back in 2010 when I when I saw you at the Phoenix Pro, you just you guys had just had the baby. And look at her how cool. Oh my God, how quick they grow. Yeah, she looks tall. Yeah. Oh, she is. She's almost taller than. Well, that's not saying. She's almost taller than me. For sure. I hate it. I mean, I walk around the house looking at pictures going, my baby's not going to be the smaller anymore. Yeah. Do you know how many times your father has posed and dedicated his song to you? So many times, so many times. We actually had a couple that, you know, we she got a little bit old. I think what when you were four, I guess we started. We started doing a little bit. I would point to her while I was on stage while I'm doing my routine. Yeah. Wild out together. Yeah. Beautiful. Beautiful. Yeah. You know, you just lead by example. I have a seven year old and a five year old and they and I go out in the garage. I have a little gym in the garage and so they come out and they do little lifting. And has your daughter been doing some of the same, just watching what you do now? She kind of picks up on that. She's been going to the gym with me since she's a baby. Yeah. Everybody still asks about her. Like when she's not with me, they're like, where's Georgia? Where's Georgia? She's since she was a baby in a little pack, walking on the treadmill with her head bouncing and going cardio. She's been going to the gym and me training my clients. She's right there with me and stuff like that and still do. And she's doing her own thing in gymnastics and basketball now. And dance. She's done some dancing and all that kind of stuff. So beautiful. You know, she she definitely, you know, she's athletic. She has an athletic spirit. And she appreciates the consistency and the commitment that it takes to be great. So she sees that in you. And now she's, you know, able to be the best at her sport amongst her. Yeah, for sure. Well, the best thing is academically wise. She's awesome. She's been on fast tracks. She's pretty much been in school. So that's the key education. All that other stuff is great, you know? Yeah. But education is definitely is the key. When's her birthday? My daughter's 11. My youngest daughter's 11 also. When is her birthday? December 30th. December 30th. OK. Yeah. Yeah. I thought we were going to share a month because mine is January 30th. And I thought, man, but she's going to go January 1st. Maybe stuck yet. And she was like, oh, no, I want my own. Oh, wow. She wants to be her own person. Yes, you want to be my own person. And at that, I want to have the same day, but different month, though. I'm going to really mess with him. So. So I got to know. So you got almost six weeks now to the Arnold and you're you're pretty strict on your diet. What are you eating right now? Oh, man. Well, I'm working with George Farrah. He's doing everything. So it's basically, you know, morning, 12 egg whites and. What I have is 12 egg whites. And now you got to you got me thinking because I got to pick and pull it up. They'll always do it. And it's four or five ounces of grits now. And then three hours after that, it's salmon, seven ounces of salmon and a cup and a half of white rice. And then three hours after that, there's seven ounces of chicken and a couple of white rice and then pre-workout, nitric acid and apple pre-workout. And then after workout, I get a way. What is it? Seventy five gram way. Shake and then 30 or 45 minutes after that, a Gatorade and then to Lapia fish, white fish. And asparagus and then salmon again, then asparagus and then 12 egg whites and asparagus or any kind of green vegetables. Well, you actually get a you actually get a cup and a half of rice, man. I would just be salivating at the mouth. For sure. Right there. Yeah. So I was curious then does Georgia bring over and open up a dessert in front of you these last six weeks? And. No, not really. It doesn't bother. She's a horrible eater. She don't. I mean, God, she loves just chocolate and junk. I mean, it's crazy. We let her get away with it. You know, it's kind of like you would think, you know, you know, even my wife, she she run marathons and she's, you know, kind of not a health nut, but eat good. But we let our kids do whatever they want. And that's one thing we said we wouldn't do. I know. But I mean, it is what it is. I get it. You know, what's what's funny. And I said this before another podcast, but I was at the NSEA conference this year and Dr. Jose Antonio, who's the president of the International Society of Sports Nutrition has two college age daughters. And he mentioned there in his seminar that the presentation he said, just make sure they get a gram of protein per pound of body weight and let it go from there. So I try. Well, I had it good in the beginning when she was really small. I, you know, fooled her in eating egg whites. And I get up and eat, you know, I eat that on all see. I love. I grew up, I'm not a country boy. I was born in New Jersey, but my parents are from Georgia. And so we grew up eating grits and all that kind of stuff. So I would, you know, make some grits, egg whites and some grits. And while she was a baby and she thought it was like big time because she was sitting back here and eat with me and stuff like that. And at one point she got her own fork of it coming. I'm like, I didn't eat that. I didn't make that much now. We're going to do a bit big now, you know? So then I had to make her a separate bowl after a while. But then as she got older, it's kind of like revered to cereal, cereal. Yeah. And more cereal. Right. You know, it's crazy. The upside for me is that if they're pouring milk in that, then they've gotten protein. So I'm happy. I'm fine with that. Let's take people back in over 10 years now, even though it's it still tends to be the first thing people mention when they talk about you or I as the world's strongest pro bodybuilder. Oh, yeah. That was an exciting time as the just to kind of give people an actual insider look at how that went down. You know, I had just earned my pro card and you and Ben White were set up to compete in the world's strongest pro bodybuilder. And so I reached out to see if if I could get in the thing. And obviously I was too late and had never competed in a pro show. So as you recall, Robin Chang got together with us on a conference call and said, hey, look, we'd like to set up a world's strongest pro bodybuilder for next year. And then, you know, we you and I spoke briefly with Robin and we thought that was a good thing to get behind. And we started promoting it. And then and then things got ugly from there. Then my buddy, Mark Bell, you know, Mark, everybody knows Mark now. But back then he was much the same. He just started we started shooting all these videos where I was just tossing out so much disrespect and mad talk that everybody really got behind it. I think it was hugely followed. I was shocked by the number of people that that got behind the whole world's strongest pro bodybuilder thing. You know, to me, I always thought it was kind of a circus side show. But man, it was such a big deal. And it seems like it goes back to, you know, Ronnie Coleman. And before that, it was a Lou Ferrigno and Arnold. Well, before that, even before like we did that, me and myself and Ben White before, even before that, I actually talked to Jim Manion. We talked, you know, quite a bit back then, back and forth. He called in here and there and stuff like that and check the owners and stuff like that. And I came up with idea and I was like, hey, you know, because in Ronnie with the Strauss a lot him and, you know, the owner of Strauss Kurt Strauss. They're really, really, really, really, really close. So and then back then Ronnie trained there quite a bit. And so I got a phone and I was like, hey, Jim, I said, you think if I talk to Ronnie and we put together, you know, kind of a, you know, exhibition where we lift against each other and stuff like that, you think you would, you know, support it and, you know, create it and stuff like that. And he was like, you know what, if you get Ronnie to do something like that, I'll definitely create, you know, and do whatever. So I went up to him. I saw, I was like, cool. And I went up to him and Strauss and I was like, hey, Ronnie, I said, I talked to Jim and he said, you know, dad, if we lift against each other and I said, if we, you know, make some money, you can take the bulk of it. I don't care. It's just going to help me out, you know, and help my career. You know, he had nothing to win from it, you know, tell you the truth. Right. You know, with Ward, on my end, they're getting noticed and stuff like that. And I said, he said, you know, they would create something and this, that and the other. And he was like, oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. Look at me and stuff like that. And I was like, cool. It walked away. And then Dave, his name is Dave. He's a brain surgeon. They're all really close. He came to me later on. It was like, yeah, when you walked away around, it was like, yeah, that's never going to happen. So that's before we created the been white myself and been white thing. I tried to get something like that going, you know, just because of, you know, I seen how Ronnie lift and everybody was all into that. And I discovered how strong I was because I'm really, that everybody think I came from a powerlifting background. I never did. Even in the military, they were trying to get me to power lift, but I really wasn't interested in it. You know, I was trying to find a bodybuilding team while I was in the military, but they don't have a bodybuilding team. They only got a powerlifting team and Johnny Graham, matter of fact, was the coach of, I don't know if you heard of him or know him, Johnny Graham, but he puts on a lot of powerlifting meat and stuff like that. But he was a coach, the head coach there in Fort Hood for powerlifting and stuff like that. And I talked to him and you know, stuff like that, but I just wasn't interested in it. Right. And so happened Steve Goggins, he had held the record with squats. At one point it was a 1033 when that was when I met him. And he saw me in a gym lifting and he was like, Holy shit, Johnny, you're strong. You should power lift. And I was like, okay. And so I started lifting with him and Kirk and that group. And that's why when I started powerlifting, like I had no interest at all, but I had so much respect for Steve and looked up to him that I was like, if this guy's saying it, I must have something going on. And if this gives me a chance to work out with him, then cool. Let's do it. And so they organized it and and there off we go. Well, it's interesting you said that about how you approached Ronnie because it was a good opportunity just for the marketing because people really are interested in how the strength, even though it has nothing to do with absolutely. I think it was a detriment for my career. We'll talk about that in a minute. But when I got to flex, he wouldn't let me squat, deadlift or flat bench press. Not one time the whole time. Well, one time the camp was different because you were a powerlifter and that's what you did. So your body wasn't going to change. Right. You're doing those do's exercises that you've done all this time, you know, at a high level with so much weight, you know what I mean? So that wasn't going to activate your muscles to get them to grow by, you know, doing those movements. Absolutely. So I totally understand that. Yeah. And there was one time we were down in Venice doing a video shoot. Yeah. We had to please let me bench for the video because I wanted to throw some weight on the bar. But other than that, we didn't know that was smart because yeah, you would. I'm not going to say there's no way, but it would have been. Yeah, you would have been had been hard, hard struggle to gain any kind of, you know, muscle size, you know, full muscle bellies and stuff like this, you know, by, you know, doing those powerlifting movements, something that your body was used to. Yeah, it's all, you know, joints and leverage and you know, flex. You got me the best shape of my life. I was the fullest and and look the best I ever looked. I never again achieved that condition because I focused so much on powerlifting after that. And I wasn't able to. Peanuts and almonds. Yeah, people don't get it. Yeah, people don't get it. They're, they really are two different monsters and you have to be conditioned. Like a lot of times, you know, me and Branch, you know, long time ago, we would, you know, tend to get with Josh Bryant and have him train us for a while and powerlifting, you know what I mean? Improve our thickness and stuff like this. And, you know, half of the time within three or four weeks, he would, you know, pull something or kind of get have after aggravation with something because he, his body wasn't built, you know, for powerlifting, you know, or I'm not gonna say it wasn't built for powerlifting, but he never done powerlifting extensively for his body to be able to handle.  amyloid, you can't just jump into it either. You got to train and train up to it to be able to do these lifts and keep balance and all that kind of stuff. It's a lot more to it than just heavy weight and pick it up and put it down. Absolutely right. More and more now we're seeing from the research that the volume is probably the better predictor of hypertrophy. You and Branch have always done an extraordinary amount of volume and when you try and throw in heavy squats and heavy deadlifts with any significant amount of volume, you get just too much fatigue to recover, to dramatically imperish your ability to grow. People see you guys lifting heavy but you're also doing a really reasonable amount of reps, usually in the 10-12 rep range and you're doing lots and lots of sets and frequency at least twice a week. Yes, for sure. That's why you guys both had so much volume, so much round muscle. I'll say this, the year after, you qualified for the Olympia the next year and of course... That's the whole deal with me not lifting in that second one was bodybuilding is where I made my money. To tell you the beat, just straight up honest, 2009 was a shit year for me. That's when Georgia, we were having Georgia. I remember leaving the hospital just exhausted. I had to go to do cardio. There ain't no way in hell I should have been driving that loon, driving to the gym to do cardio and I do the stairs when I do cardio and I just remember feeling numb on the stairs. That's how tired and worn out I was. Just my detriment, sometimes of how, like I said, I like to do and like to go and I don't back down and if I say I'm going to do something, I do it. That's one of the times that I hurt myself that year because I was losing, wasn't growing, wasn't eating, wasn't getting any sleep, stressed out of my mind because we had a really complicated pregnancy and stuff like this. It took its toll and I was having a shit year and I couldn't qualify for an Olympia for nothing. I had that one chance left Atlantic City Pro at the end of the year, but then Robin called me with the world's strongest bodybuilder he had put together and stuff like that and asked what I do it and I was like, hell yeah. That's my excuse while I'm not doing the Olympia, competing in the Olympia because I'm doing the powerlifting instead of the bodybuilding. That saved my ass big time. I've talked about that before. I remember you in 2009. I remember that that was a difficult year for you. You had talked about the fact that you had Georgia on the way and you weren't at your former form. I often say that something great happened out of that. You and I both are very competitive people. I said that it brings the best out of people, but Johnny's best was bodybuilding and my best was powerlifting. You went on to re-qualify for the Olympia multiple times over and re-establish if not even exceed your historical best as the bodybuilder. It seems to me that you doubled down and focused more on your assets and I went back into what I was better at and set multiple world records in powerlifting. I thought it benefited both of us even though we didn't compete against each other. We were both very competitive to get better. I always look back at that thing as something that sparked both of us just to do more and do better at what we were great at. Absolutely. I always say that people never look back on something that you did and think, oh man, I wish I didn't do that or I wish I could change that. We got to go through what we go through to become the person that we were supposed to become, that God has planned. All our experiences leads up to the knowledge and the patience and the power to do things. Just being smart about our future and stuff like that and who we become and how we talk to people and how we present stuff. For sure, I had learned so much then. I had so much fun doing it. It would have been a blast to be able to lift again. I wanted to honestly lift again that next year but I need to make some money, man. You got another mouth to feed. I got to go make some time. Yeah, I want to lift. That's fun for me. Powerlifting, that's fun. I'm having fun. Even when I was earlier, when I was bodybuilding and I would get horrible, place horrible in the show, I would find a powerlifting meet to do right away so I could feel better about myself. I had fun and I love powerlifting but I don't make any money at it. I never told this story but the following year, when you qualified for the Olympian and competed in bodybuilding, Ben White also qualified for the Olympian. I don't think he felt as though he was ready yet to place well and the world's strongest bodybuilder was at risk of not happening at all because he didn't need to do it. He was qualified to compete in bodybuilding. There was $10,000 on the line. I don't think Ben felt as though he could beat me. I called Ben up and said, hey, I'll guarantee you the purse if you just compete against me. Ben said, I'm in and we got a little problem. You should have called me. I would have. For that same reason is because if it never had happened, I ended up getting a big spread in muscle muscle development, another one in flex. All kind of had really nothing to do with the bodybuilding. But because bodybuilding has such a broader right in audience space, it was nifty that I was a powerlifter but nobody would have cared. But it goes back to what we were talking about and what you said earlier. How significant lifting really is amongst bodybuilding. People really, they love bodybuilding, but they love the lifting part of it too. People used to tell me that the kids, when I was in the magazine, they would stop and count how many plates I had on the bar. Not just look at the picture of me posing or holding a bar, but they would count and see how many plates. Oh man. Yeah. I think that's why the longevity is the powerlifting added on to the bodybuilding would help me stay significant in a lot of people's eyes. Because it was just something different. I think it's more tangible. People can put their finger on it because you go into the gym lift, people can do that. With bodybuilding, not everybody can get on stage and look like that and pose and want to pose and want to have speedos on or posing and all that kind of stuff. But people love getting ready, getting pumped up and going to the gym. You could just show that you guys were more dimensional than most athletes. Absolutely. Powerlifters could not take their shirt off and go on stage at a world class level. And most bodybuilders can't go into a real powerlifting meet and get down. I think the common denominator is it just shows that you guys are pure athletes and elite athletes on that level because it's not too many guys who can cross over like Deon Sanders, who can play high-level baseball and high-level football or even the great Bo Jackson. I think you're right when you said it creates longevity and greater interest in that individual than just being a one dimension athlete. Absolutely. You know, it was funny story as we were up there on the stage and I was up there blowing my mouth off about how I was going to give away my Hummer and $10,000. I was like, no, don't give it up. That was over. I stepped down off the stairs and you know who Nick Best is? Strongman competitor, just a big freak of a dude. Absolutely. Nick comes rolling up to me. It's like face to face. He's like, I'll take your money. Are you kidding me? Yeah, he's like three bills. He's looking down at me all gruff with that big face of his. I'm just like, I'll get right back to you. Yeah, we'll talk about that, buddy. Later on. One of the requirements is you have to compete on a higher level of bodybuilding. So that checks you out. Sorry. And nowadays I have to try and make the distinction with Larry Wills. He said that the whole world's strongest bodybuilder. I have to say world's strongest IFV being pro bodybuilder. Damn, Larry is just a freak. Oh my God. Yeah, I went over to him in Dubai. I met him in Dubai. I saw he had a booth over there. So I snuck over there to meet him. I told him I thought he was incredible. The things he's done at the lifts, I think it's incredible. Isn't he one of those folks that when you see him on video, it doesn't do service. When you see him in person, he's a bigger man. He's got a broader shoulder. Yeah, he's just being alive. He doesn't have the same kind of volume as a bodybuilder were yet. But you still can tell. He doesn't need all that. Just being in his presence is like, you know what I mean? He's dense enough within himself to where you know this guy's more than a good-looking guy with glasses. Right. It makes you wonder. It makes you wonder guys like you and guys like Stan and what you guys done. I actually think that that helped create this new generation of hybrid bodybuilder power lifters. And obviously because of the META, they don't have to go on stage. But as long as they die hard and look pretty good and can throw up some weight, I don't think that probably would have ever happened if it wasn't guys like you at the forefront who jumped into both and done it extremely well because who would have thought of it? It takes someone to think of something first for people to better that. And now you have people like Larry Willis who's obviously a beast. And for me as an athlete, as a pure athlete and a pure competitor, I want to see people do better than I did. Right. Because that means that the sport is progressing. So you have people like Larry Willis and all that. And I think they're just hybrid babies of what you guys did before or else it wouldn't even be a platform for that to be seen. For sure. And I'm sorry Stan, but you know I'd listen to this, but he's a black man too. So that just warms my heart to see that being successful and so strong. You know what I mean? Absolutely. I have nothing none of that in me. I'm just saying, just being real, it's real. I'm proud of them and I love the fact because you know, like I said, I have a young son, of course, a young black man. And for him to have him to look up to, you know what I mean? And maybe he'll have a son and vice and so on and so on. So yeah, for sure. And I have these nephews and stuff like that and they watch them and it's just good to see, you know what I mean? Us come out of, you know, because where I'm from is not a whole lot of the diverse stuff going on. So they're stuck into, you know, what they see right there. Yeah, man. So it's good for them to see other people, but you know, color doing different things and like you don't have to play basketball because you're black and stick with that, you know what I mean? So it's pretty cool for me to see absolutely these guys be successful. And I cheer all of them on. Yeah, definitely. T minus weeks out from the owner classic. Give us an update on how do you look compared to before, you know, how things are going. I've been watching your videos on obviously on Instagram. And it's still, you know, you're still carrying that thickness. I always hated you and Brents for having that just that full chest. And I'd be like, I would always tell Brents, aren't you worried that it's going to tear? And he goes, what do you mean? I go, it's just so freaking big and full. I mean, how much more, how much can you more volume can you put in there? So give us an update on how things are going. Yeah, things are going great. We talk about it quite a bit and Brents is like, man, like nothing's changed. You know, like I haven't skipped a beat for sure. I'm really excited. In the two years that I did take off, I'm refreshed. You know, my skin, you know, Sean, matter of fact, Sean Roden stopped by, I was at LA, the LA Fit Expo and Sean was walking by and I was like, Oh, you know, I forgot about all his ordeal. I was so excited to see him because I hadn't seen him in so long. And I was like, Oh my God, Sean, come here, man. I think I got him by surprise. So I think he maybe thought I was going to be a little bit standoffish or a little bit like, Hey, man, but I was like, Oh my God, hey, come here, man. Oh my, look at you. You look good. And he's kind of like, okay. He was like, man, he was like, man, Johnny, what are you doing? Look at you. And I was like, man, I'm going to do the Arnold. He was like, man, you look good. He was like, look at your skin, your skin's thin too. And he was like, man, I got to watch out for you. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. He couldn't say nothing better to me than that, for sure. But everything's going good. Flex. Thanks for asking. I feel good. Like I said, I feel refreshed. Everything happening really quick. And even I send George, you know, every week, send him progress pics and he's like, Holy crap, things are happening quick. And you know, George, he's always like, come on, you got to die hard and everybody else. You know, I'm like, I am George, you know, I thought the pictures look good. And he's still like, come on, don't Johnny, you don't let me, you can't let yourself down. You can't, you know, I'm like, God damn George, I thought these were good. But then at the end, he's like, man, these, you know, I like the way the progress is happening really quick now, you know. And so yeah, things are looking good. And every day, I'm motivated. Every time I look in the mirror, I get motivated that I'm ready to go to the gym and put it that way. So we'll see what happened. I don't have any honesty, like I'm gonna do this or any expectations, but just, you know, kick my own ass enough to where, you know, I don't have to drag my ass up on stage. I don't give a shit. And I'm going to be peeled. And you deal with everything else afterwards, you know, well, I tell you what, man, I will definitely be looking forward to seeing you up on stage, you know, all the guys that I know, and I competed against, and even some of the young up and comers, I just live vicariously through them, you know, I'm doing just a great sport that I love so much, and they can still do it. So man, it's going to be, it's going to be exciting to see what you bring up there. Definitely, definitely. Yeah, we're both going to be there at the Arnold and you won't hear me run in my mouth. I see what you're lifting. We're back to go, a pity to fool. Will not happen. You know, we should take a minute because none of this happens without your great sponsors. You've been working for quite a while now with Mutant. It's been a real win-win for you. But yeah, I've been muting for a long time now. They really are a great company. I appreciate everything they've done for me over the last, I signed one of them in 2012. So it's been a while and they have to have my back. They surely have my back. And I was just out at LA Expo Rep and Mutant. We just came out with a new Brownie, Mutant Brownie. It's awesome. It tastes awesome. You guys, if you haven't tried it, you got to try it. I'll just send you my address, no problem. Yep, for sure. We'll get a box. Definitely. You, your flex wheel or clip, we'll get a box out to you, man. I'm not kidding. Yeah, I'm not either. I don't care if I got to buy it myself. We'll get a box out there to you for sure. Absolutely, man. So yeah, it's just exciting and exciting. Excited for 2020 for Mutant and myself and the new things that we got planned on being at the FIBO, body power, Europa, multiple shows out here, Reppin and showing the products off. And also still sign with Gasp as well. And that's going great. And actually, Gasp is somewhat of the reason why I'm competing again, tell you the truth, because I wasn't with him in 2017, but we were signed in 2018. And with that signing, we start pushing out some videos and then training for the videos. And you know, I'm somebody real, like if I can't do it, then I'm not going to preach it. I'm not going to try to fake it and try to show it if I can't do it. So I had to put it together. Then me and Branch, you know, you know, since I was with Gasp, we started scheduling video shoots together because our schedules weren't really meeting up to the train anymore. But the video shoots, we would. And then we went on the tour in China for 10 days in December, the Iron World Tour. Yeah. And we really got back in sync with that. Because we had to represent for the U.S. over there. Because they were throwing all these Chinese guys at us, the strongest Chinese guy and this and he know this and that and everything else. And he can do flips and whatever. So we had to put it together, you know, represent. And so we did and came back home and it just made sense and moved on down the road and it just snowballed into this. All of a sudden I was like, I couldn't answer. Why not anymore? You know, you know, do you want to compete? Why not? It's exciting to have you back. Really appreciate you coming on. You got a little less than six weeks and we've looking forward to seeing you when you're out there, brother. Thank you. I appreciate you guys and thank you for having me on here. Been awesome. And thank you for the platform. I really appreciate it. And I'm sure all the athletes that's come on here, they appreciate you guys too for doing this and giving us a voice, you know, and let people know what we're doing and how we feel about different things. So without you guys, you know, you know, people wouldn't know what's going on or we wouldn't be as significant. So really appreciate it. Thank you so much, Johnny, man. You have a great rest of your weeks getting ready for the show. And like Stan said, we'll both see you at the Arnold and we'll be rooting you on. Yep, definitely. I don't know about great because I'm hungry as hell and I'm tired. My knee hurt and my back is stiff. So I must be ready for some. Yeah. Cool. Like I said, always an honor flex. Stan, thank you. Great to see you, man. We can't wait to see you guys down in Columbus and we'll see what happens from there. Hey, guys, Stan Emberty here, founder of the Vertical Diet. We provide a simple, sensible and sustainable solution to help you reach your health and fitness goals. First, get started with our easy to follow vertical diet e-book, which includes a quick start guide and sample menus to customize a diet plan that fits your goals. Second, use the My Vertical Tracker app to help you monitor and maintain your progress. And third, for our busy clients who are always on the go, let us do the cooking for you. Our Vertical Diet meal prep company offers free shipping, your favorite meals delivered to your door in the U.S. and Canada. So head on over to stanemferty.com and get started.