 rinse. Hey, guys. We just landed at Forza. Forza. Forza. Forza. Forza. Forza. Baltimore, Maryland. And we're going to do a seminar here in an hour. I had some questions from the 60-day challenge, our $10,000 vertical challenge, which Bobby started, as a matter of fact. Bobby, how are you doing with that? I'm doing great. I'm down 15 pounds right now. My, the diet that I'm using right now is I'm eating my breakfast massages, and I'm eating the bison mash. My 10 minute walks I'm knocking out, yogurt and potato, the yogurt and carrots. Getting sleep, that's the biggest thing that I notice for myself is the sleep. I'm not waking up tired, I'm feeling great. So I'm getting about 7 to 8 hours of sleep every night and I'm doing training every other day. Yesterday's walk was more like an hour. We tried to walk down to the White House when we stopped in DC, which was a shit show because it's all fenced off and packed with people. There's nothing you can go lunch. That was a hell of a walk. We called an Uber but we just kept walking because they couldn't get to a seat or that's how bad we were. So I did get two questions from the Facebook group that I wanted to answer today. One was on calculating calories. I hate this question, there's no magic formula and everybody's different. We do use the Mifflin and Saint Giorre equation, there's many other calorie calculators on the internet. But it's just an estimate and calories can be very inaccurate way to measure intake. Restaurants are off by 50%, labels are off by 20 to 30%, registered dietitians are off by 20 to 30%. And we're off by 50%, just an estimating portion size as we tend to eat more than we think. So once you actually do calculate that number, understand that it is an estimate, you do need to create a deficit by reducing calories in order to lose weight or create a surplus by adding calories in order to gain weight. But then once you do that you're going to have to track all of your food intake and weigh yourself regularly to see how you respond to that number. I like to kind of back into the equation. I like to assign the macros, protein first being the key macro for weight loss and keep that relatively high around a gram of protein per pound of body weight. The only caveat there is if you're quite heavy, if your BMI is very high, you might go with a closer to a pound for lean body mass. And then I calculate the fats at about 0.3 to 0.4 grams per pound and carbs are the rest and that's the first one I can adjust if you don't get the results that you want. You just start bringing the carbs down until that scale starts to do the things that you want it to do, around 1% of body weight loss per week is a pretty good estimate of what you should be shooting for. So the next question was the glute ham raise. What modifications do you have for doing glute ham raises at home? First of all I would say that the best exercise for the glutes is going to be still the deep squat, that's the king. So if you can get a deep squat at home, if you have any weights whatsoever, even if it's a one-legged squat, then that would probably be better than trying to fashion up some sort of hip thrust or exercise. That would be an accessory and those are hard to load adequately, which we'll talk about in just a minute. The second thing to consider is that for glutes and hamstrings there's two ways to tackle these. For the glutes hamstrings, the hip hinge is one exercise that you want to include and then a knee hinge movement is another exercise that you want to include. The best hip hinge exercises are going to be your Romanian deadlift and your stiff-legged deadlift and maybe you can, based on the amount of weight that you have, you have to do one of those single-legged as well. That's an easy accommodation so the loading can be adequate for you to get some sort of result. The knee hinge, the best one is the Nordic hamstring curl. That one's a tough one, you probably wouldn't need assistance. You probably have to use a broomstick or get a band and tie it to a squat rack or maybe a chin-up bar behind you to assist you through that movement, but that's a great knee hinge movement that'll let you get pretty close to failure. The big thing to remember in terms of doing these exercises at home is you still want to get the best result. So you have to use science-paced hypertrophy principles, first and foremost, the frequency volume and load. The frequency you should train every body part twice a week. The volume should be 10 to 20 sets per body part per week. And then the load is the one that's most difficult at home, just the amount of effort that you put into the exercise you have to get within a rep or two of failure. Now whether you're lifting a heavy weight for five reps or a medium weight for 10 to 12 reps per set or a light weight for 20 reps per set, each of those can give you equivalent hypertrophy outcomes if you take them to within a rep or two of failure. So that's the biggest consideration to make. Well, that's a wrap on our questions this week from the Vertical Diet Facebook Club and our 60-day $10,000 Vertical Diet Challenge. I hope you guys are all staying on track. We're going to work hard with Bobby here for... We've still got another...what do we got? 39, 38. Something. Something. We don't need to keep tracking anymore. We've got a lot. We've got 60 cities and 60 days. August 11th will be the end of the tour and shortly thereafter we'll get all of your testimonials and award the prizes. Thank you for joining us on this adventure. We look forward to seeing you in a city near you. If you guys signed up to come see us, take care.