 what's the best exercise? TALOFA. Hello, and welcome back. I'm Stan Efforting, coming to you today, from the Goat Island Grill at Sadie's by the Sea, a beach resort bordering Pongal Pongal Harbor, one of the deepest harbors in the South Pacific, anywhere between 100 and 400 feet deep in places. The harbor accommodates large cruise ships and shipping containers headed to the port. This is one of my favorite spots to bring the kids for lunch or have a nice dinner with my wife, sitting on the deck overlooking the ocean and the harbor lights. Now, this is our final video in a series on how to lose weight and feel great. Let's talk about exercise. People always ask me, what's the best exercise? And my answer is always the same, the one you'll do. It doesn't need to be difficult or painful, and you don't need to spend two hours in the gym every day. The Department of Health suggests as little as 150 minutes of exercise a week, that's about two brisk 10-minute walks a day, can make a huge difference in your health. Now, you can most certainly do more, but ideally, it would be something that you would enjoy so that you'll do it consistently, which is far more important than higher intensity work done periodically, or eventually, not at all, because you simply don't enjoy it. Now, I suggest taking brief walks after meals, which has a myriad of benefits that I cover in my YouTube video. 10 ways 10-minute walks will change your life. Now, I put a link below. The vast majority of weight loss comes from your diet, so don't feel the need to crush yourself with exercise that you don't enjoy and won't consistently do. Just be consistent. And of course, I have to recommend doing some sort of resistance training as well. Whether that means joining a gym or just doing some air squats and push-ups, your muscles will love you for it. Exercise helps preserve muscle when you're losing weight, supports better mood and sleep, and makes it easier to maintain your weight loss long-term. So don't overthink it. Start small, stay consistent, and build from there. Thanks for joining me for this five-part series. I hope it helped simplify your health journey and has shown you that success doesn't have to be complicated. For coaching or other services I provide, be sure to check out the links below. And if you want to learn more about the island or maybe even come work out with me, you'll also find a link to the American Samoa Visitors Bureau. See you next time. Far off the tie.