 ascidentilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusilusil So we're gonna start with the skinny, which is our basic salad, and then on top of that we're gonna add to make our sports and steroids. Okay, let's start with the skinny. Okay. Where do we get all this stuff? This is all Costco, which is fantastic. Love me some Costco. You guys, when you guys are eating like this, you gotta go Costco, it's the only way to go. Yep. When we start with for the lettuce. Start with our romaine lettuce. I just chopped it up, washed it pretty straight forward. Okay. People ask me why I use romaine lettuce, not a whole lot of vitamins, this is compared to like a deeper greens. But one of the big things is that spinach tastes like dirt. So I use this. It's crunchy, it's cool. It's so easy to prepare. I mean, this thing is perfect. You just chop the end off of it. Bam, bam, bam. And you made this in like five seconds. Speed is important, of course, because we don't wanna be in the kitchen all night. Correct. So we start with that as the base for the salad. This is why we use romaine. It's also what we call a low gas salad. It's low FODMAP food. Which is always good to know. So next up, what else have we got? So on top of our lettuce, we have our delicious cherry tomatoes. I just cut them in half. No big deal, but super sweet. Yeah, I used to get the full tomatoes and dice them up. And then they have these at Costco, just little cherry tomatoes. Even if you don't wanna cut them in half, you can lob them in there and just... It's a nice burst of flavor. Eat them like that. One of the things about making these foods is they need to be convenient so that compliance is improved. It takes you half an hour to make salad. The likelihood that you're gonna do it consistently kind of goes way down. Correct, so correct. We're trying to make this kind of quick. I make this up every night. Use these salads initially when I get a weight loss client. I'll put them on a particular diet. And they'll lose weight for a while and they'll start getting hungry. And that's a problem. So when somebody gets hungry or they get tired, they're gonna start going off their diet, minging and snacking. So we throw the salad in mostly for satiety. I kinda ask them to eat dinner first, have your protein first and a little bit of carb, whatever you're allowed under your caloric allotment. And then eat this salad afterwards. It takes a long time to eat this salad. Very satiating. And then you're less likely to binge on things, particularly at night. So it's kind of the first meal we put it at. Let's keep going. What do we have? Also just another point. These are super sweet, especially right now they're in season. So now that people have a sugar craving at night time, this might satisfy that for them. Okay, next up we have some carrot. Do you wanna throw them in there while we go? Let's put the pail and that stuff on there. So let's put our tomatoes in there. Next we have some carrot, peeled, grated. Super simple, easy. Adds a nice bit of color and a little bit of flavor and texture. A lot of food is down to texture. You want a different textures because it satisfies your appetite. Yep. We're gonna throw in there next. I've got fat-free cheese up here. Craft has one you can get on Amazon, you can get it at Walmart. It was not available at Costco. And so we're just using Costco cheese, but imagine it's fat-free in the skinny salad. That's what we usually put in here. It's a nice texture and taste. Pop a little bit of there. Got a little bit of protein in the end as well. Yep. Next up, some extra protein. Yep. Hard boiled eggs. And just the egg whites in the skinny salad. Remember, trying to keep the protein or the calories down overall. This is a great one. Most of these eggs, these hard boiled eggs, if you get them at Walmart, they taste like wax. But at Costco, they actually taste pretty good. I usually eat them in the morning real quick before I go to the gym. So I just cut up a couple eggs. I took out the yolks for this purpose, but again, extra protein, texture, flavor, all that good stuff. Next up, we've got here berries. Strawberries are like 90% water. You've got some fiber in there. A pound of strawberries is about 120 calories. We're not putting a pound in here, but just gives you an idea how this is still a skinny salad. And it can taste delicious. The strawberry adds a nice taste to it. Or blueberries. We've got those up here as well. Whatever your preference is, but it really makes the salad taste good. Low calorie. Right there. And then that's pretty much it, right? We're just gonna dress it. Yeah, we mentioned we could add a little apple or orange to your preference. Sometimes I'll pop an orange in there. All I did for, you know, this will also kind of create a dressing, right? So if you add the orange or the apple in there, right, which I'm just gonna do, I just cut it into segments. We're gonna dress it with some apple cider vinegar. So again, you have the acid from the vinegar mixed with the sweetness of the card, the sweetness of the tomato and the orange is gonna create a dressing in there. And just a couple of cap foals, it really kind of puts some moisture in it and makes it easy to, delicious to eat. Obviously, if we're using the apple cider vinegar because it has no calories, other salad dressings probably will have some oils or some extra calories. We'll get to that. So look at the easy way to measure, like Stan said, it's just used to cap, right? Because if you pour that in there, you know, you could make this too acidic and it wouldn't be very flavorful. That's it, I would put a pinch of salt in here to add some flavor and that's pretty much it. That's it. Now you can eat your dinner first, your protein and maybe your boiled potato or whatever you're using as it kind of satiate you. Protein's really important for satiation, obviously if you're retaining lean body mass while you're dieting. Or you can add your protein right to the salad. You can put in some chicken breast or some salmon. We'll show you that in a little bit. We're gonna take this skinny salad and we're gonna step it up and we're gonna make a sports salad out of it. It's really simple. The sports salad really only add two things. We're gonna put a regular cheese in there and we're gonna go ahead and leave the yolks in there. And egg yolks are great. A lot of vitamins in there. You got choline, biotin, K2, they're fantastic. So just imagine I kept the yolks in out of the min just so you see what we're doing right here. But again, the convenience factor of the eggs from Costco is fantastic, right? So before we move on to the steroid salad, we're gonna take a quick break. So get a word from our sponsors, us. So first, Dan Eferding, the vertical diet, the vertical diet.com, we wanna show you our proteins. We brought those in tonight right here, Gavin. Come on over and show you. First, this is a plate from our menu. This is the chicken. Look how good that looks. Breast with rice, this is made with bone broth. So the rice is very moist. Put some spinach and peppers in there. Amazing. And we also plate it up with steak for you guys. This is our grass fed steak. Potatoes, vegetables. This might be what you eat before the salad. So we put those up for you. And then some people like fish, and Gavin was not gonna disappoint. I didn't bring any fish over, but just so happens. He has a fish. Come on buddy, I'm so sorry. It's time to go. So you can just pop that right in. Son of a bitch. Put that in the microwave. Some people, my wife's from Samoa, she just eats the whole thing. So in one go, stay at home. Those are your options. Also, now Gavin, just so happens, why don't you go ahead and run them through your product here. First of all, this is a Sunday provision. This is the name of the company. So I created a line of pecan butters, and I'll tell you, I was cooking for a client in Los Angeles, a couple of actors, and they wanted a healthy snack, not almonds or peanuts. And I literally just was in Whole Foods, and I saw a bag of pecans, and the health benefits of pecans versus say almonds. You know, even though almonds are higher protein, nutritionally speaking, antioxidants, pecans are fantastic. And flavor wise, from a cooking point of view, it's really fantastic. So I created this pecan butter, which is three ingredients. Ro- Pecans. Three, not tree. Tree. It grows in the tree. It's the US, not Ireland. Three. Three ingredients. Yeah, go on, English. Pecans, a little bit of maple syrup, and some sea salt, that's it. So I have four flavors. We have our pecans smash, which is our classic flavor. We have our, my favorite actually is the pecan joe, which is coffee. I added decaf espresso. That sounds great. We have a cinnamon flavor, cinnamon, pecans and the health benefits of cinnamon is fantastic. Right. And then we have our version of a healthy chocolate spread, which is pecan chocolate. I add a raw, unsweetened raw cacao to this base flavor of the pecans. Sounds amazing. Check it out. I'm gonna put his information down below. So read it there, the contact information. Amazing. And now we're moving on to the most important salad. This is the steroid salad. Or so a friend told me. I wouldn't even know about any of that, so obviously. The steroid salad is obviously the one where you don't have to bring up calories. Now as we start loading in all the stuff that is hidden in your salad at restaurants, the oils, the avocados, the nuts, all the things that generate a lot of calories that you're probably, it's causing you to go over your calories. We can throw those in this salad. So we did, we brought an avocado here. Olive oil obviously is gonna be pretty calorie dense. And then some honey, certainly if you're very active, either in sports, crossfitters and our MMA fighters and our athletes, we'll start adding sugars, carbs to fuel that workload. And so we'll throw honey in there. Nuts are always great, again high in fat, so it's easy to kind of go over your calorie amount. Macadamia, we like the best. Because macadamia is high in monounsaturated fat. And so those are also available at Costco. And you can add in almonds or any nuts that you prefer. Or nut butters as Gavin has here. I think we got through the whole thing. We got our skinny sport steroid salad, what else can we add? Just in terms of making a dressing, if we're gonna go with the steroid salad, we can make a dressing with the vinegar and the honey and the olive oil. So we can incorporate that into our salad dressing and basically you would just mix it up in a small deli cup or a container. Just olive oil, a little squeeze of lemon and just a couple of caps of the vinegar and just kind of shake it together. That way you can create your own dressing and get your calories, rather than just putting them on separately. It'll make the salad a bit more cohesive. That's great. One quick tip in terms of the salad, at the stance point, you can prep a lot of this ahead of time. So you can have your tomatoes packed, you can have your eggs, you can have your cheese so that if you were leaving the house, you can just make a salad quickly. And the dressing, you can make a batch of dressing and just keep it in the fridge so that you just put maybe a couple of tablespoons per salad, right? And then you have it dressed and you just take it out the door with you, put it in the cooler, take it in the car. And you know meal prep is probably the the single most effective method for complying with a diet. You know how I love to use that thermos where I take my hot meals with me, wherever I go this morning, I was in the library and it ran long and I had a thermos meal and I was able to eat that and I could come home, grab my kids and take them to Cuman today. I took them down to that map and read anything for the summer. I just love the fact that they have to go to school during the summer. I'm sure. But I had a meal handy. And so I didn't have to hit Carl's Jr. And I was able to stay compliant with my diet. And of course, as I mentioned before, these kinds of foods that we recommend and the kind of diet that I recommend also makes it so that your stomach feels good. You don't get a lot of gas and bloating. Yeah. IBS, IBD problems. This looks fantastic. It's delicious. And I'm sure one of us is gonna eat this. Yep. I want the fish. Thanks guys. We'll see you next time. Cheers.