 balmiriririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririr topic of proper supplementation, so I'd strongly recommend that you watch through this entire lesson as it could save you a ton of money and a ton of wasted time on all the products out there and all the misleading information you've been fed. I'm not affiliated with any supplement companies and my only interest is in getting you guys good, honest, usable information that you can apply to your program. Now let me make one thing absolutely clear before we get started and that is that supplements are not a mandatory part of an effective muscle building program. As long as you pay close attention to your diet and you train hard, then you can definitely build an impressive muscular body without using any supplements at all. That said, if your goal is to absolutely maximize your muscle size and strength gains over the shortest period of time, then there are a few products that definitely can speed up your results if you implement them properly into your program. So in today's lesson, I'm going to be outlining my four recommended supplements that I believe should be included in your program if you want to get every possible edge that you can. I'm just going to give you a very basic and brief overview of each product, so let's get started. The first supplement on the list is a basic whey protein powder. Now whey protein is what I would consider the grand daddy of all bodybuilding supplements because if there's one product that I do recommend, whey protein would be it. Whey protein is the highest quality protein you can put in your body. It's a complete source of protein, meaning that it contains all eight of the essential amino acids. It also has a very high bioavailability, which means that your body is going to absorb a very high percentage of the protein. And whey is also very high in branched chain amino acids, which play an important role in preventing muscular breakdown. Not only is whey the highest quality source of protein out there, but because of its liquid nature, it's also very convenient for bodybuilders. I'm sure as you probably know, if you really want to see impressive gains in muscle size, then you need to be consuming about five to seven small meals a day spaced every two to three hours. Now, it is possible to do that from whole foods, but for a lot of people it's just not practical. And that's where whey protein comes in handy because it's going to help you streamline your entire program by letting you replace about two to three of your solid food meals with a simple liquid shake. The second supplement on the list is a basic creatine monohydrate. Now, I know there's a lot of anti-supplement people out there who don't recommend creatine, but the basic fact of the matter is that creatine is the most widely researched sports supplement in the world, and to put it simply, it works. Creatine helps to increase your strength in the gym, which is going to help you push more weight and build more lean muscle as a result. It increases muscle cell volumization by increasing the amount of water that's stored in your muscles. It helps to decrease lactic acid buildup, decrease mental fatigue, and it also helps to improve your recovery in between workouts. High weight gains in the range of five to ten pounds over just a three to four week period are not uncommon with creatine use, and if you're serious about your progress, I would recommend that you at least give creatine monohydrate a try. The third supplement on the list is a basic high-potency multivitamin. It's very important to realize that as a person who's training intensely with weights three to four days per week or more, and who's following a high protein diet, your vitamin and mineral requirements are a lot higher than that of the average individual. Not only that, but if your body is deficient in just a single vitamin or mineral, it can literally have a negative impact on thousands of processes that are going on in your body. For that reason, I'd recommend that you include a high-potency multivitamin each day as part of your program to keep all of those little processes in your body running smoothly. The final supplement I'm going to recommend are essential fatty acids. These are known as the good fats. They have literally thousands of positive benefits inside your body, the most notable of which are increasing anabolic hormone levels, improving insulin action, increasing energy production, and increasing your fat-burning metabolism. A great way to obtain the benefits that essential fatty acids have to offer is through the supplementation of healthy oils. Now, I'm not going to go into all the details here, but I get my essential fatty acids by supplementing with oodles oil and fish oil. I mix my oodles oil, usually in my protein shakes, and the fish oil I consume in capsule form. And there you have it. These are the four basic pillars of an effective muscle-building supplementation program. If you're serious about getting every edge that you can, both in and out of the gym, these are the only four products that I truly recommend. Thanks for watching this video lesson, and I'll talk to you guys again with more free tips.