 subjected to subjected to I've tried to record this like a million times and you know what? It's hard. It is hard to do videos for YouTube only on episode 2 and I'm like this is hard. Maybe it's not for me. I don't know. But here we are. Being uncomfortable. Thanks Bernadette Brown. Thanks so much. Thank you so much for trying to make me better. Okay so first of all I don't really know what we're calling this so I'm just calling this pro debut episode 2 for now. Like that's all I got. Maybe I'll get creative as we go. Maybe I won't. I don't know. We're just gonna go with it. Right. Here it is. There's my stuff. Okay so we started prep week early. Thank goodness because I feel like I was becoming a muscle cloud. So I'm going to update my plan today. I am still looking for some really cool poses to send my posing coach Sheila. So I also need to find music for a second song. That's the same thing. Music and second song. Anyway I need to find a second song. How about that? So we went ahead and dropped carbs. There's no cardio yet which that's really cool thank goodness. Let's see my mental state. Okay well right now I have a Bissette's flair and if you don't know what Bissette's is like it it sucks. It sucks a bag of donkey dinglings. Like it is terrible. It's an autoimmune disease and it attacks your nerves and your blood vessels and your salt tissues. So like it can affect my eyes. It can like it makes my skin and my mouth like come off. Like I get like these really big nasty like cysts or things like in my armpits or in like my groin area or like in my butt. Like it's it's so it's just like the worst and it's different because it's not a virus or anything so there's not any like you can't you can't get any medications and there's nothing for it and they tried to treat it with that and like it doesn't do anything. So yeah there's not like anything you can do you could just have to like write it out and it sucks dude this is like one of the worst ones I've ever had in my whole life and today was leg day. So I chose to because I had a rest day yesterday thinking like hopefully it'll go away. Well no today's it's actually worse so I'm like ah so I stayed home worked out in the garage because I still want to be an asshole to people at the gym whenever I'm like I'm hurting so typically like if I'm hurting I'm like I'm either really boohoooey or I'm really like short and like just please leave me alone because I'm doing the best I can to not cry. That's that's like as real as I can get like I'm just doing the best I can. So yeah but other than that like I'm actually feeling like really good like mentally I'm feeling really good. So like whenever you have an autoimmune disease so like I've looped this and so you know there's a lot of information in my body well typically like our brains our brain chemicals can can be off because of that so I'm on a couple different medications I'm on one for antidepressant and I'm on one for like a mood stabilizer so the antidepressant like we're up at max dose and we've been there for like two years and it's solid like I feel a big difference from that and the mood stabilizer like it's great it helps me sleep and it's it's solid however it affects your blood sugar so I don't know how it's gonna go with prep and yeah so I don't know if I'm gonna have to like drop it back down or if it's gonna be okay where we're at and we just have to diet harder so I don't know but I'm just gonna go with it because that's all we can do. I have a mental therapist appointment tomorrow. Nope in two days. So looking forward to that as well because that's going really well. Yeah so I mean aside from like the flare up and the pain I'm doing pretty good. I also like looked at a bunch of previous photos from like the 2019 prep and like I have a decent shape like I have a nice shape I think it's you know it is better for like bodybuilder I have more bodybuilder build and I think you know because like I needed to work on my hands and my low back so I think you know because I've never had an offseason like this before so I think you know I think put in the work you know because we worked on our hands and we work on low back and like we worked on everything right but we really put work on those and also in our arms too because I feel like I just I look better it's more balanced whenever my arms are a little bit thicker because I do have such a big a big thicker upper body and also I just I want more conditioning and my glutes in and my back so yeah like that's kind of why I also want to start prepping a little bit early so that way like in my mind I feel like okay we're on track like we're gonna be ready. So yeah so I mean like the Hets that's all I got other than that like I also have an autoimmune issue it's a skin issue it's called HS there's a longer word for that but I can never say it and I can never remember it so that's all that's all I got so what it is it's like my skin also doesn't really fight bacteria very well to go figure so if like I get any like if I get an embol hair or if I get a scratch or something like my body doesn't fight the bacteria and it just it gets infected and I can get staph on this I get staph breakouts and all sorts of stuff so I have to do like certain protocol in the skin and it's all it's just a long time and I stopped doing it for a little bit and then it's just it's it's a lot to do like it bleeds back and certain cleansers and certain lotions and none of them smell good and it's like but so yeah so I started my protocol back up and it's already up in my skin so I mean I guess you gotta be the right thing you know you don't want to because you know I get on stage and like skin is also a big deal so I need to make sure that you know my skin is on point so that's another part of my prep but Jack so I did legs in the garage so I'll probably put a few little excerpt from that but like that's where we are right now I'm really excited I still don't know what color I want my suit to be but I'll figure out I'll talk with crystal gypsy and we'll find something beautiful they have a lot of really really pretty things that she's very creative so and she also partnered with a couple other ladies as well that are very creative so I'm really excited to have them in my corner this year as well so it's gonna be definitely great vibes I've gotten a ton of great feedback from people wanting to follow this which is why I'm like making myself do this I'm not gonna be not gonna be a freaking baby and be like I don't want to do it because I think it's gonna be beneficial I think it's gonna help me get out of my comfort zone I feel like it's gonna help me mentally because you know I do suffer I hate the word suffer I I deal with mental health issues like depression and anxiety and stuff so I feel like by becoming uncomfortable like this I just feel like it's gonna make me stronger and so all in all I feel like it's gonna be a good thing even though I really don't like talking about stuff like this and I don't like putting things out there because then you know I just it's just a lot but hearing it so I'm really excited I'm excited to make friends I'm excited to get up there again because this is the longest I've taken away from the stage so yeah so anyway thank you so much guys have a great Tuesday yeah come on so here Matt currently and here we were at two days out of the previous show here we are now at the start of prep and usually you guys know I have a cupcake on my butt so these are called Joe Rose and I love Joe Rose I got them from Joe Bennett he otherwise known as hyper trophy coach I think he puts out a lot of really cool stuff and it would be like so rad to train with him one day but yeah so here are some more here's some more video of just some exercises that I've been doing lately and part of my therapy is that I am choosing to be present during this prep and so a quote that I want to leave you guys with today is many of life's failures are experienced by people who did not realize how closely were the success when they gave up that quote is by Thomas Edison and I think that's kind of what keeps me going is the fact that I know that if I just keep going and I keep doing it like I'm gonna get it I'm gonna get whatever I want I just I just can't give up and I want all of you guys to get that way too like you just can't give up your diamond is almost there you just got to keep digging so thank you so much thank you so much for the support and I hope you guys just have a great day thank you yeah