! Hey friends, my name is Brittany Lawerson, aka Coach Muscle Nuggets. I'm getting ready for my pro debut. I have been asked by multiple people, actually a lot of people that have lupus and other issues that, anyway, they have the same issues as I do. And a few of them requested, like, hey, like, do you have any YouTube preps? Do you have any preps that you made YouTubes for, or whatever you call it? Maybe prep videos with YouTube or something, anyway. I have not, because I'm a little weird about putting myself out there. Kind of like anxiety and depression and a few, like, mental health things. So I just, I feel really weird whenever I put myself out there. But I also have some sponsorships and stuff now. And I also want to continue to grow limitless, my coaching business. And I figured, you know what? Why not just give it a shot? So we start prep in, like, 10 days for, we're getting ready for two shows. I don't know if I'm going to put the shows out there or not, because personally, I really like to do prep low key. I love to be stealth and I love to just go in smooth. I don't like people knowing what I'm doing. I don't want people asking questions. I don't want any of that stuff. But I figured now, since I guess I'm a pro, I need to maybe, I don't know, log it. It's five in the morning also, by the way. So I'm not dressed up. I'm not being anything that I'm not right now. I don't want to be as real as possible with all of this. So I may not have good days all the time and I may show them, but it's all going to be real. So I'm also not going to be made up all the time because real talk, I'm not made up all the time. I don't enjoy wearing makeup and all that stuff and doing my hair is a pain in the butt. So I just can't do whatever. Beautiful on the inside. On the inside, I'm beautiful. So let's see. Yeah, so we're going to be doing probably some meal prep stuff, probably some gardening stuff because you know, like plants, if you follow me at all. Duh. But yeah, so working with Cliff Wilson. Right now, I haven't had like an actual offseason since ever. So this is a new thing. My carbs are all the way up to 310. That's a whole lot. That's a whole lot. It's really hard to eat all this food. My fats are, I mean, they're pretty much where they need to be without me getting too fat because of all the carbs. So my protein's 180. My carbs are 310 and my fats are 57. I'm not doing any cardio right now. And we're lifting about five, six times a week, mostly five because my body just really needs the recovery. I need to bring up my legs a lot. I need to bring my hands up a lot. And I guess just as a bodybuilder, you just need to be better everywhere. So that's what we've been focusing on in the offseason. This is also going to be a prep without my breast implants. I got an ex-plant January 2019. One of the best things I've ever done. I feel a whole lot better. I also don't smell like rotting meat. So that's good. I also, I don't think I have staff anymore. So that's good too. I got staff in the implants and that's what really made me sick. So apparently I had staff the whole time and it just stayed inside this pocket. And then it started to come out and it started making me really sick. But I didn't know it was doing all that. I just thought it was the lupus, which is wild. So yeah, I guess if you have lupus, you don't really know what's going on because the symptoms are the same symptoms as a lot of other things. So it's just really, there's a whole lot to that. Yeah, so we're doing like a lot of strength lifting, a lot of lifting, we're doing volume training. So yeah, I've been waking up at like 4.30, going to the gym pretty early because I have been in a depression. I had a whole lot of personal life things happen. I lost a couple of relationships. It was a good thing that they're gone because now I actually have a lot more energy for me. My light shines more. I'm not being gaslighted or manipulated or used or make me feel like I have to earn their love. So that's a plus. My husband is wonderful. We got him on a plan. I made him work a plan and a diet and we are going to prep together. He is not doing a show, but he wants to get better and he wants to do the things. I make plans to help people do the things. So I made him a plan. So we also got approved to build our gym in the backyard. So hopefully actually we start building on Monday. So I think a lot of these videos are going to be done out of that gym. So that'll be fun. I'm excited. I'm going to be able to like train clients and stuff out of the gym too. Do posing classes and all that. So that's really exciting, especially with I guess the whole beer bug situation. I don't want to say it because I don't want this video to get flagged. But you know, you know, the tea, that thing. So yeah, I think I'm going to keep this short, but I might be putting in my progress photos as well. I don't really know. I'm just kind of prefacing, prefacing, prefacing. I don't know. I actually don't know how to say that word to be honest. So don't correct me. Just leave me alone. I'll Google it. I'll learn it myself. I don't want you all to be like schooling me. And that's why you dumbass. I've gone to school. Actually, all of it's been online. So if I do say some words that don't really make sense, please keep in mind that I have had a stroke. So there may be some days where my speech might be messed up or I might be a little different. And that's going to be okay because that's just kind of how it is after you have a stroke. And again, if I say words that don't really make sense, it's probably because I learned I'm reading a book. I read a lot of books. I'm always trying to learn. But when you don't have like an actual teacher right in front of you teaching you the words, it's kind of difficult because you don't really know if you're saying it right. So if that happens, you know, just whatever, go with it. All right. I don't know what else to say in this video. So I guess we're just going to cut it now. Thanks guys. Here's where we're starting out in prep. And also I share a lot of videos in the mornings on my IG stories. Mostly in my workouts. Usually it's not the top sets. Usually it's just the warm-up sets. As I'm, once I get to the top working sets, I really don't want to mess with my home. But using a full miller on bench press really helps with the full stretch. I really like that you should try it. It also works your core stabilizers. This is my first time doing a voiceover. I don't really know. These videos aren't going to be perfect yet, but I don't think once you, you don't have to wait until it's perfect to start. Just start. So hopefully the videos will get better as we go. I'll also learn how to do more things. But if you want to get in contact with me, my email is coach B at limitlessphysix.com. You can find us on the web at limitlessphysix.com. Also if you want to get back, lots of rowing. Pretty sure I got a good back because I did RDLs the wrong way for years. Basically just muscle it up with my back. So there's your tip. But thank you for watching guys and there's my babe. Have a good day.