

=== FILE: Back depletion June 2014 [p2NBbS_MMqI].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to you

=== FILE: How to Recognize, Challenge, & Rewrite Your Limiting Beliefs (MINDSET) [sQbSWMhfQsk].txt ===

 my brothers! I'm IFBB Propriet Larson. Welcome to my Limitless Space. Today we are talking about mindset and breaking those self-limiting beliefs. Check out my shirt, dude. One of my besties made this for me. I love it. It's so cool. Brother, you are magical! Breaking self-limiting beliefs can be a challenging process, but there are several steps that you can take to overcome them. First, you need to know what they are. What is a self-limiting belief? A self-limiting belief is a belief or a mindset that you hold about yourself that limits your ability to achieve goals or reach your full potential. You know, these might be the thoughts that you have about yourself, your abilities, or the world around you. These beliefs can take many forms, such as negative self-talk, limiting thoughts, or limiting assumptions. Some examples of self-limiting beliefs would be, you know, I'm not good enough. I'll never be able to achieve that. I'm not smart enough to understand that. I'll never be able to change. I'm not worthy of love or success, happiness, and these beliefs can manifest in various ways. For example, like avoiding certain tasks or opportunities, or by causing you to, you know, doubt your abilities and feel unmotivated. It can also reshape your perception of the world, and that affects your decisions and your actions. It affects everything and everyone else in your life. Recognizing, challenging, and rewriting these beliefs is an important step to your self-growth and personal development. This is something that I really wish that I was aware of earlier in my life. It's a powerful tool that you can use to change your life. So how do you identify these self-limiting beliefs? Denifying these beliefs require self-reflection. Self-reflection is the process of examining yourself, your own thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. You begin by being open and willing, pay attention to the reactions, to feedback and constructive criticism. Are there certain types of feedback that trigger negative emotions and defensive reactions? This may indicate a limiting belief, or something sticky there that needs to be worked with. Do you automatically go into attack mode, or do you pause, take a breath, and use your noggin? When I feel something, you know, bubbling up in response to whatever is happening around me, I know that I need to sit with it and dig deeper. It's not easy. I give myself space. I allow myself to be curious about it, and when I find this belief, I imagine holding it in my hands and asking, where did you come from? Did I plant this seed? Why? Or is it something that I just picked up along the way of life? This awareness, this takes time. It's not an instant thing. You don't always get instant answers. You have to keep at it. And I now know to do my very best with being more patient and kind to myself. But no matter who or what planted the seed, I ask myself, does it serve me? Why is it bringing this, this, this bubbling feeling up? And if I find this belief is infecting my garden, it has to be dealt with. I got flashbacks. I woke to find all my plants taken over. Spotted my infestation. Alcohol was sold out everywhere. I did what any normal plant mom would do. Showed up to the liquor store before it opened. Bought out as much ever clear as I could. It worked. I kept having some feelings of judgment bubbling up for me. Feeling judged. Just, just icky stuff. It was driving me absolutely bonkers. People that I liked before, things that I enjoy, like everything was just icky. And during a conversation with one of my soul sisters, Danny, she asked if I was also the one doing the judging. And that could be why it kept coming up for me. The truth of that both stung and empowered me to ask myself questions. I realized that it came from a lot of different pain points for me. And I was tired of feeling that way all the time. So I pulled out my shovel and I dug in. I did the work to tidy up that sticky, stinky area in my life. And it took some time. What you look for, you will find. What you put your focus on, energy flows. What you put out there comes back to you. So give yourself some space to sit with you and ask yourself questions. Have a dedicated journal. Or if you're not all in on the journal thing, I've been there, brother. No judgment. Just simply sit with yourself and be with intention. We're not just sitting there to scroll and ignore our inner world. We're putting everything down and we are sitting with ourselves. You can also listen to some calming energy sounds or a guided meditation and make some mental notes of what pops up. Although I highly encourage a journal if you are really looking to make progress as you navigate and adventure your internal world. You can find a journal with writing prompts. There are blank journals that you can use as you do maybe a guided meditation or you can make your own. I mean, this is your time after all. So you're going to ask yourself some questions. What are my thoughts and feelings about a certain situation or task? What are my automatic responses to certain people, situations or events? What are my underlying assumptions and expectations of myself and other people? And what are my fears? What are my insecurities? What are things that could be holding me back? These are just a few questions that you can ask yourself. Like I said, there are journal prompts and many other avenues that you can go down. I have a nightly wind down routine. I put on tunes. I stretch, do some mobility or some yoga. I meditate and I write. At first it wasn't my thing. It was really challenging to get in the habit of doing it. Get out of the habit that I currently had of winding down on the couch, hyper fixating on true crime and wondering why I'm having so many nightmares at night. Why do we do this to ourselves? To turn off YouTube and pick up another habit was uncomfortable, but now I enjoy it. I look forward to it. And if I find that something has popped up for me, I have some direction. I have some guidance and I know what area I need to sort of look at. It helps me navigate my mind, navigate how I'm feeling, always finding reasons to be grateful. I'm now more curious and trusting, much more loving and understanding of myself and others, more in tune about what's going on in here. I also wake up with a sense of peace and I have way less nightmares. Okay, so now you have these stinky beliefs sitting in your lap. What do you do with these dudes? Bro, you challenge them. Like once you've identified it, that self-limiting belief, that thing that's been weighing you down, you need to ask yourself, is this really true here? Some ways to challenge these self-limiting beliefs would be to question the evidence, ask yourself what evidence you have to support this belief. Is it based on fact or is it based on a perception that a jealous friend projected on you and then you thought it was true? Becky lied, bruh, but sometimes people suck. Younger me didn't know that I could question this. I thought friends were honest and loving. But again, some people suck, so question it. We're gonna look for the counter evidence. Try to find examples in your life that contradict this self-limiting belief that you have. This can help show you that this belief isn't always true. You know, balloon knob Becky told me that I was ugly and that everyone hated me and they were calling me names and laughed behind my back. And this also happened in my very important developmental years. So I didn't realize that belief had stuck with me throughout the teen years into my adult years and it bled over into everything else in my life. I did not realize this until I was brave enough, until I had enough courage to look within myself and figure out what's really going on. So now, when I feel something creeping up on me, and it does from time to time, you keep working at it until a new pathway is created. But when I do feel something creeping up on me, I stop, take a breath, and sit back to look up at all of the love and words that my people have given me. My office is good vibes. It's filled with cards and notes and gifts and love. I'm an absolute goober smooch and I love looking up at all of the letters that my husband has written me or the Sakura puzzle box that he made me. The trophies represent a lot of hard work. The thoughtful cards and the smiles of my people on stage or the paintings or the drawings. Long time clients, kids have given me how they call me coach. We've all been together for so long that it just feels like we're family. This is my good vibespace and where I create. So when there is a self-limiting belief that is trying to bubble up, I can look up and I immediately have that counter evidence to provide. A reminder that what I'm feeling in that moment isn't necessarily true because clearly all of this is something and that makes me feel wonderful. Another way that you can challenge these self-limiting beliefs is by checking in with yourself. Be present in the moment and observe your thoughts and your actions. Without judgment, this will help you to identify patterns of negative thinking that might be self-limiting beliefs. When I'm working on a new pattern or I'm trying to get more in tune with where my mind's at, where it tends to wander, I will set alarms on my phone to check in with myself. And if I'm in a funky state of mind, I will note it and direct it to a better place. The more you direct the flow, the easier and easier the pattern becomes. Your old way of thinking is going to grow over and your mind's going to start choosing that new pathway. So keep at it. Keep on this new pathway. It's also important to remember that challenging these self-limiting beliefs is a process and it takes time to change anything requires effort. But it is possible to overcome them. It is possible to create new pathways. It is possible to create new beliefs. You just need to get your mindset right. Alright, so we've shined the light on its limiting beliefs. We've dug in and started challenging them, pulling out some of those roots. So now what do we do? We replace the limiting beliefs with beliefs that are empowering. How do you not know this? I mean, anchors, changing perspectives, empowering thoughts. An anchor thought is a term that is used in cognitive behavioral therapy or CBT to refer to a positive or a beneficial thought or a belief that someone can hold on to during a hard or difficult or negative situation. The idea is that the anchor thought can help the person to reframe their perspective and stay grounded in a more positive mindset. When you're having a hard moment, it is so difficult to pull yourself out of it on your own. And that's why I make anchors. When I'm in a calm place of mind, when I'm happy, when things are going great and I'm feeling it, you know, I will write down empowering anchor thoughts and I do this when I'm happy because I know that I will use these as a reminders on a lower day. Another way is by changing your perspective. By changing your perspective or your attitude towards the situation, it can have a significant impact on your life. By altering your mindset, you can change the way that you view the world and the way that you interact with it. There's a famous quote by Wayne Dyer. If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change. This quote emphasizes that by changing your perspective, you can change the way you see and interpret the world. This idea also implies that sometimes the way we perceive things might be the problem and changing our point of view on it could lead to different and or better outcomes. One way to change your perspective is to seek out new information. This involves, you know, gaining new knowledge and perspectives that can challenge our current beliefs. For example, you know, reading books, writing articles, listening to podcasts, YouTube, YouTube has so many things. I was terrified of spiders. One day I just decided to learn more about them, come to find out all of my fears were not as big as I thought they were. Now I have five tarantulas, four jumping spiders, and I am nurturing a praying mantis egg sack that I found in my gym. When you have more information about something, it can change the way you look at it. So always be open to new perspectives. This way you don't get stuck in your current pattern of thinking. Changing your point of view can bring in new insights, opportunities and solutions to your problems. Another thing to do is to empower yourself. When you have an icky sort of belief pop up, write it down. This is an exercise that you're going to do to help yourself. You're going to write it down and you were going to mark through it. Then you are going to replace that thought or that belief with a better version that works for you. This is important. This is hard, but this is important. You need to replace it with a better version that speaks life over you. And we're going to use positive affirmations, empowering thoughts and focus on the benefits to reinforce this new perspective. Examples of this would be replacing I'm not good enough with I am worthy and capable, but digging into this one a little more. So yes, you are worthy and capable. But also, why do you think you're not quote unquote good enough? Are you truly applying yourself? And I say that to tell you this, I find that that thought tends to creep in when I'm not living up to my highest self. So when you feel that I'm not good enough, pop up for you, really dig into the why do you think that and continue to ask yourself why until you narrow it down. I can't do this can be replaced with I can learn and grow. I'm not successful and be replaced with I'm on my way to success. Keep going, my friends. We are always growing. We are always evolving. You got this. You were one day closer. Keep climbing that mountain, baby. I am not smart enough can be replaced with I am capable of learning and growing my intelligence. And I have to tell myself this one often after the stroke. I have some difficulties and it plays with my head. But the truth is when I really get down to the nitty gritty of it, the only thing that is standing in my way is that belief that I have created. I can I will and I am still growing. That belief can suck it. I'm not attractive can be replaced with I am beautiful in my own way, but also like to who I know attraction is a thing because my goodness did I hit the jackpot with my husband. But it's the spirit. It's who you are. I've met some of the most beautiful and successful people in this industry. And once I met them and once I learned more about them, some of them just had some sour souls, man. And that really changed it for me. So focus on being a beautiful person in your heart that is going to radiate and shine out. If you think you're not capable of reaching your goals, tell yourself that you have the ability to achieve your goals. But the thing is, is that none of this works unless you take action. Take small steps towards achieving your goals despite yourself limiting beliefs. And as you achieve success, your belief in yourself will grow and the limiting belief will lose its power over you. Freedom, baby. You have to take action. There's no book, no podcast, no random stranger on the Internet, no coach that can actually make you take action. That's on you. Action is on you. And this video isn't meant to be just rainbows. There's going to be some farts in here too, y'all. The frog can't just think himself out of a boiling pot. He's got to take action, baby. He's got to jump. So take action and jump. And it's going to be hard. It's going to be uncomfortable. But the more that you step out of your comfort zone and you challenge this self-limiting belief, the more you're going to believe in yourself. It's about repetition and taking the photos. It's not about, you know, just taking the one perfect photo. You keep going. You keep doing the reps. There's a concept called cognitive dissonance. It's a term used to describe the discomfort or tension that a person may feel when they hold two or more contradictory beliefs, attitudes or values at the same time. And by stepping out of their comfort zone and challenging these self-limiting beliefs, they will be faced with new experiences. And new information can conflict with their existing beliefs. This can be very uncomfortable, but it also provides the perfect opportunity for growth and change. And by taking action and proving to yourself that this belief is not true, you'll begin to see your capabilities and potential, which can lead to an increase in self-confidence and self-esteem. Another way to put it is when you step out of your comfort zone, you're exposing yourself to new experiences and new learning opportunities that can change the way that you think and feel about yourself, about others, about the world. And with each new experience, you will gain more and more confidence in yourself. And in your ability to achieve your goals. This in turn will make it easier for you to challenge those self-limiting beliefs and then push through any obstacles that may come from that. Now, this is important to note. I am not a therapist. I am not a mental health professional. I am simply speaking on my own personal experiences. I know that this inner work is hard. It is challenging. It is difficult. So don't be afraid to seek support. If you need more guidance, I highly encourage you to talk to a mentor, a therapist or a friend that you feel good with and that you trust. That's going to help you along the way. It's also important to approach self-reflection with an open and non-judgmental attitude. Remember that self-limiting beliefs and patterns can be changed over time with effort and practice. You're not alone. There are people out there that are passionate about helping others break all of their barriers, heal their traumas and they just want others to live their best life. I would like to note that if you are talking to a friend, maybe they're helping shine light on a new perspective on something that you're going through. Please be considerate and remember not to take advantage as you're punching back, you know, friendships are mutual. And yeah, life has its ways. And sometimes we need a little extra encouragement, ear, some advice, good vibes and love. Remember that it is not their job to fix you or the situation. Be considerate of boundaries and don't just dump your woes onto your friend every single morning before they've even had their coffee. I hope that this gave you some insight and ideas on how you can apply this to your life. Becoming aware of challenging and reframing your thoughts takes time and practice, but by consistently challenging yourself, limiting beliefs and replacing them with the positive thoughts. You can change your mindset and you can overcome those limiting beliefs that's been holding you back. It's normal to feel extremely uncomfortable when creating a new path or to feel scared when stepping out of your comfort zone. It's a process and it's going to take some time with patience and persistence. You will be able to break those limiting beliefs and you will be able to overcome them. Thank you for spending your time with me today. I love learning and talking about the mind and I know that with coaching it's way more than just what you eat or what you lift. It's a whole mind-body-spirit thing. If you don't have your mind right, odds are you won't be making the progress that you could be making. You're leaving some on the table. Don't you leave it on the table. You can be spinning your wheels and working as hard as you can, but if there's a freaking limiting belief that's blocking your way, especially if you're unaware of it or unwilling to deal with it, like you'll only go so far. So no matter what you're doing, no matter what your goals are, let's focus on winning in all the ways, my dudes. Mind, body, spirit. For coaching, limitlessphysics.com. For savings on quality supplementation, titanutrition.net, RIT 20 for 20% off. For custom competition wear and bikinis and posing suits, go to bikinilabhawaii.com. RIT 10 for 10% off. And until next time, brother, you are magical. RIT 11 for 10% off. RIT 11 for 10% off.

=== FILE: IFBB PRO DEBUT： Ep 1 Intro [eFjf55QXK5k].txt ===

! Hey friends, my name is Brittany Lawerson, aka Coach Muscle Nuggets. I'm getting ready for my pro debut. I have been asked by multiple people, actually a lot of people that have lupus and other issues that, anyway, they have the same issues as I do. And a few of them requested, like, hey, like, do you have any YouTube preps? Do you have any preps that you made YouTubes for, or whatever you call it? Maybe prep videos with YouTube or something, anyway. I have not, because I'm a little weird about putting myself out there. Kind of like anxiety and depression and a few, like, mental health things. So I just, I feel really weird whenever I put myself out there. But I also have some sponsorships and stuff now. And I also want to continue to grow limitless, my coaching business. And I figured, you know what? Why not just give it a shot? So we start prep in, like, 10 days for, we're getting ready for two shows. I don't know if I'm going to put the shows out there or not, because personally, I really like to do prep low key. I love to be stealth and I love to just go in smooth. I don't like people knowing what I'm doing. I don't want people asking questions. I don't want any of that stuff. But I figured now, since I guess I'm a pro, I need to maybe, I don't know, log it. It's five in the morning also, by the way. So I'm not dressed up. I'm not being anything that I'm not right now. I don't want to be as real as possible with all of this. So I may not have good days all the time and I may show them, but it's all going to be real. So I'm also not going to be made up all the time because real talk, I'm not made up all the time. I don't enjoy wearing makeup and all that stuff and doing my hair is a pain in the butt. So I just can't do whatever. Beautiful on the inside. On the inside, I'm beautiful. So let's see. Yeah, so we're going to be doing probably some meal prep stuff, probably some gardening stuff because you know, like plants, if you follow me at all. Duh. But yeah, so working with Cliff Wilson. Right now, I haven't had like an actual offseason since ever. So this is a new thing. My carbs are all the way up to 310. That's a whole lot. That's a whole lot. It's really hard to eat all this food. My fats are, I mean, they're pretty much where they need to be without me getting too fat because of all the carbs. So my protein's 180. My carbs are 310 and my fats are 57. I'm not doing any cardio right now. And we're lifting about five, six times a week, mostly five because my body just really needs the recovery. I need to bring up my legs a lot. I need to bring my hands up a lot. And I guess just as a bodybuilder, you just need to be better everywhere. So that's what we've been focusing on in the offseason. This is also going to be a prep without my breast implants. I got an ex-plant January 2019. One of the best things I've ever done. I feel a whole lot better. I also don't smell like rotting meat. So that's good. I also, I don't think I have staff anymore. So that's good too. I got staff in the implants and that's what really made me sick. So apparently I had staff the whole time and it just stayed inside this pocket. And then it started to come out and it started making me really sick. But I didn't know it was doing all that. I just thought it was the lupus, which is wild. So yeah, I guess if you have lupus, you don't really know what's going on because the symptoms are the same symptoms as a lot of other things. So it's just really, there's a whole lot to that. Yeah, so we're doing like a lot of strength lifting, a lot of lifting, we're doing volume training. So yeah, I've been waking up at like 4.30, going to the gym pretty early because I have been in a depression. I had a whole lot of personal life things happen. I lost a couple of relationships. It was a good thing that they're gone because now I actually have a lot more energy for me. My light shines more. I'm not being gaslighted or manipulated or used or make me feel like I have to earn their love. So that's a plus. My husband is wonderful. We got him on a plan. I made him work a plan and a diet and we are going to prep together. He is not doing a show, but he wants to get better and he wants to do the things. I make plans to help people do the things. So I made him a plan. So we also got approved to build our gym in the backyard. So hopefully actually we start building on Monday. So I think a lot of these videos are going to be done out of that gym. So that'll be fun. I'm excited. I'm going to be able to like train clients and stuff out of the gym too. Do posing classes and all that. So that's really exciting, especially with I guess the whole beer bug situation. I don't want to say it because I don't want this video to get flagged. But you know, you know, the tea, that thing. So yeah, I think I'm going to keep this short, but I might be putting in my progress photos as well. I don't really know. I'm just kind of prefacing, prefacing, prefacing. I don't know. I actually don't know how to say that word to be honest. So don't correct me. Just leave me alone. I'll Google it. I'll learn it myself. I don't want you all to be like schooling me. And that's why you dumbass. I've gone to school. Actually, all of it's been online. So if I do say some words that don't really make sense, please keep in mind that I have had a stroke. So there may be some days where my speech might be messed up or I might be a little different. And that's going to be okay because that's just kind of how it is after you have a stroke. And again, if I say words that don't really make sense, it's probably because I learned I'm reading a book. I read a lot of books. I'm always trying to learn. But when you don't have like an actual teacher right in front of you teaching you the words, it's kind of difficult because you don't really know if you're saying it right. So if that happens, you know, just whatever, go with it. All right. I don't know what else to say in this video. So I guess we're just going to cut it now. Thanks guys. Here's where we're starting out in prep. And also I share a lot of videos in the mornings on my IG stories. Mostly in my workouts. Usually it's not the top sets. Usually it's just the warm-up sets. As I'm, once I get to the top working sets, I really don't want to mess with my home. But using a full miller on bench press really helps with the full stretch. I really like that you should try it. It also works your core stabilizers. This is my first time doing a voiceover. I don't really know. These videos aren't going to be perfect yet, but I don't think once you, you don't have to wait until it's perfect to start. Just start. So hopefully the videos will get better as we go. I'll also learn how to do more things. But if you want to get in contact with me, my email is coach B at limitlessphysix.com. You can find us on the web at limitlessphysix.com. Also if you want to get back, lots of rowing. Pretty sure I got a good back because I did RDLs the wrong way for years. Basically just muscle it up with my back. So there's your tip. But thank you for watching guys and there's my babe. Have a good day.

=== FILE: IFBB PRO DEBUT： Ep 2 The Cut Begins [IJcq2zBDYak].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I've tried to record this like a million times and you know what? It's hard. It is hard to do videos for YouTube only on episode 2 and I'm like this is hard. Maybe it's not for me. I don't know. But here we are. Being uncomfortable. Thanks Bernadette Brown. Thanks so much. Thank you so much for trying to make me better. Okay so first of all I don't really know what we're calling this so I'm just calling this pro debut episode 2 for now. Like that's all I got. Maybe I'll get creative as we go. Maybe I won't. I don't know. We're just gonna go with it. Right. Here it is. There's my stuff. Okay so we started prep week early. Thank goodness because I feel like I was becoming a muscle cloud. So I'm going to update my plan today. I am still looking for some really cool poses to send my posing coach Sheila. So I also need to find music for a second song. That's the same thing. Music and second song. Anyway I need to find a second song. How about that? So we went ahead and dropped carbs. There's no cardio yet which that's really cool thank goodness. Let's see my mental state. Okay well right now I have a Bissette's flair and if you don't know what Bissette's is like it it sucks. It sucks a bag of donkey dinglings. Like it is terrible. It's an autoimmune disease and it attacks your nerves and your blood vessels and your salt tissues. So like it can affect my eyes. It can like it makes my skin and my mouth like come off. Like I get like these really big nasty like cysts or things like in my armpits or in like my groin area or like in my butt. Like it's it's so it's just like the worst and it's different because it's not a virus or anything so there's not any like you can't you can't get any medications and there's nothing for it and they tried to treat it with that and like it doesn't do anything. So yeah there's not like anything you can do you could just have to like write it out and it sucks dude this is like one of the worst ones I've ever had in my whole life and today was leg day. So I chose to because I had a rest day yesterday thinking like hopefully it'll go away. Well no today's it's actually worse so I'm like ah so I stayed home worked out in the garage because I still want to be an asshole to people at the gym whenever I'm like I'm hurting so typically like if I'm hurting I'm like I'm either really boohoooey or I'm really like short and like just please leave me alone because I'm doing the best I can to not cry. That's that's like as real as I can get like I'm just doing the best I can. So yeah but other than that like I'm actually feeling like really good like mentally I'm feeling really good. So like whenever you have an autoimmune disease so like I've looped this and so you know there's a lot of information in my body well typically like our brains our brain chemicals can can be off because of that so I'm on a couple different medications I'm on one for antidepressant and I'm on one for like a mood stabilizer so the antidepressant like we're up at max dose and we've been there for like two years and it's solid like I feel a big difference from that and the mood stabilizer like it's great it helps me sleep and it's it's solid however it affects your blood sugar so I don't know how it's gonna go with prep and yeah so I don't know if I'm gonna have to like drop it back down or if it's gonna be okay where we're at and we just have to diet harder so I don't know but I'm just gonna go with it because that's all we can do. I have a mental therapist appointment tomorrow. Nope in two days. So looking forward to that as well because that's going really well. Yeah so I mean aside from like the flare up and the pain I'm doing pretty good. I also like looked at a bunch of previous photos from like the 2019 prep and like I have a decent shape like I have a nice shape I think it's you know it is better for like bodybuilder I have more bodybuilder build and I think you know because like I needed to work on my hands and my low back so I think you know because I've never had an offseason like this before so I think you know I think put in the work you know because we worked on our hands and we work on low back and like we worked on everything right but we really put work on those and also in our arms too because I feel like I just I look better it's more balanced whenever my arms are a little bit thicker because I do have such a big a big thicker upper body and also I just I want more conditioning and my glutes in and my back so yeah like that's kind of why I also want to start prepping a little bit early so that way like in my mind I feel like okay we're on track like we're gonna be ready. So yeah so I mean like the Hets that's all I got other than that like I also have an autoimmune issue it's a skin issue it's called HS there's a longer word for that but I can never say it and I can never remember it so that's all that's all I got so what it is it's like my skin also doesn't really fight bacteria very well to go figure so if like I get any like if I get an embol hair or if I get a scratch or something like my body doesn't fight the bacteria and it just it gets infected and I can get staph on this I get staph breakouts and all sorts of stuff so I have to do like certain protocol in the skin and it's all it's just a long time and I stopped doing it for a little bit and then it's just it's it's a lot to do like it bleeds back and certain cleansers and certain lotions and none of them smell good and it's like but so yeah so I started my protocol back up and it's already up in my skin so I mean I guess you gotta be the right thing you know you don't want to because you know I get on stage and like skin is also a big deal so I need to make sure that you know my skin is on point so that's another part of my prep but Jack so I did legs in the garage so I'll probably put a few little excerpt from that but like that's where we are right now I'm really excited I still don't know what color I want my suit to be but I'll figure out I'll talk with crystal gypsy and we'll find something beautiful they have a lot of really really pretty things that she's very creative so and she also partnered with a couple other ladies as well that are very creative so I'm really excited to have them in my corner this year as well so it's gonna be definitely great vibes I've gotten a ton of great feedback from people wanting to follow this which is why I'm like making myself do this I'm not gonna be not gonna be a freaking baby and be like I don't want to do it because I think it's gonna be beneficial I think it's gonna help me get out of my comfort zone I feel like it's gonna help me mentally because you know I do suffer I hate the word suffer I I deal with mental health issues like depression and anxiety and stuff so I feel like by becoming uncomfortable like this I just feel like it's gonna make me stronger and so all in all I feel like it's gonna be a good thing even though I really don't like talking about stuff like this and I don't like putting things out there because then you know I just it's just a lot but hearing it so I'm really excited I'm excited to make friends I'm excited to get up there again because this is the longest I've taken away from the stage so yeah so anyway thank you so much guys have a great Tuesday yeah come on so here Matt currently and here we were at two days out of the previous show here we are now at the start of prep and usually you guys know I have a cupcake on my butt so these are called Joe Rose and I love Joe Rose I got them from Joe Bennett he otherwise known as hyper trophy coach I think he puts out a lot of really cool stuff and it would be like so rad to train with him one day but yeah so here are some more here's some more video of just some exercises that I've been doing lately and part of my therapy is that I am choosing to be present during this prep and so a quote that I want to leave you guys with today is many of life's failures are experienced by people who did not realize how closely were the success when they gave up that quote is by Thomas Edison and I think that's kind of what keeps me going is the fact that I know that if I just keep going and I keep doing it like I'm gonna get it I'm gonna get whatever I want I just I just can't give up and I want all of you guys to get that way too like you just can't give up your diamond is almost there you just got to keep digging so thank you so much thank you so much for the support and I hope you guys just have a great day thank you yeah

=== FILE: Napoleon Dynamite Colorado State [jv4E7rJpIH4].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to Get it for us In Awesome. Little case. Get it第一第一第一第一

=== FILE: Stay Prepared, Brothers： What Every Bodybuilder Shouldn’t Leave The House Without [AOW0GybLggo].txt ===

 uda-查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 Life! I'm gonna let you know about some essential items that make the Fitlife easier for you to stick to so you can really rail those resolutions and stay healthy all year long. But first, have you seen my mushrooms? Gracie. He's so cool. I'm so proud. I'm so proud, dude. Have you ever been peed on by a mushroom? Today was my first time. Kink Unlocked. Gracie is known as the mushroom of immortality. Look at him. Why'd y'all look at that? Number one, get and use a workout journal specific to your needs. This is gonna have your workouts, your activity, notes, your programming. You don't just go to the gym without a plan. You go with a map, my friends. Journals help you track progress, help mix bad habits and create new ones because of awareness. You can identify patterns, triggers, and if you're also tracking your food, you should be. You can even track how your body feels before and after a meal. A lot of times, whenever my clients come to me, they've never tracked food before. In this process, they start to really learn what their body likes and what their body doesn't. Then they start to narrow down, you know, hey, around meal two, I get a little gassy. Or, hey, I crap my pants the other day after this meal. Man, I was moody. So a journal is key to helping you become more aware of your workouts, your food, yourself. Wow. Depending on what you track, you can also learn, you know, more about who you are, why you do what you do, how you work, and what jives and doesn't jive in your life. Journal's a gift, man. Get one. Number two, a water bottle or a jug. Everyone knows water is important, so I'm really just going to send it on home. Being hydrated is key for just existing. Loaf. Everything depends on water. Our digestion, skin health, blood viscosity, flushes out waste. It helps you avoid muscle cramps. The hydrated person will burn more fat than the dehydrated person. And a hydrated person will burn more fat than a dehydrated person. So don't be afraid of a little water. Be afraid of too much water. And if you're really fancy, they've also got those little nut huggers for you. They got the jug huggers for your nuts, for your jugs. It helps keep your water cool. Number three, a lunchbox and containers. If you're gone all day, a fantastic investment would be a lunchbox with the meal prep containers. I was gifted this lunchbox years ago. I use it everywhere I go. I love it. These containers are made to fit within. There were two really big brands that made these. Now you can go on Amazon and you can find so many different designs and sizes. So shop around, find something that fits your needs. What do you get excited about? When you're packing food on the go, get reusable baggies. They're like Ziploc bags, but they're less wasteful and you can clean them. They come in different sizes and they are handy when you're traveling and you're trying to fit a lot of meals into a smaller space. And by purchasing the reusable bags, it keeps plastic out of the dumps. Speaking of landfills, my dudes. I got a nerd out about mushrooms real quick. So there's something called myco remediation, which is basically a technique that uses mushrooms and enzymes to clean up hazardous waste. Dude, bro, listen to me. Mushrooms are lit. They've been used to clean up like oil spills in the Amazon, boat fuel pollution, contaminated soils, PCVs, which is polychlorophonated. I can never say the B word. Research suggests that they can also convert pesticides and herbicides into less harmful compounds. Remove heavy metals from brownfield sites, break down plastic, and remove contaminants from water. They're wild for backup plant nutrition. There is nothing worse than having anxiety when you're trying to hurt this dog. You can do this dog. There's nothing worse than something happening to your meal and you don't have the quality foods accessible. Stay prepared. Make sure that you have a shaker bottle and convenient items that store well. Available in your desk or in your car. I keep a tub of protein powder, EAAs, tuna packs, jerky, electrolytes, pink salt, rice cakes, nuts, nuts, nuts, single almond butter packs. Nuts. I also keep aloha bars on hand. I love aloha because they're made with plant protein. They're a pretty solid macronutrient ratio. I'd like them to have a smidge more protein, but for flavor and quality and convenience, aloha bars slap, son. This is not a sponsored video, but I love your bars, man. Pipe. Gym bag. I always carry change of work clothes, extra set of gym clothes, deodorant. Don't be the stinky dude. If you shower at the gym, bring your travel size shower accessories and your hygiene product, a towel, flip flops for the shower. You could also have some odor eater balls, balls, or some antimicrobial spray so your bag don't smell like a funk. Ladies have those special hygiene items on hand for when old girl should be sneaking up on you. A jack with your cheese. You cramping. That's why you got some Don Quay on hand so you can battle those cramps. Get to the gym. While we're talking about the gym bag. I don't know what it is with some of these gyms, but vert the furk. Do they be playing my guys? I mean, I enjoy little Spice Girls and little John till the sweat drops all the way down my balls. But what are they playing in the gym? No. So you make sure you're in control of the tunes flowing through your beautiful head with a pair of headphones. While we're at it, thank me later. Music can help you push through a tough workout and it really stinks whenever you either don't have them or they're dead. So call me crazy, but I'm going to recommend that you have two pairs. One that are your normal Bluetooth and others that are corded. You know, like the old school guy. Make sure that you have the adapter to plug into your phone. And if you think it's wild to have two pair of headphones, live in abundance my friends. Mmm. And one more nugget of advice. Don't get the cheap sweat proof kind. I went through so many pairs of constantly breaking. They could keep up with me. I finally found some that I've stuck with for a few years. My favorites are the Raycon or the JBL. Number six. Quality activity specific shoes. The importance of having specific shoes for cardio and weightlifting cannot be understated. Different activities put different stressors on your feet. Having the right shoes will not only help protect your feet from injury, but the links above as well. Ankle, knees, hips, spine. For cardio, you need shoes that are lightweight to have good cushioning to protect your feet from the impact of running or walking. For me, I like the cloud shoes or Brooks for my cardio. I don't know if cloud shoes is the brand. I just know it has a cloud on them and it looks like a Q. So, through cloud shoes, man. I don't know what else to tell you. For weightlifting, you need shoes that are stable and that they're going to provide stability for your ankles and feet. Now, if you're like me and you go ham, you get pretty much every color and then all of a sudden you're like, I feel like Peter Pan. Personally, I like Chex. These are my off-brand Chex. I've worn these babies out. I like the flat bottoms. What you don't want is something with a huge platform that's going to cause a lot of instability and that can increase your chances of injury. I think shocks or those one-sketcher shoes that said you burn more calories when you warm. Or those abominations called shape-ups. Oh, my balls! $40 million settlement. We're not wearing those. Moving on. He's a little bit... Oh, yeah, go beat me. Heaven. Resistance, LOOP, and Strength fans. One of the greatest things about resistance fans is they're super versatile. I am working out right here. It's kind of like the shake weight. Ha ha ha! You can use them for a wide variety of reasons. Strength training, stretching. I always carry a packet of bands with me whenever I'm traveling. They're extremely easy to store. I know that if there's not a gym available to me, at least I can get a form of activity in. Loop fans and booty bands. If you're looking to target specific areas in your workout, loop bands are a great option. They come in a variety of sizes and resistance levels so you can find the perfect one for your needs. Booty bands! I will have put it on my butt. But I can't right now. You too. There are also strength bands. They're a little bit more strict if you want to add intensity to a workout. They're larger than the loop bands and provide a lot more resistance, making them ideal for strength training. You can use them on their own. You can attach them to a barbell, a machine, dumbbells, and also improve your body weight pull-ups by using one of these for assistance. A lifting belt. Yeah! Get a belt. Make sure your form is correct. Make sure you protect yourself. Lifting belt. I've used a few Velcro in the past and they have always popped. I like the leather. It's smaller in the front, wider in the back. This has a little bit of cushion. It's not going to pop off. I got this one on Amazon. They're really nice leather belts if you want to invest. Stick to training for a year and that can be your reward. Number nine. A yoga mat for stretching and mobility. This one isn't a deal breaker because most gyms have yoga mats. Personally, I love my mat and what it represents. It's also got all of my juices on it and other people's. When I see it, it's a positive trigger for me to do what I know I need to do. It's where I go to honor my body and my spirit's needs. My mat is my little sacred space. I do this because I know it makes my body feel better, improve flexibility, posture, alignment, blood flow, reduce risk of injury, improve range of motion, well-being, and perform better. So maybe it's not the yoga mat for you per se. It's also a reminder to treat your body well. And I want my body to keep taking care of me. You can think what you want about yoga and meditation. I used to think it was for the granola eaters, but I am a believer, baby. It helped me through my stroke. It improves my mental health, calms my soul, and I am full hippie crunch mode, baby. And yes, I do be jamming out with my invisible dreads. My little hand-pandrome. So what have we learned? Your girl loves mushrooms. Balls. I love you, baby. Preparation is an investment. If you put in a little time and effort into planning ahead, you'll be thankful whenever you don't have to scramble to find things later. Or if something happens, you know that you have a backup plan and you can roll with it instead of absolutely losing your heck in mind. And although keeping up with a packed schedule is not easy, preparation can help put you into a winning position and facing any challenges along the way. This was really rad to put together and it brought back a lot of cool memories. Thank you for spending your time with me today. For coaching, label it as physique.com. For savings on quality supplementation, custom competition in swimwear, check out the description box below. And until then, see you later. Bye. Sayonara suckas con banh wa. Thank you.

=== FILE: TOO BUSY？ How to Prioritize & Maximize Pockets of Time ｜ TIME MANAGEMENT [orJog_L2zlc].txt ===

 you're too busy. I get it. We all are. This roll is freakin' nuts! In this video, I'm gonna show you how to find and manage pockets of time in your day so you can have more time to work on your goals to build those good habits. Hey friends, brothers, welcome to my limitless space. I'm IFBB Propriet Larson, and I know that we are all busy people. We always feel like we don't have enough time in the day to get everything done on the list that doesn't end. Yes, it goes on and on, my friends. But what if I told you that you could have more time, and you could use that same time to work on your goals and build those good habits? With everything we do, we're using up time. We're using up minutes. Time management is the process of organizing, prioritizing, and planning how to allocate time effectively and efficiently. It reduces stress, improves focus, and creates a better life balance. It also helps to improve decision-making and efficiency. Basically, time management is important because it helps you get more done and less time. First, you need to know where your time is going currently. Evaluate your time. Now, before you race out and go get the latest and greatest BA Lisa Frank Planner with all the extras, you need to figure out what you're doing with your time right now. What's going on in your days? What are you up to, brother? Everyone should take back control of their time, and today's mission is to empower you to do just that. By being mindful of how you use your day, you can be the master of your own time. To start, awareness is key and the most important step in time management. Have a clear understanding of how you spend your time each day, and that might sound intimidating when you feel like you already don't have enough time in your day. But it doesn't have to be. There are lots of different ways to track how you spend your time, from tried and true methods like writing it down to high-tech apps that do all the work for you, and with some mindfulness and a little elbow grease, you may realize that it's not as hard as you think to know where all of your time is going. Ways to track your time throughout the day, get a timer app. Use a timer app on your phone or computer and set a timer for specific tasks. This can help you stay focused and on task, and it can also help you measure how much time you're spending on each activity. Write down a time log. Keep a time log where you write down what you're doing and for how long. This can be done manually in a notebook or digitally through an app or spreadsheet. There are also several time tracking software programs available that can allow you to track your time spent on different activities. Some examples would include rescue time, toggle, and timely. Once you've figured out how your days are looking, it's time to prioritize. Prioritizing your tasks and goals is crucial for effectively managing your time and achieving your objectives. When you prioritize your tasks, you're able to focus on the most important and urgent tasks first, which helps you make the most of your time and achieve your goals more efficiently. When you prioritize, identify your goals and objectives. This will help you focus on the tasks that will help you achieve those goals. From there, put your most important tasks at the top, and then work your way down the list. This will help you to make progress on your most important tasks and goals. And I like to color coordinate and highlight based on the category like coaching, consults, training, nutrition protocols, self-care, class of days, books. You're also going to break down your larger tasks into smaller, more manageable chunks. This will make it easier for you to focus on one task at a time and help you make progress towards your goals. For example, if your task is to write a research paper, you're going to break it down into smaller tasks such as researching the topic, outlining the paper, writing the introduction, writing the body, revising, and finalizing the paper. You can also break it down by time. If you need to clean your entire house, you can break it down into 15 focused minute intervals such as cleaning the kitchen, the living room, the bedroom, the bathroom. What has been helpful for me when it comes to prioritizing is using the Eisenhower matrix. The Eisenhower matrix is a tool that helps you prioritize tasks based on their urgency and importance. Tasks are divided into four categories, urgent and important. Important but not urgent. Urgent but not important and not urgent or important. Now that you've evaluated and prioritized, it's time to look for the pockets. Pockets of time refer to small, unused blocks of time in your day. We all have these little pockets of time in our day that often go wasted with apps and mindless scrolling, getting caught up in the latest drama. However, if we use a little bit of awareness and mindfulness, these small moments can turn into time to work on your goals instead. So you've got your daily time layout from evaluating and tracking. Your priority list is right in front of you. You're going to begin to look for the little areas in your schedule that have a little breathing room and draw attention to each moment throughout the day, even if it's just five minutes here and there. These pockets of time can be found between appointments during lunch breaks and the mornings or the evening before or after work. Capitalize on those moments. Push your progress towards whatever goal you've got for yourself. A few ways to find pockets of time and examples for what to do with them. Start by eliminating the distractions that keep you from being productive. Try to set boundaries and communicate when you are at the gym and it is your scheduled self-care time. Unless it's an emergency, it's a no. That's a boundary. And social media is a big one. It's so easy to pick up your phone and get into a time suck, especially when people are on social media at the gym. I work out for three hours a day is actually, yeah, I scroll social media and I move it in between the sets and I truly only work a third of that. So if time really is an issue, make sure you have guidelines for when you use those apps or set timers for your rest periods. Limit your screen time, swap it out with something more productive. And again, set timers so you don't get lost in a black hole out there on the interwebs. More ways that you can find pockets of time is by using your commute. If you take public transportation or you drive to work, you could use that time to read a book or listen to a podcast that's related to your goals. Plan your day, write your gratitudes or learn that language that you said you wanted to do years ago. Take advantage of lunch breaks. Use your lunch break to go get your lift in, create your meal plan for the week, go for a walk, work on personal projects. You can wake up earlier. Yeah, it's rough at first and you'll be sleepy in the beginning. Your body will get used to it and waking up 30 minutes earlier than usual can give you extra time to do something productive like exercising or getting your cardio in. I love the quiet stillness of the world when it's really early in the morning. Use reminders to remind yourself of your goals and what you want to do with your pockets of time. Since I've evaluated my daily schedule, I set alarms for reminders around the time that I'm likely having that downtime. Now you get to create your master schedule. This is your comprehensive schedule that includes all of the prioritized tasks, appointments, events and due dates that you need to complete or attend in a given period of time. It is the tool for staying organized and on track because it allows you to see the big picture of your commitments and what you have going on so you can plan your time accordingly. And it gives you opportunities to see where you can have it stack, which I am touching on next. When it comes to the master schedule, I want to share a little bit of additional advice. Make sure you block out time for self-care and leisure activities like exercise or reading. It's easy to use the excuse that you don't have time for something when you haven't made time for it. I've got clients that are full time, balls deep in a PhD program, an absolute rock star of a surgeon who did not have the time. Yet here she is in my inbox every check in day three in the morning because she prioritized a goal that was important to her and now she's a wellness pro. In set reminders for important tasks and events to stay on track, I like to have a 15 minutes heads up notification. That way I can start to wrap up whatever it is that I've got going on right then so I can move on to the next priority and be realistic about how much time you have available and how long it's going to take you to complete each task. At first I thought that I was going to be able to pop out a YouTube video as fast as I could think them up but I am also a one-man circus lab brothers. I wanted one video a week but I am also learning that creating content is a whole process and while I'm having fun doing this I unknowingly put a little bit too much pressure on myself to keep up while also having a growing coaching and nutrition business, training clients, growing mushrooms, the mycology program and taking more functional nutrition classes. There's a whole lot when it comes to YouTube. At least that's how it feels to me at this point in time. I want to improve and get better, not just rush it and stress the whole time. So I prioritize my clients and my life and I play with this in the pockets of my time that I create whenever I'm working out my schedule. You should also review and adjust your schedule regularly to ensure that it still works for you and that you are making progress. If something isn't working out, change it. Be flexible and willing to adjust your schedule as needed. You know, things come up and plans change. So just take the bull by the horns and roll with it baby. Now that the master schedule has been created, we can sprinkle in the magic of habit stacking. Habit stacking is a technique that involves linking a new habit to an existing habit, making it easier to incorporate the new habit into your daily routine and creating the master schedule first can be really helpful because it can allow you to see the big picture and the commitments so you can plan your time accordingly. You can then use habit stacking to incorporate new healthy habits into your schedule and by doing this, you'll be more likely to stick to it and make it part of your daily routine. Habit stacking examples for healthier, more active lifestyle. When you wake up in the morning, drink a glass of water. After brushing your teeth in the morning, go for a 10 minute walk or do morning stretches. After you finish work or class for the day, go for a 20 minute run. Before you watch your favorite movie or TV show at night, do a 10 minute yoga or meditation session. After you finish your dinner, take a walk around the block. Let your body start to digest. Before you go to bed, spend 10 minutes stretching or foam rolling. When you get out of the shower and your body's warm, do some stretching. While your bedtime tea is steeping, do some mobility or write down your gratitudes and affirmations for the day. Finish your day doing something positive. The key to habit stacking is consistency. You start with small easy steps and you build on that. It's helpful to track your progress. Responsibly reward yourself for sticking to your habits to keep you motivated. To wrap this up, we all struggle with feeling like we don't have enough time to get everything done in the day and we especially don't have time to meal prep or workout but by learning how to evaluate, prioritize and find extra pockets of time, we can use time management to our advantage. By creating your master schedule, we can see the big picture of our commitments and plan accordingly. By using habit stacking, we can incorporate small healthy habits into our routine. And remember, it's not about finding more time. It's about making the most of the time that we have. So take control of your schedule and start making the time for the things that matter the most to you. Thank you for spending your time with me today. If you like this video, let me know. I really do love the feedback and all of the support that I've been getting. I really appreciate you for coaching, limitlessphysics.com, for savings on quality supplementation and custom competition wearing bikinis. See the links in my bio. And until next time, thanks man. Okay, I love you. Sayonara.

=== FILE: The Scale Doesn’t Tell the Whole Story： Digging Deeper than the Number [DDYfG-jNJbk].txt ===

 Hey there, friends. Welcome to my limelist space. I'm Brett Larson, I have BB Pro, coach of limelist physique, lover of nature, and creatures. This channel is meant to be helpful and fun, so if you get something out of it, that would make me so happy. And if not, thank you so much for spending your time with me today, and I wish you well. So... It's that time of year, y'all. The food, the parties, the overindulging... ...coaches everywhere. Prepare yourselves. Here's Resolution! Right about now is when we're gonna be seeing all the memes of all the trainers. Here's Resolutioners, baby. Time to make that money! Money! Ugh. My husband's home. He's so hot. Waaaaaah! Past few months, people have been tossing their goals in the Chucky Bucket. And now, they're feeling chunky. They're feeling a little tubby. They're feeling a little sluggish. They are feeling it, man. Now, they're dusting those goals off, and they're ready to go at it again. Which is fantastic! You should do that! You should absolutely do it! And, I'm sure most of you know, the second most popular resolution is... Lose those extra pounds. And in my experience, as one of the most frequent inquiries I get every year, hey, I want to lose X pounds, and trying to do it for years, and I keep gaining weight, and I won't be happy until I'm X pounds. Can you help me? Help me! And in my early years of coaching, I was like, Well, yeah, brother, I'll help you. Let's go! And the first few weeks, things would be pretty alright. They're all in. As time went on, a pattern emerged with the clients that were laser focused on this specific number. I believe that because they only thought that happiness and success was tied to this specific number, that they missed out on all of the other wonderful things that were happening. Because they didn't have this specific number yet. They didn't really allow themselves to be happy. They didn't celebrate their hard work. And it was almost like they were gaining all of these amazing things, but because they didn't get that specific number quite yet, they weren't allowed to celebrate or be happy for everything that they had already achieved and done. And eventually, they would just get so burnt out and quit, and fortunately gain even more back. And the next year, come right back, Hey, I want to hit this number. I want to hit this number. The cycle just continues. And as a coach, as a woman, as a human, to see people tie their worth, their happiness, everything to this specific number, it breaks the heart. Now, things are much different when it comes to my coaching. When someone comes to me with a specific number, I want to know why. Making weight for, you know, an athletic event or a surgical procedure, not really including that. Why do you need to be 120 pounds or bust? Why do you want this number? I need you to dig deeper than that. Because if you're not rooted in this, you will easily let every excuse get in the way. Why do you want to be 120 pounds or less? Or why do you need to be 120 pounds? I need you to dig deeper than that. Because if you're not rooted in this, then any excuse that comes along the way is going to throw you off your course. Don't stand for something you're going to fall for anything. So have some depth and true purpose behind your goal. Because that's what's going to move you on the hard days. And I'm going to tell you, not every day is going to be easy. It's going to be hard. Do you have some wiggle room? Your number goal is 120. But what if you are a 130 that is feeling great? Your clothes fit. You're strong. You have better sleep. You have an improved relationship with yourself and with food. Improved digestion. You can go on hikes and you can go out and play with your kids. Would that be an attainable goal for you? Would that be an okay middle ground versus the 120? And how far is too far? Just because it's your goal doesn't always make it realistic. So is this goal a realistic goal for you? My number at one point in time was 118. And I did it boy. I did it. I was absolutely miserable. I felt like garbage over dieted, over exercised, over cardioed. Took so many fat burner pills on that and aren't even on the market anymore. I was cracked out y'all. But as soon as I did anything different, I gained so much weight right back. And I'm telling you, it wasn't the pretty weight either. It was 60 pounds of heartache. I forgot to turn my light on. No. So as you are making your goals, my challenge to you would be to ask yourself why. I mean a serious non-judgmental look at yourself and dig why. And whenever you get an answer, ask again, why? Narrow it down. Why do you want this? What feeling are you chasing that you think this goal will bring within you? Because we're all chasing feelings. We're doing it to feel something, right? So we might as well get down to the bottom of this feeling. Is this your dream? Is this your goal within you? Not anyone else? Not what someone put on you or made you believe? Is this yours? And should you reach this goal, what in your life is going to change? Is this about you or is this about helping others? And some people might say, oh, you know, just losing weight, that's doing it for yourself. But no, because if you're able to go and play with your kids and you're able to have more energy and you're more confident and you're more fun, you're able to have better connections with your children, with other people. Reaching a goal isn't necessarily always only just about you. Do you have the ability to be honest with yourself and with your coach? Because it is. If you decide to get a coach, it's going to be a partnership with you guys. And you need to be able to look at yourself and be honest and be transparent and take responsibility and ownership. And you also need a coach that's going to be honest with you and so you guys can be a team together. And something that not a lot of people really talk about is when you reach this goal, are you willing to be that character? Mr. Olympia does Mr. Olympia things. While they do get the glory, they also make extreme sacrifices. It's okay to reassess and adjust your goal even on the way. You may find that, hey, you know what? I actually am really happy doing this. And I just realized that I really just don't really want to do the other thing anymore. And that's okay. That's your personal evolution. One of the most important things you could ask yourself. Do you believe in yourself? Don't believe in yourself. So many people hold themselves back because they don't believe in themselves. They're too afraid. They're this, they're that. But you should just jump. Just do it. Everyone was a beginner at some point. So just do it. Go. Diamonds went through so much pressure to become as strong and beautiful as they are. So dig for more. Dig for the meat and potatoes of this goal that you have. Dig for that importance, that meaning to you. Believe in yourself and get to work. Thank you so much for stopping by. It's been a pleasure and I hope to see you next time. For coaching, check out livinglifts.zix.com. And, um, bye.

=== FILE: Unsure Where to Begin with Food & Fitness？ Simple Advice for Kickstarting your Journey [862YT111IQY].txt ===

 Hey y'all, welcome to my limelight space. What I really wanna say is, Hello, brothers, we're not doing one of those long intros today. No way, son. We hooded, we hollered enough during the holidays. Now it's time to take control of your health, and finally reach your budget job. Aww. Congratulations on making the decision to improve in whatever way, shape, or form that improvement looks like to you. I support all girls. Hup, all girls. I support all girls. All girls. Large in the eee-dee-dee-dee-dee-dee-dee ones. And it all matters. And for freaking you, guy, or lady, or gal, I'm here to help and encourage you. Any lifestyle change is challenging. And with the right mindset, it can be incredibly rewarding. Number one, know where you wanna go. Where do you want this to take you? How do you wanna feel? What kind of body composition would you like? Going back to my last video, Why do you want this? Like really, like why do you want this? Write it down. Is it your help? Make a list of the physical improvements that you wanna feel, or blood markers that you wanna improve. Do you wanna feel confident in that little, you know, the thing that you're gonna wear and you're gonna shimmy in? In this first phase, I call this collecting the data. Take inventory and assess where you are right now. Get real with yourself. You might not even like this part. It is important. Take your measurements, take your weight, and photos. I don't care about your feelings, about these photos. On dudes, take your photos, because photos don't lie. They are a good measure of truth. Truth. Part of this assessment is tracking everything that goes in your mouth. I'm talking about food. And the drink, and the coffee, and the sugars, and the jelly beans. And the biscuits. Track the biscuits. Small biscuits. I want it all. This is how you figure out your calorie intake. Or at least what you are currently doing, like, ehhh, ballpark. By knowing this, you're able to make smaller food adjustments that can't get the ball rolling without having to go straight into crashing burn mode. In the beginning, I wouldn't even change anything that you're doing as far as what you're eating. I would just track every single thing that you are eating. This is how you will know, hey, this is what I'm doing right now. Food. That's another video entirely. Food is crucial to your progress. Opt for whole foods and get out those measurements of the food. Because you need to start measuring. You need to learn your portion sizes. Knowing your portions is key to getting the most accurate reading that you can. The most accurate numbers that you can. And please do not go balls to the wall on a crazy restrictive diet. Cut out all of the cards. Oh, now can you eat any of these? I hear proteins really. I am not a doctor, but I'm just saying. Please don't go on a crazy restrictive diet. That's only going to hurt you in the long run. Once you figure out a general word that are hard to say. Words are hard every day. Once you figure out a general idea of the calories that you're intaking, just shave a little bit off and start there. Maybe shave about 200, 150, 200 calories off per day. This is all that you did in the service. When you do decide to change up your foods, choose the healthy proteins, the colorful veggies, some fruits, nuts, healthy fats, fats. From fish, whole egg, macadamia nuts, olives, and cardoes. And remember, just because it's healthy does not mean it's a free-for-all. Cardio and exercise. I hate cardio. Who even likes cardio? I can't bite a bit of this. I don't care. It's good for you. It's good for your heart. Oh. Your heart. I've attached a day workout and cardio program in the description box below. That'll get the momentum going while you're building these good habits. Call it a gift. This is for you. Enjoy. Flifting weights, is it for you? At least do some form of resistance training. It's good for your bones. Pray for your metabolism. Your metabolism, y'all. No, we're not doing that one. No, please, please, please, don't even be like, I'm gonna get huge if I have to weights. No, you won't get huge. Huge, huge, huge. You won't get huge. Without some extra sauce. Well, I mean, most of you won't. And if you do, you're lucky. Take advantage. Get giant normies. Scare the crap out of kids, people in dark alleys. Be a security guard for someone real famous. Do some yoga, get some resistance fans, do a boot camp at the gym. And don't be afraid to try something new. Find something that you enjoy. I did a gnarly leg day. And this chick comes up to me and she's like, hey, would you like to try my hip hop class? And I was like, ah, yes. You know, I didn't know I could twerk, but I had a great time doing it and I broke my back smooth in half. Had a blast though. Collect more data. One time per week, track your progress markers. The ones that you had laid out before. Take an honest look at how the week went. Use that data and say, hey, this was awesome. We made progress. Let's keep going. Or, hey, I saw that this cut coming up, which I missed a workout because of this. So I'm going to use this opportunity to make my schedule better for this next week. It's all about just making the tweaks for yourself. Customize it to you and use all the data that you collect as an opportunity to improve. Ah, this one. This one's a doozy. Consistency. Be consistent while also knowing that things can happen. And it won't be perfect all the time. Sit to it. Even when you'd rather watch another episode of anime and you're like, oh my gosh, what's going to happen next? Drop it. Turn it off. Go to the gym or read that book. And definitely don't reward yourself with going to Buffalo Wild Wings because that's just going to reverse all your hard work. It will be worth it. It will be difficult. But remember, you aren't going to be in this place anymore unless you choose to. What you do is a choice. Choose to get closer to the person that you want to be, or choose to revert back to the person that you are saying that you want to improve on. This is a small piece of the puzzle. They didn't even talk about mindset, sleep, supplementation, meal prepping. All that's coming though. I got you, France. Be a genuine Nymphos. My neighbors probably think I do drugs. If you want to take the guesswork out of it, I highly recommend that you hire a coach. But not like any coach. Get a calling one that knows what they're doing that cares about you and your health over the money in their bank account and whatever they're trying to force on you. You have to join my team and pay a fee. Nah, not everyone's like that. I know a coach. So comment down below what you're wanting to achieve this year. I'd love to hold to do it. For coaching, play my list of seeks.com. Nah. Adios. Konban wa. Subscribe. Arigatou gozaimasu. Thank you.

=== FILE: front shoulder depletion 62014 [nZLE67BroKI].txt ===

!
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.617267Z ===
