 uda-查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 Life! I'm gonna let you know about some essential items that make the Fitlife easier for you to stick to so you can really rail those resolutions and stay healthy all year long. But first, have you seen my mushrooms? Gracie. He's so cool. I'm so proud. I'm so proud, dude. Have you ever been peed on by a mushroom? Today was my first time. Kink Unlocked. Gracie is known as the mushroom of immortality. Look at him. Why'd y'all look at that? Number one, get and use a workout journal specific to your needs. This is gonna have your workouts, your activity, notes, your programming. You don't just go to the gym without a plan. You go with a map, my friends. Journals help you track progress, help mix bad habits and create new ones because of awareness. You can identify patterns, triggers, and if you're also tracking your food, you should be. You can even track how your body feels before and after a meal. A lot of times, whenever my clients come to me, they've never tracked food before. In this process, they start to really learn what their body likes and what their body doesn't. Then they start to narrow down, you know, hey, around meal two, I get a little gassy. Or, hey, I crap my pants the other day after this meal. Man, I was moody. So a journal is key to helping you become more aware of your workouts, your food, yourself. Wow. Depending on what you track, you can also learn, you know, more about who you are, why you do what you do, how you work, and what jives and doesn't jive in your life. Journal's a gift, man. Get one. Number two, a water bottle or a jug. Everyone knows water is important, so I'm really just going to send it on home. Being hydrated is key for just existing. Loaf. Everything depends on water. Our digestion, skin health, blood viscosity, flushes out waste. It helps you avoid muscle cramps. The hydrated person will burn more fat than the dehydrated person. And a hydrated person will burn more fat than a dehydrated person. So don't be afraid of a little water. Be afraid of too much water. And if you're really fancy, they've also got those little nut huggers for you. They got the jug huggers for your nuts, for your jugs. It helps keep your water cool. Number three, a lunchbox and containers. If you're gone all day, a fantastic investment would be a lunchbox with the meal prep containers. I was gifted this lunchbox years ago. I use it everywhere I go. I love it. These containers are made to fit within. There were two really big brands that made these. Now you can go on Amazon and you can find so many different designs and sizes. So shop around, find something that fits your needs. What do you get excited about? When you're packing food on the go, get reusable baggies. They're like Ziploc bags, but they're less wasteful and you can clean them. They come in different sizes and they are handy when you're traveling and you're trying to fit a lot of meals into a smaller space. And by purchasing the reusable bags, it keeps plastic out of the dumps. Speaking of landfills, my dudes. I got a nerd out about mushrooms real quick. So there's something called myco remediation, which is basically a technique that uses mushrooms and enzymes to clean up hazardous waste. Dude, bro, listen to me. Mushrooms are lit. They've been used to clean up like oil spills in the Amazon, boat fuel pollution, contaminated soils, PCVs, which is polychlorophonated. I can never say the B word. Research suggests that they can also convert pesticides and herbicides into less harmful compounds. Remove heavy metals from brownfield sites, break down plastic, and remove contaminants from water. They're wild for backup plant nutrition. There is nothing worse than having anxiety when you're trying to hurt this dog. You can do this dog. There's nothing worse than something happening to your meal and you don't have the quality foods accessible. Stay prepared. Make sure that you have a shaker bottle and convenient items that store well. Available in your desk or in your car. I keep a tub of protein powder, EAAs, tuna packs, jerky, electrolytes, pink salt, rice cakes, nuts, nuts, nuts, single almond butter packs. Nuts. I also keep aloha bars on hand. I love aloha because they're made with plant protein. They're a pretty solid macronutrient ratio. I'd like them to have a smidge more protein, but for flavor and quality and convenience, aloha bars slap, son. This is not a sponsored video, but I love your bars, man. Pipe. Gym bag. I always carry change of work clothes, extra set of gym clothes, deodorant. Don't be the stinky dude. If you shower at the gym, bring your travel size shower accessories and your hygiene product, a towel, flip flops for the shower. You could also have some odor eater balls, balls, or some antimicrobial spray so your bag don't smell like a funk. Ladies have those special hygiene items on hand for when old girl should be sneaking up on you. A jack with your cheese. You cramping. That's why you got some Don Quay on hand so you can battle those cramps. Get to the gym. While we're talking about the gym bag. I don't know what it is with some of these gyms, but vert the furk. Do they be playing my guys? I mean, I enjoy little Spice Girls and little John till the sweat drops all the way down my balls. But what are they playing in the gym? No. So you make sure you're in control of the tunes flowing through your beautiful head with a pair of headphones. While we're at it, thank me later. Music can help you push through a tough workout and it really stinks whenever you either don't have them or they're dead. So call me crazy, but I'm going to recommend that you have two pairs. One that are your normal Bluetooth and others that are corded. You know, like the old school guy. Make sure that you have the adapter to plug into your phone. And if you think it's wild to have two pair of headphones, live in abundance my friends. Mmm. And one more nugget of advice. Don't get the cheap sweat proof kind. I went through so many pairs of constantly breaking. They could keep up with me. I finally found some that I've stuck with for a few years. My favorites are the Raycon or the JBL. Number six. Quality activity specific shoes. The importance of having specific shoes for cardio and weightlifting cannot be understated. Different activities put different stressors on your feet. Having the right shoes will not only help protect your feet from injury, but the links above as well. Ankle, knees, hips, spine. For cardio, you need shoes that are lightweight to have good cushioning to protect your feet from the impact of running or walking. For me, I like the cloud shoes or Brooks for my cardio. I don't know if cloud shoes is the brand. I just know it has a cloud on them and it looks like a Q. So, through cloud shoes, man. I don't know what else to tell you. For weightlifting, you need shoes that are stable and that they're going to provide stability for your ankles and feet. Now, if you're like me and you go ham, you get pretty much every color and then all of a sudden you're like, I feel like Peter Pan. Personally, I like Chex. These are my off-brand Chex. I've worn these babies out. I like the flat bottoms. What you don't want is something with a huge platform that's going to cause a lot of instability and that can increase your chances of injury. I think shocks or those one-sketcher shoes that said you burn more calories when you warm. Or those abominations called shape-ups. Oh, my balls! $40 million settlement. We're not wearing those. Moving on. He's a little bit... Oh, yeah, go beat me. Heaven. Resistance, LOOP, and Strength fans. One of the greatest things about resistance fans is they're super versatile. I am working out right here. It's kind of like the shake weight. Ha ha ha! You can use them for a wide variety of reasons. Strength training, stretching. I always carry a packet of bands with me whenever I'm traveling. They're extremely easy to store. I know that if there's not a gym available to me, at least I can get a form of activity in. Loop fans and booty bands. If you're looking to target specific areas in your workout, loop bands are a great option. They come in a variety of sizes and resistance levels so you can find the perfect one for your needs. Booty bands! I will have put it on my butt. But I can't right now. You too. There are also strength bands. They're a little bit more strict if you want to add intensity to a workout. They're larger than the loop bands and provide a lot more resistance, making them ideal for strength training. You can use them on their own. You can attach them to a barbell, a machine, dumbbells, and also improve your body weight pull-ups by using one of these for assistance. A lifting belt. Yeah! Get a belt. Make sure your form is correct. Make sure you protect yourself. Lifting belt. I've used a few Velcro in the past and they have always popped. I like the leather. It's smaller in the front, wider in the back. This has a little bit of cushion. It's not going to pop off. I got this one on Amazon. They're really nice leather belts if you want to invest. Stick to training for a year and that can be your reward. Number nine. A yoga mat for stretching and mobility. This one isn't a deal breaker because most gyms have yoga mats. Personally, I love my mat and what it represents. It's also got all of my juices on it and other people's. When I see it, it's a positive trigger for me to do what I know I need to do. It's where I go to honor my body and my spirit's needs. My mat is my little sacred space. I do this because I know it makes my body feel better, improve flexibility, posture, alignment, blood flow, reduce risk of injury, improve range of motion, well-being, and perform better. So maybe it's not the yoga mat for you per se. It's also a reminder to treat your body well. And I want my body to keep taking care of me. You can think what you want about yoga and meditation. I used to think it was for the granola eaters, but I am a believer, baby. It helped me through my stroke. It improves my mental health, calms my soul, and I am full hippie crunch mode, baby. And yes, I do be jamming out with my invisible dreads. My little hand-pandrome. So what have we learned? Your girl loves mushrooms. Balls. I love you, baby. Preparation is an investment. If you put in a little time and effort into planning ahead, you'll be thankful whenever you don't have to scramble to find things later. Or if something happens, you know that you have a backup plan and you can roll with it instead of absolutely losing your heck in mind. And although keeping up with a packed schedule is not easy, preparation can help put you into a winning position and facing any challenges along the way. This was really rad to put together and it brought back a lot of cool memories. Thank you for spending your time with me today. For coaching, label it as physique.com. For savings on quality supplementation, custom competition in swimwear, check out the description box below. And until then, see you later. Bye. Sayonara suckas con banh wa. Thank you.