 Hey there, friends. Welcome to my limelist space. I'm Brett Larson, I have BB Pro, coach of limelist physique, lover of nature, and creatures. This channel is meant to be helpful and fun, so if you get something out of it, that would make me so happy. And if not, thank you so much for spending your time with me today, and I wish you well. So... It's that time of year, y'all. The food, the parties, the overindulging... ...coaches everywhere. Prepare yourselves. Here's Resolution! Right about now is when we're gonna be seeing all the memes of all the trainers. Here's Resolutioners, baby. Time to make that money! Money! Ugh. My husband's home. He's so hot. Waaaaaah! Past few months, people have been tossing their goals in the Chucky Bucket. And now, they're feeling chunky. They're feeling a little tubby. They're feeling a little sluggish. They are feeling it, man. Now, they're dusting those goals off, and they're ready to go at it again. Which is fantastic! You should do that! You should absolutely do it! And, I'm sure most of you know, the second most popular resolution is... Lose those extra pounds. And in my experience, as one of the most frequent inquiries I get every year, hey, I want to lose X pounds, and trying to do it for years, and I keep gaining weight, and I won't be happy until I'm X pounds. Can you help me? Help me! And in my early years of coaching, I was like, Well, yeah, brother, I'll help you. Let's go! And the first few weeks, things would be pretty alright. They're all in. As time went on, a pattern emerged with the clients that were laser focused on this specific number. I believe that because they only thought that happiness and success was tied to this specific number, that they missed out on all of the other wonderful things that were happening. Because they didn't have this specific number yet. They didn't really allow themselves to be happy. They didn't celebrate their hard work. And it was almost like they were gaining all of these amazing things, but because they didn't get that specific number quite yet, they weren't allowed to celebrate or be happy for everything that they had already achieved and done. And eventually, they would just get so burnt out and quit, and fortunately gain even more back. And the next year, come right back, Hey, I want to hit this number. I want to hit this number. The cycle just continues. And as a coach, as a woman, as a human, to see people tie their worth, their happiness, everything to this specific number, it breaks the heart. Now, things are much different when it comes to my coaching. When someone comes to me with a specific number, I want to know why. Making weight for, you know, an athletic event or a surgical procedure, not really including that. Why do you need to be 120 pounds or bust? Why do you want this number? I need you to dig deeper than that. Because if you're not rooted in this, you will easily let every excuse get in the way. Why do you want to be 120 pounds or less? Or why do you need to be 120 pounds? I need you to dig deeper than that. Because if you're not rooted in this, then any excuse that comes along the way is going to throw you off your course. Don't stand for something you're going to fall for anything. So have some depth and true purpose behind your goal. Because that's what's going to move you on the hard days. And I'm going to tell you, not every day is going to be easy. It's going to be hard. Do you have some wiggle room? Your number goal is 120. But what if you are a 130 that is feeling great? Your clothes fit. You're strong. You have better sleep. You have an improved relationship with yourself and with food. Improved digestion. You can go on hikes and you can go out and play with your kids. Would that be an attainable goal for you? Would that be an okay middle ground versus the 120? And how far is too far? Just because it's your goal doesn't always make it realistic. So is this goal a realistic goal for you? My number at one point in time was 118. And I did it boy. I did it. I was absolutely miserable. I felt like garbage over dieted, over exercised, over cardioed. Took so many fat burner pills on that and aren't even on the market anymore. I was cracked out y'all. But as soon as I did anything different, I gained so much weight right back. And I'm telling you, it wasn't the pretty weight either. It was 60 pounds of heartache. I forgot to turn my light on. No. So as you are making your goals, my challenge to you would be to ask yourself why. I mean a serious non-judgmental look at yourself and dig why. And whenever you get an answer, ask again, why? Narrow it down. Why do you want this? What feeling are you chasing that you think this goal will bring within you? Because we're all chasing feelings. We're doing it to feel something, right? So we might as well get down to the bottom of this feeling. Is this your dream? Is this your goal within you? Not anyone else? Not what someone put on you or made you believe? Is this yours? And should you reach this goal, what in your life is going to change? Is this about you or is this about helping others? And some people might say, oh, you know, just losing weight, that's doing it for yourself. But no, because if you're able to go and play with your kids and you're able to have more energy and you're more confident and you're more fun, you're able to have better connections with your children, with other people. Reaching a goal isn't necessarily always only just about you. Do you have the ability to be honest with yourself and with your coach? Because it is. If you decide to get a coach, it's going to be a partnership with you guys. And you need to be able to look at yourself and be honest and be transparent and take responsibility and ownership. And you also need a coach that's going to be honest with you and so you guys can be a team together. And something that not a lot of people really talk about is when you reach this goal, are you willing to be that character? Mr. Olympia does Mr. Olympia things. While they do get the glory, they also make extreme sacrifices. It's okay to reassess and adjust your goal even on the way. You may find that, hey, you know what? I actually am really happy doing this. And I just realized that I really just don't really want to do the other thing anymore. And that's okay. That's your personal evolution. One of the most important things you could ask yourself. Do you believe in yourself? Don't believe in yourself. So many people hold themselves back because they don't believe in themselves. They're too afraid. They're this, they're that. But you should just jump. Just do it. Everyone was a beginner at some point. So just do it. Go. Diamonds went through so much pressure to become as strong and beautiful as they are. So dig for more. Dig for the meat and potatoes of this goal that you have. Dig for that importance, that meaning to you. Believe in yourself and get to work. Thank you so much for stopping by. It's been a pleasure and I hope to see you next time. For coaching, check out livinglifts.zix.com. And, um, bye.