 Hey y'all, welcome to my limelight space. What I really wanna say is, Hello, brothers, we're not doing one of those long intros today. No way, son. We hooded, we hollered enough during the holidays. Now it's time to take control of your health, and finally reach your budget job. Aww. Congratulations on making the decision to improve in whatever way, shape, or form that improvement looks like to you. I support all girls. Hup, all girls. I support all girls. All girls. Large in the eee-dee-dee-dee-dee-dee-dee ones. And it all matters. And for freaking you, guy, or lady, or gal, I'm here to help and encourage you. Any lifestyle change is challenging. And with the right mindset, it can be incredibly rewarding. Number one, know where you wanna go. Where do you want this to take you? How do you wanna feel? What kind of body composition would you like? Going back to my last video, Why do you want this? Like really, like why do you want this? Write it down. Is it your help? Make a list of the physical improvements that you wanna feel, or blood markers that you wanna improve. Do you wanna feel confident in that little, you know, the thing that you're gonna wear and you're gonna shimmy in? In this first phase, I call this collecting the data. Take inventory and assess where you are right now. Get real with yourself. You might not even like this part. It is important. Take your measurements, take your weight, and photos. I don't care about your feelings, about these photos. On dudes, take your photos, because photos don't lie. They are a good measure of truth. Truth. Part of this assessment is tracking everything that goes in your mouth. I'm talking about food. And the drink, and the coffee, and the sugars, and the jelly beans. And the biscuits. Track the biscuits. Small biscuits. I want it all. This is how you figure out your calorie intake. Or at least what you are currently doing, like, ehhh, ballpark. By knowing this, you're able to make smaller food adjustments that can't get the ball rolling without having to go straight into crashing burn mode. In the beginning, I wouldn't even change anything that you're doing as far as what you're eating. I would just track every single thing that you are eating. This is how you will know, hey, this is what I'm doing right now. Food. That's another video entirely. Food is crucial to your progress. Opt for whole foods and get out those measurements of the food. Because you need to start measuring. You need to learn your portion sizes. Knowing your portions is key to getting the most accurate reading that you can. The most accurate numbers that you can. And please do not go balls to the wall on a crazy restrictive diet. Cut out all of the cards. Oh, now can you eat any of these? I hear proteins really. I am not a doctor, but I'm just saying. Please don't go on a crazy restrictive diet. That's only going to hurt you in the long run. Once you figure out a general word that are hard to say. Words are hard every day. Once you figure out a general idea of the calories that you're intaking, just shave a little bit off and start there. Maybe shave about 200, 150, 200 calories off per day. This is all that you did in the service. When you do decide to change up your foods, choose the healthy proteins, the colorful veggies, some fruits, nuts, healthy fats, fats. From fish, whole egg, macadamia nuts, olives, and cardoes. And remember, just because it's healthy does not mean it's a free-for-all. Cardio and exercise. I hate cardio. Who even likes cardio? I can't bite a bit of this. I don't care. It's good for you. It's good for your heart. Oh. Your heart. I've attached a day workout and cardio program in the description box below. That'll get the momentum going while you're building these good habits. Call it a gift. This is for you. Enjoy. Flifting weights, is it for you? At least do some form of resistance training. It's good for your bones. Pray for your metabolism. Your metabolism, y'all. No, we're not doing that one. No, please, please, please, don't even be like, I'm gonna get huge if I have to weights. No, you won't get huge. Huge, huge, huge. You won't get huge. Without some extra sauce. Well, I mean, most of you won't. And if you do, you're lucky. Take advantage. Get giant normies. Scare the crap out of kids, people in dark alleys. Be a security guard for someone real famous. Do some yoga, get some resistance fans, do a boot camp at the gym. And don't be afraid to try something new. Find something that you enjoy. I did a gnarly leg day. And this chick comes up to me and she's like, hey, would you like to try my hip hop class? And I was like, ah, yes. You know, I didn't know I could twerk, but I had a great time doing it and I broke my back smooth in half. Had a blast though. Collect more data. One time per week, track your progress markers. The ones that you had laid out before. Take an honest look at how the week went. Use that data and say, hey, this was awesome. We made progress. Let's keep going. Or, hey, I saw that this cut coming up, which I missed a workout because of this. So I'm going to use this opportunity to make my schedule better for this next week. It's all about just making the tweaks for yourself. Customize it to you and use all the data that you collect as an opportunity to improve. Ah, this one. This one's a doozy. Consistency. Be consistent while also knowing that things can happen. And it won't be perfect all the time. Sit to it. Even when you'd rather watch another episode of anime and you're like, oh my gosh, what's going to happen next? Drop it. Turn it off. Go to the gym or read that book. And definitely don't reward yourself with going to Buffalo Wild Wings because that's just going to reverse all your hard work. It will be worth it. It will be difficult. But remember, you aren't going to be in this place anymore unless you choose to. What you do is a choice. Choose to get closer to the person that you want to be, or choose to revert back to the person that you are saying that you want to improve on. This is a small piece of the puzzle. They didn't even talk about mindset, sleep, supplementation, meal prepping. All that's coming though. I got you, France. Be a genuine Nymphos. My neighbors probably think I do drugs. If you want to take the guesswork out of it, I highly recommend that you hire a coach. But not like any coach. Get a calling one that knows what they're doing that cares about you and your health over the money in their bank account and whatever they're trying to force on you. You have to join my team and pay a fee. Nah, not everyone's like that. I know a coach. So comment down below what you're wanting to achieve this year. I'd love to hold to do it. For coaching, play my list of seeks.com. Nah. Adios. Konban wa. Subscribe. Arigatou gozaimasu. Thank you.