 You're pretty late! Oh guys, 24 hours, I'm probably late! Oh! Oh! Cape Town to Atlanta, Atlanta to Miami, we're here, in the very weird area which I thought was fancy and it's clearly not. So guys, this is not a holiday trip, even though it may seem like a holiday trip. Every time I come to America, its main focus is to collaborate and link up with people inside of America who mostly don't leave America. So Miami, LA, Austin, and New York are the spots. Good chicken! There's a lot going on in this neighbourhood. It's a comedy! For fuck's sake! I feel like I'm in a cartoon!! What What's!!! Oh, it's good to be back around the spot, a little bit chillier than last time. Windy day today, on my nitro cold brew. Embracing the nitro-ness. Come on, like Chris. Guy goes out looking like a trucker. Yee-haw! You guys are dressed mad today. You're gonna lie. You're a trucker and you're a Scottish bagpipe player. I can't really talk to be honest. I look like a friggin' raging homo. You're gonna burn an extra few hundred calories with those hand moves. What? Good to see it's still here. One year on, hasn't been sold for funds to go to the US defence budget. Everyone's getting fit and healthy. Love to see it. Love to see it. No, no, no. I love your videos. You inspire me. I just wanna say thank you, man. Thank you so much. You know what would look good on you? What? A pair of third shorts. Third shorts? Yes, sir. Yeah. We're just, we're just, we're just, we're just. We just, we just, we just, we just. Yeah, those tail South Beach, you're in spring break. Sirens every couple of minutes. Kids running around everywhere. No fouls. No thank you, pal. Anyway, just finished another Pura Vida meal. Looked at the calories of everything. And I've come to the conclusion that even though like the meals are healthy, everything's just like eight, nine hundred thousand calories. Like I thought I would have, I'm not like eating that frequently, but the meals I'm having are very dense. So, your boy hasn't been getting leaner, despite being more active. It was American portion sizes, uh, deceiving. How long it takes to get it to home? Oh, just an hour. Just an hour. Can't wait to go back to Dubai and have zero traffic. Well guys, what a hectic couple of weeks it's been so far. No doubt it's going to continue to be quite hectic. The man is quite exhausted. What originally was supposed to be a six-day trip in Cape Town. Has obviously spiraled into a three-week trip and is continuing. Now I must admit, I was always supposed to come to America in March. I had this Miami and LA trip planned well in advance with all the podcast bookings and collaborations. But, I was supposed to go back to Dubai for a week before coming here. And obviously that didn't happen. And now, I am wondering what I'm supposed to do in this situation. Because, I'm trying to get back after LA. But, flights keep getting cancelled. In fact, over the past couple of weeks I've had a total of five flight cancellations. And I've had to make a load of changes to bookings and a whole load of other things which are just totally unexpected. Very uncertain times right now. In fact, I would say it's probably the most, or one of the most uncertain periods of my life. I mean, is it sensible for me to be going back home right now in a period of such volatility? Or should I just stay outside? I guess we will have to see. I do want to go back. But I just need to figure out how I will get back. Mentally, I'm pretty tired and fatigued. But, we power through. And thankfully, I've got a lot of good people around me to speak to. To get advice from. And to help me keep my own sanity. I can only imagine people back home who have their own businesses and have had to deal with the stress, the uncertainty and probably the lack of sleep no doubt. So, I think right now in the world there is a lot of people pretty stressed out. If there's ever been a time where people are in need of some sort of therapy, it's probably right about now with all the craziness that's going on in the world. And that's one of the reasons why I'm happy to announce my paid partnership with BetterHelp who is collaborating with me on today's video. Now, I know there's a load of stigma associated with therapy. Especially when it comes to men. You know, men either thinking they don't need it. They can just man up and get on with life. Or maybe they're too embarrassed to actually go and see a therapist. But that's simply not the case. You'll be surprised how much it can help if you just go and speak to a professional. Nobody needs to know about it. And the barriers to entry are very low since it's all done online. All you have to do is go onto the website, fill in a short questionnaire and you will be assigned a credentialed therapist. And one of the best things is, if it doesn't necessarily work out with them, then you can always switch to somebody else until you find the perfect match. And it's not going to cost you anything extra. If you want to give it a try, head over to the link in my description. Go to betterhelp.com forward slash Mike Thurston to get 10% off your first month. Let's get back to the video. Guys, we are out here sampling Colombia's finest. I just got a big bowl of random goodness. Who thinks I should go to Colombia? Yes. I've realised when, like, Colombian women when they come here and they eat all this food, it just goes straight to their hats. Like it's an actual fact that when they process the calories, it goes straight to the bundle. How's the science behind that? Science? It's just, it's just, it's not even a science, it's just a fact. I don't like plate. It's good. He literally has a piece of fruit and he's having an allergic reaction. Go back to your McDonald's trash. We need to plan a trip to Colombia. When is the best time to go? Tomorrow? To Colombia? No! You said the Colombian party? No! The country? Yeah, I said when is the best time to go to Colombia? I don't know. You from Colombia? No, I'm Cuban. Oh, OK. Let's go to Cuba then, to smoke some stuff. What? We don't use the smoke like that. I would like to go to Cuba though. It's a bit dangerous though. Cuba. Cuba. Dangerous. Right now, yeah. Let's go then. I would love to see a clanker. I still haven't come across a clanker. Is it even doing anything? Weighing in for instructions from his AI overlord. I love it. It turned around and went full speed. It took his legs up. Get a life. Get a life. Losers. Losers. Hey bro, Little Forest. One of the owners here. Is it the team? What's up team? Actually, I actually found them off the street. Yeah? I was like, hey, come over. They look the film. So you don't have the old space anymore? Everything's here? Everything's here. It's a new age. 5,000 square feet. We've got this. And then we have another 6,000 square feet. Big event space next door. That's good. Good to see you. Yeah, this is nice. Yeah, thank you bro. It's a little different than the apartment. A lot of Cybertrucks in my house. They're revving their cars more here than they do in Dubai. There's more rules in Dubai. Yeah. And missiles. I get it man. Someone in this area has an actual farm in their house. Because there's some mad animals knocking about. There's some chickens here. There's some chicks. It's weird because you have some seriously bougie looking... That is like an hour house. With a second floor. And then right next to the... You have like a house like this. Yeah, it's funny because I originally picked this area because it was next to the design district and close to the gym I was going to go to every day. Elevation, podcast studio, the barbers, and like the area where I like to eat lots of the food. But I didn't realize just how quickly it kind of goes from busy and quite nice to extremely quiet, borderline dodgy. And some pretty ghetto houses. I don't even know if this area is safe. And also, I didn't want to be driving around everywhere. I wanted to like actually walk to places. So I wanted everything in the walking distance. Because I like to keep my steps up when I'm traveling. So far I've been averaging well over 10,000 a day. 15,000. Trash. Oh come on! What the hell is that? Dude, I took it off. Dah! Yes! You guys are shit. I'm going to spin it. Oh! It was all part of the plan. You're going to have to hit it hard. Oh! What I'm going to do now, I'm going to spin it. So it curves. It's all about angles. Oh, my brain. I'm trying to figure out all the angles. I haven't been using them for a while. Oh! Oh! Oh! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! Loser! Shut it! My non-existent salary just got doubled. Ahh! Fucking hell. Oh, man. Guys, it's been raining all day, and we're bored out of our minds. non-stop fucking rain. It reminds me of being in the UK again. What's your thoughts on the war? I'll be asking Patrick tomorrow. I'll let him do the talking. How's it going? Very nice to meet you. Justin, director of operations here. This is kind of where we handle everything like editing wise, distribution wise. Are we okay to film by the way? I don't want to... Oh no, no. We operate like a machine in here. We've got our editors on the far back side. We've got a graphic thumbnail artist in the middle. And then we have everyone that distributes content here. So these are the people that put it out on like Spotify, Instagram, X, YouTube, the works. Usually these seats are filled up, but right now I think everyone might be on lunch break. Something that's funny is you're just going to see a random collection of things around here. Yeah. Like these Lamborghini Ducati bikes that just kind of sit and do absolutely nothing. This pack gets gifted these things from time to time, right? And with this. Okay. This smells new. Yeah. And it's very good to be. Just to be honest, we've had this for about, let's call it eight months now. And it still looks brand freaking new. Yeah, I might have to train up to this pod. James, do you know just James? Yeah, yeah, yeah. James, do you know just James? We had him in here doing a video with Pat kind of going through some of the equipment and whatnot. He was here about a month and a half ago. Jeez. Cool, right? I was going to say, do you have a workout or what is this? Yeah, that's a good time. I'm talking about the gym. You like it? Yeah. Okay, good. Good. Anytime, anytime you guys want to come use it. You had an internship at 20. I was. Yeah, I was. That was the dream. I wanted to go win Mr. Olympia. I wanted to go pursue that life and then one day I'm like, no, I'm out. Okay, 30 second quality check and then we're good. Do it. I did two competitions when I was 24, 25. And I realized what you have to do to basically get to that top level. I was like, I don't want to be doing that. It's just not worth it. It's not worth it. And Mr. Olympia title is not what it once was. No. Not today. Not today. Used to be if you won in 90s, early 2000s, I would say yes. Yeah, it was like a golden era. Yeah. But Ronnie, Dorian, Kevin Lebroni, he's been on the part of that training for him. I love Kevin. I love Kevin. His physique for me was top three all the time. Yeah. He should have won. Yeah, for sure. He got second a few times. Two or three times. I don't know how many. Four times. He had a beautiful physique. Yeah. I think he would take like six months off and then just... That's right. Training after six months. So guys, we just wrapped up the podcast with Pat. That was probably up there with one of my favorites. I want to do a workout here. I want to grace this beautiful space but we have to move on to our next appointment which is the Calistech workout with Chris Herrier. So, yeah. Unfortunately, as much as I want to train, I'm going to have to leave it for another day. It's been a while, guys. Whoa. And then you guys see all these jets that are lined up all the way across there. Yeah. So those are confiscated jets from like drug lords in South America that the US government is just holding onto right now. Yeah. Wow. How crazy is that? Nope. Let me just give you guys a quick tour of what it looks like through here. We're going to go through these doors. So this is where our sales team is, by the way. So then if you guys come over here, we use this hangar as like an event space. So like we did our live, yeah, we did our live election special in here. Lights, that whole thing was completely open. This was actually in that studio you guys saw over there. Oh, okay. We just ended up breaking it down and putting it back over here to kind of be like a memorialized. Yeah. If you see, we covered up Trump's signature right there. It's the big, bold one that has the plexiglass over it. This one right there that you guys are in front of. Cool. That's cool. You wanted to make sure no one would rub that out. Exactly. Make sure it stays there. To use for entertaining, any of the parties that we have. So cool. Does this get you inspired? Yeah, it gets me inspired to step my game up. What the hell am I doing? Do the podcast in a tiny little apartment in Dubai. Where's my hangar? How's that? The levels. The absolute levels to the game. And so the funny thing is, people just think we're a podcast. And then you come here and you see all this shit going on. Yeah. It's like so much bigger. Right? We've got our marketing team here. What's going on, Dan? It is. This is HR right here. And then we've got our events team. So these are the ones that do like the vault conference. I'm not sure if you guys are familiar with that. Hey guys. How's it going? Hi. That's interesting. That's crazy. Someone put that together. Is that horrible? You could see all of us. It was mostly you, wasn't it? Yeah. Huge part of your team. Yeah. Huge part of your team. And then this is a famous Ree bookshelf that Pat always puts in every office that we have. And the point of this is he puts the books that he either recommends or things that he's read in the past. Alright. One hour later, we are on the other side of Miami to train with the OG Chris Herrier. He's probably been in the game longer than I've been in the game. And he's still managed to keep up the relevance to this day. For those who haven't seen him, you must have seen him at some point. He's like the calisthenics guy. I'm sure he's been doing a few other things as well. So it'll be good to finally meet up with him. No doubt he'll be putting me through some outrageously difficult calisthenics exercises which I just can't do. But it's always worth trying, you know? If you don't try and practice, we'll never achieve. So let's go find him and get training. Guys, I will be not working out. We're getting a tattoo today. Imagine. Nice. What up, brother? You good? What up, man? Good. Chris. Nice to meet you too. Where are you guys from? These two are from Latvia. Latvia? No fucking way, dude. That's so sick, dude. I actually like... I feel like I started in Latvia, bro. Because my first championship ever was in Riga, bro. The first place I ever went to, like, I think legit by myself, was Riga-Latvia. And then that's when I went for, like, Calisthenics and shit back in the day. That's meant because when I introduce these guys to people, and they say, oh, I'm from Latvia, I'm like, I'm gonna bug it out. Yeah. Yeah, same thing when I went there too. People don't even know where the fuck I was going and shit. But, dude, Latvia is sick, bro. And, like, the town, have you ever been? No, I'm gonna go this way. Oh, it's super sick. I feel like I'm missing out. You are, dude. Especially Riga. Everyone needs to go to Latvia. It's the place to be. Big fact. We're gonna speed run some calisthenics skills today. Yup. In. Now down hard. Yeah, buddy. Yeah, buddy. What the fuck? Yeah. Dude, let's bring it forward. We made it all the way down without being pulled. Yeah. Now, look, down hard. Go. Down. Get the roll out. Get the roll out. Get the roll out. Go back up. Up, up, up. And remember, lean. Just do one. Go back up. Roll. Do it. Right, guys. So, after spending the past two hours being upside down and nursing a borderline migraine, it's now time to go to the gym and try one of the routines of his. So, we're heading to Boxer, which is also a semi-decent gym. It's more of like a grimy gym. Um. Go up. Puddle. Oh, look, the bridge. Is that, is that the bridge or is it just a giant McDonald's store opening soon? That looks pretty much exactly the same as it looked a year ago. That has taken a very long time. Probably costing the taxpayer of Miami quite a lot of money as well. And, um, don't really know if it's going to look very good or if it's actually going to improve the traffic at all. But what do I know? Ha! Let's go to Boxer. Don't mess with the big dog. The biggest dog. Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Today is take your gym bro to Calisthenics day. So I got my gym bro here, Mike Thurston. How are you feeling so far? It's hard, but it's also 10.30 at night as well. Second workout of the day. So probably feels harder than usual. What do we get it done? Oh, you're plotting something. You did something... No, this is actually the best part. Once the intensity is over, we're going to look at some specific details. Like for example, starting from the back arm, locking it up to the top. Starting from the top, going slow to the back arm. And also just staying at the bottom and doing a little top. This is going to be the next three things that we're going to do. After that, we're going to get a real lift. You're going to be good at that. Running. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Yeah, bro, stay flat. What? Let's go. I didn't expect you to do that. I'm sorry. There you go. Up, up, up, leap forward. Yeah. And this guy's trying to go for full reps, too. It's like his like... Oh, I didn't expect you to do that. There you go. Up, up, up, leap forward. Yeah. Oh, this guy's trying to go for full reps, too. It's like his like... Oh, this guy's trying to go for full reps, too. This guy's trying to go for full reps, too. It's like his like... This is literally like... It's like at least 10 pounds more than I weigh. I feel like those crazy. If I can get up there, then I can do it. Wee! Yo. I am also feeling a bit fatigued. Come on. That's so impressive. We're gonna come back and we're gonna hit the five plate, but not today. That's the end of the workout, bro. Dude, that was fucking sick. Mike, thanks for joining me, bro. We're gonna run this back. I'm gonna call you up. We're gonna keep the calisthenics training going and see where we go. Bro, thank you so much for joining me, man. Yo, everybody, check out Mike Durson. Not today. Not today, pal. Sorry. That is a terrible bouncer right here. Not today. He had five beers before coming here. He should... Why are you always trying to do me dirty? I haven't had any beers. Anyway, Soho Beach House for the Muscle Worshipping Conference 2026. We got the oil ready. I'm sufficiently pumped up and we're gonna have a great time. Oh, I see someone. Who's the fucking one here? Can you maybe start with... Homeless man. That is honestly... I think it should be there. Homeless and last name man. Can you spell it? No. You know what it doesn't show up? No. Hey, Kai. We're gonna see you again. Looking good mate. The main man Adrian. We haven't seen him in a while. Big Mike. If you can't read... The circle. What's happening over the next few days? What? In Miami. Making money. Yeah, yeah. It's for the takeover. Mashallah. Thanks for coming, bro. It's alright. So we just came outside on the balcony. Bit of a breather. Looking at the views of the South Beach beach. bit of a breather, looking at the views of the South Beach Beach. Tonight's been pretty eventful. Some good contacts were made, a couple of heavy hitters arrived that I did not expect to see, so it's been good. Miami seems to be definitely one of the spots, particularly right now, which is very good for networking and doing business. It really is quite the entrepreneurial city where people come here and they get shit done. There is a very fast-paced environment around here. Miami, love it. One of my favorite spots in the US, no doubt. So guys, gym season in Miami is pretty lit. I'm at the very first gym that I came to back in 2018. I did a workout here with Rob Lipset and Max Tunney. The one I've been going to the most is the elevation in Midtown, which is more of the social, popular one where lots of people go to. This one is more of an exclusive one. You pay a little bit more, but you kind of get two big rooms all to yourself. So, with my friends with my friends with my friends with my friends with my friends with my my friends with my friends with my friends with my friends with my friends with my friends with my Another rainy day in Miami. Aka UK. What up? Good. Good to see you. It's been a while. Looking fresh for a long time. You're looking fresh. Well I have to match today. Can't just be wearing all black. I'm meeting Rob. You're going to be coming here like a peacock. No I turned it down. Let me show you. Rob the Bank part 2. My Thursday we are so back. You're on my turf. Yes, yes. It was two years ago we last linked up. My life has changed so much since that podcast. Lovely weather today huh? Yeah, unfortunately we just managed to time it. We came at the worst possible time for weather. In the past nine days we've had one good day. But you know, I guess it's been okay weather to lock in. But I wanted to do some fun cool shit for the blog. Guys? What are we going to do? I was giving the speech of a lifetime. So yeah. I'm most likely going to have to come back in, I don't know, two months or something. Apparently May, June it will be absolutely popping off. We've got the World Cup happening. They'll be playing in a few of the stadiums here. Miami Swim Week. The Grand Prix. How do you rate the podcast? That was a banger. I enjoyed it more than the first one. I think the first time around I didn't really know like that much about him. It was a lot more on the TikTok shop e-commerce vibes. But this was like, this was deep. We were talking a lot about music, the state of social media and why open relationships don't necessarily work. It was good. I like Rob. The top guy. Top guy. Looks like we're at a gym but we're actually at a showroom. This is the Skel Core HQ. It's extremely early. That's why I have a sleepy face. This is the only time that we can link up with TGR. So I'm going to take him through a workout. Have a little chit chat and catch up. I've never actually met him before. But he's on the streaming hype. I think he's streaming non-stop for one month. So I can't even imagine what his eyes like. But yeah, this is a dope facility. Turns out by the looks of it, I've used quite a lot of Skel Core kit. But I wasn't even aware of it. So dope brand. Very good. I'm like, Jesus. What's your number for? What's up, bro? Hey, bro. You good? Yes. Sorry for all of the rescheduling. What's up, guys? Say what's up, guys. Damn. Guys, look at this. Holy smokes. What is this? This in the gym is a studio where they advertise to products to people before they buy it. So you have to do all this streaming yourself? Well, no. Most of the time we have full-fledged production. But this is early morning. So I'm just hand-holding it. And then I can pop this. How many people are watching now? I don't know. It should be like 7,000 to 8,000. Let's see. You see, this is a whole different world for me. Yeah, there's 7,500. Yeah. It's crazy. God. God. Do you need help holding that? No, no, no. It's okay. I can clutch onto it. And then I think there's a lot of... Because it's like a skill vlogging. If you're doing it yourself. Oh, yeah, bro. I suck at... Whenever I go on a trip without my cameraman, the vlog always turns out horrible. And I'm like, I think I'm capturing all the same stuff that he does. But then I rewatch it and I'm like, bro, why does this look like shit? It's like, you didn't get the stuff that I needed. Some people like it though, because it's more into it. Yeah, yeah. I watched that one you did in Egypt. That was fun. Yeah, yeah. But that, I was super conscious of, I need to make sure I record as much stuff as possible. Yeah. I've been seeing your content since forever, dude. Like, when I was... I started YouTube when I was... This was 10 years ago. Crazy. Yeah, when I first started getting into the gym, you've... Like, not really transitioned. It's still gym, but it's more lifestyle and stuff like that. And then you also have your podcast. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's awesome. It's a pleasure meeting you and um, dude, we'll stay in contact. Right then we just wrapped up the session with TJR. It's mad the whole world is streaming. Like I still can't get my head around it, but that whole thing is on his, it's already been and gone on his stream, probably already clipped up. That full video is going to be on one of my other channels. In fact, everything you see in this vlog, there's going to be an extended version of every collaboration on one of my other YouTube channels. But the Miami trip has come to an end. It's been a productive one. Nothing too wild this time around. I think I had my fun in Cape Town. It's back to business now. So now we are going to head over to LA for part two of this America trip. So next vlog you are going to see is in Los Angeles. See you in the next video. We are now with Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis Travis