 Danararitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharitharithar The traffic is moving so that's good. So far. Are you doing trip back there? Okay, demonetized. Tris has so much leg space. The convertible was mandatory. We had to sacrifice space for a roofless drive. Tris doesn't need legs. Mustang, why do they make it so complicated to put the roof up? Where's the friggin roof button? I told you we don't have a roof. Oh, it's a park brake. Surely you wouldn't have to put the roof up. Wait, wait, wait. Search. Roof. Roof. Roof. Oh, come on. Come on, chat GBT. How to put roof on. On Mustang. Convertible top switch, which is what? What a stupid, stupid car. You deserve to get leaved on and shat on and rained on, to be honest. Stupid car. American. Classic. Oh, shit. We didn't look up here. Stupid place to put it. Stupid. Oh, wow. What the hell is this? I hope it's the eject U button. I think you're going to pull it, so it clicks in, and then twist it. What is this peasantry? Fucking shit, that. That was the small windows. Oh, you have to do that as well. God, you have to do everything, this car. Putting on some new garments. Hopefully I'm not going to overheat. Bain de mer. Bain de mer. Whoa. This is normal. What the fuck's happening here? You put a card in there? Yeah, you put a card in there. Please help. You can't even, you literally can't even read anything. Wait, time up. We need time up. The buttons are not working. Nothing is working. Maybe I put the card first in? Yeah, yeah. You sure about that? Yeah, I'm not going to take it. Oh! God, it went too deep. Who the hell carries coins on these days, by the way? Card full. What does it mean, card is full? Full of money, yes. Right, so we just made a quick pit stop in Erwan. Erwan. How do you pronounce this? Piatj? Guys, we're in Erwan. Anyway, I've heard good things about this. I've placed a few orders through Uber Eats, so far I've been very impressed. Just being inside, and honestly, it's like the best grocery store in existence with all the healthiest foods. Not cheap, though. I've just literally picked a few random things off the shelf. Set me back $60. But we're going to go in there after this and do a proper tour. Maybe for American people this is just normal shit, but for me, this is a brand new experience. What did you get? Sushi and this Salmendingal Snatch. And two lemonade. This stuff is legit as well. Is it cool if we take a quick picture? Yeah. Do you want to do a selfie or something? I'll do a selfie video. I really appreciate that. Does she like the vlogs or the training videos? She's on your Instagram. Okay. She loves the physique. So do the pictures. Yeah. We're going to post more. Can we get your mom's details? Er... Well... No, we're joking. I mean, she's like that probably. Er... Like... Divorced with my dad, so... Oh, no. I don't know. Could be a good move. Well, if she wants to... She can slide in the DM if she wants to. Okay, for sure. I appreciate you guys. Look at this place. Look at this place. It reminds me of Whole Foods, but better. Oh. Look at the selection of sodas. But these are all healthy sodas. Fresh food counter over there. Banola. Man. So many banolas. Mmm. There's so many things I want to try. Look at all these cereals. Damn. Everything is so organized and clean. Imagine what, like, a weekly grocery shop here would cost. Probably like $500. It's actually alright. It's incredibly healthy. $21 smoothie, courtesy of Gary Brecker. Full of goodness. It's pretty good. It is pretty good. Pop in, Mike. I would get destroyed if I sat here. Yeah, boy. Rodeo Drive. Famous little spot this is. I don't know why. It's not that great. It's just... An area where fancy shops are. And the buildings look quite nice. So, if you're not doing any shopping, pretty pointless being here really. Let's go spend 10k. Spend 10k? You can tell the boys you're going to buy the Rolexes for the boys. Yeah, I was going to get some Rolies. Actually, I already did. I just kept it off the camera. Good boss. Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Dan Thank you! We've got to give back some time. Look at this! Look at the stage! Crazy, like a friggin' tri-off avatar. What the hell is this?! Fucking bullshit! How do you even know about this song? How do you know about this song? I don't know about this song. Gary Brecker's smoothie's giving me a tummy ache. Look at those! Look at the trees! Look at the palm trees! Look at them all! What came first, the road or the palm trees? Good question. Shout out to North Cannon Drive. I haven't given you a tour of the apartment yet. This is it. This is the bedroom, which arguably is probably one of my favorite bedrooms that I've stayed in through my recent travels. Very spacious, very bright, cool design. Got closet, bathroom. It's just been really peaceful at night time. I don't know if it's because I'm on the beach or if the bed is extremely comfortable. But even though it's quite lively now, after 10, 11 o'clock it gets pretty quiet. But it's popping off here. We have a lower balcony down there, which I will show you now. Quickly give you the tour. There's a massive corridor here, which goes all the way down to two other bedrooms. We've also got a rooftop terrace. Chris is just causing damage to the hallway, ripping the artwork off the wall. That was moonwalking. That was moonwalking. Down here is the living room, which is a little bit of a mess. Don't judge me. But it's been the workspace for me and the team, Chris and Rob. Nice kitchen area. And then another balcony. And then we have the rooftop, which I've not even used. I thought I would use it loads. It's there. I did actually do a little bit of tanning and practice my putting skills. My terrible putting skills. Could you live here on Venice Beach? It's actually quite nice here. Yeah. When the weather is sunny, then it's nice. The first two days, the weather was really quite terrible. And it made me question why I bothered coming here. But I think we were just very unlucky. But since then, it's been pretty much clear sky every single day. And when you're by the actual coast, it's like 5 to 10 degrees Celsius cooler than inland LA. Like, we would drive inland to do something or get an Uber. And then we get out of the car and it's like, what the fuck? It's like you're in a different country. Very hot. So the cool, refreshing breeze on the beach is definitely welcome. But you do get a little bit of haze sometimes every morning. Oh, guys. We're on Santa Monica Pier, which looks quite old. Definitely seen better days. It reminds me of Brighton Pier in the UK. Before I got burnt down. But it's still very busy, though. People are still coming here. Strange people like us are coming to check out this ancient pier. Yeah, yeah. There's always something here with you, yeah? Come until the timer runs out and win big. Put your head on my shoulder. Can you just stop for a minute, pal? I'm going to get a copyright strike. Guys, we're here to, instead of get the electric scooter, we'll get the electric bike. Coz, we've done enough walking. We're here to get the electric scooter. We're here to get the electric scooter. We're here to get the electric scooter. This is going to be a fun ride home. Oh, fucking fucking fucking wind on fire. It's impossible to pedal. Oh, God. It's so fast. It's definitely the best way to get around. Yep. I've been doing walking before. But at least it's here. Thank you for riding with Rio. How do you ride this ride? That was actually 9 out of 10. Way faster than I thought it would be. A bit treacherous, one-handed. More fun than scoops. It even has Bluetooth linking the speaker up to your phone. Pretty mad. Pretty mad. Anyway, I'm absolutely freezing now. Holy shit. Holy shit. Well, I don't know. Extremely aggressive car. Oh, this is a massage pole. Not that I know what that is. This is a minus entrance to Japan. I don't often do standing overhead dumbbell press. So today will be interesting. I think Mike is going to be the strongest out of all of us today. Already on the 90 pounds. I'm going to be down. I'm going to be down. I love you too much and let you not eat your food baby I love you too much and I let you eat your food baby Come on baby Don't let you go first Don't let you go first So but if you go first and do something crazy I gotta do it Yeah, yeah, yeah Come on baby Hey, that's it Come on Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah You're almost there Come on baby Come on, let's go baby Right there Right there You know, we say that diamond's all in your body Let's go baby Let's go Who's the worst Who's the fucking weight Who's the fucking weight Chop it down Go back to the chop Let's chop it Let's go Yeah, girl Whoo Come on, big Mike Get these motherfuckers over here Whoo Baby Yes, sir Yes, sir Yes, sir Yes, sir Yes, sir Oh Simeon's tapped out, he's laughing now. I have no idea what my form is like on that. Feels fucking heavy though. My tracks are on fire. I'm doing the high rep lap parade, made up by the trucks. This fucking bunker. Yes, yes. Session complete. That was intense, savage, quick. The frigging gym is sick, by the way. That is apparently like the spot to be. A lot of celebs go there. Good atmosphere. A load of group classes going on. The music was blasting. So obviously there's minimal talking that's going to be shown on this video. But that was good. Pleasure to meet Mike. That's obviously the second time I met Simeon. The full workout me and Simeon training at his home gym is on another video. I'll put the link here. So now, it's time to eat some food. The day is young. 10.46. There's a lack of egg. You ask for an egg plate, but the ratio of that, that's like one sixth of the plate is egg. You've got a sixth is cheese, avocado and beans. I feel like this is some weird breakfast, Mexican breakfast spot. You choose it. Oh, it's spicy. Well, the reviews are good. And we're also surrounded by games. Game of Thrones, board game, Bulsar, 2849. Come on, you play games with girls all day long. Yeah. I don't, actually. I'm a nice guy. What the fuck is this place? What a terrible choice by this one. My breakfast wrap, which is basically just wrap. Wrap with a... Wrap with a... What the fuck? Well, I'm done. Whoa! Red carpet to me. Guys, we did have to come here for the culture. It's very hit and miss. Extremely touristic. Hmm. Oh, yes. That was actually quite a wholesome interaction where I didn't have to give a tip. I'm surprised there wasn't like a thing that came out saying tip. Antonio Pitaras. Antonio Pitaras. Antonio Pitaras. Well, guys, don't have one round here. Although, why do you want coffee? Mike say, Antonio Pitaras. Antonio Pitaras. Britney Spears. He wants to... Tearney Reaves. Hold tight. Probably the biggest D in all of Hollywood. Big up. My man, Tearney Reaves. Call my podcast, please. No... No hablo ingles. Look at all these pedos. Dwayne Johnson. A lot of names I've not heard of before. I think Dr. Dre did one recently. Would you ever get your own star for being influenced, sir? I think I have to sell my soul first, which I won't be doing. I'm not going to lie, guys, a lot of these look a bit haggard. If I had my star on the pavement, I would pay someone to come every day to power wash it so it would sparkle. You know, outside, all the other stuff. There's a fee. Every year, I think, somebody has to pay for that, or every month. What do you mean? They have to pay the silver deeds themselves, they have to pay for it. Really? I thought they got gifted it. No. Guys, we're going to have to do some research right now. I'm pretty sure you don't go, oh, hey, can I pay to have my frigging name there? No, you get awarded it. That's what I think. I've done no research. I don't know what I'm talking about, but that's what I think. That's how it should work. What? And ongoing maintenance. To get a star, a sponsor must pay a fee of $85,000 as of 2025. This covers creation, installation, and ongoing maintenance. You can't simply purchase a star. The process is heavily mediated through the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. It involves a nomination, a selection committee, and approval, not just a payment. There we go. So you get offered it, and then you've got to pay $85,000. Should deal. $85,000 for that. Literally, shop up to shop, selling the same garbage, whether it be souvenirs or weed. Just smoke shops and souvenirs. All of them are empty, by the way. Little bit of money laundering going on right now. And it stinks here. Yeah. This is not the best area. I'm done. I'm done. so so i don't know if you're like obsessed with celebrity culture then you'll probably get quite a lot of enjoyment from this place but it's pretty average you can come see in an hour and leave it's quite fun walking around trying to spot the people you actually recognize but i feel as though this place probably was popping off more 20 years ago 30 years ago this looks a little bit battered these days but we came i shared i experienced i leave i mean guys we couldn't come to the west coast and not shoving in and out burger in our mouths guys fun facts about in and out privately held family owned since 1948 never franchised never gone public as of 2025 it has over 400 locations mostly in the western us but it is slowly expanding eastward pretty mad and i got a job here apparently the staff get paid pretty good they pay well above minimum wage 20 to 25 an hour managers can make over six figure salaries sometimes over 108 000 a year so it seems to have some pretty well respected words said about it but we need to test them don't we so they pay you well they do double double obviously yeah so i'm a loser i'm a fucking loser what do you do with these pictures look at them when i'm feeling sad good not the best burger i've ever had but it's good i personally i'm not a huge fan of like lettuce and tomato in a burger so i'm always going to have my shoes about this what is it pretty good pretty good it feels like a homemade burger yeah you know it's not from like frozen ingredients everything is relatively fresh and this all of this was like 31 dollars pretty well priced if you went into uh five guys probably would be a hundred dollars so guys we are back in the car again and we're gonna head home and of course it's 50 minutes to go home so the whole day again has been spent driving around in the car and rob keeps pushing his seat back because he wants to start a fight not so spacious here guys look at that i was uh thinking about not hiring a car for this trip that would have been absolutely terrible probably would have spent hundreds of dollars every day getting an uber around everywhere so getting a car is absolutely mandatory in my own humble opinion a car is an australian gift we're gonna see how cultured you are and let you know see if i know what it is do you know what these two things are i would imagine that's the equivalent of marmite no this is the best pre-workout you can get in the world veggie mate yeah but what is it spread huh yeah like you you you sniff it and you also ingest it podcast is complete now we're going to the gym we're going to check out the zoo culture i will be breaking today's fast with a tim tam an honorary tim tam i'm so proud that i could be the person that gives you your first tim this is going to get you a sick cup this could be the thing that destroys my physique imagine if i got addicted to these i think this is good it's going to take you to the next level bro oh huh it's good worth the calories huh you're going to get a protein version of this oh now there is a business that i can't oh okay then we're out here zoo culture my first experience of zoo culture oh first experience of zoo culture indeed i've never been here neither of us have been here before it's pretty cool lighting is dope the equipment is good thought it'd be a little bit bigger but it's certainly big enough at least it's spaced out like they haven't crammed all the machines yeah yeah what are we hitting today back and biceps all right what what are we in for we're going to start off with front squats okay this is Oh shit. That was it. Shit. Yeah, watch. So awesome. Yeah, it was fast. No way. It felt like... I was imagining something was... Yeah, it was just so slight and then it just cut it. And it felt like almost like I stubbed my toe, like my pinky. My toe was like, ah fuck. But then I look at it and I was like, oh, I can see my bones. It was just bleeding. It was just like white. I didn't get a great look at it because I kind of glanced at it and I could tell like I saw the prongs of the bone and the blood like the skin all around it was kind of like bush. So I just felt like this. And I... but I remember thinking like, oh, I cut my pinky off. That's when I was like, my pinky's on the thing. And they were like... Because they thought I just heard it. Like stubbed it. You know? So we have changed up the scenery today. We're at the Edition Hotel. West Hollywood. And of course I came here because it's got a rooftop pool. Your boy is a big fan of a rooftop pool. And to be honest, it's pretty surprising that we haven't checked many out so far on this trip. I just come here by myself. To chill. And to... To get my thoughts together. Because we do have a couple of podcasts which need to be done on this trip. And to be honest, I need to come out here a lot more often. There is a lot of stuff going on in... The US of A. The entrepreneurial spirit is most definitely very high. And there's lots of individuals here who are absolutely killing it that I need to collaborate with and link up with. Pretty cool. This is a first for me. I've never come up to the top of the mountains. We're at the Griffith Observatory. Which is actually up there and one of the top things you should do. There was a flag there. Why are there always stinking flags on there? There we go. I don't think we're going to post a picture with you now anymore. No, I mean, I don't think it was going to happen anyway. But you know, it's okay. Cheers, right? Nice to meet you. Probably overshadowed everything else. See ya. Shout out to the Brits. Brits aboard. Abroad. Abroad. Abroad. A big broad with a big bump. What? Coilet time. Air quality. Questionable. Heat. Excessive. Extreme heat warning. Quite the view of downtown LA. Just goes to show just how friggin' massive and spread out. The city is. It goes on and on and on. And that's why it takes so long to get anywhere. Triple beam. Colostat. Which reflects sunlight to the solar telescopes. No. We got the friggin' Zeiss 12 inch refracting rude boy in this one. Let's go have a look. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. Mm-mm. huge. But looks quite old still. It looks like an old war cannon. Guys, we are about to attempt the hike up to the sign, just above. So I did a little bit of research and I figured as though this is not too hard, but easy to intermediate, probably easy. I have no idea how long it's going to take, but we're just going to have to kind of follow the trail and then we'll figure it out. It'll be okay. Keep in mind, there's a heat warning. Well, yeah, there's the heat warning, which is not ideal. It is 2.30 p.m., but it's pretty hot. So, wish us luck. Hello, Mike. Hello. Michael, I'm not giving up now. No, I'm not saying you gave it up. I said give you the chat. I have no signal. How do I have no signal? Look at you. Look at all the fucking dishes there. Give me some, at least some 3G. I'll go above that. I can climb faster. That's very steep. Oh my gosh. This trail is part of the much larger Dancer. I have a much larger group. Oh, I'm so jealous. That's cheating. Fuck that guy. Woo! Whoa. Oh my god. That last 15 minutes is brutal by the way. Holy moly. We're technically behind it, but I think there's still a summit to reach. We made it guys. I think it's worse than it. The view is wild. The breeze is very refreshing. It's very peaceful. I think I deserve some water. Hey Rob. Hey you. How was the hike? You know what? It actually was worth it. But the whole way off it was terrible. The last 15 minutes sucks. The next time I'm asked to go on an adventure it'll be a strychno. Ha. Unless it's like a forest. Don't do it in the middle of the day when it's really hot. Make sure you bring lots of water. Probably some electrolytes which I did not bring. And follow the path. Be safe. You know what time it is. Another successful photo shoot. Another successful day. L.A. L.A. is most definitely a vibe. Could live here to be honest. Could. Could live in Miami as well. But does it beat Dubai? Lightful. In some ways yes. In quite a few ways no. But it is different. It is that variety that does add the spice to life. Guys for how much would you pay me to get on a skateboard and go all the way down there? Special shout out to this guy for capturing endless amounts of pictures of me this trip. Which you'll see on Instagram. If you follow me which you should do if you're watching this. Shout out to the man behind the camera who's filming most of the footage on this trip as well.