! This is a new little addition, which is pretty cool. Shout out to Adidas. We have a little rig, a little rig on the beach. I don't see one. If there's one place that needs more, I'll go to Jim's sister's to buy. I think I found your mantra. Oh my God, it's me. That should be my slogan for my friend. It's only easy if I put my feet like that. Hey, hey, hey, that's cheating. Cheating. Cheating. And then we stand on this bit. I don't think it's supposed to be like that. Completed. What do you think of importance of 10,000 steps a day? It's important. It doesn't have to be 10,000. 7,000 is alright. It has to be exactly 7,000. I think just getting out and about and walking is the key. One of my favourite things to do is just walk on the beach. You're on that. Are we on YouTube already? We're live. We're actually live right now. How are you, bro? This guy, one of the things in life that attracts people is your shape. You mind if I touch it? Your shape, your buddy. If you're shaped like this guy, you're going to attract people just like he attracted me towards him. But I'm not, yeah. No, no, no, no. I love men. I just get this from my wife. I just love him as a brother. Don't get me wrong, YouTube. Because I know you in the comments. So anyways, you know, work on yourself, you know, and appreciate life, you know. Dubai, Hamdoulah is good, you know. This is good. This is good. The weather is good. The weather is good. You're good. I'm good. He's good behind the camera. We're actually, we're great. We're great, yeah. We are. We're not good. We're great. You should have your own channel. Yeah, you're very good. I do have it, Hamdoulah, but not on YouTube yet. I need to do it, guys. You need to do it. So I have to go now, work on myself more to be on YouTube, you know. So we could be in a one video together one day. I know this is on his channel, but I need one on my channel too. Definitely do. Thank you so much. Norwich Mike. Mike, yeah. First. First. Got it. That's good. All right. Good to see you. This is the third time we shake hands, but we will make everything great again. Yes. Sweet. Yes. Thank you guys. Wherever we go, Mike attracts pussy. Yeah. So do you. There's a little bubble, snot bubble coming out of the nose. I am not going to touch you. Sorry, sorry. Stood on your shoes. Thank you so much. I love your videos. Thank you. Thank you. Guys, I was getting excited about mine and I saw Rob's. What the hell is that? God. I don't know. I think I made a mistake. Why? Not very healthy. Yeah. I mean, you're pretty good at putting big things in your mouth. What the fuck is wrong with you, man? Yeah, now you're a friend. Oh yeah, now you're interested. Right, let's eat this before the cats jump on the table. It's going through a rock phase at the moment. I have loads of different playlists and one of them is rock. Shout out to Rob for getting me back into it. We actually went to a Lincoln Park concert a couple days ago in Abu Dhabi. I liked it. Thanks for the invite. Thanks for bringing it up. Good squad of people there. Saw a little bit of moshing. Mostly done by Rob, but overall it was quite tame. Hours at the back with lots of space around me and they played some of the old school bangers, which was really nostalgic. I like it. RIP Cheston. Again, I think this is meant only for no music. Oh no, that's a lie. There's a woman over there. I don't know. Geez, look at the size of this. The mirrors give off the illusion it's even bigger. Oh yeah, it's not that big actually. First thoughts? It's just like a budget version of oxygen. But it's a little simpler. Just one big ass room, new equipment, and a little bit of space. It's a little simpler. Just one big ass room, new equipment. It's always weird vibes when they're not playing any music at all. Hiya. Hey man. How are you? Good. Hi man. How are you? Good, yeah. What did you get there Jossie? The red ones. The red ones. Brand spanking fresh. These the best of them? Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Remember to get them on Thirst Official. Okay, so the session is complete. That full workout will be on Jossie's channel. That was just a little snippet decent gym. I don't know if I'm going to want to travel there to train on a regular basis far away and it wasn't that mind blowing to be honest. Another news, we have a restock on the Thirst clothing. We have the black toweling top, the white toweling top, also the white and the black muscle tees, the plain tees which I wear all the time. A lot of black and white vibes going on and also, I'm actually kind of gutted I gave Joss that red pair of shorts because I wanted to wear it. But at least I've got a new pair of the white ones. Probably my second favorite pair of all time. Absolutely gutted. So check it out Thirst Official. You know the vibes, weather is looking good so I think it's time for beach walk. So guys January 2026, I imagine a lot of you are fully locked in right now. I know I am. I'm pretty sure that the beach has already been quite intense but wouldn't have it any other way. Like every year I do set myself some pretty ambitious goals and each year they seem to get even more ambitious and will often come at a cost in some way, shape or form. Usually on the old mental health but we persevere and push through it. I'm quite lucky that I have a good group of friends that I can speak to and unload onto and also with my podcast I'm pretty blessed to have the opportunity to speak to some very successful influential individuals who have achieved a lot but I don't always feel comfortable sharing everything with them. And of course the masses of people who will be watching those podcasts. So I do feel like from time to time it's very beneficial for me to speak to someone who has the qualifications to have a discussion like this in private. Somebody who can help to take the weight off my shoulders and to help me start the year feeling lighter, more positive with that feeling that I can take on whatever the world tries to throw at me. And that's why I want to give a shout out to my trusted sponsor, BetterHelp who are partnering with today's video and is actually a service which I've been using over the past couple of years to help me with any of the times where I've been feeling overwhelmed, down and just feeling the need to have a conversation with somebody who actually understands what it is that I am currently going through. For those that don't know, BetterHelp is an online therapy service where you can pick and choose up to 30,000 qualified therapists simply by filling in a very short online questionnaire. One of the best things about this is I don't have to go and fly across the country to speak to this person. I can do it all online, try and fit it into my schedule and it's just making things very convenient. And one of the biggest issues I have is obviously I have very high standards and I'm quite picky with the people that I choose to work with and choose to share a lot of my personal information with. So it's just good knowing that I can have this conversation, a fully discreet and private conversation with someone who actually knows what they're doing. If you want to give them a try, check the link in the description, betterhelp.com. To get 10% off your first month and allow BetterHelp to support you in feeling lighter in 2026. Right guys, we are out here, go climb Dubai. Trying to find things that I have not yet done here, this spot opened a couple of months ago. So the mission is to climb a wall and ideally do something semi-impressive. Look, usually first people that never climbed before, if you can do a 6 or a 7, that's really impressive. That's the goal for today. So that's the goal for you today, 6 or a 7. 7 is like, you're up there. Was there like a limit to how high you could go? The limit is the highest, if you will see like the highest grades, we have it right at the top of the wall. And this is 4.5 meters. You calculated that someone falls from that height, probably going to be okay. I mean, most likely you're going to be okay, but I did break my hand before. Here? No, no, not here. Of course not here. No injuries here ever. You don't get injured here. Adrenaline. No, I'm just curious to see what my body is actually capable of doing. Like if I can do this, or all of this is just an absolute inconvenience when it comes to climbing walls. Which, you know one day I might actually need to scale a mountain. Maybe. Maybe you're going to start doing the cave thing. Maybe I might get a mountain goat and it would run away and I need to chase it. It goes from mountain to mountain. It's climbing the mountain. Come back here, you silly mountain goat. Possibility. Oh, this feels way harder already. Come on. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're nice. How is this? Is this harder? No, it's too easy. Oh, no, it's not that easy. What? Well, this is none of you I wanted to see today. Oh my God, this is way harder. It is good. How did you do this? Oh, the big man went down. Death. That was so fucking hard. See how many mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain You did a boo boo! Ambulance? Anyone have an ambulance? Does this happen all the time then? Yeah, usually until you're accustomed. The guys that work here, the staff, they really like the climbing itself. So they change the route often and everything. And overall there's like a good environment, good atmosphere. Little devils always changing it up and making it harder. It's way harder than it looks. I was like, it's not really tall. I think I did a five. I didn't know if I did a five. I got up to four. I can do four. For the first time it's okay. I guess so. I mean I just cannot. What did you do? You did a six? I did a six. So I'm not quite pushing yet. I'm like sucking but getting better. What is going on guys? We have rain in Dubai. It is January time and it is raining. It's actually quite nice from time to time to have a rainy cloudy day. As long as I don't have any plans that involve me being outdoors, which currently right now I don't, it's actually quite nice. It does make me think though, like all these plants and trees that aren't getting watered. They're just there like, just dying for some water. Imagine how happy they all are when it actually rains here. They'll all be like, oh! Chefs baby, chefs. The only bad thing about this place is your clothes stink afterwards. Oh yeah. I've eaten probably one meal today and I've saved myself for this whole week. It's been a good January. I'm leaner than usual, so I'm going to treat myself. As long as we stay away from the desert. The decisions, decisions, decisions. They do all this barbecue brisket stuff as well. Me. This is the Swiss burger. This is the W. Oh my God. Look at that. Oh boy. Oh. So good. This is a new one. This is a new one. That's probably a different one. Writzy. What do you think it is? It's summer's day when it's fresh. Let's go and have some here. Oh my God. What happened? I don't know. No video. It's a busy one. Can you give me a little bit less time? Happy birthday. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I need another thing. Can we get a shot? Mike, you look younger and younger every day. I don't know. You can give me the bionic guy. Romra, are you ready for you? Oh, why do you give me the bionic guy? That was a doubler for me. Six. The dog in the middle. Five, six, 41. I'm scared of you. You know what he said to me the first time? I'm scared of you. I've been scared of me. I've been scared of the nicest guy ever. You are the nicest guy ever? I feel like I'm finally about to talk to him. Stop, why did everyone in Dubai honk? What a stressful area the IFC is. Come live downtown, how about now? Everybody loves to honk a horn in Dubai. Not me, I'm the most chill person I've ever driven. You can confirm that. Yeah, that's true actually. How do you chill, driver? Everybody's very angry. Who's happy they didn't drive today? Me. I would have probably got a little bit angry if I was driving tonight. I only took an hour to come downtown today. Whoa, a red light. Ah, music to my ears. Oh, green. Where do we go? Going to a cigar lab. To meet some friends. Guys, I've had a cigar for over one month. I don't know if I give off the impression that I do it regularly, but I must. It's not that I miss the cigars, but I miss the gathering of like-minded, intelligent, ambitious men who share advice and support each other during difficult times. In the mirror on the right. Back. Not that back. Fuck, you hear, stop it. I don't think this is the place. Hello. Oh, what are you doing? Sorry. I'm just going to be in your restaurant. The left side. I told you. I don't remember seeing it. And this is all filmed. Perfect. I will come back here one day. Good job. I knew it. What a silly sausage. Your first closing. I think of myself as like, Holy fuck, I'm a love-witty. Filming. We're in the right location now. Real plans for spend-a-day. You know, your boy loves a real plan. So, gentlemen, I got something that's really big. I think we might just finish smoking this at 2am. He's a great, by the way, the mini-kahibas. Just a little quick, little quick one coming right out. This one will be interesting. I don't think I've smoked cigar this big. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Head for size. The size of my head. You jam this thing into... Nice. I'm not going to cut it. You jam this. Long? I have something that's very nice. This year from Latvia, I took the villager. This is cute. This is very cute. I was like a joint. You're going to like it doing it. Legal joint, by the way, legal. Only in U.A. Alright. There you go. Probably the most ridiculous smoking cigar I've ever smoked. But it feels good. The only person I've seen smoke this big was Michael Jor. And if it was good enough for him, it was good enough for me. I'm sorry.