 What must I do to keep him loving me? What must I do to keep him loving? What must I do to keep him loving? What is up guys and welcome to another video we are back on foreign soil once again that little stint in the UK did not last long extremely predictable we are in fact once again in one of my favorite spots in the entire world the magical Ibiza. Shout out to the five group who have taken over Destino Hotel and made some very much needed renovations to all of the hotel rooms and shout out to the mirror on the ceiling. If you have not experienced what it's like to have a mirror above your bed then I highly recommend check it out because it's an experience you won't forget anytime soon. Let me put it that way. Ah, very pleasant evening. I have to say September is one of my favorite months here. June, September. It's not too busy. It's not too hot. The vibe is good. The crowd is good. And of course, I've come here one last time. Mainly just to see my friends. Good catch up with the boys who I don't see at all when I'm in Dubai. So, weekend. Well, it's not really a weekend. It's ten days. Ten days of letting off a bit of steam before I return home for the grind that will be winter in Dubai. Right then, we are in the Old Town. It is kicking off tonight because a certain individual called Solomon is throwing a free party tonight. I think he does this once every year. Completely free for everybody to attend right at the end of the town in the port. There seems to be a temporary stage set up. So, that should be fun. Let's go and meet the rest of the crew. Yes! Oh, yes! I got it! We got a free dancer right there. Yes, bro. What are you saying? Right then, we just stopped at one of the bars to fuel up on some Beppajados. I do not drink often at all. But this is probably going to be the exception for the next couple of days before I just stay off the drink again for months. It's absolutely kicking off down there. Decent set of tattoos on the back of the thighs there. What does it say? Tau Pasa. Tau Pasa. Anyway, this is what I'm about. I prefer to go to a party early evening. This is 7pm till 11pm. Which is ideal. Maybe you could go on a little bit later. That would have been better. But I can't handle these 3am starts. And 8am finishes. Too old to that. Oh! Kick it offline! Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Feeling super fresh today. Actually am. I had a hilarious night last night. All the boys were on top form. And the whole town was absolutely popping off. Fair play to Solomon. That was a free event. Which he did. Didn't get paid for it. And it was completely free for the whole island to attend. So it was good to see a good mix of people. Old people, young people, kids. Adults. Crackheads. Everyone just together enjoying the music. So, you know what we've got to do now. First things first. Time to train. Last time I was here was... Beginning of July. So they've added a few new things to it. In particular the outdoor area. If we take a little look. Look at that. That's come along nicely. It's predominantly... Cardio, high rocks, fitness stuff. I mean I'm probably not going to be using it that much. But it is very aesthetic. So, I'll have to try and figure out if there is something I can do there. Or maybe just do some cardio for a change. Maybe that would be good, Mike. Morning! Hello! Oh yeah! Oh yeah! I'm not sure if you guys saw it. You probably did see it. The last Ibiza vlog I did, I did an absolute massive full tour of this. When it had just opened. But it was still a little bit incomplete. I don't think they have the fastest construction workings here. At least in comparison to Dubai anyway. But check this out. There's a new Pilates area. Very nice. Won't catch your boy there. What else do we have here? I think this is still not finished yet. That's supposed to be the garden. And then we have new addition. Which is the cardio area. So I think they don't know what the fuck they're doing there. This is pretty cool. Outdoor cardio area. With... Pretty good view. Although I would not want to be doing any cardio in the middle of summer. Especially in August. So the cafe is opened now. Fully in business. The menu is pretty decent. Especially the sea bass. I've had that before. That was pretty amazing. Anyway, today I'm just fueled up on juice. Because I'm about to train legs. Very shortly. But I will be spending quite a bit of time here. Just doing some work. And obviously tanning. I actually got this but I had no time to film. What is it? It's a penguin. That's what it is. It is probably one of the best things on the menu. We've added the additional scrambled eggs. But it is the open steak sandwich. With some avocado on top. Oh my goodness. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Alright then. It is time to check into the next accommodation for the remainder of this trip. And... This one is pretty ridiculous. Decided to get this one for the boys. We are parked right in the middle of nowhere. But actually we're not too far away from the town itself. Which is good. Because I don't like being out in the middle of nowhere. I'll do a little quick house tour. Try and do it as quickly as possible. Because this place is friggin huge. So here we go. This is... The living room. Chill area. Kitchen. Dining table. This is a six bedroom villa. Which is pretty excessive. Because I don't think there's gonna be... In 12 years. One of the smaller bedrooms. A little piece of cardio out there. We have the downstairs. Which I think is... Yes, we have another bedroom here. Won't be sleeping here. And then... We go up to the top. Where there's two more bedrooms. A little random office space there. Storage. This bedroom I think I've claimed to be mine. Because there's a... There's a bathtub there. And there's a huge... Huge balcony. Which is mine. We have another one. Which is very similar. Bathroom. Bathtub. Bed. Balcony. Now let's have a look outside. Which is probably even more impressive. So in this huge driveway. We have a separate building. Which is like the spa. We have a hot tub. Sauna. Steam. Shower. Which is great. Oh, I think there's actually another bedroom in here. Yeah, this one's like separate. This is for the outcast. For the outcasts. And then this... Outdoor area. Barbecue area over there. And then we have... The pool. Very, very cool. Very, very cool. Good choice Miguel. Good choice. If I do say so myself, I'm pretty good at picking Airbnbs and apartments. This one will do nicely for the next five days. Oh, we also have a crossfit area. Ha! Sick one, hey? Look at this palm tree. Oh my god, this is absolutely sick. It's a butterfly. Oh my god. What the hell? What the hell? Okay, so the boys are back together. Yes. How did you feel after DCTown last night, boss? Surprisingly fresh. Same. I'm glad I called it a night when I called it a night. Yeah, you made a good decision. I did not. I've already been there for... Nearly six hours. We walked into DCTown as the doors opened at 6pm. It's the earliest I've ever arrived anywhere, ever. And we were already like in quite a... In quite a state. A good state. But it was like looking at our watch and it was like 9pm. Which was a bit my teasing. It was still like light coming through the windows in the main room. Yeah. Get the sun in the eyes. That was enemy wass for it. We're gonna be staying here for the next five days. And having fun in Ibiza, like the old days. What do you think of the villa? I think it's absolutely... Unbelievably pank. It's very good. I don't honestly think we could... I don't think we could have chosen a better one. You could have chosen them. It was you who did the selection process. And the payment process. That's not the mic. Look how nice it is. As me and Mike have said many times before, it's nice just to indulge in some fine luxury sometimes. We're here to make some memories as well. We'll be making lots of memories. That's for sure. It's not as good as well if you're in a hotel room and like everyone's in their own rooms being weird. Can't be west when we're all together in the villa. Absolutely not. Have you seen the candles? I thought it was like for juggling some sort of circus act. That's actually sick. So whenever you want to use a candle, you just take one. And then every morning when you wake up, there's new ones. You got this. The circumciser. The circumcised. Well, luckily Ryan doesn't need circumcised. He's already been circumcised. What is this? Oh, this is for opening letters. Yeah, but I think it's for something else. You don't need to put the wax sand on. This and this. But what goes in here? But I don't think... If you were eating your breakfast cereal. I would think. Or the Coco Pops. If you're on a diet. If you're on a diet. All good, boss? All good! Just reverse in as hard as you can. Fuck me, the fence is already closed. Little sensitive little fence. No, I don't think you make that. Mike's playing my playlist. Where are we off to now? We're off to Calador. For a spot of late lunch. Louie's not eating the lunch. Two of us have not eaten for 24 hours. I have. I think we're on about 30 hours now. No food. I bet you'll eat two pieces of fish and it'll be full. Yeah. When you and Abby never, ever, ever get new traders. There's no point for them fresh traders. No. Oh! Oh! Oh! Really hard enough to drink lots of drinks. Fuck man, what an absolute five hours. Luke, the view. Yeah, it's insane. Anyone else can buy it? Tight. Fresh to death. Ooh! Never seen you dress up like that before? Never seen you dress down like that before. Just the alphan drink? Yes. Looks like a creamy one. That's so fucking good. It's like a dessert. Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Bye! He's already staring at me as well. That is the best video ever. How much did you pay? Five. Five. Five euros. Five euros. No, no, he gave four. I gave five. Ten euros on the machine. Ten. Ten euros. He had two strings on his fucking body. I gave him some ghost electrolytes as well. It's called being deluded. Delusion. Delusion. Delusion, though. He's playing so badly. Yeah. Can't come here and not have paella. See, that's hot. Oh, it's hot. I need some nice popcorn. Good. Good. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Wow. And here we have to find some barking. Because that's the place. Wow. There's a lot of people here today. Oh. Guys, we are about to embark on a little hike. Not a big one. Don't think any of us can handle a big hike right now. Definitely. Come on. This is a new one for me. A new hike which will have, no doubt, an unbelievable view of Esfedra. You know, whenever I get a bit west after partying for too long, I'll go to Esfedra to cleanse the energy. Yep. Heal an island. There's lots of healing here. We're going to take all the good energy from Esfedra. Nice. And breathe it in. That's exactly what we're going to do. Where are you from Roland? Estonia. Estonia. I haven't even fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fourth third time yeah once i discovered this place or actually my friends show it to me i came here back three days in a row and this is the third day this is way better than the other viewpoint so high did you come alone or you came with like an actual experienced hiking with an experienced guy who was living here and discovered all these places a long time so yeah he showed it to me i was like bro i wouldn't want to like try and discover it first by myself not a bit scary if you slip you're absolutely just don't look down oh my god wow we're so high god i don't like that oh my god oh the cave is so sick oh oh careful careful careful what the hell so sick what an absolute vibe oh my god what the hell wow look down there that's insane right so we've made it to the little cave it's absolutely sick definitely worth it probably a 15 minute little walk it is a little bit scary in some bits but look at this how sick is that ryan just recovered from his panic attack honestly that was one of the scariest things i've done i'm not gonna know how you were so i'm not gonna tell anyone where the location is because it's so risky yeah the locals will kill you yeah never so i can't share the occasion ryan will never do that again i definitely don't think cindy could do it i wouldn't go with a girl it's a little bit sketchy right guys so we made it to the legendary cave that was a scary one i'm not gonna lie a few of us were slightly concerned i think more so just going back because we knew what was ahead of us we're all safe all sound back to a safe spot and the views are so many different viewpoints yeah actually this is the forest i have gone so i don't know what's up there i'm curious we can climb to the top i think wow i keep getting higher like a peak after another peak it's the same thing again yeah deja vu oh look now it's a little bit different a little curvy too so we are sage this is what we do after a night out sage wizard we've had 10 pounds so now we're gonna clean our energy hopefully feel a little bit more sober how come mike hasn't had 10 pounds right now for tonight oh that was my hand ah for tonight the nariz because that can also snip up a few bad spurts especially in dc 10 we're just doing a little ceremony sorry ceremonial stage clean yeah if you come into mike's villa normally he has to cleanse you is that okay yeah just three circles yeah this three circles has to do it every time heavy seconder the village how do I get how do I get how do I get how do I get how do I get how Bring all the girls out again. Si. Who's up next? Who's up next? Como se llama? Zara. Zara. Mucho gusto. It's your time. Let's go. Just have to get rid of the bad guy. Nice. Perfecto. Uno más. One more time. Are you sensing anything? Feeling good and clean. Feels good. On the feet she has bad hominy. Oh, bad hominy on the feet. Okay, just give it a little... Thank you, thank you. For no more bad. Nice. One more. I'm getting dizzy now. Very nice. Uno más. Never one gentleman the owner of the Villa Clean, no? No. Yes, goodbye. Yes, goodbye. Welcome. Sydney needs Klein's department. The most. The most. Yeah, probably 100 times. Oh! Oh! Oh! You're not friends. That's a sign. That is a sign. That's a sign. I put her in the bin. Some nice surface and carpet cleaner here. Ah, good morning. Good morning. Lovely view. Lovely view of the nature. It's a funny little workout park. I mean, even though it looks quite big and impressive, there's not a huge amount you can do apart from pull-ups or monkey bar swings. Let's have a look at what we can do here. Simple pull-ups. Climbing the rope. Angle ladder. Chin-up bar. Triangular bars. Wall bars. Horizontal ladder. Eh, I mean, a dip station would have been good. Let's see what we can do. I guess we can just do a load of pull-ups up and down the rope a couple of times. Swinging on the bars. I mean, ultimately the hands are going to be battered by the end of this. I've done literally a few sets already. I could do some gloves. Oh well. Let's crack on. Tonight you want a little cuddle. Tomorrow. I'm not too spangled to do anything. Tomorrow. Yeah, probably Sunday. Probably Sunday as well. If you go out on a mad one with the boys, you have to make a decision, or I have to make a decision. Am I going to really send it, therefore stay with the boys? Or like, you pull back on the send, and you plan on, you know, going back with someone. You could do both, but I don't like going back with a girl I'm west. Last thing I want to do is have a conversation with someone that I don't even know about some random shit when I am on another fucking planet. Let's be honest. So the plan is we're going to enjoy the villa. We're going to go to Black Coffee. And I think we're even going to go to Universe on Sunday because we've never been. I need to see it. Carl Cox. So act like the old days. I'm getting the best out of Uncle Mike and getting a bit loose. It needs to be done. I just need to let go of it. When was the last time you let go a little bit? Last year. Yeah, so there we go. Well, that's nice. Bring out the best in Uncle Mike, mate. It is once again time to venture out onto the Balearic waters. However, today is a little bit windy. It is nearing the end of September, so summer is coming to an end. And when it is windy, we are limited with where we can go. So we're not going to go to Formentera today. Instead, we're going to go to the bay of Blue Marlin and Yondal, which is still equally as good, but the water maybe is not as blue. But it's okay. We've got a solid crew of us. and a nice boat. La Pecla. What does that mean, La Pecla? La Perla. Oh, La Perla. La Perla. Ah, okay, the Pearl. Not La Pecla, Mike, you idiot. Although I would call my boat La Pec. La Pecs. Let's have a look downstairs. You know, these are actually surprisingly spacious downstairs. Like a full-on bedroom here. It's not a very high ceiling, though. Two bedrooms. Interesting thing about these boats. If you charter them in September, you basically will be saving thousands of euros. Because in the high season, in August, they literally rip you off so much, they'll charge you the most. Because obviously the demand is highest, and the island's busiest. Nice boat. A few friends, a few beers. Happy Monday. What are you feeling today? I'm feeling very good for the camera. Big recovery, big recovery. I'm more original. 100 of 100. Okay. What are you feeling today? Feeling good. So nice, like always. I'm currently very out of breath because I just swam here. One arm with the phone and the boat to this. Look at this. wow so good see ya this is one of the reasons why I love this island because you have all these little hidden gems dotted around everywhere and there's nobody here well there's quite a lot of naked people over there but here there's no one so clear that was a terrible dive how are you not driving it's not you go on Kevin 4 out of 10 happy birthday hungry fish fuck bro look at it another one Darren low-u-i-s francais barefoot bandits barefoot bandits just going for a nice lunch nice lunch top spotter ciao where's he's captain here we go thank god minimum order is 150 euros anyway it's Mike's last day Sam going west for Mike yeah for Mike well he's gone in the two weeks he's gone in the two weeks maybe another two months I'm contemplating extended but I really need to go back home it would be good if you're extended he's contemplating extended because there's lots of girls flying out for the next week and they're all DMing Mike is the only person I know where girls see him and DM him Mike has never reached out to a girl ever all the warm leads are inbound very warm very warm can't wait to walk barefoot along this it's going to be horrible for you am I the only one that did no shoes hey Parrish hey Parrish the boat this is the biggest boat out there Parrish why is he going to have lunch why is the inspiration for your outfit today let it be let it be let it be let it be very emotional my friend emotional my friend what's going on Cindy just vlogs everything every day there's not one video ever seen no but sometimes it's good though it's good for us because we can just use all the videos when we get hurt happy ending happy good spot let's start wow Beautiful! Cheers! Cheers! Do you want me to drive? Oh my God! I'd be going overboard. We're here already. Yeah. Gracias, Luis. Thank you. And we're back on the boat. You think if the captain went missing, we'd be able to navigate this back to the port? 100%. I have no doubt about it. We get this straight back. No bother. Where would you take us here? I'd take us for a ride around the island. But where would you go right now? If you would take us that way? I've come to the realisation that you come to this island, you could be on the biggest yacht, or you could be staying at the biggest villa, but if you're staying with the wrong group of people, it's just not going to be the same. I've done it before. But when you're with the squad, your squad of people who you love and you trust, you've known for years, making the best memories of your life, nothing will top that. And that is why I'm going to continue doing this for as long as I possibly can. Right, folks. So, it's Uncle Mike's last night. It's a very sad time. Sometimes I always try and think like, okay, maybe I should extend here. And I realise it's the amount of work that has piled up. Yeah. Which I've completely avoided. I haven't opened my laptop for like six days. Since the end of the must mind. But anyway, we're going to Casamaca to celebrate a fantastic couple of weeks. So, vamos. One absolute five. I've got some good. Casamaca time. This spot is one of the spots in my opinion. If you want to have a delicious outdoor meal or sneaky little date night, very, very good. The smell of the barbecue. Hello. I got one fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber Maybe I want to do this. Probably have more fat with my two meals today. True fare one. Wagyu. Wagyu wiggly woo. Really cheap one tonight, guys. The fire is just simmering at the moment. Wizards in the kitchen doing their magic. Very good. Very good. Don't know what these girls are doing, but they look happy. The setting. I mean, can you beat this setting? Very well lit. Beautiful ambience. Music is very chill as well. Then you have Ibiza Town in the background. Very, very good. There is a minimum spend, though, of €150 per person, which is probably going to be more during the peak season. It is not that busy at the moment because it is September coming to October. The temperature is very nice. Do need a jacket. But in the daytime, it's fine. August gets bit. Even September gets very humid and sweaty. Baba ganoush. Aubergine. What's that with the cheesy? Wow. Tomatoes. Wow. Wow. Wow. Nice. I'm happy with my choice. What's that? That's mashed potato. Oh, God. Oh. They have to perform some magic on that barbecue. They just throw everything on the barbecue, and it's just all unbelievable. It's so weird. An aubergine on the barbecue, amazing. A sweet potato on the barbecue, amazing. Probably all grown on the island as well. Yeah, I think so. Everything on this island that is grown is very good. You're going to love that, but it tastes so unhealthy. The what? The cheesy mashed potato. Sorry. I like the fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber fiber