 ablumine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n So now we're going to go to Outdoor Gym, a nice little outdoor workout. Why not? Take advantage of the weather, get a bit of a tan at the same time. How's your Dubai trip being so far away? Probably one of the most productive and best trips I've had. Yeah. I've been looking for a new pay already. I'm coming in January to live here, relocating. Actually I'm not relocating, so I relocate every two or three months, but... You can't relocate if you don't have a car. Exactly. I'm going to make it my base though. West Beach is actually a really nice place. Would you live here? Could potentially. Nice, long strip, pretty much in the sun all day. Loads of beach clubs. Nice residences. Nice people. Any downsides? I don't know yet, but getting on and off the palm, I don't know how much I've been issued that week. You can lead the workout, boss. So I was thinking of doing squats with the barbell, just literally like 10 cents for 10. Okay. With 60 second rest in between. Nice, what weight? Body weight. Oh, body. We're doing that. We're doing a little all round of the body session, I think. All round? All round, why not? We've got the equipment to facilitate such a workout. It's still surprising we've got people that was literally nearly 10 cents. It is absolutely by. This equipment is interesting. I think it's the gym 80 equipment. Some of it is like alright, some of it is really not okay. So the session is complete. Just a quick one there because Louis had to go for a meeting. That was all done in 45 minutes. Complete upper body session in 45 minutes. It can be done. Just short on the rest periods, add a couple of soup sets in there. The thing is, that's one of the biggest excuses people give to me. They're like, oh, I don't have time. I don't have time to go to the gym. I don't have time to squeeze in a session. Well, you can actually get a good session done in 45 minutes. If you just do that three to four times a week, you'd be surprised how effective that can be. That is why I've added it to my app. There's four new splits. There's the soup set split. Full body, up or lower and push pull legs. Every single session is just 45 minutes to complete. So that is now available on my app. I recommend you check it out. Those who are subscribed, give it a try if you are short on time because it's surprisingly effective. Anyway, I am now going to enjoy this weather for another half an hour before I head over to a new spot, which I've always wanted to go to downtown. Rooftop, vibes, pool, skyline view and delicious food. Right guys, so we are at the Alana Rooftop Pool. This has been on my list for a very, very long time. A little bit difficult to access because it is only open to hotel guests or special people. Today I am a special person and I must say it is definitely one of the top spots. If you want to get a nice view of downtown and of course the hotel itself, not that I've seen the rooms but I've heard good things. As far as rooftop pool menus go, this one is a very good one. I was actually struggling to decide what it is that I should order. Oh my God, how much food did you order? Oh my goodness. Chimichurri? One chicken with pokeball. Oh my God. Nothing better than the boys just enjoying a feast. At the top of a rooftop. At the top of a rooftop. On the rooftop with an infinity pool. Looking over the birch. Doesn't really get much better. There is an absurd amount of building work going on at the moment. Two plots there. We've got a plot there. There is a building going up just there. There is another building going up down here. And then there is a few more popping up. The skyline is ever changing. And the noise is kicking off. Right guys, it is now time to do a podcast. Shock, going to be doing it with Louis. The last one we did, which I believe was last summer, holding quite a few views. So I think I might have to do an annual one with him. Because I do miss just having laid back conversations with a good friend. And maybe I think I'll get him to actually ask me some questions. Because a lot of the time when I'm doing the podcast, I'm the one that's doing a lot of the question asking. And sometimes I don't really do a whole lot of talking. So it should be good backwards and forwards with him today. We've got ice maricanos and newtonics and some bionic coats. Yeah, we're going to, every super newtonic that we do, we're going to have a scoop of these. Nice. Hopefully not a super serious one. Mike's got a load of Alex Famosin, Chris Williams and quotes that he wants to reference and discuss. And also, if you are watching this podcast, me and Mike have a very British sense of humour. And it's called sarcasm. Okay, so take it with a little pinch of salt. So the podcast is complete. There was a good one. It was a funny one. That's going to be out towards the end of the year. Don't know exactly when, but anyway, we're going to quickly head over to Bee Beach because it's one of our friends' 30th birthday. The spot. For whatever reason, I don't know why it just became an extremely rowdy place on a Sunday. So if you guys are in Dubai and you want a bit of a lively scene afternoon and evening, on a Sunday, Bee Beach is the place to go. So we're actually going to try and do this one sober. Louis on a sober streak. And I'm really not interested in drinking. So we're literally just going to dip in and out before it gets a little bit out of control. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. The beach is lonely. We do'em' proud to carry okay. Any folk who's in your show man. Where's your conscious status? I know it in me. I know it in me girl. Like a kind of lock in my jade. I'll be the mining black. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. Forest, nice. Hello. Hello. Very good, how are you? I'm good, very good. Yes. You showed me your picture. Oh. Do I need to do it too? I've been here before so I need to do it again. Yes sir, every visit. Every visit? Must be quite dangerous. Is this dangerous? I've been to Spain before, but before, how did you finish? Each. Can't believe it's 92 pound to use a sauna in Aspa. Oh my goodness, that's like the price of like a luxury gym membership in the UK. So it better be fun. What's that? What have you got there? I got my swim shorts at this event today, which I needed because I was doing some aquatic activities. The only shorts they had available were Pasaplica, which were also very cheap. 320 pound. Nice. That's a good thing about a priest. Any of you guys complaining about my first shorts being too expensive? At least I don't have 320 quid. 36, that would mean it to you. Oh, look at that. Custom sliders. For 100 quid, we'll definitely be taking all of this home with us. Oh my God, he also caught the sun. Quite aggressively. Quite aggressively. Right, let's go and get banyaned. They do pants here, don't they? Yeah. If it's free, I'll have it. Thank you so much. You're more than welcome. Hello. Yeah, thank you. Nice to see you again. A bit more, right? Yes, very long time since I was here. Really? Nice to see you. Where is Josie? How times have changed? We're sat drinking cups of tea with our raw honey. Raw? It's the honey. It looks extremely suspicious, that. Yeah. This has been washed and managed back slow. Oh my God. That's how mine will look after one month with that staining. Louise, on no fax. No nuts. What? No fax. No fax, no nicotine, no alcohol. Just need to have some discipline. You might send it in right last week. Yes, I will. Louise, more water. A little bit too hot. Do you need a little bit too hot? Do you need a bit of discipline or do you need kale? Well, so long as you're not here. It's seven months. You're amazing. How long have you been sober for now? I did like three months and then I went to a wedding in Cologne. To a rugby lads. You can't not drink at a wedding. No, no. It was awful. Brother, would you mind explaining what's in this drink? Me? Yeah. Fermented bread. Yeah, yeah. Fermented two days. We add a little bit of... Your little bit. ...tripes inside for sweets. Nice. It's non-alcoholic. Non-alcoholic, but it tastes like non-alcoholic beer. Oh, nice. Cheers, boys. It's warm. Is it warm? No. Fuck, it stinks like shit. It's fermented. It's whatever. It's not taste like it's real. It's good. It does taste a bit like non-alcoholic. It's really good. Really good. What have you got there, Massimo? Borscht and Pillimani. What's borscht? This is like a beetroot soup with meat in it. And then this is meat dumplings. Wow, very nice. Delightfully. What have you got, boss? Steak. Steak. Steak. Steak. Alright, Louie, you want to try this. It's sourdough bread that's been kind of cooked. It's real. Why not? Do you get light leaning to the left? The last round got me. Wow. I'm going to give this experience a 10 out of 10. Yeah. Which I had done it way before, because then Woda came here all the time. Even though it's 100 quid. It's so worth it. Chill, Louie. And actually, first time ever, seeing Russian people happy. The Russian people are actually talking to us. Like smiling. They're just in their helmet. They're so happy that we're just experiencing that, like culture, I think. Like he was like, telling me to get in the ice bath. And then I was like, ah, so good. And he was like, yeah. The only thing that I think would make it better is if I could just have a pint. And I mean, I could just have a pint. Oh, rest of you. I need to just not have one. Just have some discipline and drink this fucking brown shit. Good bread. My recovery should be very good tonight. Home sweet home. The boys are chasing nothing but peak recoveries tonight. So after successfully being banyed in, it is probably time to go to bed, because I don't really have much energy to do anything else. I've got a full, satisfied belly, very relaxed, and just happy to be surrounded by good quality people. It's always good to have a catch up with the boys, and obviously to have my friends stay with me for a couple of days. So thank you very much for watching. I'll see you guys in the next blog.