! Guys, we're out here, Kite Beach, the season is upon us, we're no longer sweating and dying, it is now absolutely fantastic weather. Oh yeah, steady breakfast. Steady breakfast upon the Kite Beach. I'm actually not eating because I'm doing a 72-hour water fast, I just wanted to see how much muscle I could lose in three days. I'm only kidding, I'm waiting for my breakfast. It's on the way, big fat fish fillet, and then I also wanted some vegetables, because it's starting to be bigger than I thought it would be, so I probably won't eat all of it, it's not going to feel sleepy. Damn right, worn by the best. I am the best. Although that's questionable, I don't know by playing golf, you can get your heart rate up to 198 beats per minute. Don't even get that doing squat. Only if you run to the next... If you absolutely sprint to the green as fast as possible. The most manliest activity. What? This? Honestly, you just can't beat renting a scooter and vibing along Kite Beach. Reminds me of Venice Beach, but a lot more civilised. A lot of flag. International flag day. What does it mean? It's actually in the shape of two of the rulers. I saw a drone shot, it looks sick. It is time to train. We are actually, believe it or not, on the fifth week of my split. The time has flown by, so I'll probably do one more in-depth training video of maybe the push day. I'm going to do the push day now, so you guys can see what I'm up to. Usually after being in the sun for a little bit, that's not good for the performance of my training session, but I don't think it'll be too bad today because it wasn't too hot. So let's fucking go. We have definitely reached the point where I've plateaued a little bit. I can't get past this weight, from the 30 kilos for seven reps. That was basically like seven and a half reps. I guess it's time to get on the roids, eh? The only thing I could really do is just increase the weight, but do like five or six reps. Let's do more weight. I'm going to do more weight. Progress, progress. 135, first six, repetition. Nice. The shoes. 100 kilos last time. See, my app is so good because I have my entire lift history here. So last time was 100 kilograms for six reps, so I don't think we need to increase the weight today. My goal would be to do seven reps of this weight. Good. Yes. Feeling good. Probably one of the best lateral raise machines of all time. It's my favorite. Shout out to Atlantis. 75 kilograms last time. Hold on. We'll be back soon. Should we stack today? Go on, let's stack today. The only problem when it's this heavy, I was watching my form last week and I was ending up like this. I was moving a lot of the tension onto the front delt. The front delt was doing a bit more work. Never done that before. Push in the limits there. Thinking about bones snapping with the lift in that way. 180 first. 5. Struggled. That's a hard one. Have you ever stayed in the gym for a bit longer when there's a load of hot eats around? Yep. Might do another couple sets today. Biceps. I don't know. The longest I've been in the gym for nearly two hours because there's so many hot meals. I don't need a new car but I want to get a new car. It's time to get a new car. Actually, the specific car I want right now I don't think is available yet. I might have to wait a little bit but I know which one I want. Anyway, great session, feeling strong, looking good and everything's going well. To treat you guys, I'm going to be doing a live webinar which is basically a seminar but online all about fitness. I'm going to be telling you every single thing I've learned over the past 18 years of training. Both myself and my clients. To try and dismiss all the nonsense and garbage circulating around social media regarding fitness at the moment. Because it's probably, you could argue, is more confusing than ever as to what you should actually do to get results. I'd recommend registering right now to make sure you don't miss out and you stay notified because you do not want to miss out on this one. And it's completely free, okay? So if you go into the description, click the link to sign up. I'll also put it on the screen right now so you can get yourself involved. It'll be my little gift to you guys. Oh my God! The dust. Right, not sure if you're aware guys but I have quite a lot of cans with eyeballs on them. For those who don't know, you probably must know by now, Newtonic, fuel your focus, drink. It's not really an energy drink, it's more of a productivity drink founded by three of my good friends, Chris Williamson, James Smith, Shan Hanif, Van Rajenplo. Anyway, the reason why I'm talking about it is because I am officially now part of the business. I have invested into Newtonic so my kitty has a small slice of pie. Reasons why I invest in this company, first of all, I actually do like the drink itself. Tastes very good, decent ingredients. And more importantly, I've seen the founders themselves. I rate their hustle, their grind, the path that they're on. I believe whatever they put their minds to, they're going to make work. So, yeah, anyway, James Smith is in town and Newtonic have a massive stand at the Dubai Muscle Show. So we're going to go over there now, have a little walk around, show some support and see what's going down. The Middle East biggest fitness expo. It's a good leg. It's actually my brother, Lord North, one of them. Let's get it together. Oh, I'm getting my top off. I could have worn an extra medium t-shirt myself, but I don't know what. I don't intimidate people with being too muscular. The reason I wear more loose-skinned garments is my credit to Mike. I hate to say this to him. I'll train with him once. He actually knows his stuff. A lot of people could look at him and think he's just some lifestyle guy. He's actually a nice guy, very smart with training and annoyingly good-looking. We just thank Jesus they didn't make him taller. I'm always the rest of us to be absolutely screwed. I'm going to go with the guy. I've seen him in Spain before. Madfazic. Goddamn it. These are two people I want to train with. I need to train with Phil. Phil actually looks like he's a decent shape-ster. He's going to coach me through a session because he coaches all the top dogs. Right then we have wrapped up the little mini tour of the Dubai Expo just an hour and a half. That is more than enough for me. What an extremely stimulating environment that is. Good to see the Newtonic boys, see a lot of familiar faces who I've not met before and who I have actually met before and trained with before. I'm so high on freaking Newtonic. We've had just now Leana Deeb. This is a big one, one of her first ones. There's so many backwards and forwards that I was trying to get this done over the past year. But it finally happened and it went very good. So happy about that. And then now we have the big man Kevin Vroni coming down. I'm sure a lot of you probably saw the video of him literally annihilating me training legs. I wasn't even lifting anyway, it was just body weight. So yeah, two in a day and we've got two tomorrow as well. So this is definitely the season to be getting shit done. But I'm enjoying it, I'm in the zone. And we're one step closer to hitting that 300K on Thursdays first. Guys, if you haven't subscribed, please subscribe. Thank you. Right then, we are at the new gym opening. This place is called The Great. It's owned by the same people that have the Seven Wellness Club. One in Dubai, one in Ibiza. So this is a variation of it. It's been open I think for like a week or so, but today's the official opening party. Let's go and maybe we'll see what it's all about. The food here is the same cafe as the one at Seven, which is the Dole, by Sylvain. Very good. The menu's a little bit different, but it's still coffee. That's one of the prettiest iced coffees I've ever seen, I think. Coffee at 4pm, living dangerously. It's good. It's not too intense. It's like a cocktail, like with coffee. She's the master chef, the one that has the dose at Seven in Dubai, Ibiza, now here. Yes, yes, yes. And the only world's authority on longevity nutrition. And this boy here is beautiful as he is. He needs to fill that body with nutrition that is all about longevity. So stay tuned because something amazing is coming from Chef Sylvain Arro, Professor of Honorary History in the biggest university of the Balkans. It's under the crowd. Sorry, my brother's a little bit special. Let me go. But... Super hard. No, control your... That's the master class. Wait, I want to... I think that was the previous one. Which beat would heal my brother's soul? He's possessed. No, he possessed people. I'm not gonna use the song. You see, you're a shit out of luck. So you know that they do it as well with the balls. Nice, all the cure now. Thank you. Finally. You can't smash it. Okay, okay, okay. Just smash that. That's good. Happy to be cured. But look, they made Himalayan soda now. Really nice. Charlotte Gournard. Yeah, I'll go for 20 minutes. Hey. Everybody is really, really nice and cozy. And it's, you know, spacious for everybody. The whole family. It's a bit cozy in there. It's a light goodbye first class. Ignore me. It's just sick car review, you know. He's gonna be tight. That's what she said. She's not just a good on the front, Rob. No, Robert, you... Why did you not get a friend? I was a nice friend. That's mad. Latvia won. Who's saying, man, that you're all right for space though, Mikey? Yeah, I'm good. Just there. Don't worry about me, Rob. I'm actually pretty spacious. I'm fine. Is it really? It's, uh... Well, comfortable. Justin, I've been... Justin! I'm fine, Robert. Justin, my knee. Robert, I'm fine. We out here at Casa de Habana, the local spot. That's the hour local. It is the local spot, but you won't catch me here every day. Special occasions only. This is a great one. This is an amazing one. Very, very good. And do you know why it's really good? Age. What do you mean by that? Oh! Something light. And how long? Maduro. At least five years. Honestly, it smells a bit like chocolate. It's nice. That's what it's supposed to be. That's, like, ideal. Not cheap, though. So just a warning, Mike always likes the darkest to us. Yeah, guys. If you want to get proper wired, followed by a bit of throwing up in the toilet. I'll see you there. I'll see you there. Look at that. Look at that. I've got, like, a massive cupboard full of gifts. To go out of gifts. They're all dead. Yeah. Oh, that's nice. Nice. A little some precision. Mighty pistol, one. Oh, I've done this before, haven't I? You know what? Straight into the light. Give me my hand. I'll be down. Real gold. Zero percent, guys. Don't worry. Not on a mad one tonight. You