 naringin, 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 드 This juice is too good to be thrilled, no way man. What's up guys, welcome to another video. Your boy has finally made it to Cape Town. This trip is long overdue and I do apologize for taking this long to visit this beautiful city. I mean, oh my goodness me, look what we have here. Probably one of the craziest landscapes that I've seen. Lion's head, table top mountain. We're starting the video off today in Camps Bay. I've actually chosen this location specifically because of just the vibrant scenes. We've got the promenade here. We've got a load of sexy villas behind us. So our villa is literally just a seven minute walk. So have a little explore around this morning and then it's straight into the action. We've got a lot of fun. They even did a custom number plate. MT. Mikey T. That's Starbucks, bro. They got Uber Eats here so that's ideal. Thank you bro. Timing on that one. I hope that's not sewer. If anything stinks, it's Chris's knees. You got matching shorts with your car. Oh yeah. Green means go. Green means power. Where are we going? Where are we going? To give the shark some bait. Oh my God. Who thinks Mike's humongous tross will fit inside the wet suit? It won't be humongous if I touch that cold water. Content creators. Just a good morning. Have a good day. Probably one of the best roads I've driven on. So I'm being quite honest. It's absolutely mental. It's very dangerous as well. Very dangerous. Yes. I feel like it's actually for us. Yeah. In a convertible. Wow. Amazing. Imagine one of the rocks fallen on there. Yeah, I was thinking. I don't know. Really. I'm dead happy. It's amazing. Dead happy? Yes. I'm just loading it in. Low this cafe. Imagine if we did just like press a button back and it just blew a hole through that. It's a six pounder hotchkiss dual purpose gun. Wow. That was on the ships. It's great. I wonder if I could fire an upper deckie into my top lip. See you later. Bye bro. Who is he? It's me. All right. I'm taking some of the guys. Okay. Just so intimidating. Seems kind of small. What you do is you grab on this yellow handlebar. Like that. Pull yourself under. And when you do that, you hook your feet under that bar there at the bottom. All right. What that does is it helps anchor you down. Watch your hands on your feet. So you don't. Whatever you do, you do not grab onto these bars. We had 20 plus sharks around the boat this morning. I love it. Oh my God. These are teeth marks here from sharks. Rub your finger along there. Feel that? Oh my God. Oh my God. Do I have to say it again? Please guys, don't hold the outside bars. Wow. I'm excited now. How many people in one field? Yeah, we had that killer whale about three days ago. They attack the sharks. Yeah. So there's the two killer whales that attack the sharks. They're brothers. Their names are Port and Starboard. Very easily recognizable because of their dorsal fins. The ones flopped over to the left side, which is Port, left side of the boat. The others flopped over to the right side, which is Starboard, right side of the boat. Oh my God. Wow. Look at them all. So sick. Oh my God. Wow. There's so many. That's so many. Did they wait for us? I think so. Yeah. I think someone's good luck on board. Why is that? Do you know? It's just very super playful. Yeah. Yeah. You notice there's quite a lot of newborns in this pod. Yeah. I notice. Yeah. Is there something you see often? No, it's not. We haven't had really good dolphins sightings for the last couple of months. Wow. We had the same pod this morning, this morning's trip. How many dolphins do you reckon in that pod, guys? I would say a hundred. Three, four hundred. No. Three, four hundred. Three, four hundred. Really? How many? Three, four hundred. One. So our dolphin season is generally from about March to May, where you sometimes come across pods like these. But we haven't had pods like this in a while. Wow. For a long time. Wow. How lucky. I want to see what I'm getting myself into I have to keep my hood up No you don't? You don't Ruts are optional but it's not that cold It's not cold No, yeah it's a little red one Oh my god that's so big I can't believe how big they are Oh my god I hate you Oh my god amazing It's literally so good Is it that scary or not? No it's not scary at all Looks worse from the outside It's really not scary You feel pretty sick It's scary It's scary do you think? I don't like being underwater Do you not? I don't think it's scary at all No I'm here It's so mad They get so close to you You see their eyes just eyeing you up You have to keep making sure that your hands are not Also going to be touching outside of the safety area Woo Because they will nibble The guys say they accidentally had their feet out Yeah Oh my god Oh no You first go in Your heart is racing so much you just can't control your breathing But then after a while you calm down and then it's like You can spend more time under the water And if you've got a corner spot Then you've got way more than you Mike what is this place? What? Stink Island A.k.a Seal Island When we approached it the smell was so bad Hello Why do they smell like sheep? Hello They smell like sheep Wow What are they doing? Why are they all just upside down? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? What's the sound? Make it a better place for you and for me Wow, it's so weird. You'd think you'd see them in the cold Yeah, chillin In the warmth That's my luck too Not as exciting after seeing sharks No Massage Take it all in Woah The gun is out, the gun throw is out, look at that That's dense, that is dense Strength That's power Power There's no power here Woah, woah, woah, woah That's like my bite That's my golf That's my golf My golf That's my golf Go Woah It's good this brother It's sparkling water Big brother, it's like I'm shaking a leg or something So I do Instagram and YouTube, like YouTube sort of doing that Oh wow, this is beautiful, impeccable, wow This is something I need to follow for motivation and inspiration This is where I should be like as a man becoming bold and masculine Yes And now if you look good, you feel good about yourself It's true Yes And when you feel good about yourself, you put that energy out there What is healing about? Listen No, no, no, no, I'm saying to you I'm inspired, I'm inspired here No, I'm saying what is healing about? I'm inspired What is healing about? I'm inspired What? You look good, you feel good Listen, yesterday they wanted another guy again like you No, no, no, no, he's inspired No, he's one But that guy was small, small, small So yes, I know this guy He's gonna lie and lie and lie Where's animal we're going to go? Tomorrow another one I'm inspired I'm inspired He's not going to the gym No No, he's not going to the gym No Motivation But anyway, good luck Motivation doesn't last That's why we need it everyday Yes Just like bathing, you know So if I get inspired everyday, I'm happy A beautiful evening to you guys Hey How are you? Good Fantastic So guys, this is our first time Have you joined us before? Yes First time I welcome you to the amazing Codfather So guys, here at Codfather we have a unique concept Food menu, forget about it So as we are coming in up the stairs to your left We've got a beautiful seafood display We're going to be taking you to the counter Where we'll further explain all the flavors, the texture of the seafood And then up the stairs to your left We've got a beautiful sushi bar For which you can easily pick and choose any sushi of choice Look at that Look at that Wow, that's beautiful Beautiful Beautiful Lovely, my brother It's a little fire It's a little fire It's a little fire Yeah Oh good It's good It's good It's good It's spicy It's a sauce It's good It's spicy It's a sauce Good? Yeah, it's a sauce Cool Yeah, so far, local people are actually pretty nice I mean you do have to be relatively alert in certain areas But in general, the waterfront, Clifton, Camps Bay, very safe Lots of security everywhere Let's go for 5k tomorrow? Maybe I don't think I've ever had more people get more hyped about me being in a specific location It seems that a lot of the people who are watching me or following me are currently based in Cape Town So if I was to do a 5k or a meetup, I think there might be quite a lot of people there You know what, that is absolutely sick We've got a little natural swimming pool here Filled up by the sea I can understand why people live here And why more people are wanting to live here The nature and the backdrop is 10 out of 10 How warm is it? I don't know, I've not been in yet I mean in terms of like enticing seas I'm not massively enticing It's not like super blue It's a bit pongy as well Like very fresh Like there is quite a strong stench of fishy seaweed And somebody told me they've pumped sewage out into the sea But I don't know how true that is I think we've got some kelp farms over there Anyone who's seen My Oxbice Teacher I'm pretty sure that was filmed somewhere here Definitely worth watching that If you haven't seen it Looking solid my man Hey this guy is absolutely convinced that I'm taking steroids You are, I'm a man It's impossible, you can't see my veins Yesterday I saw it, he was like you're too veiny It's just natural brother, I tell you what This juice is too good to be drilled, no way man This guy is looking good Oh man Is that solid? No man I'm feeling like I'm looking small You're looking Nah, nah, nah You're wider than me Nah, but you're good man, you're looking good brother Thank you bro It's like long street Your job is... Good street Your job is to make sure everybody's parking Yeah, that's well and good You see, they say I'm the best man here You're the best man Best man Best man He's the best man I'm like a best man He's the best man You know, every day I'm the same guy Yeah Same guy I see him Standing up in the morning So I feel good morning Good morning sir, how are you? You know, everybody know me Yeah, every day when I walk past he has the best energy My surname is Mr. Morning Mr. Morning And everybody likes me Yeah I'm a good man You're the best man Yes I'll see you every day Yeah, you know what? See ya, see ya See ya, see ya See ya, my man House door? House door Time for house door Or is it someone else's house? Oh yeah Literally cardio I just walked up in the floor I thought I wanted a convertible so I could see everything but In some places It's definitely best Not to have the top down So, after a lot of research It came down to three locations The places I wanted to stay here It's either gonna be Clifton Which arguably is the most prestigious location With some of the best villas and amazing views and privacy The Seapoint which is near the centre Where there's a lot of action taking place And then there's Camps Bay Which I decided to go for Because of just The promenade The fact that you can just walk everywhere This is a five minute walk from all the action Yeah, the price was pretty reasonable as well This is a five bedroom villa With a cinema room Over three floors We've got a pool We've got a hell of a lot of space And it's pretty damn modern and secure Great spot for this trip Guys, so much good music has come out of South Africa Don't play with South Africans They've been playing with South Africans Okay guys, so we have rocked up to another gym facility This one is called Virgin Active Green Point Green Point, apparently this is the new hotspot because it's been refurbed and recently done up, so everything in here is brand new, absolutely full to the brim of techno gym equipment, and it's quite spacious as well. Got a work area, outdoor area, paddle ports, some longevity biohacking equipment. It does really seem to have it all. I mean, in comparison to Dubai gyms, I'm not exactly blown away, but I guess for Cape Town this is quite good. A pool as well. It's got everything. It reminds me of David Lloyd in the UK. Cape Town is just lacking this universal, all-inclusive, proper bodybuilding gym. I feel like there's definitely a demand for it and it doesn't have it. So it's just a matter of time before swan opens, what up. I should do it, really. I'm not a guy. I'm not a guy. I'm not a guy. I'm not a guy. You're a coach here? Yeah, I'm a professional trainer. Elite. He's an elite personal trainer. He's at the top. Ah, we're. Yeah. Best in town. Hello, bro. I'm a boss man. I'm a boss man. I'm a guy. I'm a guy. Yeah. You're a coach here? Yeah, I'm a professional trainer. Elite. He's an elite personal trainer. He's at the top. Ah, we're. Best in town. Best in town. Yeah. Wow. I love it, bro. I have no idea why. The past two days have been not the usual. It's not the usual routine to me. What? This is pretty dope. I'm pretty sure when I came here a few days ago this wasn't even here. So I think they're turning all of this outdoor area into like a High Rocks cork. Arena? What the hell do you call a High Rocks thing? Pretty sick. Paddle courts over there, tennis courts. Some souped up Honda Civic probably. Right then, 45 minute High Rock circuit. Amrach, many rounds as possible until we can puke. Hello, boss. We're roommates now. Nice. Hello. Fresh shrimps. Fresh shrimps for the boys. You get me one. I will just about get an hour and a half. Fresh looking like? Yeah. Trims for the boys. Very nice. How are you, bro? I'm good, thanks. How are you, brother? Very good. Thank you, man. Like I... What is your story, by the way? Where are you from? Me? Yeah. Oh, me, I'm from Cape Town, bro. I'm born and raised in Cape Town. Used to work in a shop at Sea Point. While I was working there, they didn't want to give me the raise. And I was like, okay, I'm going to give you guys 30 day notice and I'm going to leave. See you later, guys. And then the... I'm going to go on a mission now. Make more money. And now you're fully booked. Yes, yes, yes. 100%, my man. That's what happened. And so far I've been doing it for two years and it's been good, you know? Good stuff. Every year it's busier and busier and busier. Tell us what's happening. Oh my God. Look at that. Apparently it never rains here at this time of year. So... This is good. We're supposed to go to that festival tonight as well. Ah. Also, Middle East is getting bombed. It's all kicking off today. It's... What is the date today? Just so everybody knows. But it's all been going wild today, yeah. 28th of February. So I'm supposed to be going home in a few days. Home as in Dubai. Dubai airspace is completely closed, so... Probably going to extend for at least another couple of days. Might have to extend for longer. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Anyway, we're still going to... Still going to send it tonight. No stopping us. No, don't do that. What is it? That is so... Literally, within the first few hours of me being here, I arrived by myself to have a coffee, sat on a bench, and then a guy came and presented me with all of his art. And I was like, oh, here we go. Didn't have any cash, obviously. So I just said, look. If you've got a card reader, then I'll pay. The guy just ran off. And then came back with the sketchiest reader ever. Tapped it. 20 quid for this masterpiece. But it's good though. You need a souvenir. Yeah. And it's, you know, colours are good. So, you know, we have it. And he got paid very generously for his hard efforts. How are you doing, boss? Let's finish off some work. Concentration levels will not be good now, so... I would stop, right? Oh, here's the big man. I bet the market's pretty volatile right now. See you later, boss. Mike's got a Zoom call. Yeah, with the first app. All 30,000 members. Right, guys. This is a once in a lifetime experience seeing Black Coffee playing in his home country. Everyone's very excited. The venue is apparently called Ostrich Farm. It's very big. Is it ostrich? There might be Austrias. But we've got a big crew. It's going to be big vibes. Uncle Mike is potentially staying sober. I'll drink Uncle Mike's beers. That's all I'm out. Cheers. Let's have a sick one. So, it's a black coffee. Let's go. So, now I only call Don Julio, Luis. Let's go, cabrón. You need us to Google Meet. Hello. Hello, Don Julio. Is that Don? Yeah, it is. Don who? It's Don, Don, Big Pop. It's Don Julio. It's Don Julio. Oh, Big Pop. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll see you in a minute, okay? What are you saying, Luis? Um, don't know what to expect. So, let's wait and see. Mike. You know what to expect? I have no idea what to expect. I'm hoping that it's going to be a little bit warmer in there to see. It's just absolutely freezing. Do you think, Cindy, are you okay? I'm so happy. South Africa, black coffee, 15, what do you want? One, two, three, let's go. Hey. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. Guys, we have a choice. We have like a urinal in there with no lights. Completely gone. We have pupils here and then we have the cold ice bath. We should do three minutes to reset our cortisol. We should do an ice bath after though, behind you. All right, ready boys? Yeah. Three, two, one. One more. Three, two, one. Nice. Looking fresh boys. Have a good night. One more. Thank you. Thank you. How are boys feeling today? Feeling great. Absolutely fantastic. Black coffee played an absolute banger of a set. Potentially one of the best of all time. I think possibly the best of all time. In the rain. Yeah, that was pretty special. Some would say it was euphoric. Yeah. Lots of feelings. Yeah. I felt. Little goosebumps. And we're all fresh. Yeah. Going on a walk. This is not the same as a beefer. This is a lot more wholesome. Different life. No horrible next day downers. That's for sure. No panic attacks. Why would you get a panic attack? Well, you might get a panic attack if you've been on a five-day bender and then you go and do the scariest hike possible on a beefer. We know someone that that happened to. Look how much this is going to cause. Is that what it is? Just from the M4. There's like no way out of it. Anyway, now we're going to go Camps Bay. Sunday. It's apparently extremely vibrant. So we're going to go cause chaos. See what's popping. Probably drink a few pints. Really? Why not? Sunday. I have been a first woman there before. Today is not a good day. No. Zero lifeguards on Dewey. How the hell do they do that? Shall we try it? We'll just go and part on a show. Can I take a photo with you, mate? Yeah, yeah. Please, fuck it. Oh, you look as fuck. You used to be your cameraman. Yeah, yeah. But he's loving his best life now. Yeah, he really is. It's called me. Yeah. One day. Can I take one with you as well? Yeah, of course, bro. I don't want to watch this. You're not a man anymore. Just saying. What's your name, bro? Angelo. Nice to meet you, bro. I love you. I love you. I'm from Cape Town. I love your running journey. Thank you, bro. It's inspired me to run, man. Love that. I can't look like that ever. So I must run. One way to do it, bro. Nice to meet you, bro. We love Cape Town. Welcome, man. Thank you, guys. Inspiring. Thanks, man. Don't forget your heart, bro. Delft workout. Mike is delft maxing. What was the purpose of this? Practicing to be a bus driver. Rotator cuff. Rehabilitation. This one is extremely good for lats. Oh, yeah. Yeah, come on. Hopefully I'll burn this gut off. Come on. Till failures. Get your hips in there, boss. Best thing to do is burn calories. Use as much momentum as possible. Nice umbrella, mate. Why are we getting rained on so much recently? What the hell is going on? Oh, it's freezing! It's freezing. What the fuck? Pretty powerful stuff. It's like my ass after three Americanos on a fast summer. Oh, my God. That's insane. Mike's seen Nazare. Yeah, it's literally like child play. This is extremely rough, apparently. It's normally quite calm or calmer. There's literally nobody on the beach today. I was coming back the other day to see the beach fight. Let's get out of your hand. I have very dirty hands. One, two, three. Getting my nutrients in from this chicken liver, which looks quite interesting. Spicy as well, so it might absolutely blow my socks off. Piri-piri. What nutritional benefits does chicken liver have? It's just absolutely full of everything that your body needs. Guys, we are out here. It is the first Thursday of the month in Cape Town. And do you know what that means? Apparently, it means that this whole street, Bree Street, turns into a vibey little cultural drinking social experiment, I guess. I can't say much yet, because I've literally just walked onto this street. I'll be able to tell you more once I've basked in it for a couple of hours. But it looks good. Vibey. The whole town is out in good spirits. Everybody's drinking. Everyone's eating good food. There's lots of frunky little shops selling jewelry, clothes, everything. So let's get stuck in and have some fun. Hello. Welcome. Guys, I call this one the beer sling. Oh, yeah. You should get it. They match your shirt. He's like a fashion designer. He actually looks sick for some reason. Anyway, back to the beer sling. So rather than having to carry my beer, I've just put it in a sling so I can just chill. We're on Neil Clementine Avenue. We've come off the main street. We're coming to another little side street. And we have more of the same thing. This is a paradise for anybody who likes to drink. So it seems like what you do here is just walk around and just do a never-ending bar crawl. Try and get a drink at every single place. Eat some snacks. Pretend to buy some things but don't actually buy any clothes or anything like that. And just get more drinks. Yeah, I'll not be eating any snacks. I'll just be drinking. And then when the sun goes down, you just start twerking some Amapiano. Quite elegant with it. Yeah. Oh, my God. When I was in Thailand, they made me do that. They made me do the flaming skipping rope in Thailand. Really? Yeah. First Thursday, we outside, baby. That's what I'm talking about. He's a very athletic-looking guy. Woo! He's on. Back to my. Perfectly equipped for any situation. I should stop. I should... That. So you're going to ask me, what is the current state of the property market in Cape Town? No, in Dubai, actually. Is the war affecting property prices? Well, let me tell you about that. It's probably temporarily gone down a little bit. Bad thing when everything calms, it's going to go back up again. So now we're going to try to survive. It's stable. What is your favourite thing about First Thursday? Everybody's out. The vibe is strong. Everyone's in a good mood. Everybody's drinking. Like, literally everybody. I don't even normally drink, but, you know, whenever I'm... There we go. Exactly. You want to friggin' do it. You can't not drink on First Thursday. Exactly. I'm Aussie. I watch you on YouTube all the time, bro. Yeah. It's actually like... I live in London. I'm Australian. Yeah. Big fan. Thank you, man. Nice to meet you, bro. Cheers, bro. Good to see you. Good. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah, man. You're a good guy. Nice. Nice. Mighty Essex. Yes, Eddie. First time. What is going on here? What is going on here? Guys, we have just parked ourselves up on Camps Bay. It is probably the best weather that we've had so far. Not a cloud in the sky. High 20s. It's also a Sunday, so the beach is quite busy. I'm also yet to test the water, because I came here the other day, and there was about 1,000 Man-A-War jellyfishes dotting around. So I definitely don't want to be getting in the mix with those. But today, it seems pretty jellyfish-free. I've heard the water's cold as well. But today's the day to go in, that's for sure. Today, we've also got a big bike ride going on. 109 kilometers, apparently. A loop around a pretty scenic part of Cape Town. So they've blocked off a couple of the roads. One of the reasons why I'm not going anywhere today, just parking myself up in Camps Bay and enjoying the vibes. Because apparently, as well, on a Sunday, this is the place to be. All of the restaurants and bars along this strip just get full of people. And everybody has a little party. And rightly so, because the way the sun sets here, it sets right on the water. So it just makes this place look like something off a movie set. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. One of the reasons why the sun stands so far. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I've thrown it all away. No. Fuck. Come on, boys. Play, boss. Play. Play. I played my life. Tommy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mark Thornton. Pleasure to meet you. I watch all this guy's videos, every podcast. I've took on board pretty much everything that you said. And I've decided to open my new business. So I've got an aquarium here in Camps Bay. Yeah. And we sell luxury fish. So thank you for all the... No worries. Thank you for representing Thirst as well. You can get on the website, thirstfischl.com. Cheers. Thanks. And we're out here in Stellenbosch. Right. Stellenbosch at the Lanzarach... Vineyards. Vineyards. Which is also a hotel, I think. Yep. Established in 1692. Yep. By a South African... Yep. And, yeah, we're going to have some lovely food. And wine. Hi, Uncle. Nice and calm. Play some tunes. Yes. Because we've had such bad experiences with minibands and minibuses with blown out speakers. The DJ today. We'll just bring our round speaker now. And I believe Chris has a lady joining us today. Yes. A lady boy. What do we have here, boss? A little bit of the bubbly. We have the bubbly. 100% Chardonnay. Blanc de Blanc. The good thing about this is you get very drunk after one bath. Yeah. So this one is a Brut. It's going to be much more on the dry side. It normally contains 9-10 grams per litre in sugar. And this is likely the first grapes that we pick on the farm the second week, third week of January, roughly. It's fresh. Lovely high in acidity. Very fresh. Lovely Brioche apples flavors coming through there. Lovely for the morning or on a special day. Beautiful. And it's something that you can also enjoy with oysters. Oh. If you are a lover of oysters, it goes perfectly with it. Yeah. My lady is a lover of the oysters. We'll get her on the Champagne. Well, no. Champagne? We're not allowed to call it champagne. Champagne. Yeah, just say Cap Classic or Cap Saffonco. Cap Saffonco. Cap Saffonco. Saffonco. Saffonco. Saffonco. Oh. African Saffonco. A little bit of the Cap Saffonco. We'll get through about 10 bottles of this today. You can either serve it in a glass like this, which is a flute. Or you can serve it automatically in a glass like that over there just to bring out more aromas or flavor profile. I actually prefer it in a flute. Cheers everyone. A little bit of the bubbly. Give me a knife as I do that. Go. Go. Yay. So we've got a lamb kebab. We've got a strawberry built on avocado salad. Just waiting on the Mozambique. You're going to be very full. I'm not having it all for myself. Just had to sample a few things. That steak sandwich is crazy. What's that? Hot dog? Yeah. South African hot dog. Just cheese. That's a one big dog. Is that nourishable? Big old dog. That's a hot salad. Foo. Black and cheese down there. Don't need to get that umbrella back up. Nah. You're too hot. We should while we're eating. The UV is definitely not full right now. Mozambique, spicy chicken, avocado, some other goodness as well. Do you like it? How is it? How big you have to eat with a knife and fork. Solid 8 out of 10. Double portion. Is this butter? Yeah. Chen butter. Banana bread. Scone. Macro friendly. I haven't heard of scone for a while. I never know if there's an order where you have to put each ingredient on first. Or it doesn't matter. It's so warm the bread. Oh my, it's so good. Explain how cheap South Africa is. Extremely cheap. Like a big meal like that, particularly the bougie places, that'd be thousands of pounds. And it's probably, I would say a third of the price, like literally everywhere, which is extremely good. Same with the accommodation hotels, Airbnbs, alcohol. The most premium bottle of champagne was 16 pounds. I thought amazing. It was fantastic. Yeah. Your money goes a long way here. So don't come here because you'll put the prices up. Yeah. Stay out. Sounds good. Here, get the beers ready. Look at your hair light. I know. So guys, we are now right in the center of Stellenbosch, which, we're going to have a little bit of a drink. I'm very glad I came here because it's a completely different vibe to Cape Town. It's like its own little village. Lots of cafes, coffee shops. Apparently this is also like a university town as well. So there's a lot of students here. So the sun is soon to be setting. We're going to have a little walk around. The guys want to have another drink. So we'll just take it all in and enjoy the rest of the day. We'll get some hands on the concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert concert cable car up there or you can hardcore hike it. I think this is the introductory hike. Once you've done this one you can stick to the next level. How are you feeling? It's like non-stop. It's harder than the Hollywood one. That is Robins Island where Nelson Mandela was unreasonably held against his will over no wrongdoing. It's a little bit risky around here on a windy day. Nothing beats the IB for one. Oh my god that's still the schedule. Oh here it is. Here's the ladder. Rob is going to be first up. Rob you don't even need the ladder boss. What did you do before the ladder? Probably just scaled it. It's a pretty sturdy ladder. 51 minutes 400 meters elevation. Absolutely. I can't believe it's worth it on the top. It's harder than I thought it would be. More on the cardio than the actual sketchiness. I've definitely done sketchy height. I think I better than this though. Pretty much a 360 degree view. pretty much a 360 degree view. the full moon. What are the chances of that? What the f**k? Are they coming down the hard way? Bro. Oh my god. The full moon. What are the chances of that? Oh They come down a hard way, bro. Oh my god The full moon what are the chances of that? Oh Right then we have Moved on to the Clifton beaches which I think are kind of split up into four or five bays These are pretty cool quite different. You have to get down From a road higher quite a lot of steps It's a little bit of a walk, but once you're here, it's very pleasant. You got the views of all of the Sensational houses and apartments in fact I was actually thinking of renting one of the houses Just behind me Because of how close they were to the actual beach, but I have no idea where you would park the car if you had one of those houses And to be fair as beautiful as Clifton is There's not a huge amount to do around here. I don't know. Maybe if I came back again I would do like a private and peaceful week in Clifton and Really enjoy the beaches And then I'd have more of a social stay either on the sea front or camps bay to be honest, I think Camps Bay is very hard to beat I've been there for over a week and by far is still my favorite place Can he be a kelp around? There is kelp everywhere and it stinks. There's nothing quite as smelly as Heaps of decaying seaweed Boulder central around here Look at that You could just keep walking around find these little hidden spots if you want a bit of privacy Maybe a little bit of nude tanning Well, actually that's that's not gonna be a possibility because you've got a full-on audience behind you don't even know what the Actually, yeah, I saw a couple of breasts out on camps bay, so it's definitely allowed For anyone who's interested in some Naked tanning guys we have done a bit of research and realize these are granite rocks So these aren't going anywhere anytime soon 540 million years ago and then obviously the erosion the waves the weather the wind has eroded whatever was On top of this and now we're left with these extravagant boulders and for those who are wondering what the temperature of the sea is like How do I describe it? It's like going into an ice bath I've never experienced such a cold sea when the outside is so warm. I mean even today Temperatures like 29 30 degrees Clear sky you would have thought that you'd be walking into a warm sea, but no Absolutely freezing it kind of makes sense because if you were to go in a straight direction that way You would hit Antarctica so guys is chilling out in the pool Soaking it all in with the old lion's head in the background just there thought whilst I'm here I give you a bit of a roundup of my thoughts on Cape Town so far First of all probably one of the most spectacular places Visually that I've ever been to in terms of nature It's probably one of the best places if you are a lover of nature This is the place for you and you got the whole of South Africa to explore on these amazing road trips Which I clearly didn't do this time around, but I've heard they are absolutely amazing in terms of Things that I don't like that stand out to me things close pretty early like a lot of Cafes tend to close at like six o'clock restaurants There is a culture of eating quite early here and all shops also seem to close quite early So after nine o'clock there isn't much open which is a little bit annoying the gyms. I've mentioned this briefly There are gyms don't get me wrong, but I feel like For me who's really into like a bodybuilding gym or a gym that has it all I don't think Cape Town has one of them yet, but I wouldn't be surprised if one comes along at some point in the next few years I think at the moment. It's quite nice It doesn't feel like it's fully gone mainstream and it's just overcrowded with people I have heard December and January is the busiest time of the year So if you want to avoid the crowds don't come then I've been here February into March and I think it's been pretty sweet. It's not empty. It's not overcrowded It's like the perfect I would say amount of people here Safety I guess this is a big one. I was a little bit hesitant the first few days I was very on edge because I didn't know what to expect, but after two weeks. I haven't experienced anything of course you do have to be alert and You know wary of what is going on and where you're going to of course Around camps bay Clifton and the waterfront It's not too bad, but if you're going into the wrong areas, you're probably going to walk in some trouble So you have to be vigilant and you can't just you know aimlessly walk around and Think that nothing is going to happen to you because maybe it will But as I said, I've not experienced something Maybe if I'd been staying here for longer or I lived here maybe at some point I would come across a bit of a sticky situation with some questionable individuals This stretch of road is so dangerous. It's widely known as the hell run Now the city wants to build what it's calling a security wall along cape towns into highway It says it's to safeguard motrice And the community here the ladies of course I have to have a little say on what I have seen Here and I have actually been quite impressed by the fact that there is a lack of plastic. There's just a lot of natural looking women and And pretty down-to-earth good-hearted women, which is also Very refreshing right then guys Unfortunately, the trip has come to an end It has been an absolutely fantastic one up there with the best Cape Town lived up to the expectations in fact it surpassed it and as I mentioned before I'm actually disappointed. I did not come here sooner Isn't that right louie? That is right And this boy's got another Two weeks three Another three weeks in paradise Literally The best vibes ever here. Yeah, absolutely love it. We should have came earlier Yeah, but now we've discovered it. So we'll definitely be back That's for sure and now everyone will be leaving and louie can just lock in. Yes. Thank god. No more distractions So heading to the airport now We have another adventure ahead of us this time going to the states We've got a very very long day of travel ahead But the next video you're going to see for me is in miami, baby Let's go You