 liitziitititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititititit rest. From meticulously designed sleep systems and holistic health amenities to rooftop lounging and fitness immersion, this hotel redefines luxury by fusing hospitality with high performance living. So we're coming to the ground floor. You can go straight to the gym and the spa above that. Then it goes to drostanolone bar terrace and the check-in area and reception. Which is where we are right now. Nice little chill out area. Could do a bit of work there. Then we have the check-in desk itself. But I've already checked in. So the room wasn't actually ready until 3pm so I had a few hours to kill beforehand. And surprise surprise I went straight to the gym. I heard a lot of mixed things about this. Good and bad. So I was really curious to see what it was like for myself. The gym floor itself is kind of like an L shaped two big long corridors as it were. With the typical Equinox machinery. It's a mixture of hoist, life fitness, hammer strength and pre-core. Very similar to all Equinoxes I imagine. And I guess that's good and it's bad. At least you kind of know what you're getting yourself involved in. And you can stick to your training programs. Because you're using the same machines basically. But I feel as though from a bodybuilder's perspective there are definitely machines which are lacking and they could have invested a little bit more into the equipment side of things. But I guess at the end of the day it's not a bodybuilding gym. It's more of a wellness club. Great views of the Hudson River. Although the windows were dirty but I guess that's not up to the gym to clean. But if I was the owners of the gym and hotel I'd be cleaning those windows on a very regular basis. So far the best gym which I've been to in New York in terms of equipment was Gym U in Chelsea. But I didn't want to go all the way to Chelsea to train. It's much more convenient for me to just go down a couple of floors and get my workout in. And I feel as though I can get a pretty damn good workout in. Although two machines which I feel as though were missing was the lateral raise machine and a pendulum squat. There's also a 25 yard indoor salt water pool which I didn't actually see for myself because to be honest I didn't really care. There's a pretty cool co-working space in the lobby. They've got a shop next to the lobby itself. The bar where you can get your protein shakes and snacks is actually on the ground floor. And then they also have rooms for classes, Pilates and yoga. So now we go into another elevator to the rooms. So the rooms are from the 27th floor to the 38th as far as I am aware. Right. So let's have a little tour of the room. This one is the suite. One of the main reasons why I chose it is because I just wanted a big room. On the website I spent quite a bit of time looking, comparing and deciding and I thought for me on this trip since I'm traveling solo this would have been good. One of the perks of this room in particular is we have two windows. So you have two views. This is a corner room and then it's got a big sort of storage area which I like because I like to keep this kind of thing separate from the bedroom itself. Dressing gowns, slippers. We have two drawers here for clothes which I've obviously unpacked all my stuff already. Sliding doors here for more storage. which I have obviously put all my stuff here. Don't judge me from this mess. We've got a big mirror here. I don't think I've actually opened this yet. Oh. Well that's convenient. I didn't even know that existed. And then this. more goodies for the health enthusiast. I think these are... Oh they have clothes. Roan clothes for men and women. And then here. I mean, I could spend 30 minutes going through everything here but again for everybody who's into their fitness. We have a sleep concoction. NAD plus booster. Collagen boosters. Sleep mask. And they do like to let you know that if you do take anything or use anything they're going to charge you. So. I don't know if you got a little bit carried away here. You'd be spending hundreds of dollars no doubt. Here we have foam roller and some little bricks for stretching and yoga which I won't be doing. Again, complimentary for this day only but if you want to purchase you can. And then we have a safe. Unfortunately nobody has left thousands of dollars from their previous day. That's a shame. And then gym gear laundering which well like every hotel I guess. An obscene amount of money. But that's just the way the hotels are. This is very cool. I must admit. Let's turn the light on so we can have some option of bright dim. Or night light. So you have the mirrors here. Which move. So if you do fancy. I don't know. Giving yourself a haircut. You can do. We've got some towels. What is in here? Usual stuff. We've got the. Grown Alchemist seems to be the collaboration. That's going on. With Equinox. Lots of storage here. Which I've kind of put a lot of my stuff in. Hair dryer. Also got more storage here. Scales. Dressing gown. Toilet is in here. Nice private area to do your business. Wow. Toilet roll inside of a case. That looks very premium. I will show you. How good the shower is. Later on. When I actually take a shower. But this is huge. The bed is the bed. Shall we have a look. And have a little deep dive into. What it consists of. A mattress. A mattress topper. On top of that. We have all the alcoholic beverages. Which I will not be touching. On the second tier. We have all the coffee. Tea. Etc. Below that. We have the snacks. Now I do like this. Quite a lot. Because I am. A bit of a snackish individual. But. They don't offer garbage snacks. It's like. Healthy things. Like. Dates. Granola. Fruit. Dried nuts. Dark chocolate. These cool. Matcha bars. Then we have the second tier. Which. I mean. I'm not going to have time. To go through all of this. But it seems to be. A little bit on the kinky side. These things. We have a vibrator. Arousal serum. A lover's kit. Blue. Light blocking glasses. Longevity box. And so on. And so on. And so on. There's lots of goodies here. Put it that way. That would drive any. Health and wellness enthusiast. Quite giddy. So. That's interesting. And then we have. The drinks section. Which. Has. Again. Your standard stuff. But. This is quite cool. Matcha love. Nitro cold brew coffee. And we have some. Kombucha. Now when it came to choosing the hotel room. I was actually spending quite a bit of time trying to decide. Luckily the website does a very good job of showing. What all the different rooms look like. Along with all the additional features. And. Even more conveniently. The floor plan of each room. So that's pretty cool. So basic rooms start off. With the deluxe king. These are 400 square foot. They look okay. In my opinion. It was a little bit too small. For my liking. I wanted a bigger room. The room size up from that. Was the premier king. This one actually looked okay. More spacious. 468 square foot. So you're basically getting an extra 68 square foot. It was pretty much a tie. Between staying in this one. Or staying in a junior suite. 555 square foot. So almost 100 square foot bigger. The next ones up from that. Are the deluxe one bedroom suites. The premier one bedroom suite. So this is basically. Where you're getting two rooms. Like a lounge. And a bedroom. Kind of separated. But to be honest with you. Like I'm traveling by myself. So I don't feel as though. I need that much space. If I was traveling with a partner. I would probably go for that option. Because then you can kind of. Have a bit of alone time. From each other. And then up from that. You have the two bedroom suite. And the Equinox penthouse suite. For those who really feel like bawling out. Right then. We have relocated. Just around the corner. There is another little patio area. With lots of seating. For the cafe. And then a couple of sunbeds. And two ice baths. If I'm not mistaken. So. It's actually pretty good. How this building is positioned. Because it gets the sun. All morning. Although I think this side. Is going to catch. The shade. In like. 30 minutes or an hour. So I feel like. 2.30. Is probably going to be shaded. But the pool. Gets the sun. Pretty much. Right up until sunset. So that is. Very cool. A full day of sun. At the pool. Overall. Thoughts on this. Terrace menu. The food is quite good. Don't get me wrong. But the selection of juices. Is very limited. I would have thought. A cafe. You know. Associated with Equinox. Right next to the pool. And this terrace area. Would have more diversity. In terms of. Different options of foods. That you can choose from. Along with the juices. I just wanted a nice fresh. Juice. And there's literally. Only three options. And they're smoothies. And they're all for the sugar. So that's a little bit. Annoying. I would have expected. A little bit better. But. They serve alcohol. Which is. Good for those people. Who want to get. A little bit tipsy. Right then. It's 2.15pm. And we have officially. Reached. Full shade mode. On the balcony. Keep in mind. This is. Mid August time. So. The sun is relatively high. When it comes to. Spring. Autumn. Winter. Obviously the sun's going to be at a different angle. I would imagine. Just lower. Just lower. So the pool. Probably still going to get some decent sun. But my time. Bronzing myself. Has come to an end. Right guys. Now I'm going to check out the spa. It is. Quite the extensive list. In terms of the. Treatments and. Delightful. Procedures. That you can get on offer. I'm going for the IV3 dome. Whatever the hell that is. It did look quite enticing. And it stood out. So. I'm going to go. To do that. Right now. And. Hopefully I'm going to be fully rejuvenated. Afterwards. So. This is my little. Locker. Which I will get. Dressed into my. Stuff. Three. Two. One. With the MLX dome. This is like. An infrared sauna. You're going to sweat. At least. Two to three times more. In this machine. Just because your body. Is encosed in a capsule. With this. It helps to detoxify your body. Right guys. The session has just started. I feel like. I have just been placed. In an oven. From the neck downwards. My body is cooking. And then. From the neck upwards. I'm getting blasted. With green light. Which apparently. Is doing lots of goodness. For my face. I'm absolutely cooked. The last five minutes of that. I started to panic. A little bit. But. It's been quite claustrophobic. With that thing on your face. Oh. Oh. It's nice that they provided. Some electrolytes. And water. Which is definitely needed. Right now. Right then. It has been. A very successful day. So far. And. To be honest with you. I don't really want to go out. And eat anything. Could go to drostanolone. But. Currently. Solo. And I just feel like. Watching a bit of TV. And eating some food. In peace. So I'm going to check out the. In room dining. It seems like we have a pretty. Diverse selection. In fact. This all looks amazing. I don't know why this menu is not. At the pool. This should be the pool menu. To be honest. Well you know. That's what I want. But we're being disciplined. Vegan. All day. For the vegans. So. If you're vegan. You're going to be well looked after here. I've already eaten salmon today. So. I could have chicken bowl. But that's going to be pretty boring. So here we go. We've got the bone broth. I've got three sides. Sweet potatoes. Broccoli. Carrots. We've got the chicken. I've got two lots of water as well. Don't ask me why I've got water. Actually. You can ask me why. I'm just extremely thirsty. That is just $145. So. That's not too bad is it? The TV is. Pretty standard I think. They use Google. Google. Googlecast. Oh yes. We are officially casting. For those I haven't seen. I've got a new YouTube channel. Which is all about. Coaching. Anyone who's into the gym. Should probably check it out. Now. I did promise you. I would show you. An in-depth look at the shower. Because we do have. Three different options. And I know everybody likes a good shower. So. This is the control panel. Let's turn it on. Shall we? So obviously we've got this one. Which is quite cool. But powerful. Not powerful. Look at that. Look at that. This one is the powerful version. This is less powerful. So the shower is complete. Every single crevice of my body has been cleaned. Not a single bit of dirt remains. Cozy dressing gown has been applied. It's actually. It's quite warm. I'm really getting pretty. Is there anything else I can do true on here? No. That looks very good. Okay. What's the. That thing. Oh it's for the carrot. It's creme fraiche. Creme fraiche. Okay. Oh. Creme fraiche. Didn't ask for that. But I'll be dipping. Everything in it. No doubt. It's healthy. That's the most important thing. Healthy room service. High protein. Good source of vegetables and fiber. Chicken is good actually. Wow. Great voice. That was very good. The chicken was very good. The skin was delicious. And it was moist. Finished it off with. Bit of dark chocolate from the mini bar. I'm going through a lot of the mini bar snacks. So the bill is going to be interesting at the end of the trip. Right now I'm going to start getting ready for bed. One thing I'm going to change 100% is those pillows. Because look at this. These are the feathery. Flappy pillows. That just don't do anything. We've got three stacked on top of each other. You put your head down. And then you just like disintegrate into the pillow. I am not a fan of these pillows. But fortunately we do have an option to change them. Once again the iPad has come to the rescue. We can make a few contactless requests. So I need some specialty pillows. Let's ask for two times foam. Right the pillows have arrived. They have messed up the order. We have one maternity pillow. Which is exactly what I wanted. We have a foam pillow. And then he's giving me another standard pillow. I don't want another standard pillow. But at least I've got one foam. So that's where I'll be putting my head. The rest of them I'll just. I'm going to build a little fortress of pillows. Because now I have. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Seven pillows. I would feel a little bit bad if that was the last maternity pillow. And there's actually a pregnant woman here. That needs it. But I'm hoping they have a few more in storage. We have the vessel down there. And then we can see one World Trade Center there. So since it is officially time to wind down. I could potentially try some of this stuff. This one. It looks intriguing. 80 calories. It's a fair bit of sugar though. But why spend a load of money on this. When I have my Bionic supplements. And I have my Bionic sleep stack with me as well. In fact. Why is Bionic not in this cupboard. Bionic should be here. So if anyone high up in Equinox is watching this. Reach out to Bionic. Because they should be in there. This is quite interesting. They have a rituals. Booklet. By the side of the bed. Which goes through. The AM ritual. To obviously get yourself set up for the day. And then the PM. Nighttime. Ritual. But it tells you exactly what you should do. To prepare yourself. For having a good night's sleep. I'm debating if I should have that special tea. They have on offer. The problem is if I have too much liquid before bed. I end up needing a pee in the middle of the night. To be honest with you. I'm feeling pretty relaxed. So. I don't think I need any tea. Now one thing that did entice me. Was the sleep lab experience. That Equinox offers. So as far as I could tell. These mattresses come with the new 8 sleep mattress topper. Which is what I have in my bedroom at home. But I just assumed that every hotel room. Would have the 8 sleep mattress topper. So beforehand I rang up the hotel. To inquire. To see which rooms actually had. The sleep lab experience. How many rooms have the sleep lab mattress? 4 rooms. Oh only 4. Okay. I have 4 rooms. There's no way to. Get or arrange an 8 sleep for my mattress. No unfortunately not. We only have them in certain room types. Oh okay. Oh well. I just thought I would ask. So unfortunately only 4 rooms offer the sleep lab experience. And those rooms are in fact the premier king room layout size. So it would have been smaller than the room which I'm currently staying in now. So it was kind of a toss up between getting the sleep lab experience. Or having a room that was more spacious. And in the end I ended up going with the more spacious option. Let's get the master control up and go to bed. Dark, quiet, cool. Good night. Good night. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning New York. The coffee and tea station. So the sleep. So the sleep. It was a good sleep. 7 hours according to whoop. So I'll take that. The blinds. The blackout blinds are amazing. You have no idea if it's day or night when they're fully down. So that is very, very good. Don't need to wear an eye mask. even though they provide an eye mask. You definitely don't need an eye mask. The noise. Now, this was an issue. They do claim to have soundproof windows, but it is not soundproof. At least the positioning of this room. Okay, I can hear trains going into this little train yard. I can hear the traffic, sirens, revving, and some building work that's going on outside. So maybe the positioning of your room is going to have an effect on how loud it is. And also, I have two windows, so I'm getting noise coming from two different angles. But I think the biggest thing that really pisses me off is the trains coming in in the middle of the night, honking their horns. Why do they need to honk their horn at three in the morning? I don't know. But I had to put my earplugs in because it was actually irritating me that much. The bed. Bed was good. Not the comfiest mattress I've ever been on, but it's definitely a comfy mattress. The duvet was way too thick. I was overheating very, very quickly. So I had to strip off the duvet and just use the sheet. And then it was perfect. So it's nine o'clock in the morning and I've come downstairs to reserve a spot by the pool because I can imagine it's going to get absolutely rammed later on, especially today. It's Saturday and the weather's looking pretty fine. So quite clearly calm before the storm. You've got a few people who are chilling already. I mean, to be honest, I don't think the sun's going to come out for a few hours, but yeah, it's going to be a different scene soon. So this is drostanolone, which is pretty beautiful actually. Very high ceilings. Very bright. So the breakfast was good, although I was a little bit disappointed because when I stay at hotels, arguably, sometimes the best thing is the breakfast buffet. And I would have thought that Equinox would have had this big selection of healthy foods to choose from, but instead they just give you the menu. Now, the menu does cover pretty much everything you would need, I guess, but I just like to freely go to a buffet and see things and pick and choose and consume as much as I would like to consume. But instead, if you start ordering a couple of things on top of each other, it starts to add up and get a little bit expensive. Right then, we are back on the rooftop and it is an absolute vibe, I can't lie. The only issue is, which is a little bit annoying, I was told I could only have the sunbed for two hours. After two hours, I have to give it away to somebody else, which is, I guess, how they manage the excess demand and the lack of supply of sunbeds and they want to try and give everybody a little bit of sunbed time, I guess. Look at this man. Everybody is literally just lying next to the pool because of the lack of sunbeds. So, I want to make it clear to you guys that this is not a paid promotion. I'm not doing any collaboration with Equinox. Oh no, this is me coming undercover as a hotel critic to see whether or not this is all it's hyped up to be. I will share with you my rates, which I have actually paid for this room in particular. Now, I make a lot of my hotel bookings through Expedia, so I get a lot of discounts whenever I make bookings through their website. So, the rates which I have got with the discount, Thursday 7th of August, £800, Friday the 8th, £772, Saturday, £790, Sunday, £790, and then we've got taxes on top of that, which is £476, yay, and then I added another discount, which is the one key cash applied. So, the total for four nights with the discount is £3,549 for this room specifically. Now, what I've also done, because I am enjoying myself, I've decided to stay an extra night. So, I just said to the hotel desk, hey, can I stay for one more night? They said, yeah, sure, the room's available. And then they gave me a rate. Well, they didn't tell me at the time, but to be honest, I was like, whatever it is, I'll just pay it. So, that is quite a lot steeper than what I've paid via Expedia. So, I don't know how they're calculating this. Obviously, I think if you go through the website, the official Econarch website, you're probably going to pay more in comparison to going on these booking websites. I don't really know how it all works. So, was it good value for money? Yes and no. I guess it just depends on what it is that you want from the hotel and how much money you have to spend. For me, I found that everything was extremely convenient. So, I don't mind paying a little bit more for the convenience. You have the gym. You have the pool. You have the spa. You have the outdoor area. You have the workspaces. You have the accessibility to the healthy foods. And then in the room itself, you have the minibar and all the supplements. So, it's kind of saved you from having to carry it around with you. I would say it's quite a busy hotel overall. It's certainly not private. It's a social spot. So, if you are going there to get some peace and quiet, you're probably not going to get it. And of course, the rooms, they're not soundproof. It would have been better if it was a little bit quieter. But can you really achieve that in the center of New York City? I don't know. The rooms themselves were great. I would have liked it if they went a little bit colder. The air conditioning went to 19 degrees Celsius, which is 66 degrees Fahrenheit. If it went down to 16 degrees Celsius, that would have been amazing because I think that does enhance the quality of sleep which you're going to get. And I would have liked it if every single room in the hotel had an eight-sleep mattress because then they can really live up to the hype of it being a very sleep-oriented hotel. I would have liked it as well if they had a buffet for breakfast and a better pool menu. This collaboration they've done with the broken coconut is just a weird collaboration which, in my opinion, doesn't make any sense. The staff were friendly. If I ever needed anything, they helped me out. So, I appreciate that. Would I be a member of the gym and the spa if I lived in New York but I wasn't staying at the hotel? I don't know. I think probably just to show my face every so often. But for me and the style of training which I do, I would sign up to a different gym and I certainly would not be going there during the peak hours. Will I be staying at this hotel next time I come to New York? Yes, because it is extremely convenient and it has everything which I need. Because I'm very much into health, fitness, wellness, they've done a pretty good job and I feel as though in the future there's going to be more hotels like this that does cater for individuals like me who do take their health and fitness seriously. So, thank you very much for watching, guys. And I will see you in the next video.