! Feeling am I not comeback? Nazare, a quiet and peaceful fishing town located on Portugal's rugged west coast. During the winter months, when monster swells arrive from the Atlantic, this place transforms. Seven out of the ten biggest waves ever surfed have happened right here, and after watching countless videos of this place over the past decade online, I've been dying to see it in real life. This is a place where records are broken, fear is tested, and only the best big waves surfed in the world dare to step up to the challenge. You're not just riding a wave, you're surviving it. And the biggest swells of the season only happen a handful of times per year, and I've been keeping an eye on the forecast over the past few months, waiting for the right moment to pull the trigger and book a trip to see the giants of Nazare for myself. Good morning, folks! I have just woken up Thursday 11th of December, I'm currently in Dubai, and I've received some very promising news from Elio Antonio, a guy who I've been speaking to from Nazare. He's a legendary big wave photographer, I've been following him for a long time, I love his stuff, and he's just messaged me saying that if you're going to come, this weekend might be worth it because the WSL have just issued a yellow alert, which means that there's a probable start in the next 72 hours of the Tudor Nazare big wave challenge. So if this goes ahead, this is literally perfect timing. The flight is booked, I fly to Lisbon at 7am tomorrow, bright and early, so that means I hopefully will get there for all things go smoothly to Nazare by around 2pm in the afternoon, which is when the big swell starts to arrive. In fact, it may even peak tomorrow afternoon throughout the night and then the early hours of Saturday, so at least I'll get two days of action. What the hell is this place? Hey bro! Welcome to Nazare my friend! Hi dude! You good? Yeah, good man, good. Welcome to Nazare! I'm so excited. You good? Hello, Mike. Welcome, Dino. Oh shit, yeah. You see? No going in the bag, it's easier. It's crazy. Let's just walk a little bit more so we can see better. So guys, we're just having a little look at where I'm going to be going in literally 30 minutes time. I'm getting a little bit nervous and I'll go like... This is my makeshift camera. We've got the Osmo on the phone. Hopefully it's not going to fall. You're going to take it to the water? Hell yeah! But this is not my main phone, this is the phone I can afford to lose. This is my phone. It's taking the SIM card out. That's not waterproof, right? No. It's when you are out there and you are like excited, don't forget to press rec. Sometimes that happens. It's a cold ride this bit. I think it's very cold out here. I see it's cold. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think with adrenaline you're not going to feel too much. And it's not that of a long session. If you go for like 2 hours, 3 hours it gets cold. Like shooting, we get very cold. I think this is the way to do it. Pull the knees more. Yeah, yeah, maybe pull the knees. All the way up there. And then we're going to need more space. Oh, that's pretty good. Lovely. Thanks boss. What do you want? Oh, perfect. Right, no left. Yeah. My right. How's it going? You good? From the airport straight? Yeah, biggest waves in the world. Yeah. Not much about. Are you driving or you're driving? Yeah, yeah. He's good? Yeah. If it's not Moodle, talk with us. Credit needs to be given to the rescue team in Nazarene. Like they are on it. I don't know why I'm nervous. I'm not going to be surfing. I feel a little bit nervous. I want you to stay close though. Yeah, get me close. No, yeah, there will be no lack of adrenaline today for you. See you on the water. See you man. It's really a crazy experience. Even though I really use it to the ocean in general. The first time I saw giant waves here in Nazarene was really something else. It's no longer the human scale anymore. It's like... Giant. Giant. Today's giant. It's one of the biggest waves I've seen in Nazarene. And it's supposed to only pick up... Fuck, that's good. When I was there earlier, it was like the same size as the biggest I've seen. But it's only picking up so... Now it's supposed to be even bigger. Yeah, it is. Feeling I might not come back to this. Are you feeling like... I'm so excited. You chose a good day. Today's something special. I think you're going to feel all the feelings. All the feelings today. That's the thing I don't know what to expect. I've never done anything like this. You just sit here. And you will hold onto this. And also sometimes you can hold front end here and back end here as well to make it a little bit more stable. And relax and enjoy the ride. The rest of the time on the way. Let's go. Let's go. Wow. Wow, nice and quiet. I guess you have heard about how it works. Why the waves are giant here, right? With the cannula and so on. No, the waves are... The land is more vast. Some islands over there. And it finishes somewhere around here where we are. This area. Super, super deep still. And normally, most of the other places in the world, it gets shallower and shallower slowly. So the waves start to lose energy and size as they march towards the beach. Here it's super deep and then just suddenly, it becomes shallow. So because the waves are coming inside the canyon, and the canyon kind of funnels the energy of the waves. It's all concentrated in the area until we hit the shallow part over there. And this makes the giant waves rain. It looks so aggressive and powerful. Wow, wow. Yeah, exactly. Woohoo! I don't know how people surf this. Have you surfed this? Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what I've been here for. Actually, I don't really want to break it here because it's also cool to see the angles here. Let's go. Music They look so huge when they break from behind. Yeah. They're called the Spraycourt. Music These guys were in test and word record. You got the world record? Yeah. What's his name? Sebastian Spain. German. Music The video definitely doesn't do justice. In real life, it looks a lot bigger than it is in the video. This is like Christiano Ronaldo and Master of Big Wave Surfing. These two? Yeah, it's like... I think I have the yellow jet skid on the road with Sebastian Spain, who has the record. And he has the red bull skid with Christiano Ronaldo. Yeah. He's trying to go up high. He's the best figure in the world. He's working hard. And now he's still the record-goer, I think. These two are always like... Music I saw the Michael's wave. Music Ok. Music Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live I'm ready to go out tomorrow. I'm ready. I've decided. I'm going to enter the competition. It's wild out there. You know what's crazy as well? I have a whole other respect for you when you're trying to capture it. Because it's not easy to be in the action, up and down, on a jet ski, trying to get the shot. Because even I was like, I'm trying to take it in, but I'm trying to get the angles. But I was like speechless. It was really cool to see when the reactions of different people, you were just silent and looking at it. It was really cool. I could tell that you were appreciated. That's what I used to do. My parents told me when I was a kid, whenever there was a stormy sea or big waves, I would be there all day and they'd have to grab me and be like, you need to go now. No, that just reveals someone that drives overnight from Dubai to come watch the waves. There's got to be something inside of you, some kind of love for the ocean. Because that's not normal. It's not normal. It's not normal, baby. Well, but then you are in the right place. No one is normal around here. It's crazy, they've almost got to be sitting the right place at the right time for the perfect wave to come and then they get it. There's like no guarantee of where it's going to be, when it's going to be. You'll be very, very patient. But I was saying to him, I could literally do that all day. I could do it on a jet ski and just watch that play around. But I would probably be an absolute inconvenience getting in the way of everybody. Felt too scared somehow, any time? When we were going out and there was just walls of water coming, I've never been in water that's like moving about that much. But then you kind of get accustomed to it. You're like, okay, this is just how it is now. Felt safe all the time. Of course. Of course. You can see there's like an area where you definitely don't want to be. You stay away from that area. It's all good. But they still need to go home. Anybody out there has to have permission to be out there. So if it's a random person, they'll be like, get in. Wow. I want to do that again. It's funny that the first time you saw it live was already from the water. Nice. That's good. The waves are small. Big waves. Nice. Assistants, please. You're going to be out there tomorrow. Yeah. What do you guys do tonight? You'll just like have an early night, get prepared or you're going to wake up. Yeah. Tomorrow we need to wake up 6.30. Tomorrow is going to be full of people everywhere. Look at these, man. Yeah. Just be careful because from now on, a lot of mud. My favorite place to watch is from the water. Yeah. Gosh, someone's falling already. Do not let me be. What? How's the little place? And when you have a surfer as a reference, that's when you realize, oh, shit. Because right now without reference, it's hard to understand how big it is. It's so crazy how this beats. Yeah. Look at that. Like I was telling you before, there was a year that the forecast was showing great conditions, but then the fog appeared and they couldn't make it. They keep postponing next hour, next hour, until they realize, man, the fog is not going out today. And they postponed for the next day. So there's a lot of factors, you know, the wave direction, the swell size, the swell period, the swell energy, even the sandbanks, the tides, the wind, the fog, you know, there's a lot of factors. But still, you know, you can predict, like, okay, it's going to be that big, it's going to be from a good direction, you know. But still on the day, there are so many things that can surprise you for the good or for the bad, you know. Sometimes up and you expect 10 meter day and it's 15, you know, because the swell is just, everything is right. You know, it's not too big, but everything is right and the canyon just goes as magic and now it rises up. There's a lot of people here. Live streamed, let's do a self-website, I think. Music playing There's a very big contrast between how calm it is on that side and how not calm it is on that side. I'm trying to find a coffee, craving a coffee. Sorry mate, you have to go on the line. Yeah, go on the line. It's a fucking big ass line, of course it is. And there's a lot of people blocking the view now. It's only like 9.30 or something and already there's so many people here. And now it's actually getting to the point where it's quite difficult to find a spot that is like, unobstructed. So we're going to have to weasel our way in somewhere. So far, very cool vibe. Applause That was a good one. I feel like if you were a surfer and you knew there was all these people watching you, like, oh fuck it. Let's just go for the most dangerous way. Music playing Music playing So there was about a 45 minute period where like, nothing was happening. It was really misty. There was terrible visibility and nobody was riding anyway. But then the sun came out and then all of a sudden everybody started riding waves and the crowd was going crazy. But it's interesting, you have to always keep your eyes like, locked on the action. If you turn away for like 30 seconds you might miss out on something. There's been some big waves surfed already. A lot of waves gone unridden, but a lot of big ones are hidden. And some nasty wipeouts as well. Everybody's still safe, it's good. Right, we're on a mission to find some food now. It's been here since 7am. Now it's 1pm. It's mighty. Music playing It was basically pizza or hot dog. Super nutritious. Music playing Extremely average. Right, now we're going to go meet Elio. So he's here in the lighthouse, he's going to try and get in. Music playing Wow, from this angle the waves feel a lot more powerful. Music playing You feel like you're right on top of it. Music playing It's fucking epic. Music playing I don't know how this rock hasn't been completely eroded away by now. Getting absolutely hammered by the waves every day. Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing When did you notice you get really busy? I think there were two key moments. One was the first world record from Garrett. Then it kind of exploded. But then there was this picture of Garrett with the lighthouse in the front. Oh yeah, yeah. So that kind of blew everything because it was covered of New York Times or something like that. It was like a big newspaper and then it just... Everyone was new. Don't you think HBO used to be as well? Oh, the wonderful wave, yeah. The American public, definitely. Music playing Cool. Got a little museum in here. Music playing The legendary Nazaray Canyon. Music playing So despite the swell being near perfect, the competition didn't quite run as smoothly as planned. There was a lot of stops and starts in the morning due to thick fog. And this is arguably when the swell was at its best. And then later in the day, there was a power outage to the WSL camera team and safety crew. So it meant that they couldn't stream the event and the safety crew couldn't operate properly. And that's something which definitely needs to be done when there's huge wipeouts. Speaking of wipeouts, this was probably the best and nastiest wipeout of the day from Lucas Chumbo. Look at that. He got taken for a spin. Talk about places you don't want to be. This is a prime example of how the initial wipeout itself is not necessarily the biggest threat to the surfers. But it's the aftermath and the risk of drowning. Because after you've survived and taken a beating from the initial wave that you were surfing, you then have another three, four, five big waves after that that you also have to survive. So you have these big white walls of water charging towards you. And each time you have to survive it, it takes energy out. It reduces your ability to hold your breath. And if you continue to take these beatings, you're eventually going to lose power. Your ability to hold your breath and you'll just drown. So that is why the rescue team of Nazaré are one of the best and are absolutely essential on days like today when the waves are so big. But thankfully today there were no major injuries. I think only one person has lost their life here at Nazaré. And there's one particular wipeout which always stands out to me. And this was from Andrew Cotton in 2017. Andrew Cotton. In the womb. In the womb. I don't think I've ever seen a wipeout quite as bad as this where you literally have been completely ejected from the wave. A prime example of being in the absolute worst place at the worst time. And I think in this instance he actually broke his back. But thankfully he made a speedy recovery and that's not put him off. He is back to riding these giants on a regular basis. We're back. That was probably the most I've ever stood up in one go since 7am till 4.30pm. Didn't sit down once. By the way, check out the view of this apartment. Obviously I booked a place that wasn't the most convenient. But look at the friggin view. Look at that. Just the view of the biggest waves in the world on your balcony. Still looks pretty epic. Unfortunately I can't zoom in anymore. But you can see it's still popping off and the surface is still going at it even though the competition is finished. Very special place indeed. It's just a bit quiet that's the only issue. It is a small town, a fishing town. So I don't know how I would handle living here. But maybe when I'm older and I retire I wouldn't mind having a view like that. If I do come back again I will definitely bring more supplies and a chair. I think a chair is definitely needed. But I could quite happily sit and perch myself there all day. I mean obviously when the weather is good. Today the weather was very good. It was a little bit misty in the morning but the sun was out for most of the day. I don't think I'd enjoy it as much if it was just friggin rainy all day. Anyway, time to pack and leave because I'm heading to the airport yet again. What a very spontaneous yet successful and extremely satisfying two-day side quest. Thank you for watching.