

=== FILE: 6 Years Living In Dubai ｜ My Brutally Honest Review [Ddl9UUx54ZA].txt ===

 so guys can you believe it another three years has passed and I've officially been living in Dubai for six years I'm sure a lot of you guys who are watching this video watched the previous video I made three years ago why I reviewed my experience living in Dubai at least the first three years of me living in Dubai well another three years has passed and I did contemplate whether or not I should make another video and even if another video was needed because in the previous video I made I did cover a lot of the basics and I feel like a lot of what I spoke about still is relevant today although there has been some changes and my experience living here as it's also changed as well so first of all let's talk about the fact that more and more people are moving here I think that's fairly obvious for people who don't live here I'm sure they've probably seen news reports or videos pictures made on social media about how many people how many wealthy people are moving to the UAE and people like me who've been living here certainly noticed there's more people living in the city and this can bring about some benefits and some potential downsides and I think probably one of the biggest downsides is you're just trying to cram in more people into the city and of course it just feels a little bit busier than it used to the traffic yes I think I touched upon it in the previous video but it's definitely more of an issue now getting around the city is a pain in the ass to the point where I actually will time during the day when I'm on the roads and when I'm off the roads throughout the day I will drive around and do the things which I need to do but after a certain point usually after 4 p.m. I don't really like to go anywhere I just like to get back home and just chill and if I do need to be downtown or anywhere in the city I'll often just get a driver to drive me there because I have no patience driving on the road anymore it's just actually taking up quite a bit of my time now is it always going to be like this I don't think so Dubai seems to have this amazing capability of fixing problems anytime there is an issue or things which isn't working efficiently they do their best to try and solve it and there is talk about flying taxis being introduced this year 2026 so I'm intrigued as to how that is going to pan out and how many people can have access to it and will it get to the point where we look up and there's literally just flying taxis and drones all over the place or is it going to be different to that I don't know yet I guess we'll just have to see but what I would love I don't know why they haven't done this already there's probably a very good reason why they haven't but I feel like the best thing for Dubai and public transport would be some sort of underground system because it's outside out of mind and you're just moving huge amounts of people around the city out of view right for example Tokyo probably does the best job of any city moving its huge population around underground but I don't know how if the buy has capability to do that maybe the bedrock isn't suitable for that one thing which I've noticed which I guess is just inevitable whenever more people move to a city that is the cost of living in terms of buying and renting a property has definitely gone up quite a bit I'm actually kicking myself as to why I did not buy any property when I first moved here but of course I didn't really have any intention of being here long term so you know who would have known but if I'd done that bought some Bitcoin your boy you would have been laughing all the way to the bank and swimming in dirhams that's for sure but anyway it's not necessarily universal throughout the whole of Dubai right there are some spots which tend to be just premium real estate and then other spots which aren't really as premium so if you're talking about luxury property which are in very high demand so a lot of wealthy people moving here and of course beachfront waterfront property there's a limited amount of beachfront is a limited amount of waterfront so of course the demand for those types of properties and apartments are very very high so yeah that's one issue but one thing to keep in mind one thing I've noticed and if you are thinking of buying a property don't expect to have a guaranteed skyline and view because they are constantly building new towers all over the place and even what I moved into this spot where I am right now 2021 they've already built a tower right next to me which I'm looking at right now which wasn't there beforehand and then behind me would I'd have you with the Burj Al Arab that's gone because they built another tower in front of that so fortunately I have a view here of the water which I think it's literally impossible to build in front of that but I wouldn't put it past them to maybe reclaim a bit of the land then put something else up in front of it like the biases place where they will do something like that so be cautious about where you're buying and what your view is going to be of course I mentioned in the previous video about how extremely convenient things are just living here like you actually gets to the point and has done where each year I've progressively get more and more lazy where whenever I want things done there is always somebody here to just get get it done right I don't really have to be wasting my time doing things where I don't or should not really be doing them and this is always highlighted whenever I'm traveling around the world to different countries different cities I always notice that things don't seem to be done as efficiently and things tend to be more inconvenient to the point where I can sometimes get annoying and whenever I come back to the buy I'm like looking forward to getting back to a place which is extremely convenient here for example the things which I love everything tends to be open until very late okay so if it's late in the evening and I want to get something in the shops or want to get some food from a decent restaurant it's open which is great I can actually walk down the street at one or two in the morning in my area and everything is open and there's people everywhere so that's pretty cool it's not like in other places where at a certain time like nine o'clock or ten o'clock everything is shut there's literally nothing to do so you just have to go home it's very much the opposite here in fact you could argue that at night the city comes alive and it's very big part of the culture they have a big nighttime culture here so that's pretty cool and also for example when I go to places in Europe you know on a Sunday it's like oh that's the day when everything is closed like I get it the owners of the shops or whatever like to have their day off but for me whenever I go to those places and I just can't do the normal things which I like to do it's just annoying so they don't really tend to have that here where there's like oh the day in the week where everything is closed no there's every day is the same every day everything's open and things are open till late so that's something which I massively appreciate about this place the safety of course again is unmatched and I do wonder how are they able to do that how are they able to maintain such high levels of safety when particularly in Dubai there's definitely people that come here and maybe live here that are not the how do I say this not the best behaved in other countries yet when everybody comes here they are on their best behavior and it's amazing how they've been able to enforce that and other countries could definitely take note maybe it's because there is a fear of the police and of the actual punishment that comes from committing a crime because I feel particularly like when I was living in the UK there wasn't really any respect or fear of the police and if you ever got arrested or locked up it would always seem to be temporary and people weren't really effectively punished for the crimes that they committed whatever they're doing here it seems to be working extremely well and it does make me think a lot because I see a lot of stuff in the news about my home country United Kingdom how apparently immigration is a big part of all the problems that the UK is facing at the moment and I'm thinking hang on right now I'm living in a place which is rife with immigration in fact Dubai is literally built upon immigration and loads of people moving here so why does it work here why does it not work in other places and then I thought about the people the type of people that immigrating here people that come here are not coming here to be looked after and to be given things it doesn't work here in fact in Dubai it's illegal to beg and it's illegal to be homeless now as harsh as that sounds I actually like it because when I was living in London I was paying a lot of money to live in a nice area Kensington and yet even though I was living in a nice area of London whenever I was walking around there was homeless people everywhere and I didn't feel safe and it was annoying people constantly asking me for money so a lot of people who are coming here they're not expecting anything they're not expecting to be looked after I can't come here and be like hey I don't have any money ruler of Dubai but could you please put me up in a nice house and put me on benefits please because you know I'd be nice they're not gonna do that and they don't do that so if you come here and you can't make something of yourself and you can't pay for yourself then you are going to leave you know it's not even any choice to be homeless on the streets because it's it's illegal so you get deported so everybody coming here seems to be capable of earning money they seem to be very driven to make money make something of themselves or they have either made loads of money and have money and just want to come and live here and have a good life that seems to be how a lot of people who move here tend to just live harmoniously with one another and on top of that speaking of people living harmoniously lots of different religions are generally welcomed here which is maybe it's quite surprising for some people I mean this is very much a Muslim country but they're not shoving Islam down everyone's throats and trying to convert people they're very open to you know other cultures and religions also doing their thing here as long as they're not radical and trying to convert everyone you do your thing you worship who you want to worship but you know do do it in your own place so whatever they've done they've done it amazingly because I never see any arguments on the street any violence everybody's just living together and it's all good it's pretty amazing because there's not many places I've been to where I see that now moving on to residencies setting up a business I mean it's a great spot for sure to come and set up a business now although a lot of people tend to think oh well Dubai is tax-free so yeah let me go to Dubai Dubai is not tax-free right wake up call for everybody watching this it is not completely tax-free if you wanted to go somewhere to get the best tax benefits for yourself Dubai UAE is not at the top of the list there's a lot of other places that you could potentially go to which will maybe be more favorable in terms of you saving more of your money so you know if you've got a load of money and you want to keep as much as possible of it do a bit more research because Dubai might not be the best spot I'm pretty confident that they wouldn't introduce more taxes anytime soon or any kind of income tax I think it would be a big gamble for them to do so because they might have neighboring countries like Saudi Arabia they'll be like hey guys we're not gonna offer any taxes at all so if you're fed up of Dubai charging you for all these taxes then come live here Habibi and you know that is something that I could potentially do if that happened but only time will tell speaking of taxes make sure you're on top of them if you come here you set up a business make sure you got your accounts in order because they will come and find you and find you so my accountants capture accounting have been looking after me for the past couple years in fact they were looking after me when I was living in the UK but they've opened their new services here where they help to look after primarily expats for the UK to get on top of their accounts if you want to check them out link in description highly recommend in terms of opening a business and getting a residency that's fairly straightforward of course we need to clarify that there is a difference between becoming a resident and becoming a citizen unfortunately it's still extremely difficult to become a citizen of the UAE and get a passport that is only going to happen if you're a very special individual or you have contributed significantly to the UAE right the only people I know of that actually have been granted citizenship is the telegram founder Pavel Durov and I think Kevin O'Leary so yeah lucky you if you've been gifted one of them but you know I'm not complaining I understand why they're doing that I don't think it makes sense for them to start handing out citizenship to everyone it's better for them to keep it exclusive a couple of things which you need to know if you are going to set up a business here or open a bank account you need to become a resident first but that as I mentioned is very straightforward the company which I used for that and are still using today is the trade licences zone all you have to do is literally just get in touch with them and be like hey I want to become a resident or hey I want to set up a business really straightforward I think one of the most challenging things for an individual here is to try and keep up with all the rules and the regulations of businesses and visa allocations and the taxes right that is you spend your whole time trying to keep up with that so it's better that you get experienced professionals to take care of that for you as I mentioned my account is do a great job of that and the trade licences zone for me they've been amazing right for setting up the business and then for also getting more people on my business and making sure their visas are looked after and the team control and so on so everything is outside out of mind I've got peace known that it's all been handled so if you want to set up your residency or if you want to set up a business check out the trade licences zone now moving on to some negative aspects of Dubai again there's nothing really so bad about it that it makes me not enjoy being here right if I didn't like Dubai I would just leave okay I clearly like it a lot because I'm still here and I do plan to stay here for a lot longer I've noticed that a lot of the online criticism and negativity surrounding Dubai tends to come from usually two main categories of people the first category is the people who have never been to Dubai so these are people who are just observing Dubai through the lens of influences or content creators that have created content about Dubai and usually if you make negative content about Dubai it tends to perform quite well so that gives people an incentive to do it so there's that and then there tends to be people who those same people who they either just have decided I will never go to Dubai like I am against it I will never go there so I will continue to trash talk about it or there's those people who just can't afford to go there right so the people that can't afford to go to Dubai or they're just they're unable to for whatever reason they'll usually just trash talk it and then there are those people that have been here they've even lived here or they've been here on a vacation for a temporary period of time and they just had a bad experience and maybe their bad experience is justified all right and it is what it is you know I have gone to a lot of places and had a bad experience there are going to be people who just don't necessarily find this place to be good for their soul or just good for them and what they want out of life which is fine and to be honest you know when people are thinking about coming to Dubai I say yeah sure come check it out maybe live here for a bit but don't think it's going to be the perfect place for you in fact I'm 35 years old I've traveled to a lot of places and I don't think there is the perfect place I don't think it exists I think certain places around the world have a lot of really amazing beautiful things about them particularly you know places which are so beautiful in terms of the nature that's great but if I was to go live in a very quiet peaceful quaint yet beautiful little village I will be so bored like I would not want to live in a quiet peaceful place well not at this point in my life so you know there's pros and cons of different places that you choose to live I think here they're they're definitely trying to make it more nature encompassing they're trying to plant more trees they're trying to you know offer that of course it's going to be pretty difficult for them to do it because it's a friggin desert like how much nature can you offer to people when it is literally a desert air quality is also probably one of the biggest issues for me and maybe a lot of other residents that live here now this tends to be an issue in the summer months I think in the winter particularly today air quality is good the sky is very blue visibility is generally very good yet there may be random days in the winter and usually it's very consistent in the summer where the air quality is just not good like you can tell when the air quality is not good because the sky is like kind of just this gray hazy sky but no clouds it's a clear sky but it's hazy the visibility is very poor you know I would usually look out to the horizon I can see the royal Atlantis and the normal Atlantis on a day like today in very fine detail yet on certain days I won't even be able to see it and that's when I think to myself okay the air quality is not good today I will usually check IQ air to see what it's doing and on certain days when the air quality is bad I just I really question what it is that I am breathing into my lungs and how much of an effect is having on my health particularly if I'm consistently breathing in this air on a regular basis now I'm trying to figure out what it is I've been doing a bit of research because it's not as if they're ramping up industrial processes you know in the industrial areas well there's bigger more cars on the road it's it's due to something else I think particularly when it becomes more humid and it gets a lot hotter that seems to trap the pollution and then of course because it's so dry and there's just desert surrounding this place if there's wind coming from the desert it's just going to bring a load of the sand particles and dust from those areas and bring it into the city which is obviously not very good to breathe so I have an air purifier which I have working at absolute full capacity during the summer months and speaking of summer months what I used to do first three years of living here I would usually dip for the whole summer but now I don't know if it's because I just love living in Dubai so much I just generally don't like to leave Dubai for too long right whenever I'm away for more than a couple of weeks or a month I really do miss Dubai so during the summer months I've spent a lot more time here and I've noticed that a lot of other people tend to do that as well because in you know the first few years I was here I would notice that during the summer it would be a lot quieter like everything would be dead whereas now a lot more people tend to just stay and you know this is one of the places where it's very accustomed to making things as comfortable as possible for those people that are living here during the summer months in fact now I've noticed when I go to Europe like the summers in Europe are getting hotter and hotter to the point where I'm like it feels like I'm in Dubai right now but they are not able to make things comfortable for everybody right there's a lot of places in Europe that don't have air conditioning a lot of the restaurants or cafes don't have air conditioning like everything's outdoors so there's no escaping it July and August in Europe can feel brutal sometimes it's actually got to a point where there's some place in Europe I don't want to go to because the heat is that extreme now I'm actually looking for alternative places to go to speaking of whether cloud seeding is worth mentioning so I think after making the original video there was the notorious day of rainfall where there was like three backs back storms which completely brought the city to a halt there was flooding everywhere now I'm not really surprised it was flooding because of the amount of rain that fell in such a short period of time it was one of the worst storms that the area had received in over 75 years so it was definitely a one-off and it definitely wasn't man-made you know there's loads of talks and posts going around after that event they were claiming that that was a result of man-made tampering and cloud seeding which is just not the case like cloud seeding does not have the capability to create ginormous regional storms that are affecting huge areas of land so that was just a freak cause of nature definitely wasn't man-made but they certainly need to improve the drainage system so yeah that's for sure it does only rain once or twice a year at most so it's not like it's a regular thing that I have to deal with or residents have to deal with one thing that's also worth mentioning is that this place is designed to stimulate and entertain people probably one of the most stimulating places that I've ever been to now this can be great if you're the type of person that likes to just go out about do loads of things but it can be an issue first of all when it comes to just staying focused and concentrating on the thing which you need to do okay if you are a business owner you're a go-getter you're ambitious you want to get things done when you make more money you become more successful you get more status you often find there's a lot people who want you and your attention and they're like hey come to this business dinner or come to this networking event or come to this night out like whatever it might be I've noticed that it becomes increasingly more important to say no if you want to continue to get shit done now the first few years when I was living here I would say yes to a lot more and I've noticed now I'm saying no to a lot more mostly because a lot of things which I've already done you know I don't have this feeling of FOMO that I used to have maybe I'm getting older or maybe I'm just bored of doing the same things over again so there's that and then it is going to be testing for those people who don't have that discipline because it's very easy to come here and lose track of what it is that you're supposed to be doing and spend a lot of your hard-earned money a lot of people ask me about well is it more expensive living here in comparison to other places I would say being here it's definitely easier to spend your money okay you could go have a nice breakfast go to a beach club you know you're paying for a plus one usually so you're paying for the access to the beach club you're paying for food for the drinks you might go off and you do something else you know maybe you're getting oobies around everywhere then go into a fancy dinner like it's very easy to spend over a thousand pounds every day if you're kind of living that lifestyle and you're out and about and you're doing things I tend to not really do that as much anymore I like my nice routine I'm spending a lot of time at home I'm doing work I'm going to the gym I'm going on public beaches that makes me happy so I find that I'm not really spending as much as I used to and you know that's absolutely fine but of course just depends on the type of person you want how disciplined you are when it comes to your money I've also thought about this when people ask me about my experience living in Dubai I have obviously a very particular experience which it's not going to be shared by everybody so I came here I had money I've obviously made more money since I've been here I live in a great apartment on the beach and generally you know making friends and finding partners and whatever hasn't really been a problem because of social status social media and so on so of course I have a very good experience of Dubai would this experience of Dubai be different if I didn't know anybody and I didn't have any money of course I think probably the most difficult thing would be to live here on a budget it can be done but I think the problem would be the comparison you know the saying comparison is the thief of joy if you were to compare yourself to other people here you're probably going to feel the poorest person living in the city I mean even for me I'm doing okay but I feel pretty poor compared to a lot of the things I see and a lot of the other wealthy people who have decided to live here so you have to really not get too caught up in comparing yourself to other people and what other people have because regardless of how many things that you might be able to acquire there's going to be a lot of people that live here that have more than you you are not going to win friend so that's something you need to be aware of don't compare yourself to others particularly here because you're going to be miserable moving on to relationships and friendships this is again probably one of the most frequent things I get asked about dating in Dubai and friendships now let's start with friendships first of all there's definitely lots of potential friends that you can make here for a man for sure because usually you've come here to make something of yourself and there's loads of other guys who are also here to make something of themselves surrounding environment of ambitious young hard-working guys who have usually lived in a different place and moved here so everybody's in a kind of similar boat where they're looking to make friends and they're looking to succeed in life which is great and I usually find that everybody's here very open to helping each other out and there tends to be not really the same level of jealousy that you've experienced in your home country so that's fantastic the only downside of making friends is sometimes I feel it could potentially be quite transactional guys are maybe looking to make friends with the guys that have something they can benefit from or take from sometimes and it tends to be quite a temporary thing because a lot of people are coming in and out it's very seasonal usually people would be here just for the season or people are maybe here just for a couple of years and they're going to go relocate somewhere else so  to find friends that are here a lot of the time and are gonna be based here for a very long period of time, can sometimes be quite difficult. But generally speaking, I have not found it hard to make friends here, if anything, it's a case where I've just had to say no to lots of invitations and potential friendships that could be formed, because I just don't have time to make friends with everybody, unfortunately. So the dating scene, I think it's great. I think there is a huge selection of beautiful women here from different nationalities who are, they are looking for a relationship at the end of the day, looking to get married. I think the problem isn't necessarily Dubai, but just modern dating as a whole. And obviously the effect that social media has had on the dating scene. When I first moved here, I was very naive to everything, to be honest. Now I've experienced a lot, I've seen a lot. It's got to the point where I can see the difference between somebody who you would maybe just have a bit of fun with, don't get too involved with that person. And then somebody else where it's like, okay, this is literally wifey material, like this is something you should take seriously. But if there's a particular type of woman that you want, they may be here, but you just gotta do a little digging and do a little searching to meet them. One thing which is quite frustrating though, I have noticed that sometimes the longer that a woman has been here for, there tends to be this Dubai corruption that they experience whereby there is this higher and higher and higher and higher standard of what they're accustomed to as to what they should be gifted, what lifestyle they should have, what the man should tick off in terms of how much money they make and so on. They tend to lose their softness and good hearted nature, which I have experienced before actually. So yeah, a lot to say, another video which I can make, but as good as the dating scene can be, it's extremely competitive, I will tell you that. And you have to be on top of your game to improve your chances of basically having a better experience when it comes to dating. Moving swiftly on, we will talk a little bit about family and kids now. Unfortunately, I can't really say too much about that. I'm experiencing Dubai as a single man with no responsibilities. To be honest, the only responsibilities I have is just my staff and making sure they're paid and looked after. So will my experience of this place change when I have a family? Of course it will. Will I want to relocate if I have a family? Well, I think I would probably want to go somewhere a little bit quieter. I'd probably get a villa, I'd want more space, a little bit more peace. I don't think I would want to be living in an apartment anymore, but for now, it's great. So there's that to think about. And then of course, how, I gotta think about things like how are my kids going to be raised here? I think there's obviously the huge advantage of assistance. Again, nannies, maids, very cheap, very reliable, very safe, which is great. So I think raising kids and babies in particular is a lot easier in comparison to other places where the accessibility or affordability of having nannies is a little bit more difficult. And of course you need to think about things like education and paying for schooling, because schooling's not free here. You've got to pay, put your kids in school. And if you want them to go to the best school, it's going to cost you money. So to be honest, I'm at a point right now where I'm really just focusing on my business and my career to just make as much money as I can, not so I can spend it on stupid things, but just so I can ensure that my family get all the things that they deserve. And I can continue to live my lifestyle, whilst having another two, three, four people that I need to take care of. So I'll have to make another video on family stuff once I actually have a family. So you've got that to look forward to. Inshallah! So I think that's pretty much it in terms of all the updates I have for you after my six years of living here. The city is ever changing, ever growing. And I think particularly over the next 10 years, there will be some major changes. Of course, there's been the announcement of the new airport opening. So this is massively gonna shift where a lot of the traffic, and even maybe where the center of the city actually is. I think if you look at it on a map now, the city is gonna start moving downwards. They've obviously re-announced that the new Palm Jebel Alley is now officially open. In fact, they're now building on it. So this palm apparently is like twice the size of Palm Jamiah. So with that being fully operational, the new airport being fully operational, you're gonna see a lot of the city's activities move southwards. And to be honest, I think this is quite welcome because at the moment, around the downtown area and the airport, there's just too much going on and there's too many people trying to move around. The traffic is crazy. So hopefully with the city expanding and moving southwards, I think it should hopefully ease things up a little bit and just make things a little bit more decentralized. So that will be interesting. And speaking of new airport and airlines, Emirates, I've gotta give a shout out to Emirates. One of the benefits of living here is obviously having them as the main airline. The service is always top notch, very rarely delays. When you're in a position where you can pay for business class flights, you really feel like you have access to everywhere in the world and it's really not that inconvenient to get there. In the past, last year, I went to America three times, I could get a direct flight to New York, to Miami, to Houston, to LA, and flying with Emirates was absolutely fantastic. And then every day, every week, I feel like they're announcing new locations that will fly from Dubai with Emirates. So that's one of the best things about living here is you can literally get to any way you wanna get to. It's very accessible. And in terms of everything else they're trying to do with the future, it seems to be, if you just look at what they have planned, it's actually pretty wild, particularly if they stick to what they're planning to do. They're making this huge indoor loop around the city where it's air conditioned, so you can walk and you can cycle through this loop, which would be very cool. If I could have the opportunity to cycle to downtown on a bike indoors, air conditioned, that would be amazing. They're probably gonna try to do something with Elon Musk and the Hyperloop, so that will be interesting to see what happens there. They're trying to do this huge artificial reef off the coast. So it's definitely an exciting place to live and I'm very much looking forward to what the place has to offer because I feel like every year, they just keep making improvements and reinvesting into the city to make it a more enjoyable and livable place for its residents. So I'm actually just hoping too many people don't come too quickly because that's when there's gonna be a strain on the infrastructure and maybe some other things as well. So maybe guys don't come here or if you're gonna come here, maybe come in like 10 years or something, but I'm only kidding. Great place to live, certainly a great place to live even if it's just temporary. I have a whole lot to owe to the UAE and Dubai in particular for, I don't know, just welcoming me here and allowing me to operate my business and progress with my business and actually keep the money, which I've worked so hard to earn. I think that's been absolutely amazing. It's a very, very welcoming place, that's for sure. And I love the fact that I can just make the most of my life and have a very good quality of life, living in a place like this. So thank you for letting me live here. Appreciate it a lot. And hopefully for you guys, this has been a useful video. I know a lot of people who I've met in the streets have come up to me and they say, hey, I watched your video in Dubai and you're one of the reasons why I moved here. And I'm like, wow, okay, that's nice to know. So that's cool. Anybody, if you are thinking about relocating from wherever you live right now, Dubai could be a great option, but I definitely wouldn't just go to Dubai because everybody's going to Dubai. Don't be a sheep. Don't do what everybody else is doing. Try new places and get a feel for what they're like. Okay, because as I said, this place is not for everybody. So don't think just because everybody's going there, you're going to have the best time. It might not be for you. It might be worth you checking out other places. So do what's best for you, what you value in life and obviously what is going to be the most practical and efficient for your business and for saving as much as your money as you possibly can do. So thank you for watching. See you in the next video. Or maybe see you in three years time when I do my nine year review.

=== FILE: A Day In The Life In The Middle East [eNrg8rzM2JQ].txt ===

! This is a new little addition, which is pretty cool. Shout out to Adidas. We have a little rig, a little rig on the beach. I don't see one. If there's one place that needs more, I'll go to Jim's sister's to buy. I think I found your mantra. Oh my God, it's me. That should be my slogan for my friend. It's only easy if I put my feet like that. Hey, hey, hey, that's cheating. Cheating. Cheating. And then we stand on this bit. I don't think it's supposed to be like that. Completed. What do you think of importance of 10,000 steps a day? It's important. It doesn't have to be 10,000. 7,000 is alright. It has to be exactly 7,000. I think just getting out and about and walking is the key. One of my favourite things to do is just walk on the beach. You're on that. Are we on YouTube already? We're live. We're actually live right now. How are you, bro? This guy, one of the things in life that attracts people is your shape. You mind if I touch it? Your shape, your buddy. If you're shaped like this guy, you're going to attract people just like he attracted me towards him. But I'm not, yeah. No, no, no, no. I love men. I just get this from my wife. I just love him as a brother. Don't get me wrong, YouTube. Because I know you in the comments. So anyways, you know, work on yourself, you know, and appreciate life, you know. Dubai, Hamdoulah is good, you know. This is good. This is good. The weather is good. The weather is good. You're good. I'm good. He's good behind the camera. We're actually, we're great. We're great, yeah. We are. We're not good. We're great. You should have your own channel. Yeah, you're very good. I do have it, Hamdoulah, but not on YouTube yet. I need to do it, guys. You need to do it. So I have to go now, work on myself more to be on YouTube, you know. So we could be in a one video together one day. I know this is on his channel, but I need one on my channel too. Definitely do. Thank you so much. Norwich Mike. Mike, yeah. First. First. Got it. That's good. All right. Good to see you. This is the third time we shake hands, but we will make everything great again. Yes. Sweet. Yes. Thank you guys. Wherever we go, Mike attracts pussy. Yeah. So do you. There's a little bubble, snot bubble coming out of the nose. I am not going to touch you. Sorry, sorry. Stood on your shoes. Thank you so much. I love your videos. Thank you. Thank you. Guys, I was getting excited about mine and I saw Rob's. What the hell is that? God. I don't know. I think I made a mistake. Why? Not very healthy. Yeah. I mean, you're pretty good at putting big things in your mouth. What the fuck is wrong with you, man? Yeah, now you're a friend. Oh yeah, now you're interested. Right, let's eat this before the cats jump on the table. It's going through a rock phase at the moment. I have loads of different playlists and one of them is rock. Shout out to Rob for getting me back into it. We actually went to a Lincoln Park concert a couple days ago in Abu Dhabi. I liked it. Thanks for the invite. Thanks for bringing it up. Good squad of people there. Saw a little bit of moshing. Mostly done by Rob, but overall it was quite tame. Hours at the back with lots of space around me and they played some of the old school bangers, which was really nostalgic. I like it. RIP Cheston. Again, I think this is meant only for no music. Oh no, that's a lie. There's a woman over there. I don't know. Geez, look at the size of this. The mirrors give off the illusion it's even bigger. Oh yeah, it's not that big actually. First thoughts? It's just like a budget version of oxygen. But it's a little simpler. Just one big ass room, new equipment, and a little bit of space. It's a little simpler. Just one big ass room, new equipment. It's always weird vibes when they're not playing any music at all. Hiya. Hey man. How are you? Good. Hi man. How are you? Good, yeah. What did you get there Jossie? The red ones. The red ones. Brand spanking fresh. These the best of them? Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Remember to get them on Thirst Official. Okay, so the session is complete. That full workout will be on Jossie's channel. That was just a little snippet decent gym. I don't know if I'm going to want to travel there to train on a regular basis far away and it wasn't that mind blowing to be honest. Another news, we have a restock on the Thirst clothing. We have the black toweling top, the white toweling top, also the white and the black muscle tees, the plain tees which I wear all the time. A lot of black and white vibes going on and also, I'm actually kind of gutted I gave Joss that red pair of shorts because I wanted to wear it. But at least I've got a new pair of the white ones. Probably my second favorite pair of all time. Absolutely gutted. So check it out Thirst Official. You know the vibes, weather is looking good so I think it's time for beach walk. So guys January 2026, I imagine a lot of you are fully locked in right now. I know I am. I'm pretty sure that the beach has already been quite intense but wouldn't have it any other way. Like every year I do set myself some pretty ambitious goals and each year they seem to get even more ambitious and will often come at a cost in some way, shape or form. Usually on the old mental health but we persevere and push through it. I'm quite lucky that I have a good group of friends that I can speak to and unload onto and also with my podcast I'm pretty blessed to have the opportunity to speak to some very successful influential individuals who have achieved a lot but I don't always feel comfortable sharing everything with them. And of course the masses of people who will be watching those podcasts. So I do feel like from time to time it's very beneficial for me to speak to someone who has the qualifications to have a discussion like this in private. Somebody who can help to take the weight off my shoulders and to help me start the year feeling lighter, more positive with that feeling that I can take on whatever the world tries to throw at me. And that's why I want to give a shout out to my trusted sponsor, BetterHelp who are partnering with today's video and is actually a service which I've been using over the past couple of years to help me with any of the times where I've been feeling overwhelmed, down and just feeling the need to have a conversation with somebody who actually understands what it is that I am currently going through. For those that don't know, BetterHelp is an online therapy service where you can pick and choose up to 30,000 qualified therapists simply by filling in a very short online questionnaire. One of the best things about this is I don't have to go and fly across the country to speak to this person. I can do it all online, try and fit it into my schedule and it's just making things very convenient. And one of the biggest issues I have is obviously I have very high standards and I'm quite picky with the people that I choose to work with and choose to share a lot of my personal information with. So it's just good knowing that I can have this conversation, a fully discreet and private conversation with someone who actually knows what they're doing. If you want to give them a try, check the link in the description, betterhelp.com. To get 10% off your first month and allow BetterHelp to support you in feeling lighter in 2026. Right guys, we are out here, go climb Dubai. Trying to find things that I have not yet done here, this spot opened a couple of months ago. So the mission is to climb a wall and ideally do something semi-impressive. Look, usually first people that never climbed before, if you can do a 6 or a 7, that's really impressive. That's the goal for today. So that's the goal for you today, 6 or a 7. 7 is like, you're up there. Was there like a limit to how high you could go? The limit is the highest, if you will see like the highest grades, we have it right at the top of the wall. And this is 4.5 meters. You calculated that someone falls from that height, probably going to be okay. I mean, most likely you're going to be okay, but I did break my hand before. Here? No, no, not here. Of course not here. No injuries here ever. You don't get injured here. Adrenaline. No, I'm just curious to see what my body is actually capable of doing. Like if I can do this, or all of this is just an absolute inconvenience when it comes to climbing walls. Which, you know one day I might actually need to scale a mountain. Maybe. Maybe you're going to start doing the cave thing. Maybe I might get a mountain goat and it would run away and I need to chase it. It goes from mountain to mountain. It's climbing the mountain. Come back here, you silly mountain goat. Possibility. Oh, this feels way harder already. Come on. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're nice. How is this? Is this harder? No, it's too easy. Oh, no, it's not that easy. What? Well, this is none of you I wanted to see today. Oh my God, this is way harder. It is good. How did you do this? Oh, the big man went down. Death. That was so fucking hard. See how many mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain mountain You did a boo boo! Ambulance? Anyone have an ambulance? Does this happen all the time then? Yeah, usually until you're accustomed. The guys that work here, the staff, they really like the climbing itself. So they change the route often and everything. And overall there's like a good environment, good atmosphere. Little devils always changing it up and making it harder. It's way harder than it looks. I was like, it's not really tall. I think I did a five. I didn't know if I did a five. I got up to four. I can do four. For the first time it's okay. I guess so. I mean I just cannot. What did you do? You did a six? I did a six. So I'm not quite pushing yet. I'm like sucking but getting better. What is going on guys? We have rain in Dubai. It is January time and it is raining. It's actually quite nice from time to time to have a rainy cloudy day. As long as I don't have any plans that involve me being outdoors, which currently right now I don't, it's actually quite nice. It does make me think though, like all these plants and trees that aren't getting watered. They're just there like, just dying for some water. Imagine how happy they all are when it actually rains here. They'll all be like, oh! Chefs baby, chefs. The only bad thing about this place is your clothes stink afterwards. Oh yeah. I've eaten probably one meal today and I've saved myself for this whole week. It's been a good January. I'm leaner than usual, so I'm going to treat myself. As long as we stay away from the desert. The decisions, decisions, decisions. They do all this barbecue brisket stuff as well. Me. This is the Swiss burger. This is the W. Oh my God. Look at that. Oh boy. Oh. So good. This is a new one. This is a new one. That's probably a different one. Writzy. What do you think it is? It's summer's day when it's fresh. Let's go and have some here. Oh my God. What happened? I don't know. No video. It's a busy one. Can you give me a little bit less time? Happy birthday. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I need another thing. Can we get a shot? Mike, you look younger and younger every day. I don't know. You can give me the bionic guy. Romra, are you ready for you? Oh, why do you give me the bionic guy? That was a doubler for me. Six. The dog in the middle. Five, six, 41. I'm scared of you. You know what he said to me the first time? I'm scared of you. I've been scared of me. I've been scared of the nicest guy ever. You are the nicest guy ever? I feel like I'm finally about to talk to him. Stop, why did everyone in Dubai honk? What a stressful area the IFC is. Come live downtown, how about now? Everybody loves to honk a horn in Dubai. Not me, I'm the most chill person I've ever driven. You can confirm that. Yeah, that's true actually. How do you chill, driver? Everybody's very angry. Who's happy they didn't drive today? Me. I would have probably got a little bit angry if I was driving tonight. I only took an hour to come downtown today. Whoa, a red light. Ah, music to my ears. Oh, green. Where do we go? Going to a cigar lab. To meet some friends. Guys, I've had a cigar for over one month. I don't know if I give off the impression that I do it regularly, but I must. It's not that I miss the cigars, but I miss the gathering of like-minded, intelligent, ambitious men who share advice and support each other during difficult times. In the mirror on the right. Back. Not that back. Fuck, you hear, stop it. I don't think this is the place. Hello. Oh, what are you doing? Sorry. I'm just going to be in your restaurant. The left side. I told you. I don't remember seeing it. And this is all filmed. Perfect. I will come back here one day. Good job. I knew it. What a silly sausage. Your first closing. I think of myself as like, Holy fuck, I'm a love-witty. Filming. We're in the right location now. Real plans for spend-a-day. You know, your boy loves a real plan. So, gentlemen, I got something that's really big. I think we might just finish smoking this at 2am. He's a great, by the way, the mini-kahibas. Just a little quick, little quick one coming right out. This one will be interesting. I don't think I've smoked cigar this big. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Head for size. The size of my head. You jam this thing into... Nice. I'm not going to cut it. You jam this. Long? I have something that's very nice. This year from Latvia, I took the villager. This is cute. This is very cute. I was like a joint. You're going to like it doing it. Legal joint, by the way, legal. Only in U.A. Alright. There you go. Probably the most ridiculous smoking cigar I've ever smoked. But it feels good. The only person I've seen smoke this big was Michael Jor. And if it was good enough for him, it was good enough for me. I'm sorry.

=== FILE: A Realistic Day In The Life Here In Dubai [e4eHIq46VIg].txt ===

 ablumine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n So now we're going to go to Outdoor Gym, a nice little outdoor workout. Why not? Take advantage of the weather, get a bit of a tan at the same time. How's your Dubai trip being so far away? Probably one of the most productive and best trips I've had. Yeah. I've been looking for a new pay already. I'm coming in January to live here, relocating. Actually I'm not relocating, so I relocate every two or three months, but... You can't relocate if you don't have a car. Exactly. I'm going to make it my base though. West Beach is actually a really nice place. Would you live here? Could potentially. Nice, long strip, pretty much in the sun all day. Loads of beach clubs. Nice residences. Nice people. Any downsides? I don't know yet, but getting on and off the palm, I don't know how much I've been issued that week. You can lead the workout, boss. So I was thinking of doing squats with the barbell, just literally like 10 cents for 10. Okay. With 60 second rest in between. Nice, what weight? Body weight. Oh, body. We're doing that. We're doing a little all round of the body session, I think. All round? All round, why not? We've got the equipment to facilitate such a workout. It's still surprising we've got people that was literally nearly 10 cents. It is absolutely by. This equipment is interesting. I think it's the gym 80 equipment. Some of it is like alright, some of it is really not okay. So the session is complete. Just a quick one there because Louis had to go for a meeting. That was all done in 45 minutes. Complete upper body session in 45 minutes. It can be done. Just short on the rest periods, add a couple of soup sets in there. The thing is, that's one of the biggest excuses people give to me. They're like, oh, I don't have time. I don't have time to go to the gym. I don't have time to squeeze in a session. Well, you can actually get a good session done in 45 minutes. If you just do that three to four times a week, you'd be surprised how effective that can be. That is why I've added it to my app. There's four new splits. There's the soup set split. Full body, up or lower and push pull legs. Every single session is just 45 minutes to complete. So that is now available on my app. I recommend you check it out. Those who are subscribed, give it a try if you are short on time because it's surprisingly effective. Anyway, I am now going to enjoy this weather for another half an hour before I head over to a new spot, which I've always wanted to go to downtown. Rooftop, vibes, pool, skyline view and delicious food. Right guys, so we are at the Alana Rooftop Pool. This has been on my list for a very, very long time. A little bit difficult to access because it is only open to hotel guests or special people. Today I am a special person and I must say it is definitely one of the top spots. If you want to get a nice view of downtown and of course the hotel itself, not that I've seen the rooms but I've heard good things. As far as rooftop pool menus go, this one is a very good one. I was actually struggling to decide what it is that I should order. Oh my God, how much food did you order? Oh my goodness. Chimichurri? One chicken with pokeball. Oh my God. Nothing better than the boys just enjoying a feast. At the top of a rooftop. At the top of a rooftop. On the rooftop with an infinity pool. Looking over the birch. Doesn't really get much better. There is an absurd amount of building work going on at the moment. Two plots there. We've got a plot there. There is a building going up just there. There is another building going up down here. And then there is a few more popping up. The skyline is ever changing. And the noise is kicking off. Right guys, it is now time to do a podcast. Shock, going to be doing it with Louis. The last one we did, which I believe was last summer, holding quite a few views. So I think I might have to do an annual one with him. Because I do miss just having laid back conversations with a good friend. And maybe I think I'll get him to actually ask me some questions. Because a lot of the time when I'm doing the podcast, I'm the one that's doing a lot of the question asking. And sometimes I don't really do a whole lot of talking. So it should be good backwards and forwards with him today. We've got ice maricanos and newtonics and some bionic coats. Yeah, we're going to, every super newtonic that we do, we're going to have a scoop of these. Nice. Hopefully not a super serious one. Mike's got a load of Alex Famosin, Chris Williams and quotes that he wants to reference and discuss. And also, if you are watching this podcast, me and Mike have a very British sense of humour. And it's called sarcasm. Okay, so take it with a little pinch of salt. So the podcast is complete. There was a good one. It was a funny one. That's going to be out towards the end of the year. Don't know exactly when, but anyway, we're going to quickly head over to Bee Beach because it's one of our friends' 30th birthday. The spot. For whatever reason, I don't know why it just became an extremely rowdy place on a Sunday. So if you guys are in Dubai and you want a bit of a lively scene afternoon and evening, on a Sunday, Bee Beach is the place to go. So we're actually going to try and do this one sober. Louis on a sober streak. And I'm really not interested in drinking. So we're literally just going to dip in and out before it gets a little bit out of control. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. And then we'll go to the beach. The beach is lonely. We do'em' proud to carry okay. Any folk who's in your show man. Where's your conscious status? I know it in me. I know it in me girl. Like a kind of lock in my jade. I'll be the mining black. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. If you love me girl. Forest, nice. Hello. Hello. Very good, how are you? I'm good, very good. Yes. You showed me your picture. Oh. Do I need to do it too? I've been here before so I need to do it again. Yes sir, every visit. Every visit? Must be quite dangerous. Is this dangerous? I've been to Spain before, but before, how did you finish? Each. Can't believe it's 92 pound to use a sauna in Aspa. Oh my goodness, that's like the price of like a luxury gym membership in the UK. So it better be fun. What's that? What have you got there? I got my swim shorts at this event today, which I needed because I was doing some aquatic activities. The only shorts they had available were Pasaplica, which were also very cheap. 320 pound. Nice. That's a good thing about a priest. Any of you guys complaining about my first shorts being too expensive? At least I don't have 320 quid. 36, that would mean it to you. Oh, look at that. Custom sliders. For 100 quid, we'll definitely be taking all of this home with us. Oh my God, he also caught the sun. Quite aggressively. Quite aggressively. Right, let's go and get banyaned. They do pants here, don't they? Yeah. If it's free, I'll have it. Thank you so much. You're more than welcome. Hello. Yeah, thank you. Nice to see you again. A bit more, right? Yes, very long time since I was here. Really? Nice to see you. Where is Josie? How times have changed? We're sat drinking cups of tea with our raw honey. Raw? It's the honey. It looks extremely suspicious, that. Yeah. This has been washed and managed back slow. Oh my God. That's how mine will look after one month with that staining. Louise, on no fax. No nuts. What? No fax. No fax, no nicotine, no alcohol. Just need to have some discipline. You might send it in right last week. Yes, I will. Louise, more water. A little bit too hot. Do you need a little bit too hot? Do you need a bit of discipline or do you need kale? Well, so long as you're not here. It's seven months. You're amazing. How long have you been sober for now? I did like three months and then I went to a wedding in Cologne. To a rugby lads. You can't not drink at a wedding. No, no. It was awful. Brother, would you mind explaining what's in this drink? Me? Yeah. Fermented bread. Yeah, yeah. Fermented two days. We add a little bit of... Your little bit. ...tripes inside for sweets. Nice. It's non-alcoholic. Non-alcoholic, but it tastes like non-alcoholic beer. Oh, nice. Cheers, boys. It's warm. Is it warm? No. Fuck, it stinks like shit. It's fermented. It's whatever. It's not taste like it's real. It's good. It does taste a bit like non-alcoholic. It's really good. Really good. What have you got there, Massimo? Borscht and Pillimani. What's borscht? This is like a beetroot soup with meat in it. And then this is meat dumplings. Wow, very nice. Delightfully. What have you got, boss? Steak. Steak. Steak. Steak. Alright, Louie, you want to try this. It's sourdough bread that's been kind of cooked. It's real. Why not? Do you get light leaning to the left? The last round got me. Wow. I'm going to give this experience a 10 out of 10. Yeah. Which I had done it way before, because then Woda came here all the time. Even though it's 100 quid. It's so worth it. Chill, Louie. And actually, first time ever, seeing Russian people happy. The Russian people are actually talking to us. Like smiling. They're just in their helmet. They're so happy that we're just experiencing that, like culture, I think. Like he was like, telling me to get in the ice bath. And then I was like, ah, so good. And he was like, yeah. The only thing that I think would make it better is if I could just have a pint. And I mean, I could just have a pint. Oh, rest of you. I need to just not have one. Just have some discipline and drink this fucking brown shit. Good bread. My recovery should be very good tonight. Home sweet home. The boys are chasing nothing but peak recoveries tonight. So after successfully being banyed in, it is probably time to go to bed, because I don't really have much energy to do anything else. I've got a full, satisfied belly, very relaxed, and just happy to be surrounded by good quality people. It's always good to have a catch up with the boys, and obviously to have my friends stay with me for a couple of days. So thank you very much for watching. I'll see you guys in the next blog.

=== FILE: Busy Day Of Work & Life in Dubai [jlVONZ7c18A].txt ===

! Guys, we're out here, Kite Beach, the season is upon us, we're no longer sweating and dying, it is now absolutely fantastic weather. Oh yeah, steady breakfast. Steady breakfast upon the Kite Beach. I'm actually not eating because I'm doing a 72-hour water fast, I just wanted to see how much muscle I could lose in three days. I'm only kidding, I'm waiting for my breakfast. It's on the way, big fat fish fillet, and then I also wanted some vegetables, because it's starting to be bigger than I thought it would be, so I probably won't eat all of it, it's not going to feel sleepy. Damn right, worn by the best. I am the best. Although that's questionable, I don't know by playing golf, you can get your heart rate up to 198 beats per minute. Don't even get that doing squat. Only if you run to the next... If you absolutely sprint to the green as fast as possible. The most manliest activity. What? This? Honestly, you just can't beat renting a scooter and vibing along Kite Beach. Reminds me of Venice Beach, but a lot more civilised. A lot of flag. International flag day. What does it mean? It's actually in the shape of two of the rulers. I saw a drone shot, it looks sick. It is time to train. We are actually, believe it or not, on the fifth week of my split. The time has flown by, so I'll probably do one more in-depth training video of maybe the push day. I'm going to do the push day now, so you guys can see what I'm up to. Usually after being in the sun for a little bit, that's not good for the performance of my training session, but I don't think it'll be too bad today because it wasn't too hot. So let's fucking go. We have definitely reached the point where I've plateaued a little bit. I can't get past this weight, from the 30 kilos for seven reps. That was basically like seven and a half reps. I guess it's time to get on the roids, eh? The only thing I could really do is just increase the weight, but do like five or six reps. Let's do more weight. I'm going to do more weight. Progress, progress. 135, first six, repetition. Nice. The shoes. 100 kilos last time. See, my app is so good because I have my entire lift history here. So last time was 100 kilograms for six reps, so I don't think we need to increase the weight today. My goal would be to do seven reps of this weight. Good. Yes. Feeling good. Probably one of the best lateral raise machines of all time. It's my favorite. Shout out to Atlantis. 75 kilograms last time. Hold on. We'll be back soon. Should we stack today? Go on, let's stack today. The only problem when it's this heavy, I was watching my form last week and I was ending up like this. I was moving a lot of the tension onto the front delt. The front delt was doing a bit more work. Never done that before. Push in the limits there. Thinking about bones snapping with the lift in that way. 180 first. 5. Struggled. That's a hard one. Have you ever stayed in the gym for a bit longer when there's a load of hot eats around? Yep. Might do another couple sets today. Biceps. I don't know. The longest I've been in the gym for nearly two hours because there's so many hot meals. I don't need a new car but I want to get a new car. It's time to get a new car. Actually, the specific car I want right now I don't think is available yet. I might have to wait a little bit but I know which one I want. Anyway, great session, feeling strong, looking good and everything's going well. To treat you guys, I'm going to be doing a live webinar which is basically a seminar but online all about fitness. I'm going to be telling you every single thing I've learned over the past 18 years of training. Both myself and my clients. To try and dismiss all the nonsense and garbage circulating around social media regarding fitness at the moment. Because it's probably, you could argue, is more confusing than ever as to what you should actually do to get results. I'd recommend registering right now to make sure you don't miss out and you stay notified because you do not want to miss out on this one. And it's completely free, okay? So if you go into the description, click the link to sign up. I'll also put it on the screen right now so you can get yourself involved. It'll be my little gift to you guys. Oh my God! The dust. Right, not sure if you're aware guys but I have quite a lot of cans with eyeballs on them. For those who don't know, you probably must know by now, Newtonic, fuel your focus, drink. It's not really an energy drink, it's more of a productivity drink founded by three of my good friends, Chris Williamson, James Smith, Shan Hanif, Van Rajenplo. Anyway, the reason why I'm talking about it is because I am officially now part of the business. I have invested into Newtonic so my kitty has a small slice of pie. Reasons why I invest in this company, first of all, I actually do like the drink itself. Tastes very good, decent ingredients. And more importantly, I've seen the founders themselves. I rate their hustle, their grind, the path that they're on. I believe whatever they put their minds to, they're going to make work. So, yeah, anyway, James Smith is in town and Newtonic have a massive stand at the Dubai Muscle Show. So we're going to go over there now, have a little walk around, show some support and see what's going down. The Middle East biggest fitness expo. It's a good leg. It's actually my brother, Lord North, one of them. Let's get it together. Oh, I'm getting my top off. I could have worn an extra medium t-shirt myself, but I don't know what. I don't intimidate people with being too muscular. The reason I wear more loose-skinned garments is my credit to Mike. I hate to say this to him. I'll train with him once. He actually knows his stuff. A lot of people could look at him and think he's just some lifestyle guy. He's actually a nice guy, very smart with training and annoyingly good-looking. We just thank Jesus they didn't make him taller. I'm always the rest of us to be absolutely screwed. I'm going to go with the guy. I've seen him in Spain before. Madfazic. Goddamn it. These are two people I want to train with. I need to train with Phil. Phil actually looks like he's a decent shape-ster. He's going to coach me through a session because he coaches all the top dogs. Right then we have wrapped up the little mini tour of the Dubai Expo just an hour and a half. That is more than enough for me. What an extremely stimulating environment that is. Good to see the Newtonic boys, see a lot of familiar faces who I've not met before and who I have actually met before and trained with before. I'm so high on freaking Newtonic. We've had just now Leana Deeb. This is a big one, one of her first ones. There's so many backwards and forwards that I was trying to get this done over the past year. But it finally happened and it went very good. So happy about that. And then now we have the big man Kevin Vroni coming down. I'm sure a lot of you probably saw the video of him literally annihilating me training legs. I wasn't even lifting anyway, it was just body weight. So yeah, two in a day and we've got two tomorrow as well. So this is definitely the season to be getting shit done. But I'm enjoying it, I'm in the zone. And we're one step closer to hitting that 300K on Thursdays first. Guys, if you haven't subscribed, please subscribe. Thank you. Right then, we are at the new gym opening. This place is called The Great. It's owned by the same people that have the Seven Wellness Club. One in Dubai, one in Ibiza. So this is a variation of it. It's been open I think for like a week or so, but today's the official opening party. Let's go and maybe we'll see what it's all about. The food here is the same cafe as the one at Seven, which is the Dole, by Sylvain. Very good. The menu's a little bit different, but it's still coffee. That's one of the prettiest iced coffees I've ever seen, I think. Coffee at 4pm, living dangerously. It's good. It's not too intense. It's like a cocktail, like with coffee. She's the master chef, the one that has the dose at Seven in Dubai, Ibiza, now here. Yes, yes, yes. And the only world's authority on longevity nutrition. And this boy here is beautiful as he is. He needs to fill that body with nutrition that is all about longevity. So stay tuned because something amazing is coming from Chef Sylvain Arro, Professor of Honorary History in the biggest university of the Balkans. It's under the crowd. Sorry, my brother's a little bit special. Let me go. But... Super hard. No, control your... That's the master class. Wait, I want to... I think that was the previous one. Which beat would heal my brother's soul? He's possessed. No, he possessed people. I'm not gonna use the song. You see, you're a shit out of luck. So you know that they do it as well with the balls. Nice, all the cure now. Thank you. Finally. You can't smash it. Okay, okay, okay. Just smash that. That's good. Happy to be cured. But look, they made Himalayan soda now. Really nice. Charlotte Gournard. Yeah, I'll go for 20 minutes. Hey. Everybody is really, really nice and cozy. And it's, you know, spacious for everybody. The whole family. It's a bit cozy in there. It's a light goodbye first class. Ignore me. It's just sick car review, you know. He's gonna be tight. That's what she said. She's not just a good on the front, Rob. No, Robert, you... Why did you not get a friend? I was a nice friend. That's mad. Latvia won. Who's saying, man, that you're all right for space though, Mikey? Yeah, I'm good. Just there. Don't worry about me, Rob. I'm actually pretty spacious. I'm fine. Is it really? It's, uh... Well, comfortable. Justin, I've been... Justin! I'm fine, Robert. Justin, my knee. Robert, I'm fine. We out here at Casa de Habana, the local spot. That's the hour local. It is the local spot, but you won't catch me here every day. Special occasions only. This is a great one. This is an amazing one. Very, very good. And do you know why it's really good? Age. What do you mean by that? Oh! Something light. And how long? Maduro. At least five years. Honestly, it smells a bit like chocolate. It's nice. That's what it's supposed to be. That's, like, ideal. Not cheap, though. So just a warning, Mike always likes the darkest to us. Yeah, guys. If you want to get proper wired, followed by a bit of throwing up in the toilet. I'll see you there. I'll see you there. Look at that. Look at that. I've got, like, a massive cupboard full of gifts. To go out of gifts. They're all dead. Yeah. Oh, that's nice. Nice. A little some precision. Mighty pistol, one. Oh, I've done this before, haven't I? You know what? Straight into the light. Give me my hand. I'll be down. Real gold. Zero percent, guys. Don't worry. Not on a mad one tonight. You

=== FILE: I'm 35. If You're In Your 20s, Watch This... [kKZSYXfsKG0].txt ===

 What's up, guys? Welcome to another video. We have a late-night discussion with Uncle Mike, where today's topic is gonna be about how to get ahead in your 20s. Coming from an individual who is 35 years old, who's been there, done that, seen a lot, tried a lot, and is arguably in a position where I'm quite content and has done all right for himself. So, allow me to help you guys out. So, first of all, I meet a lot of kids, people in their 20s who are a little bit lost, they don't know what it is they wanna do with their life. My advice to you guys is just try different things. Just get up off your ass and do something. Because by doing something, you're gonna figure out what it is that you like to do and what it is you don't like to do. I've done all sorts of things in the past where I've been a gardener, I've been a club promoter, I've been a manager of a retail store, a personal trainer, online coach, the list goes on. But I tried those different jobs and I learned from them and figured out what it is that I don't wanna do with my life and what kind of a life I wanna live for myself. So, go out there and do something. For somebody in their 20s, particularly if they're in their early 20s, you probably don't really have much skills or anything of value to offer the world. So, you have to spend quite a lot of this chapter learning. Now, you could no doubt go and try and learn something that you're really interested in, which would make sense. Or you could learn some skills which are likely to get you far in life. Skills such as sales, negotiation, AI, tech, those types of things, okay? Especially with AI, I mean, I lived in a very different world when I was in my 20s, it didn't even exist. Now it exists, now it's probably gonna take over, it's already taken over. So, get to grips with how that works and become almost at one with it. Because no doubt, the better you are at integrating your life with AI and understanding it, the further ahead you're going to get. I would also advise getting really good at one thing. Once you've figured out what things you like to do, what you don't like to do, once you've accumulated those basic skills that are no doubt going to get you far, if you find one thing which you can become really good at, then that is the thing which is gonna separate you from the rest of the world. Most of the people who I've met, who are killing it, people I've had on my podcast, people who've made a lot of money, sold businesses, whatever it might be, they usually tend to be particularly good at one thing. And they go all in on that one thing and make sure that they are one of the best in the world at that thing. Communication. Now this could come under the previous skillset which I was talking about, but I feel like this deserves an entire point to itself because the art of communicating will get you so far and is probably one of the things that held me back for so long because I wasn't very good at communicating. I was not good at speaking in front of people. I was not good at articulating my thoughts. I was not good at speaking on camera. I was just this nervous, awkward, if you look back at some of my older videos, it was just a bit of a mess and pretty embarrassing, to be honest. The better you are at communicating, the further ahead you will get in life and the better the relationships that you will be able to establish from very early on. When it comes to investments, there's some people who say, oh, you know, it's good to invest early on in stocks, shares, things like that. I'm not gonna say that's wrong, but I would prioritize the investment into yourself first. I did not invest into stocks and shares when I was in my 20s. A lot of any spare cash which I had, I invested right back into myself, into travel, content creation, acquiring new skills, basically something that was going to elevate myself, my skill set and be of some use. It wasn't money that was going to waste, it was money that was going to benefit me in some way, shape or form. Even if it means buying a membership at a gym that is quite expensive. If you go to expensive gyms, you will be training with other people that have money and this can open a lot of doors for you, potentially compared to if you go to your budget gym where you're just gonna be training with the average Joe. Next, I would advise you to move to where the action is. This is so important. If you want to get ahead and you wanna improve your chances of networking and being inspired and placing yourself where all the opportunities are gonna be, you're going to have to be there for the majority of the time. If you isolate yourself, live in a little village, where there's not much going on, the chances for you to network and get out and about getting inspired and meet people is gonna be much more difficult. Sure, you can have your Zoom calls and online sessions, but there is no substitute from getting a feel for what it's like to be in the place where the action is. So I would relocate to where the big cities are, where the wealth is, where the entrepreneurs and go getters are and get yourself fully stuck in. Be careful who you trust. Unfortunately, in my 20s, I made a couple of decisions and trusted some individuals who did not have good intentions and were not necessarily very honest and it didn't really end that well. I'm kinda glad I made those mistakes because it saved me from making those mistakes at a later age when it could have been a lot more costly and stressful, no doubt, but you have to understand that there are a lot of shady motherfuckers out there who will do anything just to make money and not all of them are as good as you are or have those strong morals and ethics when it comes to business and making money. So if you are gonna go into business with anyone or make deals, have partnerships, get solid contracts in place, get good lawyers, and just do a bit of research into who the person is that you're dealing with. What's their track record like? Have they got a good reputation in their industry? If not, and you don't know who they really are, but everything kind of sounds really good, almost too good to be true, walk away. Build your physique. Now this one, I mean, it's pretty freaking obvious that I'm gonna say this one, but I think a lot of people underestimate how far a good physique will get you. Now I'm not saying you have to be completely jacked beyond belief, but you have to look as though you do take care of yourself, right? You don't wanna be fat, you don't wanna look timid and weak. You wanna look like you can handle yourself, you're a good posture when you walk in the room, you know, there's a presence about you, and when people look at you and you have a good physique, it shows, okay, this guy is disciplined, right? He has the ability to be consistent at something, to resist temptation. He looks like somebody who, I don't know, maybe I wanna do business with him, maybe I wanna get to know him. You can't even believe how far I have got in life just by having a good physique. And I'm not just talking about social media or YouTube, but when it comes to relationships, when it comes to starting conversations, literally everything is so much better when you're in shape. And on top of that, mental clarity, fitness, health, everything's just better. So just start working on that as soon as possible. You don't spend all day every day in the gym, but at least be consistent with going a couple of times a week because the small efforts every week will compound and you will have a pretty solid physique after a couple of years of doing that. Quick pause, guys, I need to tell you something. It's that time of the year where everyone's on the winter arc hype where they're building their physique, which they plan to reveal at some point in the summer of 2026, but I hate to be the guy that says it. Most of you are gonna end up getting fat. You'll be overeating, you'll be following some sort of a program which isn't actually gonna be getting your results. You're gonna be improvising on the spot, no doubt. You won't be tracking the window structure, just random exercises with minimal progress seen on a week to week basis. Pretty frustrating, right? Well, that's the whole reason why I built the first app. To help busy people like yourself find a system they can actually stick to over a long period of time. We have thousands of transformations from men and women who just plug into the app and get the exact plan they need for their goals, show up to the gym, and just put in the work. All for less than an hour of their time. I've got a special offer running for you guys right now. For less than the price of a one-to-one PT session, you get access to over hundreds of programs and hundreds of different meal plans, everything which you could possibly need to get yourself in shape. So if you actually wanna stick to something and see results without taking things to the absolute extremities, click the link in the bio. Let's get on with the video. Take risks and do so as often as you can. You see, when you're in your 20s, you don't really have a whole lot to lose. You don't have a family. You maybe don't have a partner. You don't have kids. You don't have a whole lot of responsibility. So taking the risk is not gonna be that bad if it doesn't work out. As you get older and you're 30s and 40s, you're more likely going to be risk averse. I still like to take a risk from time to time, but am I willing to take as big of a risk as I did when I was in my 20s? Probably not. So go for it. Take the risk. What's the worst that could happen? Taking advice is very important, but it's more important to take advice from the people who are living a life that you want to live. When you're in your 20s and you're younger, there's obviously a lot of people who are older than you that have become successful. Maybe they've made a load of money. They've sold businesses. They have a large social media following. There's a lot of people doing podcasts. There's a lot of information going around. Now you can't absorb all of it and you shouldn't necessarily absorb all of it. And something which I realized when I was growing up, there was certain people who, they had done very well for themselves, but they certainly weren't living a life that I wanted to live. So everything they said, I took with a pinch of salt because I knew that the life they were living was coming at a cost, costs which I was not prepared to make. So I actively sought out and tried to find these individuals who had become very successful and they were living a life that I wanted to live. And everything that they had done, I studied it or I tried to reach out to them and ask them questions, how they did it. I basically just wanted to figure out what was the blueprint from then being a normal person to getting to the place where they are now and how I could also do the same because their life is a life that I would like to live for myself. Don't chase the women, let the women chase you. This is very important. I've seen so many guys waste precious time, energy and resources trying to chase a woman who doesn't even care about them. I managed to get on dates, but a lot of the time, a lot of the women who I really wanted to be with, they just weren't interested in me. And that was largely because first of all, I just didn't have my shit together. I didn't have my finances together. I was not as good as a communicator. My emotions were kind of a bit all over the place. I didn't really understand them. And women in their 20s, that's when they're in their prime, they're gonna get scooped up by the older guys who have money, maturity and the lifestyle which they probably want. So understand that your time will come. 30s are wild when it comes to dating. It will get to the point where they'll be queuing up to date you, assuming that you've done everything right in your 20s that you should have done. Prioritize your career, you've got your finances in order, you've learned your skills, you become a better communicator and so on. Get rid of your shitty relationships and friendships. Okay, so just have a little think and look around your current circle, maybe the relationship that you're in right now. If those people are not supporting you, in fact, they're just holding you back from unlocking like your true potential or they're just joking at the things that you want to do for yourself or the direction you want to go, you have two options. You either get rid completely or you spend less time with them. So there will be little lonely chapters. But if there is friends which are holding you back, you just have to see them less often. And if you're in relationships where your partner is just not supportive, they don't understand the mission that you're on and all they do is cause you drama and stress. Just walk away and call it a day because trust me, there's gonna be better options on the horizon. Travel as much as you possibly can. There's one thing which I've noticed, being in my 30s now, I just don't have as much energy and willingness to travel the world like I used to in my 20s. I think that's because I'm just a lot more settled now with this comfortable environment and usually traveling can be quite stressful. And if I'm gonna travel now, there's a standard at which needs to be met when I'm flying or when I'm staying in a particular hotel or accommodation. It comes at a cost. So it does get pretty expensive. Whereas before when I was in my 20s, I literally did not have any problem flying economy because I didn't know any better. And on top of that, I was just pretty cool sleeping on an uncomfortable bed in a very basic apartment or hotel. Like I just didn't mind because I had not necessarily experienced the luxuries in life at this stage. So travel as much as you can. And if anything, if you're still living in your home country, spend some time abroad. If there's one thing which I regret, it's not spending more time in different countries in my 20s. I did go on a little vacations, but I didn't really get the experience of living in different places. And by living in different places, I'm talking about doing a couple months there or even six months or maybe even a year. I waited until the age of 29 to finally get out of the UK. I recommend anybody who is young, even if you're in your late teens, early 20s, don't be afraid to go and relocate and give somewhere else a try. You don't have to live there forever. Just get a little taster of it and then you can always go back home or you can move on to the next spot. But believe me, travel is one of the best things that you could possibly do. Document as much as possible. Again, this is something which I regret. I did not do sooner. Fortunately, I did start when I was 26 and I hopped on YouTube, but I'm not saying that everybody has to be a YouTuber, but documenting your journey is something amazing that you can look back upon, especially if you do have a great deal of success. You don't necessarily have to publish it, but at least you've got it there for you to look back upon. Witness and observe the journey that you've had. No doubt, you probably will get to the point where you will want to share it and show the journey of how you've gone from rock bottom to being this huge successful person that you are. One of the best skills which I have acquired from documenting my journey is just my ability to speak on camera. It's such a great skill to acquire and it comes very easily just from sheer practice of talking to the camera and documenting things as often as you can do. Today you go, that's a list of my top things that I would advise you to do so that you can get ahead in your 20s and absolutely kill it when it comes to you being in your 30s. Thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: In Search Of The Deadliest Waves In The World [j6VkmRb1cZY].txt ===

! Feeling am I not comeback? Nazare, a quiet and peaceful fishing town located on Portugal's rugged west coast. During the winter months, when monster swells arrive from the Atlantic, this place transforms. Seven out of the ten biggest waves ever surfed have happened right here, and after watching countless videos of this place over the past decade online, I've been dying to see it in real life. This is a place where records are broken, fear is tested, and only the best big waves surfed in the world dare to step up to the challenge. You're not just riding a wave, you're surviving it. And the biggest swells of the season only happen a handful of times per year, and I've been keeping an eye on the forecast over the past few months, waiting for the right moment to pull the trigger and book a trip to see the giants of Nazare for myself. Good morning, folks! I have just woken up Thursday 11th of December, I'm currently in Dubai, and I've received some very promising news from Elio Antonio, a guy who I've been speaking to from Nazare. He's a legendary big wave photographer, I've been following him for a long time, I love his stuff, and he's just messaged me saying that if you're going to come, this weekend might be worth it because the WSL have just issued a yellow alert, which means that there's a probable start in the next 72 hours of the Tudor Nazare big wave challenge. So if this goes ahead, this is literally perfect timing. The flight is booked, I fly to Lisbon at 7am tomorrow, bright and early, so that means I hopefully will get there for all things go smoothly to Nazare by around 2pm in the afternoon, which is when the big swell starts to arrive. In fact, it may even peak tomorrow afternoon throughout the night and then the early hours of Saturday, so at least I'll get two days of action. What the hell is this place? Hey bro! Welcome to Nazare my friend! Hi dude! You good? Yeah, good man, good. Welcome to Nazare! I'm so excited. You good? Hello, Mike. Welcome, Dino. Oh shit, yeah. You see? No going in the bag, it's easier. It's crazy. Let's just walk a little bit more so we can see better. So guys, we're just having a little look at where I'm going to be going in literally 30 minutes time. I'm getting a little bit nervous and I'll go like... This is my makeshift camera. We've got the Osmo on the phone. Hopefully it's not going to fall. You're going to take it to the water? Hell yeah! But this is not my main phone, this is the phone I can afford to lose. This is my phone. It's taking the SIM card out. That's not waterproof, right? No. It's when you are out there and you are like excited, don't forget to press rec. Sometimes that happens. It's a cold ride this bit. I think it's very cold out here. I see it's cold. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think with adrenaline you're not going to feel too much. And it's not that of a long session. If you go for like 2 hours, 3 hours it gets cold. Like shooting, we get very cold. I think this is the way to do it. Pull the knees more. Yeah, yeah, maybe pull the knees. All the way up there. And then we're going to need more space. Oh, that's pretty good. Lovely. Thanks boss. What do you want? Oh, perfect. Right, no left. Yeah. My right. How's it going? You good? From the airport straight? Yeah, biggest waves in the world. Yeah. Not much about. Are you driving or you're driving? Yeah, yeah. He's good? Yeah. If it's not Moodle, talk with us. Credit needs to be given to the rescue team in Nazarene. Like they are on it. I don't know why I'm nervous. I'm not going to be surfing. I feel a little bit nervous. I want you to stay close though. Yeah, get me close. No, yeah, there will be no lack of adrenaline today for you. See you on the water. See you man. It's really a crazy experience. Even though I really use it to the ocean in general. The first time I saw giant waves here in Nazarene was really something else. It's no longer the human scale anymore. It's like... Giant. Giant. Today's giant. It's one of the biggest waves I've seen in Nazarene. And it's supposed to only pick up... Fuck, that's good. When I was there earlier, it was like the same size as the biggest I've seen. But it's only picking up so... Now it's supposed to be even bigger. Yeah, it is. Feeling I might not come back to this. Are you feeling like... I'm so excited. You chose a good day. Today's something special. I think you're going to feel all the feelings. All the feelings today. That's the thing I don't know what to expect. I've never done anything like this. You just sit here. And you will hold onto this. And also sometimes you can hold front end here and back end here as well to make it a little bit more stable. And relax and enjoy the ride. The rest of the time on the way. Let's go. Let's go. Wow. Wow, nice and quiet. I guess you have heard about how it works. Why the waves are giant here, right? With the cannula and so on. No, the waves are... The land is more vast. Some islands over there. And it finishes somewhere around here where we are. This area. Super, super deep still. And normally, most of the other places in the world, it gets shallower and shallower slowly. So the waves start to lose energy and size as they march towards the beach. Here it's super deep and then just suddenly, it becomes shallow. So because the waves are coming inside the canyon, and the canyon kind of funnels the energy of the waves. It's all concentrated in the area until we hit the shallow part over there. And this makes the giant waves rain. It looks so aggressive and powerful. Wow, wow. Yeah, exactly. Woohoo! I don't know how people surf this. Have you surfed this? Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what I've been here for. Actually, I don't really want to break it here because it's also cool to see the angles here. Let's go. Music They look so huge when they break from behind. Yeah. They're called the Spraycourt. Music These guys were in test and word record. You got the world record? Yeah. What's his name? Sebastian Spain. German. Music The video definitely doesn't do justice. In real life, it looks a lot bigger than it is in the video. This is like Christiano Ronaldo and Master of Big Wave Surfing. These two? Yeah, it's like... I think I have the yellow jet skid on the road with Sebastian Spain, who has the record. And he has the red bull skid with Christiano Ronaldo. Yeah. He's trying to go up high. He's the best figure in the world. He's working hard. And now he's still the record-goer, I think. These two are always like... Music I saw the Michael's wave. Music Ok. Music Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live Live I'm ready to go out tomorrow. I'm ready. I've decided. I'm going to enter the competition. It's wild out there. You know what's crazy as well? I have a whole other respect for you when you're trying to capture it. Because it's not easy to be in the action, up and down, on a jet ski, trying to get the shot. Because even I was like, I'm trying to take it in, but I'm trying to get the angles. But I was like speechless. It was really cool to see when the reactions of different people, you were just silent and looking at it. It was really cool. I could tell that you were appreciated. That's what I used to do. My parents told me when I was a kid, whenever there was a stormy sea or big waves, I would be there all day and they'd have to grab me and be like, you need to go now. No, that just reveals someone that drives overnight from Dubai to come watch the waves. There's got to be something inside of you, some kind of love for the ocean. Because that's not normal. It's not normal. It's not normal, baby. Well, but then you are in the right place. No one is normal around here. It's crazy, they've almost got to be sitting the right place at the right time for the perfect wave to come and then they get it. There's like no guarantee of where it's going to be, when it's going to be. You'll be very, very patient. But I was saying to him, I could literally do that all day. I could do it on a jet ski and just watch that play around. But I would probably be an absolute inconvenience getting in the way of everybody. Felt too scared somehow, any time? When we were going out and there was just walls of water coming, I've never been in water that's like moving about that much. But then you kind of get accustomed to it. You're like, okay, this is just how it is now. Felt safe all the time. Of course. Of course. You can see there's like an area where you definitely don't want to be. You stay away from that area. It's all good. But they still need to go home. Anybody out there has to have permission to be out there. So if it's a random person, they'll be like, get in. Wow. I want to do that again. It's funny that the first time you saw it live was already from the water. Nice. That's good. The waves are small. Big waves. Nice. Assistants, please. You're going to be out there tomorrow. Yeah. What do you guys do tonight? You'll just like have an early night, get prepared or you're going to wake up. Yeah. Tomorrow we need to wake up 6.30. Tomorrow is going to be full of people everywhere. Look at these, man. Yeah. Just be careful because from now on, a lot of mud. My favorite place to watch is from the water. Yeah. Gosh, someone's falling already. Do not let me be. What? How's the little place? And when you have a surfer as a reference, that's when you realize, oh, shit. Because right now without reference, it's hard to understand how big it is. It's so crazy how this beats. Yeah. Look at that. Like I was telling you before, there was a year that the forecast was showing great conditions, but then the fog appeared and they couldn't make it. They keep postponing next hour, next hour, until they realize, man, the fog is not going out today. And they postponed for the next day. So there's a lot of factors, you know, the wave direction, the swell size, the swell period, the swell energy, even the sandbanks, the tides, the wind, the fog, you know, there's a lot of factors. But still, you know, you can predict, like, okay, it's going to be that big, it's going to be from a good direction, you know. But still on the day, there are so many things that can surprise you for the good or for the bad, you know. Sometimes up and you expect 10 meter day and it's 15, you know, because the swell is just, everything is right. You know, it's not too big, but everything is right and the canyon just goes as magic and now it rises up. There's a lot of people here. Live streamed, let's do a self-website, I think. Music playing There's a very big contrast between how calm it is on that side and how not calm it is on that side. I'm trying to find a coffee, craving a coffee. Sorry mate, you have to go on the line. Yeah, go on the line. It's a fucking big ass line, of course it is. And there's a lot of people blocking the view now. It's only like 9.30 or something and already there's so many people here. And now it's actually getting to the point where it's quite difficult to find a spot that is like, unobstructed. So we're going to have to weasel our way in somewhere. So far, very cool vibe. Applause That was a good one. I feel like if you were a surfer and you knew there was all these people watching you, like, oh fuck it. Let's just go for the most dangerous way. Music playing Music playing So there was about a 45 minute period where like, nothing was happening. It was really misty. There was terrible visibility and nobody was riding anyway. But then the sun came out and then all of a sudden everybody started riding waves and the crowd was going crazy. But it's interesting, you have to always keep your eyes like, locked on the action. If you turn away for like 30 seconds you might miss out on something. There's been some big waves surfed already. A lot of waves gone unridden, but a lot of big ones are hidden. And some nasty wipeouts as well. Everybody's still safe, it's good. Right, we're on a mission to find some food now. It's been here since 7am. Now it's 1pm. It's mighty. Music playing It was basically pizza or hot dog. Super nutritious. Music playing Extremely average. Right, now we're going to go meet Elio. So he's here in the lighthouse, he's going to try and get in. Music playing Wow, from this angle the waves feel a lot more powerful. Music playing You feel like you're right on top of it. Music playing It's fucking epic. Music playing I don't know how this rock hasn't been completely eroded away by now. Getting absolutely hammered by the waves every day. Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing Music playing When did you notice you get really busy? I think there were two key moments. One was the first world record from Garrett. Then it kind of exploded. But then there was this picture of Garrett with the lighthouse in the front. Oh yeah, yeah. So that kind of blew everything because it was covered of New York Times or something like that. It was like a big newspaper and then it just... Everyone was new. Don't you think HBO used to be as well? Oh, the wonderful wave, yeah. The American public, definitely. Music playing Cool. Got a little museum in here. Music playing The legendary Nazaray Canyon. Music playing So despite the swell being near perfect, the competition didn't quite run as smoothly as planned. There was a lot of stops and starts in the morning due to thick fog. And this is arguably when the swell was at its best. And then later in the day, there was a power outage to the WSL camera team and safety crew. So it meant that they couldn't stream the event and the safety crew couldn't operate properly. And that's something which definitely needs to be done when there's huge wipeouts. Speaking of wipeouts, this was probably the best and nastiest wipeout of the day from Lucas Chumbo. Look at that. He got taken for a spin. Talk about places you don't want to be. This is a prime example of how the initial wipeout itself is not necessarily the biggest threat to the surfers. But it's the aftermath and the risk of drowning. Because after you've survived and taken a beating from the initial wave that you were surfing, you then have another three, four, five big waves after that that you also have to survive. So you have these big white walls of water charging towards you. And each time you have to survive it, it takes energy out. It reduces your ability to hold your breath. And if you continue to take these beatings, you're eventually going to lose power. Your ability to hold your breath and you'll just drown. So that is why the rescue team of Nazaré are one of the best and are absolutely essential on days like today when the waves are so big. But thankfully today there were no major injuries. I think only one person has lost their life here at Nazaré. And there's one particular wipeout which always stands out to me. And this was from Andrew Cotton in 2017. Andrew Cotton. In the womb. In the womb. I don't think I've ever seen a wipeout quite as bad as this where you literally have been completely ejected from the wave. A prime example of being in the absolute worst place at the worst time. And I think in this instance he actually broke his back. But thankfully he made a speedy recovery and that's not put him off. He is back to riding these giants on a regular basis. We're back. That was probably the most I've ever stood up in one go since 7am till 4.30pm. Didn't sit down once. By the way, check out the view of this apartment. Obviously I booked a place that wasn't the most convenient. But look at the friggin view. Look at that. Just the view of the biggest waves in the world on your balcony. Still looks pretty epic. Unfortunately I can't zoom in anymore. But you can see it's still popping off and the surface is still going at it even though the competition is finished. Very special place indeed. It's just a bit quiet that's the only issue. It is a small town, a fishing town. So I don't know how I would handle living here. But maybe when I'm older and I retire I wouldn't mind having a view like that. If I do come back again I will definitely bring more supplies and a chair. I think a chair is definitely needed. But I could quite happily sit and perch myself there all day. I mean obviously when the weather is good. Today the weather was very good. It was a little bit misty in the morning but the sun was out for most of the day. I don't think I'd enjoy it as much if it was just friggin rainy all day. Anyway, time to pack and leave because I'm heading to the airport yet again. What a very spontaneous yet successful and extremely satisfying two-day side quest. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: My Luxury Holiday to The Maldives [rXEBIHNPIJ0].txt ===

 What is up guys and welcome to another video. We are out here in the Maldives and this is the fifth time that I've been blessed to visit such a magical place. Now instead of me swanning around and me filming myself and enjoying what this beautiful destination has to offer, I thought I'd put together a little guide for you guys who have maybe never been here before or have been, but want to make the most of your next potential trip coming here. For those that don't know, the Maldives is a tropical island nation in the Indian Ocean, known for its white sand beaches, clear turquoise water and luxury overwater villas. Truly, it is a place which I recommend visiting at least once in your life. Now, to get there, you want to fly to the capital called Mali, and then from landing on that island, you would then either take a boat transfer to your resort, or you would take a seaplane to your resort. Now, there's pros and cons of both. When you take a boat transfer, usually it means it's going to be more convenient. You just walk out of the airport and you pretty much hop onto the boat, and then within 15 to 45 minutes, you can get straight to your island. They tend to be a little bit more frequent and more flexible. With the seaplane, I would say it is a little bit more inconvenient and generally does tend to add a couple more hours to your overall travel time. When you land in the main airport, Mali, you then have to go to another airport around the corner. You usually have to wait a little bit in a lounge or waiting room, and then you board a seaplane to fly to your resort. The seaplanes tend to be not that luxurious. They're quite loud, they're quite hot, and they're quite cramped. One of the advantages of the seaplane, because it travels further away from a lot of the activity, it can take you to more isolated islands, so keep that in mind. So guys, one of the reasons why I picked this resort was because it had very good reviews for its house reef. Now, from my experience when I've been to some previous resorts, there has been no house reef. There have been some pretty amazing lagoons, which is just like the vast expanse of blue water, not a whole lot of marine life. So behind me we have a load of dark patches, and the dark patches are actually coral and is absolutely taming with life, which I will be investigating very shortly. We have flippers, which are complementary, when we go to the marine centre and mask and snorkel. This is actually probably one of the best masks I've ever worn, because it doesn't let any water through. And for those that don't know and can't see, I actually shaved my mustache, because apparently having a mustache means more water seeps through the mask. So I'm rocking a rather funky little facial set up at the moment. And it's worth it, because I can literally just go underwater with these. What are these? Freedom HD. A Tusa Freedom HD. Right guys, we are literally just a couple of metres from the villa. It's just waist height. We're going to take a look at what the house reef has to offer. So the house reef definitely lived up to the hype. There was an abundance of marine life there. Didn't see any sea turtles or manta rays or stingrays, but there was an abundance of sharks. But by far the most fascinating creature, which I did come across, was a floating big bundle of Tina. Now if it turns out you do go to a resort and the house reef is not very good, then it's not necessarily under the world. It means you just have to go on like a daily excursion via boat 15, 20, 30 minutes where they'll take you to a really lively spot with just loads and loads of active marine life knocking about. This is pretty cool. We have our own little bathing area along this pier, which leads directly to our villa. Now I got this villa on land because the overwater villas at this particular resort were fairly average. I mean fairly average in comparison to what I've stayed at in the past. And sometimes they have their pros and cons. I think if you really want the whole Maldives experience, you need to do the overwater villas because it is quite iconic. But once you've done it a few times, I don't feel like it's necessary to do every time. One of the perks that we've got of this villa is it literally is right in front of this house reef where we pretty much have a full on aquarium on our doorstep. And it does feel quite private. Like you can't really see any other villa, which is great. And it does actually have quite a lot of space. So you have to do your research, check out how much space you want. Some of the overwater villas aren't that spacious and you are spending quite a lot of time in your room and you are going to be with your plus one or I don't know who the hell you want to travel with. Now if you're really lucky with the timing, you're going to get a daylight today where the sky is blue. And when the sky is blue, it just makes everything else 10 times more blue. Like it doesn't even look real. It looks like it's AI. And that is when you truly see the Maldives in all of its glory. I remember there was one time I went to Saniva, Johnny, I was there for four days. This was in March and every single day it was completely clear sky. There was not a cloud in the sky for the entire trip. And it was just absolutely incredible. But on the other hand, we decided to go back again, we actually got invited to go again in December this time round. And for pretty much the entire trip, it just rained like every day. And there was maybe like three hours of sunshine. And it just completely changed the whole experience. It was just nowhere near as good. You didn't see the resort and the Maldives in its true beauty. And you know, there isn't really a lot to do when it's raining and the weather's not that great. Yeah, you can just chill out with the villa and blaze around. But to me, being in the Maldives, you want to be outside and then join it as much as possible. So you can try and look ahead and see what the forecast is saying. But it is always changing. And it is going to be different in different parts of the Maldives because it is spread out pretty far north and pretty far south. So they all have slightly different weather conditions. And you might just be unlucky. Okay, the best weather usually is January, February, March, maybe a bit of April, but you could come and just be unlucky for maybe a particular few days, which decides to rain every single day. But then on the other hand, you could go outside of the dry karma season and get very lucky and have a couple days of really amazing weather, even though, you know, the average is showing that it's not actually that good. So I've been five times to the Maldives. The first time I came here, I went to a place called Carumba, which I believe was the first resort that ever opened. The reason why I went there was because I didn't have a clue about any other resort in the Maldives or what I was doing. I just picked a resort that was closest to the airport because I thought it'd be more convenient. It turns out it was a very nice resort, but it was way too close to the mainland and you could literally see the tower blocks of the main city of Mali, which was a bit of a buzzkill, but it did have a very good house reef. Next time I went, I went to Gili Lan Can Fushi. This one was a bit of a step up. It still was relatively close. You could access it by speedboat and the villas were very, very good. One of the reasons why I picked it, because it felt like it was the whole Maldives vibe package in one. The downside of that place was that it didn't have a house reef. I didn't really see much activity in terms of marine life snorkeling around. Not much to see, but it was a very cool resort. It was like no shoes policy and the food was very good. The villas were absolutely insane. Made out of wood, loads of space, had a pool on it as well. I felt like that was a very good trip. Indeed, I rate it. Now, the third time I went, this was probably the best resort that I've been to so far, Saniva Janney. Went there for a special occasion. I mean, I'd seen on social media so many times the resort with the slides going into the water and I was like, you know what, I want to go there. Obviously, with it being one of the best and one of the most famous is a little bit expensive. By far, the most expensive resort I've been to. I think I went there for four or five nights. The weather was absolutely perfect when I went there. Just the island itself was massive. There was loads to explore. There was bikes that you could rent electric or non-electric to cycle around. They had the buggies to transport you if you didn't want to cycle anywhere. The decor, the exterior and the interior of all the buildings were so beautiful. So much space, so much to do. So this is a pretty cool feature of the main bedroom. If you look up there, it looks quite intriguing, does it not? If we open this drawer and press this button. Oh yeah. We now have a massive sunroof above the bed. Which is pretty cool. Obviously, not a good idea to keep it open when it's raining because the bed would get absolutely soaked. But at night time when the stars are out, that's pretty romantic. And especially the north complex, which was the original complex. Even though they're a little bit older these villas, the lagoon is way more blue. And I think it's a better location in comparison to the south. The newer villas, even though they are newer, more modern, I didn't rate the lagoon at all at the bottom of that island. I couldn't really say much in terms of things that were bad about that resort. Maybe, again, there wasn't much activity in terms of marine life. No house reef, but the lagoon was absolutely crazy. Oh yes. This is my favorite area of the whole breakfast selection. Also the most dangerous area full of absolute delights. I think this little room is, this is open all day, isn't it? Yeah. All day. And place to be morning only for breakfast. So that's just for the morning. Yeah. This is open all the time. So if you ever get snackish during the daytime, which I do, then you can just come down here and have some nuts, dried meats, olives, sauces, cheeses, wine. You can help yourself to the wine. Oh, I won't be, because I'm not drinking. Also the chocolate area. This is also open all the time. Another dangerous area. Vegan bliss bites. Very blissful. Let's see what else we've got. If I had to pick one, which would you recommend is the best? Everything's the best. Everything's the best. Of course it is because you make it. Another dangerous area. This is the 24 hour ice cream room. We have a selection of ice cream, apparently sugar free. So that's good, but not calorie free. And then we have all the toppings and the actual ice cream cone. There's a lot of food. A lot of food. Now I did actually come back again to San Evert because there was an opportunity that presented itself. Groupers went. Now this is a little bit of a different experience. I think primarily because we went in December and the weather was just not very good. So wasn't really much sunshine. Completely different vibe in comparison to the first time I went. And I feel as though because there's around about 175 resorts in the Maldives, there may be more actually. I don't actually know the exact number. That's what chat GPT said. But I feel as though coming back to the same resort. I don't think that's a good idea. I feel like there's so many amazing resorts to check out. Go explore them. Even if you had the best time at one particular resort. If you go back to what you're always going to be comparing to the first time around. And I feel as though you're just missing out on seeing all these other amazing resorts. So my advice would be not to go back to the same one. Oh, look at the vibes. Look at the trees. The trees. The sun is about to set. And I'm about to fill my face full of food because I've burned a lot of calories today swimming around and hitting the gym. So looking forward to tucking into tonight's offering. Look at this. Why is that? It's a friggin... The root is growing down from the tree. That is amazing. I reckon you could climb up. You reckon you could climb up it? So if it is going to be your first time coming to the Mollies, I would recommend splashing out a little bit. Of course, there is a wide variety of different price ranges that you can choose from. But I feel like if it's going to be one of these special occasions, it's worth splashing a little bit just because paying a little bit extra does often improve the experience. You can go for a very basic resort, but the problem with going cheaper means that first of all, the service isn't going to be as good. The quality of the accommodation probably isn't going to be as good. And the whole experience, restaurant choices, quality of food, buffet, everything else is going to be lower than maybe you would want it to be. Now there's those which are extremely expensive. I'm talking more than $4,000, $5,000 a night. I was actually checking some of the Geneva new resorts, Geneva Fushi, Geneva Secre. And realistically, you're looking at least $4,000 per night. But if it is going to be celebrating a very special occasion and it's going to be the one and only time that you come to the Mollies, then I would say splash out because the memories that you make and the experience you have is something we're just going to stay with you for the rest of your life. So look around. There's all these websites like booking.com, expd.com, things like that, where you can find discounts because at certain times of the year, there's certainly going to be discounts. And even at this time of the year, if some of the resorts are not full, then they'll be giving away some of the rooms at a cheaper price. And if you're the type of person that doesn't really care about the whole luxury experience and having an absolutely ginormous room with unnecessary amenities, then don't spend that money. Because at the end of the day, what you want from the Mollies, what a lot of people would want is just to see the beauty of the Mollies and to see the blue water, go for the swims, enjoy the weather, and to see the marine life. So there's loads of resorts that are pretty bog standard, but still very beautiful. Like the island itself is super beautiful. The water is beautiful and it's probably got some pretty decent marine life as well. So that's something to take into consideration. And then on top of that, you've got to also make sure that you go in with the right person. There are maybe some resorts that throw parties in there, but more of a social resort. But for my experience so far, it's very much couples. It's also worth noting that some resorts are obviously going to have more emphasis on the spa, the wellness and the gym facilities. So for someone like me, for example, a good gym is going to be very important. In fact, if a resort does not have a very good gym, then I just simply won't go there because I am that type of guy. And it's probably one of the reasons why I liked Seneva Jani so much because it had two gyms. It had one on the north of the island and it had a newer one on the south of the island. You also need to be aware of the fact that there are now some resorts cropping up on manmade islands. So I don't know what this is actually going to feel like, but I can imagine. It's probably the last thing I would want to do as a person living in Dubai, the most manmade place you can imagine, to go get on a flight for four and a half hours to go and stay on a resort on another manmade island. That is just something that I would not want to do. I want to be in as much nature as possible. So I feel like if you do stay on a resort on a manmade island, it might spoil that authentic experience. And then you need to think about the duration of your stay. This trip, for example, was a very quick in and out three nights. So a short stay, I'm not bothered if there's not a whole lot to do because I'm only there for a short period of time. And of course, for a stay that short, it would make more sense to get a sea boat transfer as it just speeds up the efficiency of everything. If you're going to be staying for a longer period of time, then taking the sea plane makes a little bit more sense. But if you're going to be staying for more than one week, you're probably going to get a little bit bored. There is not a whole lot to do in the Maldives. So if you are going to go for longer than a week, I would maybe split the trip up into two resorts because staying in the same place, the same island is probably going to get repetitive after a couple of days. In my opinion, three to five nights is absolutely perfect for me. I do what I need to do and then I'm ready to leave. But for other people, maybe you want to switch off and spend a bit more time there. So in that case, where you stay, the island you're on, the size of your villa is going to be a lot more important, I would imagine. So take these things into consideration. Guys, one of the absolute best things about the boat transfer to the airport is when you're leaving, you only need to leave two and a half hours before the actual flight. So it just means that you can spend a bit more time at the resort on your final day. Sometimes when you get in the seaplane, you've got to stick to the seaplane schedule, which means you might actually have to leave well in advance before the flight and then you're just waiting at the airport, going around. Today we have it, folks. Hopefully this video has been of some assistance. If you are planning to go again to the Maldives or if you are planning your very first time there, there is a lot to think about, but it is definitely worthwhile. One of the most stunning places that you can go to on this planet without a doubt and I cannot wait to keep going long into the future and to try out all the beautiful resorts that they have available.

=== FILE: Training Legs With Estephany Gutiérrez [Hx6ZIA-1sqg].txt ===

 what's up guys and welcome back to another video, it's 2026 and we're coming in strong with some fitness content joined today with the beautiful Estefany Gutierrez from the Dominican Republic. The Caribbean. The Caribbean? Yeah. I've heard good things about it, I've never been there, do you think I should go there? You should go there, you're gonna be in love, you're gonna be obsessed, I'm obsessed with my country. Dubai is Dubai but you know, this is something, here is the Caribbean, the beaches, everything. Well, you're representing today, you're representing the country. So of course we're gonna train legs, I mean what else, we're not gonna do some hardcore intense upper body, I think leg day is gonna be very appropriate. I'll take you through one of my routines but I'm hoping she can give me some points as well because this is all natural, right? Organic. No organic, no BBLs, no nothing, this is 100% natural so I think it's gonna be a good session today. Let's go, you ready? You ready? You feel it for sure. Let's go. We can warm up first. Yes. Maybe we... Good idea, that's a good idea. I always warm up, well I'm jumping, to activate my, yeah. Show me. Yeah, like, you know it's quite to activate because some people do do a stretching but you want to activate your respiration as well, just to be ready. So you don't put all the weight and then you are not prepared inside. Let's get out of here. Don't go straight into the working set. No for sure. Well I'm ready to go. How are you doing 1000 reps or something? I do like 30 and then I rest 30 seconds and I go again. Do you stretch often? Yeah, yeah for sure. Me too, everyday. Guys by the way, these shorts are now available and these as well apparently but I mean for the male viewers I don't think they're gonna be appropriate. But for the male viewers these will be appropriate. For those that like tight shorts, everything good? Yeah, perfect, perfect. So we're gonna start off with Smith Machine Squat. I quite like to do this one personally because I can keep my spine a little bit more upright, take away the strain from my lower back, place a bit more tension on the quads. Especially if you want to do a heel-elevated version. I think I'll do that today. This is insane. There's a line in the mirror which is so annoying. Right in the middle, right in the face shot. Your legs are insane, oh my gosh. Thank you. Yours are quite good as well. Quite good. How long have you been in Dubai for? One year, eight months. You like it? It's kind of artificial, superficial. But yeah, I like it. It's good for business. Good for business, gyms are good. You've got to work a little bit harder to find the right people that you want in your life. Yeah, exactly. There's some interesting characters here, put it that way. How many did you do? It's one of them still. How many did you do? Well, this is the thing, I've not done this for a while, so I will work up to probably like an eight rep max. But I don't know what that will be, we'll just have to find out. Just have to find out guys. What about you? I will focus on a little bit more in glutes, because I don't want to grow more of my legs. What are the quads? Yeah, I'm being, I'm a strong girl, but I'm... You look strong. Yeah. I should hope you're strong, and it's not all for show. Good. Oh my days, I'm a scare now. Good. I want you to push yourself today. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Like you know, we're just... If you're training with me, you want me to step out of your comfort zone a little bit. Not to the point that you injure yourself, but... Yeah, yeah. That's warm. How many? I'm gonna do... My working set will be... This cannot be warm up. That's warm. No. Yeah. The working set will have an extra 20 on each side. Yeah. You want to kill me in camera? Yes. Is your plan? Yeah, that's the plan. I'm gonna click fake footage, please. Oh my days. I cannot. It's quite heavy. No, because my legs are that big. Yeah. No. I love how you just went straight into it, and you're like, yeah, let's go. Let's just try 10. You stand, right? Yeah. Okay, so 6 to 8 reps. Okay. I will do two working sets. Yes. Two. Three. Good. Good. How many? One more, one more. I can do one more, I shoulda... Yes. Good. Good. Okay. That was good. That was good. That was 7, I think. Yeah, for sure. More. Right then, let's go. Eight reps, hopefully. You can do it. That's what I like to hear. Need some good old moral support. Come on. Yeah. One, two. Come on, you have it. Three, yes. Four, come on. Two more, come on. Five, one more. You have this. Push, push, push, push. More. Yeah. Wow. I put five or no? Like ten or five. Ten or five. Okay. Let's see if we can... How many are dead? I did six. You did seven. Seven? Yeah. So how many have to do with this? I think you could... If you're confident about it, which I know you are, you could do six. Six? Yeah. Of course. I will be here spotting. Please. Don't go far. Don't go far. One. Two. Three. Four. Four, go, go, go. Good. Keep your spine up, right? One more. Big drive, big drive, big drive. Good. Nice. Oh, thank you. Did it? It wasn't possible without you. How many years have you been training for? Three years. Just three years? Yeah, in December I just have three years. This is the thing about... My first time in the gym, my first time. Do you have a before picture? Like... Yeah, my legs are on my base. Like an as baguette. Sweet. I don't think so. Highly doubt that. Yeah, I always have bad. Yeah. But I was really skinny. Like my legs were like... And you had just before you had no interest in... You weren't interested in training? No, because I was skinny. I was like thinking that, where will I go to the gym? And then I started to do nutrition. Yeah. Because I wanted to do things right. I remember that I do posture and exercise for good. I've been all day in the gym doing everything wrong. So I started to do a student and I see him change men. In six months I was crazy. I do a competition with six men in the gym. Oh, really? And I win, by the way. Really? First place. With seven men in the gym and my diet was fucked up. Like my trainer. And I eat cake before the competition. It was a disaster because I don't want to win. It's not something that I like it. You won, so it can't be that much of a disaster. Yeah. For my genetic and my instructor, it was good. Imagine being a guy and just like... Six months of training, winning a competition, eating shit beforehand. No, for the guys it's more difficult. So many guys and the things. Yeah, I think now if you want to compete as a man, you have to be so big. Like the standard just to enter. No, it's too much competition for guys. Yeah. Oh, wow. When was that? I was 16 there, but I was really skinny. You do seven there, so maybe you can do eight now. One more. I'm pretty sure I did eight. No, you did seven, my friend. Did I? I thought I did eight. Disappointed in myself. I guess we'll have to check back. 15, crazy. Crazy. I look at me when I win the competition. So this was six months? Eight months. No, I don't win with six months because I do tricks. Steroids? No. I'm kidding. No, no, no, no, no, my trainer. No. My trainer put me on a ball, you know, on a ball? On a ball, yeah. I don't ever take it because, you know, somewhere was sucking a lot of things that I, this really made me scared and traumatic about it. And it was, I don't want to win. I just want the picture. For the content. I just want the, yeah, for, you know, because I will start to a student, so I will a student coach. I want this picture there, so I don't want to win. I don't take nothing. If you want to actually improve your skill set as a coach, it's good for you as a coach to compete at least once so that you understand the process of competing. What it takes to diet down, to consistently train, bump up the cardio and push yourself during a very difficult period of time, to be honest. Yeah, absolutely. Was it difficult for you? That this simply, this was my first diet ever to be in a competition, so I was really anxious and was kind of difficult. I remember that I competed first as a bikini. Okay. And then my legs were too big with seven months in the gym. So my coach was, you were too big for bikini and too small for wellness. Was he in the middle? Yeah. And then he said, no, we go in wellness. But the girls was like that. I swear to God. But my instructor was better. Yeah. Like I have the shape. So they just give it to me. Nice. Oh my God, there's a mirror right in front of me. I can see my side profile perfectly. Oh yeah. Wow. Hey. See what I see here? Holy shit, that was so helpful. You know with me, I find it really hard to keep my legs straight. Like anytime I go into the position, my knees want to bend. So when I do, this is like all blue. Yeah. But I want to try and hit like. More straight, yeah. Hamstring. Fucking hell. You have an amazing hamstring. This is my weak area. A weak part. For me, I feel like I hold a lot of body fat here. Really? Compared to everything else. Come on. I like, I've never ever seen my. You have fat nowhere. Really? I would put 10 less because this is my maximum. I will do it more focused on my glutes. You're doing it for a glute? Yeah. Nice. This one I do it with so many reps. Because my lower back is. I'm dominant. I think there. So I feel it. So if he like this one, if you do it. No reps. It would look like a square actually. Nobody believes that boy. You see the girls that do this? Yeah. All the CrossFit girls. They look like a fridge. No offense there. Oh my God, don't say that. My hamstrings are so tight. What? So I should leave it? Yes. You think I need to use the straps? Maybe. Because my hands. Nobody. I don't train that much my upper body. So I have not too much power to my hands. So the strap always should go in between finger and thumb. This one is good, right? So I always use it wrong. The strap should always go. Okay. Good. Nice. Bend that knee. I guess. Good. All glutes. Use those glutes. Good. Your back is working now. Just rest, rest, rest. Good. Howl some reps. That was a lot. Yeah. Nice. Nice. What's your favorite muscle group on a guy? Muscle group. Brain? Oh yeah. Good answer. Good answer. For me it's not a physical part. I will say no. No. It's not a physical part. It's not about the first. It's spiritual. Okay. I have to believe in God. There's a first thing I will say. So I say don't believe in God. No. And then it needs to be like social. I need to see how he treats people. Not only me. Like kind of human being is the person. Yeah. And then the physical part is not important. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Chris, you're coming to church with me tomorrow. I'm open to. I believe in something. Like this is the religious side. This is the spiritual side. It sways more to the spiritual side. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But with my podcast there's a lot of people I speak to. Very smart people who are religious. Or they've just recently turned to religion. And they say how much of a positive impact it's had on their life. So it makes me think like maybe I'm missing out something. For sure. It's like for me, the people that surround me used to meet with them need to believe in something. But when you don't believe in absolutely nothing, it's like you think you come out of nothing. You are not afraid from nothing. You just do whatever you want. You know it's a power over you. It's a kind of a tumble to you. You don't really be scared because the karma or what are they going to come to you? I definitely believe in karma. When something bad happens to me, I'm like maybe I deserve that. Alright, last set. I should put 10. Yes, you should put 10. You know on the way down. Slow down. Yeah, no, no, no. I do it. It's the last ones that I get. But I don't care if the last ones are not perfect. It's worth it. I'll just slow and still damage you back. Look at my lower back. Look at the line. It's the kids of that. Some pretty good lines. Don't want to get my horrible lower back out. I have like a little alien. Oh my god, that's heavy. You got it? Yes, I got it. Nice. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Go on, use those glutes. Seven. Thrust. Yeah, fuck. Good. Nice. Get. Two more. At least two more. Good. Put it back. Put it back. That was good. Yeah. Thank you. Doing more weight than me. Jeez. Sometimes I don't know where to use that. I don't know if it's stable. Where are the parts that are stable? If I get injured today, it's your fault. With this legs, with our legs, everything is stable. I'm gonna fall. Look, you're struggling a little bit there. I'm not gonna lie. I am. I thought you were saying five plates or something. No, you don't say it. I've not done it with that little platform before. It's a little wire, actually. You know there's no sexy way of getting out of that position. Any time when you've just done a really heavy set and you like crumble underneath the bar and you just have to Climb out. I'm not trying to be sexy. I'm trying to be I'm trying to be sexy for my male viewers out here. I will not do that. Do you know for like ten years? I Just didn't train my glutes my quads Got bigger. My hamstrings got bigger and there was just like this. It was literally like you have a good I like that Never good that Now now it's respectable ass. I'm like happy with it But obviously it complements the posterior chain But if you have weak glutes most of the time if you do a compound movement your lower back will overcompensate And then you injure your lower back because you have weak glutes. Yeah, or you underperform on a deadlift or squat It's very important. Glutes like the powerhouse Come on Yeah Oh He's strong Yeah Wow Oh Wow, I'm impressed. That was quite good. That's kind of embarrassing though. I'm turning with a man. He killed me in his dress No One two three four five six good seven nine That was good That's insane No Just that tree I can't know with four But it's very good I don't know why it just feels a little bit more stable for me when I do a flat ground look at him insane Where about I put 10 just After you kill me yes, whatever I put 10 2.5 10 on a 2.5 You got number in mind how many reps I'll be impressed with eight good reps though With a you will be impressed right well I've been pressed with 10 but eight it's like eight is the absolute minimum I think that was half I think nobody Just wanting to impress myself Oh Two three get it high Five good six seven Everybody else impressed you impressed should be impressed. How can you do this with five? Wow, just the programming on my app Very good. I need to train girls with you more often But I for me it was just I always used to chase the pump the pump like I would do like higher reps So I've reduced the reps and I was every week. I was focusing on like let me lift just a little bit heavier and Consistently doing it like you will progress Way quicker if you train your legs twice a week versus doing them once a week or once every 10 days like by far Progress skyrocketed when I made it a promise to myself you have to train them Like every four days every five days needs to be done. Otherwise, they just you have a dozen men's men's hate to train like yeah And it's it's it's hard work to keep And then if you work on legs you work all your body yeah, I mean you core everything It's actually now being scientifically proven That your life expectancy is correlated to the amount of muscle mass in your lower body for sure So I was training so hard my legs twice a week hard And then I was thinking like it's gonna come this day where I will just drink one time a week or every 10 days And this is what I'm doing now with my squad Because for me it's kind of hard. Yeah No, it's well, it's worked. I guess not what about your diet. Is that good? Yeah? I have no problem with the diet I eat really clean the thing is I eat too much So I have to control myself because I eat like three minutes. So it's too much Yeah, and yeah, I try to keep it clean So when I want to do something no shit milk like cake or nothing of that not sugar I just increase my volume like I eat the whole Tomahawk One KG. Yeah, by myself respect that because if I if I go To dinner I'm with a plus one and they don't finish their food I'm gonna finish their food Well, I mean for like one and a half people but if I was having dinner with you Over at your plate and there's nothing left I'm sorry, there's not gonna happen with me Well, I might have to try that one and then I go in Oh Yeah I approve of that one I like that You guys down Come on Nice that was definitely heavier than the last one Oh Oh Oh Then last one I'll let you choose we'll go in oh, yeah Oh Normally to have more stability for me I do it later. Oh Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've seen this before I Boy I need the Yeah, because guy you'll see most people do this with a dumbbell holding on to two dumbbells and it is the most fatiguing Mentally taxing thing to do it because you have to like stabilize yourself And especially as you're lifting heavier It just becomes harder and harder to stabilize your weight So the whole thing just completely exhaust you whereas when you have a fixed  amlodipine, naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin I can just go all the way down and also like I can, you see? I don't have to be lighter so I keep it lighter Oh my days! It'll be interesting today because I don't usually finish the session off with this and it's a friggin' heavy smith machine so Come on Little rest Take your time The second leg is always... Yeah! It hurts the most Yeah Yeah Come on Oh Yes Do you have a training course? Me neither The thing is that I always... I get so tired from my routine that I just go home Yeah I don't do cardio I think everybody does this I don't do cardio at all I'm trying to push myself now this year to do cardio but I never have done cardio for my competition before and abs as well I tried to do it so hard that I just go home I want to go out of the gym but you have to train your calves It's really important and your abs as well Nice Two Three Four Five Six Go on Seven Eight Nine Everything okay? I need to do the only leg Yeah, definitely rest Guys, it's okay to have a little break in between each leg Otherwise, if your heart rate is so high and you're out of breath and you're trying to do that second leg you will not do anywhere near as many reps Four Five Six Seven Make your back straight Good Last set Don't write my nose please, yeah Just make my nose look massive Don't die on this I'll try not to Please Six Such a good exercise It needs to be a staple in everyone's training session, I think Six Seven Six Seven Six I'll add 2.5 to 9 because I don't want to be here Look at this Six And you're doing it the easier way Really? Yeah Come on, we need to get the 2.5 You like that with the nails you take this I'll pick it with my little toe Four Good Five, come on Seven Eight Nine Good Mine was good Extra 5 kilos is easy No, I'm not putting it on, I'm just being a good citizen and putting my weights back Two Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine Yes We did it We did it Mine was good The shorts looking even smaller I am definitely spent after that session Very good Pushed myself, I think you pushed yourself as well You pushed myself Yeah, so you're capable of doing it for sure Yeah Not that like you need to really because it's clearly working But it's always good to have new targets, build on your strength Motivation What advice would you give to the ladies that are watching? Well, advice Train like a man You should train like a man Don't think that you're going to get like a man, right? It's very hard Because it's difficult to even get scared without supplementation, without some strange things So train like a man if you want to grow And eat as well like a man Yes But clean Yeah, don't be afraid to eat And for the guys obviously, train your legs, just train your freaking legs twice a week Like it's impressive if you can build a pretty solid upper body But the respect you get when you have decent legs as a man Absolutely It's like a beauty as well Yeah, it's rare So you could be the guy that stands out So thank you very much for watching guys If you want to find Stephanie on social media Check out our Instagram He's growing very rapidly I probably need to ask you some advice when it comes to making reels Because it's working very well I know One of them got like 60 million views Honestly, no I have 100 100 million views 100 and something It was crazy Because normally I do videos, you know, with camera But then I just put my camera there And I started to post, I was in the supermarket 50 second video and just go crazy Instagram sometimes is crazy But keep trying, post Don't be afraid to talk to them from the camera Because social media is the thing right now So do it Do it You heard her You never know Thank you very much for watching guys We'll see you in the next video Bye Bye

=== FILE: Watch This If You Train Hard But Look The Same (Gym Mistakes) [o8kD1u01I-M].txt ===

 what's up guys and welcome to another video. Today we will be debunking some of the most common myths within the fitness industry at the moment, or at least some of the most common ones which I believe are just getting in the way of people making significant progress. So in no particular order, the ones that stand out the most to me, starting off with number one is that you need to do cardio in order to lose body fat. Okay, the truth of the matter is if you want to lose body fat, there's two ways you can do it. You either do that by consuming fewer calories or you do that by burning more calories on a day-to-day basis. So let me show you what I mean. This is a representation of how many calories an individual would burn on a day-to-day basis and this is where it's coming from. Resting metabolic rate, thermo-effective food, non-exercise activity, thermogenesis and then actual exercise. Okay, so these two things you can't really change, right? There's at least in the short run, you can't change your resting metabolic rate or the thermic effect of food, but these two you can. You can change how much exercise you do and you can change how many calories you burn just moving your body on a day-to-day basis. Now most people will think, okay, I want to burn more calories so the only way for me to do that is to just do more exercise and this usually becomes a little bit problematic because it means either going to the gym more often, which most people don't want to do, or trying to burn more calories in the gym when really when you're in the gym the goal should be to actually just build muscle tissue, not maximize calories burn. Okay, and then going to the gym and just doing cardio just sucks and it's usually boring, but yes ultimately you will burn more calories. Now what you could do in order to burn the same amount of calories is change how you burn it. So you don't necessarily have to do more exercise. You don't have to go to the gym more often or try and burn more calories in the gym. You can just figure out how on a day-to-day basis you can just move your body more. Okay, so this is in the form of just walking around, increasing steps, just bouncing your knee upwards and downwards. Maybe you're taking a call and you're doing steps and walking around the room while doing a call, or maybe you just decide to you know walk to work or just stay on your feet and not sit down all day. Okay, so this isn't necessarily directly doing more exercise, but it is a way of moving your body more so that you burn more calories. The next myth is that you need to be consuming an excessive amount of protein in order to build muscle tissue or even just to maintain it. I for years used to believe and used to swear by hitting the target of 2.2 grams per kilogram of body weight, which when you think about it particularly the heavier you get, that's a hell of a lot of protein and that's a lot of meat, fish, eggs, protein powders which you need to consume in order to hit those targets and it can be stressful when you think oh my god I haven't hit my target so many days. In reality the studies have shown that 1.6 to 1.7 grams per kilogram of body weight is pretty much all you need in order to build muscle tissue. Anything above that isn't really going to accelerate muscle growth at all, so that's good news. It means you can consume more fats, you can consume more carbs which realistically are probably going to enhance your performance and your recovery. Now it is worth saying the older you get protein requirements might be more and if you're in a calorie deficit protein requirements might be a little bit higher. So overall I would say it's probably better to be on the safe side and maybe over consume protein just a little bit as an insurance policy just in case you were in a situation where you did need to consume more protein but for the vast majority of people you just want to look athletic, they want to put on a bit of size, 1.6 to 1.7 grams per kilogram of body weight is going to be absolutely fine. Another huge myth is that you need to be sore after your sessions, you need to experience a pretty significant amount of delayed onset and muscle soreness otherwise this session was just not good enough, you need to try harder next time. Which is not true, in fact you can make progress, lift heavier weights, get bigger and stronger without actually needing to experience the soreness at all. That's actually a good indicator that your programming is on point and you're not doing excessive volume, excessive reps, sets, drop sets and so on. The thing is with soreness, if you experience too much of it basically means it's taking that muscle longer to recover. So it's more time until you can actually train that muscle group once again and on top of that it's just straight up uncomfortable because you feel like you're walking around like a cripple. Nobody likes training legs and not being able to walk properly or sit down five days after the session. Okay so actually doing fewer sets, maybe fewer exercises in a particular session, but still trying to lift as heavy as possible and each week lifting heavier means that the soreness will actually be reduced but you will still be making progress. The next myth is that you need to cut your carbs if you want to reduce body fat percentage. If you're going to go on a cut the best way to do it is just eliminate your carbs. Well that's not entirely true. So let me give you an example of what I mean. This is an individual who's consuming 3,000 calories at the start of a cut and they want to lose body fat but they are convinced that you can only lose body fat by cutting the carbs. What ends up happening by reducing the carbs drastically from their diet, they end up cutting a significant amount of calories from their intake. Now of course this will give you results but often you end up dropping your calories drastically in a very short period of time which is certainly not advised at the start of a cut. Okay they don't increase their fats and they don't increase their proteins, they just cut their carbs. There's a huge deficit and usually what this means is there's a massive drop in performance in the gym, they get weaker, recovery is slower, the muscles are less full and then they end up having these pretty aggressive cravings because of the elimination of carbs and they're not replacing the fats. This is what I would do, a person who is trying to maintain muscle mass and lift as much as possible, stay full, stay satiated. I would just drop my fats a little bit. I would keep my carbs exactly the same, keep protein the same and just drop the fats and you can see we're in a deficit and that is all we need in order to lose body fat. Of course as you want to continue dropping calories I wouldn't recommend eliminating fats because you need the fats. Okay so once you get to a certain point where it doesn't make sense to drop fats any further then you can start dropping the carbs a little bit. I wouldn't recommend dropping protein if anything protein may need to increase a little bit but you shouldn't be eliminating or dropping carbs drastically at the start of a cut. Just over time you want to look at very gradually reducing fats, carbs, allowing yourself to be in a calorie deficit but not an excessive calorie deficit especially to begin with in this example. The next myth is to do with training to failure. A lot of people seem to think if you want to grow you want to build muscle tissue you have to push yourself and trace failure on every single set. This is not true okay for the majority of people, beginners, intermediate lifters and even experienced lifters you don't need to do that. The true indication of progress in building muscle tissue is progressively overloading on a week to week basis. How can you increase the mechanical tension in the exercises which you're doing? The best way to do that is just lift a little bit more each week. The problem with pushing to failure two things. First of all when you push to failure the risk of injury is much higher. This goes for everyone even if you're an advanced lifter. If you just have one slip of concentration the risk of injury is very high. If you're a beginner intermediate lifter you don't have the experience or the mastery of exercise execution so you often can't control the weight and will not have you form and check and end up doing damage okay and injury that's the absolute worst thing for you. The second point is the fatigue and the muscle damage that's caused from going to failure too frequently okay. If you were to push to failure on every single set you're going to be much more fatigued in comparison to somebody who has one or two reps in reserve. So what does that mean? You need longer periods of rest and recovery in between sessions. If you like me find it very hard to not push to failure then what would make sense would be to tape it on the volume okay so do fewer working sets per session per week and that way if you do push to failure this is like seriously pushing to failure then you're not going to be doing as much damage and causing as much fatigue because you're not doing it as often. Let's say for example if you're pushing to failure and doing that in three to four working sets per exercise okay so it is relative is kind of dependent upon the individual and what their idea of failure is but you don't need to do it in order to progress so don't think you know just by literally shaking on those last repetitions borderline letting the weight drop on your face or causing major injury you don't need to do that okay just track your progress the weights you're lifting and the goal each week should be to lift more. Another common myth which people believe is that whenever they're cutting and trying to lose body fat they need to increase the reps that they're doing for each exercise they do in the gym. They think well if I do more repetitions then I'm going to burn more calories and this is what I want to do because obviously I'm losing body fat but this is actually the opposite of what you want to do okay if you are doing more repetitions you cannot lift the same amount of weight for more repetitions what you're actually doing is you're reducing mechanical tension you're going to actually accelerate the amount of muscle tissue which you lose and strength which you lose because of this reduction in weight which you're lifting and of course you combine that with fewer calories it's going to accelerate even further so when you're in the gym focus on preserving as much muscle tissue as possible size strength of course when the calories are in abundance you can focus on really growing but ultimately if you're in a deficit the focus should be to preserve that strength and that size so in order to do that you still try to lift as heavy as possible you don't start messing around with the rep ranges you still keep them on the lower end if anything I would probably advise maybe reducing the reps a little bit so that you can maintain that size of strength while still lifting as heavy as you can possibly lift obviously you won't be as strong you may need to reduce the weights a little bit but ultimately you want to try and keep them as high as you possibly can do to give signals to your body that hey we are still shifting this weight so I still need you to hold on to this muscle tissue I still need you to hold on to the size because we're still doing the work right outside of the gym you focus on creating this calorie deficit either by manipulating your calorie intake or by just moving your body more more neat as I've mentioned before the next myth is to do with bulking and cutting and how if you want to build muscle tissue you need to bulk okay you need to be in a pretty comfortable calorie surplus on a day-to-day basis in order to build muscle tissue and that's not actually true if you just want to build muscle and get stronger you can do so by pretty much staying at mainsets level or very slightly above that let me show you what I mean by this here we have a graph representing two individuals who are putting on muscle tissue over an extended period of time usually years I'm taking the example of an intermediate lifter who's been lifting for years not an absolute beginner so if we take the person in blue this is someone who has been consuming maintenance calories consistently or maybe just above maintenance but ever so slightly and they are gradually putting on muscle tissue over time because there is enough calories which they're consuming in order to do that of course let's assume that they're progressively overloading every week and they're sleeping and everything outside of the gym is also on point now if we take another individual who also is doing everything in the gym and outside of the gym identical to this other person in blue but the calorie intake is different look what happens here they will start to put themselves in a pretty significant calorie surplus I'm talking about like 500 calories or more above maintenance notice how they don't actually put on more muscle mass at a faster rate because that's just not possible but what happens is when they get to around about here they realize oh I'm actually like quite fat now I've accumulated a lot of fat during this bulk phase now I need to cut to bring my body fat percentage down again but what they don't realize is when they're cutting for weeks at a time or months at a time because of a calorie deficit it's actually a lot harder to build muscle tissue so they notice that their strength goes down and because of this deficit they actually start to lose size and then they get to a point where like hey my body fat percentage is now a point where I'm happy once again probably where it was at the start then they go and start this bulk again where they pack on the calories and put way more calories into their diet than they need to so again they're building muscle tissue at the same rate as the person in blue but it gets to a point where once again they get too fat and then like hey I need to go into a deficit once again to get my body fat percentage down so the same thing keeps happening they're in periods of building muscle tissue when they're in a surplus because they're in such a significant surplus it gets to a point where they get too fat and they need to reduce their calories go on a cut in order to bring the body fat percentage down again so they keep repeating that but notice because there's these periods of building and then losing muscle over the long run if you take this finish line point they are actually in terms of muscle mass a lot smaller in comparison to the person who was just consistently eating the exact amount of calories which they needed to be eating and we can assume that at this point here both individuals at the same percentage of body fat so there you have it those are some of the biggest myths which I believe are causing the most confusion and prevented people from actually making progress if you've enjoyed this video make sure you subscribe to my channel and check out all the other videos on my Thurston Coaching channel and of course if you are in need of proper programming where you don't have to literally spend all day every day in the gym wasting your time Thurston can cater for all of your needs all of your goals and experience levels it's something which I've been using over the past six years and without a doubt the more I use it the more progress I make so make sure you head over to Thurston.com watch download the app in the App Store and I'll see you guys on the inside
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.494169Z ===
