 naringin.com.com. It's the only white boy I know. One Brazilian girl on each arm. It's sprung. Right guys. We are out here in the middle of the Hollywood hills. It's time to catch up with a good friend. George Heaton. In fact, last time I was in LA. We didn't meet up. He was out of the country. now we are going to catch up with him and have a little tour of his house, train, get some good food. I'm not going to show the actual house from the outside to respect his privacy, but hopefully when we get inside, we can start filming and have a look at how to live it up in Los Angeles. I hope I fucking pressed it right. Oh, fucking hell. Woof, woof. Woof, woof, woof. Like the weakest. Special delivery. Oh my God. Oh my God. Hello, Chris. Hello, Chris. How are you? If he gets too excited, I'm going to be shagging you in a minute. It's alright, innit? It does the job. See, the problem with LA is living so far away. That's the problem. I mean, I would love to live somewhere where you can walk around. Yeah. No. It's just not. No, it's not possible here. No. That's why last time I stayed, I was in Venice Beach. Yeah. You can walk there, but it's still. But it's very wild in Venice. And then you're pretty far away from everything else. So it's just, it is what it is. Yeah. But if you go up Santa Monica into Brentwood. Yeah. Beautiful. You get like 20 mil houses on the beach there. Yeah. And like, you can still kind of walk around. Would you, so would you buy it? Yeah. I'm here now though. I'm not moving home, bro. I go back every like month or two and I think, what the fuck is going on? Yeah. Everyone goes greyer. Not just the hair, the skin. Yeah. Well, we don't have hair anymore. Yeah. Never would we. But, but yeah, everything just gets worse over there. If I buy this, I'm going to make this cozy. Like huge crutches, carpets, everything like that. Mike just uses it. Is this the first projector? Yeah. The only thing I watch here is your vlogs. Yeah? Yeah. I was just catching up on the Miami one. Cape Town was a bagger. You still hide all the girls, don't you? I need to. Why? Because it causes problems. But the problems with me. It's got a lower bedroom down here that just gets used for storage. Toilet, washroom, garage. You've got a lot of pictures in there. 1980. Holy shit. And there's a 1990 G-Waring. This is a diesel. It's disgusting. Can't even get up the hill. That's about it. This is sick. But it's about it. I bought this one and it would be a good one. Because I always wanted one. There's no point in having one of these in the UK. No. Paid $50,000 for it. It's worth about $180,000. Wow. It just came online. Some guy in Florida picked up the phone. I was like, can you ship it to LA? Boom. That's the beast. And then I've got a cullinan, but it's getting all its wheels done at the moment. You've got the range as well, son? No, I haven't stolen. That's what got stolen. Range got stolen. It was a sick range as well. You had none. The rims were nice. That's what I just had caught on. Did the police do anything about that? Or are they just like, oh, sorry, bud? Nothing. Fuck. What? Well, my mate got his robbed a couple of weeks after. Is it because? They found his. A rate? Yeah. Is it because they're easy to rob? Because I heard that. They just hotwire them. A guy was still outside. I was hotwire them. What about insurance or anything? I got paid out eventually, yeah. It took like four or five months. But yeah, my friend got his stolen. And then they found it in a chicken container. Ready to go to Mexico. So that's probably where my mate was at. It's my fucking terrible excuse for a gym. Look at this. It's a good view, though. Great view. If I buy it, I'll do it up properly. But at the moment, it's just treadmill, fun room, and that's it. My girlfriend got me this on my birthday thinking that it was good. The heaviest place. Well, you can tell us to go up to ten. Yeah. Nine. I mean, it works if you just want to get a tiny pom-pom whilst you're running. You should just do like one hour of lateral raise variations. And the pull-up bar doesn't really work either. It's a bit of a wobbly one. Yeah, it's very wobbly. I think it's done a better pull-up on there. It's okay. I got one in London back in the day, and that one was... That was all over the place, yeah. It's over here. I would get like a rig on the back wall and stuff, but we'll see. You can do a lot with an adjust... You've got all the bench, you just need to... Get a little bit. I'd like some barbells and shit. Bedroom. Bedroom. Oh my god, this is nice. Yeah. Best thing about this is, right, the whole house. All these open up, like, fully. Just like, sometimes I'll sit in bed, like 8pm. Some of it going down. Where's the sun setting? So it comes up here, and then it sets up with that. Oh. But all this just goes, like, bright orange. Bathroom's nice. This is sick. So this doubles up as, like, a security room. So it's all, like, everything's steel in here. You shut this door and the police will come. These are your T-shirts, yes? Yeah, that's all mine. That's actually yours. The first tank seat. Are we wearing that later? Nah, that's my shirt. That's my girl. That's his suit. Nice. He actually chews the wood. Which is crazy. Nice. But yeah, that's the house. This is the only problem with it. You're on a main. I need gold, guys. I'm so good. I'm an English guy. Go on, lad. Go on. He likes that leg. Nice and tanned up leg. Decent technique, that. You on a train? Yes. Yeah. You're not training today? No. What do you want to do? Yesterday, I did shoulders, triceps, traps. All right. I was going to say, looking at you, probably need to do arms. I'm literally, if I could, I would train arms every day. It's my favourite thing to train. So, fucking do that. Arms it is. Yes. I think that's the only thing I've got left. Eight hours. Eight hours, we just got an arm look. Eight hours. Yeah, me and Diego have done that. Six. Yeah. As we were saying, convertibles are absolutely mandatory in LA. It's probably one of the best places to be driving around with the top down. Looking up at the palm trees. Face getting absolutely roasted. Nose getting burnt again. You know, we give you a nickname of the golden gargoyle when we watch this. Golden gargoyle. It's just in the top of that tower, golden, just looking over everyone. Goodbye. Do you know how I was saying this before? If I came to America and I had to choose where to live in America, it would be very hard to decide. Each place has its own. I mean, I wouldn't do New York, but I'm sort of drawn to Miami and LA. I feel like I would just bounce between the two. But where are the best looking people? It depends what your type is. I mean, if you're a fan of the South American cuisine, then I would probably spend a bit of time in Miami. Whoa! We're back. We're bodybuilding. We've actually got Mike Thurston with us now. This is my new coach. He's going to take me through the next 16th walk. Getting absolutely juiced. Mike Thurston, what a mad one. Mike Thurston, we're on the first half. And we're just doing the splits every day. That's all we're doing. There we go. I put my aggressively tight white vest on. I got it. You know, if Mike ever has a crazy accident and died, I'm going to pop it on his gravestone. Just over it. Just tight on the stone. In fact, someone's going to make a statue of him anyway, so I'll put it on. Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or Or, Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or So what's the routine for today? We're doing chest and arms. Great combo. Can't argue with that. We'll do two of the second per exercise. Six to eight reps. So I'm Mike, what's happening now? Right now we're going to the best food place of all time. My favorite. Her one. How many have they got now? Apparently 12 actually. 12. They got 12 scores. They absolutely hated when I came here to film. Look at this. Look at the burger. Oh my God. Why is everything so good? So good. There's a lot of space in my belly for all the things I've got. Can I grab that? Miso black pepper. Sweet potato asparagus. Smoked with salmon. Look at this. $20. Not for a batch of strawberries. One single strawberry. $20. You know that, that honestly better taste. So good. Pretty much. I can buy it. It's not good. Yes. Perfect. Marketing worked. So what do we have here boys? Got some protein, some malt protein and some spicy little bits of carbs. And then dessert. A strawberry. Just a 20-doll strawberry. I got, I tried this the other day, rice pudding. Oh my God. Remember when you were a kid? I don't know, maybe you didn't. We used to get the rice puddings from the can. A can of rice pudding. Yeah. So this is bringing me back to my childhood, but it's not full of absolute crap. It's got organic whole milk, organic rice, organic cane sugar, cinnamon sticks and vanilla bean. And then here obviously I've got sweet potatoes, asparagus, black cod. I wanted more protein because I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a growing young man, so we got, some, salmon, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or, Or Or, Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or Or well. Sweet potato, it's all like carbon. And I'm doing them all from so good. They're preparing in such a way that it's just impossible to do a vice-alcohol. Can't get a same. Probably full of oil. Even when I had you on and when I had Reese on, I was like, right, if you want to grow a clothing company, you have to go all in on this shit. You can't just do it on the side for a bit of fun. So that was a bit of a downer for me after that one. So the part of the podcast is actually a net negative for my I give up on all my dreams. We did a bit of research, went onto the website. L.A. Amai. It's luxury Japanese fruit. Right? This is the third five-year-old man eating strawberry. Everything on the website sold out as well. Look at these blueberries. Look how they're packed in the fucking fast. Why do people buy this shit? It's no different to little. Nice fucking beautiful. Absolutely. Nice inside. It's worth $20. In terms of the aesthetics of the strawberry, this is a perfect looking strawberry. Extremely symmetrical, great vibrancy of the redness. It's so good, isn't it? It's unbelievable. It's so sweet. Fucking hot. Tastes like $20. Yeah. $20 though is a stretch. That was worth it. But if you had a sweet craving, this would kill it. Maybe two. I'd need two of them. A $40 sweet tooth craving. podcast where you say, oh, don't have any caffeine first 90 minutes of the day. And then I did it and it put me in the worst mood ever. Really? And then found out that it was just loads of shit. Is it absolutely alive? Yeah. It's like being, just being debunked. You good? One time you see? One time. Your tan hasn't faded, Mike. Oh, no. I only go to sunny places. If it's not sunny I'm not going there. Yeah. Are you avoiding Dubai at the minute? No, I'll be back in a week. Yeah? Has it all calmed down? No. You're not allowed to say. I hope Rob felt. Stop filming. Positive comments only. Yeah. You work out a ton? Yeah, we trained. We trained twice. Second workout of the day. Second one of the day. I need to grow. I need to get back into. Why have you been running? Go for speed at the minute. Yeah. When we went to Dubai at that time, I mean, I think a few days, I went on his podcast. Remember? Yeah. And I was probably like 85 kilos. Now I'm 76. So I need to get back. You weren't going to run three hours at 85 kilos, were you? There you go. Horses for courses. I'm specializing. This guy's built for looks, you know. Oh, yeah. Train for looks as well. Looks maxed. Absolutely. And it works. Look good. So how long are you in town for? A week? Until Thursday. Okay. I was just come from Miami. Oh, wow. Okay. All the shit places then, actually. Do you need another one in the team? Are there any jobs going? I'll come join the team. Who's your dream 247 athlete? You? No, I'm not. He's actually the biggest 247 pant ambassador in the world. When they're on video, he's got them on. We need to get a second pant. With a wider leg. Everybody's like By the way, I've been going on about a second 247 pant for so long. He's actually the biggest ambassador for them. As in the biggest. No, no, no. The amount of people that ask me about those pants. I'm like. But again, we need to evolve that pant, don't we? The problem is no one knows it's our pant. Like you just said, everyone asks. Very subtle. Brandon's subtle here. But equally, I think we can do a bit with it. I think there's a wider leg we can do as well. Because it's almost like the perfect product. How do you make that better? How do you do a volume two? Well, that's the challenge, isn't it? A music artist doesn't write one song and go to bed. That's the challenge of the creatives. How do you evolve? And it's about, you know, we can flip-flop. It's about evolution, not revolution. Because we can't move on too fast. You know, there's cars, I don't know what cars you're into, but there's cars, let's say a BM3 series. They always tend to evolve it, you know, just that little bit to still recognisable. And that's the challenge. You can fuck it up though. Well, you can, there's plenty of brands that have. How old are you? 35. Do you remember K-Swiss? Yeah, yeah. Like, I used to wear the shoes all the time. No, but if you're 30 in that zone, at one point, you were nothing but K-Swiss and they were white West Coast tennis trains. Yeah. Then they went into parkour and then they went into ultra marathon and they lost all of their business there, went new and now there's not a UK office for K-Swiss. Yeah. So you've got to be really sensitive. You know, we're very lucky that we do move pretty methodically and everything's built from authenticity. So even 247, so we do fashion, streetwear and then we don't just flop into 247. He obviously, a brand owner, gets stuck into hybrid training, wants to wear his brand. So we develop and create the product then organically and it makes sense and you have authenticity. authenticity. We can't lose authenticity. It's everything. It's everything in life, let alone brands, you know what I mean? So yeah, it's about just evolving. Our challenge is these boys are impatient. Yeah. They must want to get. And you need, obviously you need that pushing, don't you? Do you know what Mike said before when he sat down? After we did our podcast and then he did Riesel Bauer, he realised, fuck clothing. Hey, it makes you realise. Well, look, it's not an easy market eh? One, because it's so mature, the competitive set is pretty, you know, structured and set. But you can always break through. I'm not Mr. Organised as well. I don't like to plan super far in advance than anyone. With the collections, they're all saying like, oh yeah, we've already got the next year's collections planned out. 18 months. Well, unless we can find someone who gave Jack the magic bean store, and we can build product faster than any other company in the world. We're all on the same timelines. You know, I've been in the game for like 30 years, and at every company I've been, Nike, Addy, Buma, everyone's been talking about shortening this product process. Who's the fastest at that? Zara? Well, the fastest are the obviously verticals. So Zara, and they obviously have got so big, they own the whole supply chain. So they can run small, test, and then scale big. Because they own into it. You know. But even so, you know, it still takes time, doesn't it? I can't believe we just think I'll do the podcast. Two more seven in the window. That's it. That's it. Yeah. You know, even. What's that, brother? Hey, brother. It's Mike. Eddie. Nice to meet you, mate. What's up, guys? Clean. Very clean. This is for making the sleeves shorter. Like, if I'm going to buy a t-shirt, it'll be like, let's cut off these parts for me. Maximize arm exposure. Just about nipple. Bring down the edge for the cleavage. And then if you live in Hollywood, obviously crop it to the belly button. Now, we're doing a workshop on Wednesday where I teach people how to distress and crop stuff. That's pretty cool. Yeah. It's a nose drill. Yeah. I've been travelling around with one suitcase. I wasn't prepared to be on the move for this long a period of time. So the wardrobe is not looking that dope. Should probably cop it out a bit. This is pretty sick. Operation get naked. Should I go in there? Go wherever you want, bro. Do it right here, pal. I'll go in there. I'll go in there. I'll go in there. I'll go in there. I'll go in there. I'll go in there. I'll go in there. You need to change your work. I have two in there. Material is very good on this one. Pretty good fit. Good range of motion. Yeah. It's good. Yeah. I'm gonna kill this one. Whoa. Whoa. Bit tight to me. I'm not saying. They seem longer than your usual. Yeah, I know. Long pair of shorts, these. I'm not used to so much my thigh being covered up. George claims that these don't roll up. And if he's telling the truth, fair play. Go on, give us a squat. I'm gonna save it to go up. Oh, yeah. Are they even classed as quads anymore? Or are they something different? Sure. What's one of them like? Trunk. Trunk. It's all like that. It's like it. So, it's not rolling up. This is good because the slit allows for peak pump to occur. These are large now. They're stretched out. I just try all the clothes on and just permanently alter the fit. I need real quick. There we go, boys. You enjoy that. I'm gonna check it out if you're in LA, people. See you later, guys. Next time, I'll be bigger and stronger and we can get it properly. However, we may be in the world. We'll spend some more time tanning as well. We'll get to tan much today because next time round we'll do a full four-hour oiled-up tan session. I mean, if you want to go to the house and tan, you have to go there, bro. I've got to work. I actually have a fucking job, man. These guys are just me. Just make a bit of content and just fucking chill, bro. The tan is the job. Yeah. All right, nice on, boys. So, guys, yet again, we're in a brand new location. Instead of being in Venice Beach where all the chaos is, I decided to stay somewhere with a difference. This is Woodland Hills and this may be one of the best decorated interiors of an Airbnb that I've stayed at. I mean, you know I like plants and this place is absolutely covered with plants. I think there's 12 individual plants or flowers that need water. They've done very well with this. It feels so cozy. Everything, the detailing of everything is perfect and you've obviously got as well the sunset. I mean, there's no curtains here so there's no TV being watched in the afternoon. Look at this. I mean, this is the the pro. You don't get this in Miami. My main bedroom. No curtains for me. Fuck's sake. I'm not going to wait in a minute. Ooh, this is moody. Going with the kitchen vibes, the dark, look at this, more rocks everywhere. I love that. Love those little lamps. We've got some bath salts here as well. This is also a thing I like. If you've got an Airbnb, like at least supply it with things. Supply it with cooking materials, bath, washing materials. I hate it when you go to an Airbnb and there's just like nothing there. You have to buy it. This is the second bedroom. Pretty cozy. Hmm. I don't know if there's a few other things but it's all locked. It's a lovely little spot to lock in for the next week. Might as well enjoy this sunset. Smoke fat doobie, hey? Nah, no. What we could do is smoke cig and just flick the cigarette across there and see if we can get the LA fires part two. They make it very clear not to smoke out here. That's a mad tree. Look at that. It goes all the way down. Pretty high up here. Got a golf course over here. Really? Morning, morning. Apparently, Airbnbs in America don't like curtains or blinds. Oh, I've got one there. The drill blinds it. 7 a.m. Wake up call. Bit of a misty one today. Good morning, Los Angeles. Action-packed filled day today. Let's have it. That's a wild door. Absolutely sick to death of Ubers and driving around. Two days in a row tried to rent a car. First time didn't have my passport. Second time around NatWest blocked my credit card because they thought I was a fucking scammer. So fuck you NatWest. Anyway, we're at the Winners training facility which I'm quite excited about because it's a new gym. I always like going to a new gym. Of course, today we will not just be training solo we'll be collaborating. The guy called Eric Janicki. You've probably seen him on social media. The guy is very large. I think probably for the first time in a while I'm going to feel small and I may just be out techniqued. The guy has some very, very solid technique which is respectable. So it'll be good to meet him, good to train with him and wake up from that snoozy little Uber ride. and the and the legend. What's up man? Good morning. No one of the gyms. You know? Yeah, yeah. I was like, Eric was telling me you were coming. Yeah, this looks dope. Hey bro, I haven't watched you since I was in high school. Nice. Fucking legend. What's the story with the gym then? When did you open it? I opened it when I was 24. Yeah. I opened it in downtown Burmaid but I was just a coach. I was a coach my whole life. Yeah. So, I just love bodybuilding and grow up fucking watching you guys Steve cook and fucking Calvin Ball Moller before he went crazy. Yeah. Holy shit man. This guy's always in an exotic place. It's got to be sunny. Good to meet you. Damn. You're cheating. You've already got a bit of a pump. I got like three reps man. Don't pump here. Don't pump. What is up YouTube fitness family? The man that needs no introduction. Mike Thurston. You probably didn't see him in Ibiza, Japan, all over the world but he is in LA coming here to train back with me. I'm so excited we're going to do some back, some pies, some rear delts. Pump bro? I'm pumped. I mean, I've seen your content. I've seen the way you execute every single exercise with 100% perfection and intensity. So, this is going to be good. This is going to be good. I'm going to see if I can keep up with you man. These are not yet released. I only have like 10 pairs. But one is for you. So, essentially the way they work, we're going to use them for a lot of our movements today. You can use them for rows. You can use them for raises. But ideally, it's going to take the grip out of almost everything. So, for a row, we're going to have this. You still want to have contact with a handle and then it sizes to anybody's hand. So, we'll show you guys how these work. But, they're super padded, they're super comfy and they'll just feel like you're just like literally pulling just with your back. So, we're going to start with these unilateral rows. Oh, you're allowed like that before? Mike, let's go. Yeah, one more. Yeah, one more. Yeah, there's a little more separation. Oh, oh, the strike. Oh my God, the quads. Yeah. Quads are working. So, now, that's a magnetic footplate. All we do is clean up our U-hook system. You don't have to carry it separately. Oh, shit. Fuck, it's like, it just switches on the quads. Yeah, it's safe. Fucking fatigue already. Yeah, right? You're familiar with my thing. So, like, split squat, now our barbell, or like, bro. If anyone doesn't know, I actually met Nipsey Hussle the first time I came to LA in a coffee shop. Proper downtown. Earth guy. He was like, seems like one of the few people that was actually really smart and had something valuable to say in the rap game. Rest in peace, Nipsey. Rest in peace. Freaking jacked up in here, you know, this whole life. Dang, can't get my arms around you. You good? Good to see you, man. Have you been to the studio before? I have. Yeah. It's been a few years, but I brought some books if you want to know. How you doing, man? Let's get that one on the table. Come on. These are two out of the four. Yeah, last couple years. Yeah. Can't stop writing books, eh? We'll see, man. Might take a break soon, but... Do you find the process like... Pretty straightforward, though? Do you go through this sort of the way? Yeah, I mean, I did my first one like 10 years ago, so... It's been a while. Yeah, it's my fourth book or something. Now just chat GPT? Nah, I mean, I'm sure you get a framework going, but yeah. I could do that probably now, but I don't know if people would like it. Probably, they might be like, yeah, it doesn't sound like that. This one seems different. Yeah. Why is it so much better? You can actually write now, you know? It's like, you sound like you know what you're talking about. How was the podcast? Podcast was sick. He gifted me two of his recent books, Make Money Easy. This one as well. He's a top guy. We've been following each other for a while, but it's the first time we've actually met in person. He's absolutely smashing it in all walks of life, just had twins. Very good conversation, a deep one, getting into relationships, trauma, therapy. Yeah. Probably a conversation which I needed to have and needed to hear, so I've most definitely got work to do, but anyone who doesn't know who he is, go check him out, Instagram, YouTube, a lot of solid content. He's been doing podcasts for 13 years. Mad one. That's coming. Oh, just what I needed. Ooh. I think I might pass today. He was ready to welcome me. I was not ready to be welcome. Damn. I'm going to be here in a possession with Jeff Logan at the one and only Zoo Culture. Let's go get it cracking. Mike Thurston, I figure if I do 20 minutes of cardio, I'll be just as late as you, bro. You good? All good, bro. You a handsome dude, man. So you. Good to see you, man. I'm recording. What's up, dude? How you doing, bro? You late, Mike Thurston? Apologies. With a coffee, too. Look, he late with a coffee. That's how you know he's stopped. No, give me the kilos and I'll give you the weight. I think you're 97 kilos? 213. So I am probably 90. Yeah. Yeah. You used to, back in the day, you used to be. Shit. I lived in one of those cars back in the day. He was a fridge back in the day. Because you were just with Simeon, right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So I was telling Sim, last time I benched 500, again, let me do the kilo conversion for your motherfucking ass. Yeah, because he was saying when he used to train with you back in the day, he was pressing. No, you were pressing more than him. I was pressing 230 kilos. Like, I look at it and I'm like, what the fuck, bro? Like, it's crazy. But not anymore. Yeah. Because right now, it's like it's film and TV and this right here is bigger than everyone. So like, you'll get a girl and you look like the Hulk compared to her and it looks stupid. So this size is good for me. But you look great, man. You look great. It looks how it looks on Instagram. You look like an action figure. Well, that's good. Yeah. Because a lot of people are like, what's shit AI or what? Right. It do look like AI when you be fucking on the fucking horizon with the whole shit in the back. I'm like, man, that shit ain't real, bro. The only white boy I know, one Brazilian girl in each arm. bitch, brother. Does it make me weird if I'm a cat person? Hey, yo. Hell yeah. That's crazy. I'm not saying it's gay like if you're a cat person. I'm not saying it's gay or straight. It has nothing to do with your sexuality. Or, like, fake, kind of soft at the end of the day like okay like a little tiger yeah yeah that's what I was talking about you know a fucking lion like not even a grown cat like a kitten no exotic cats no persian cats like an actual kitten that he like takes to get coffee with him or some shit that's fucked up guys I'm getting like all of my favorite things from Irwan because this is the last meal and this is last time sadly I'll be eating it for a while I don't know if I've come here because it's like only available here so I'm like because I'm here I need to have it or if it's because it's actually like that delicious but it is pretty friggin delicious and like I'm at the stage where I know what I'm getting myself involved with so I like my regulars that salmon the seared salmon nigiri the black cod mixed vegetables this delicious little slider the coconut rice pudding oh my goodness me I mean I'm not going to eat all of this because that's a lot but I'm just having like bits of all my favorite stuff guys we are real time witnessing one hell of a sunset I must say LA puts on a show when it comes to sunsets look at the state of this what the hell the colors the colors are coloring god damn so guys it is the end of the trip another one successfully complete it was a productive one short and sweet so that is America done and dusted we will be on to the next destination which involves me continuing my path around the globe this time flying across the pacific to one of my favorite destinations of all time I'm not going to tell you where it is yet you're just going to have to tune in to the next vlog in order to find out where it is that I am going so thank you very much for watching this vlog I hope you enjoyed and I'll see you in the next video bye bye,!,