 What is up guys and welcome to another video. We are out here in the Maldives and this is the fifth time that I've been blessed to visit such a magical place. Now instead of me swanning around and me filming myself and enjoying what this beautiful destination has to offer, I thought I'd put together a little guide for you guys who have maybe never been here before or have been, but want to make the most of your next potential trip coming here. For those that don't know, the Maldives is a tropical island nation in the Indian Ocean, known for its white sand beaches, clear turquoise water and luxury overwater villas. Truly, it is a place which I recommend visiting at least once in your life. Now, to get there, you want to fly to the capital called Mali, and then from landing on that island, you would then either take a boat transfer to your resort, or you would take a seaplane to your resort. Now, there's pros and cons of both. When you take a boat transfer, usually it means it's going to be more convenient. You just walk out of the airport and you pretty much hop onto the boat, and then within 15 to 45 minutes, you can get straight to your island. They tend to be a little bit more frequent and more flexible. With the seaplane, I would say it is a little bit more inconvenient and generally does tend to add a couple more hours to your overall travel time. When you land in the main airport, Mali, you then have to go to another airport around the corner. You usually have to wait a little bit in a lounge or waiting room, and then you board a seaplane to fly to your resort. The seaplanes tend to be not that luxurious. They're quite loud, they're quite hot, and they're quite cramped. One of the advantages of the seaplane, because it travels further away from a lot of the activity, it can take you to more isolated islands, so keep that in mind. So guys, one of the reasons why I picked this resort was because it had very good reviews for its house reef. Now, from my experience when I've been to some previous resorts, there has been no house reef. There have been some pretty amazing lagoons, which is just like the vast expanse of blue water, not a whole lot of marine life. So behind me we have a load of dark patches, and the dark patches are actually coral and is absolutely taming with life, which I will be investigating very shortly. We have flippers, which are complementary, when we go to the marine centre and mask and snorkel. This is actually probably one of the best masks I've ever worn, because it doesn't let any water through. And for those that don't know and can't see, I actually shaved my mustache, because apparently having a mustache means more water seeps through the mask. So I'm rocking a rather funky little facial set up at the moment. And it's worth it, because I can literally just go underwater with these. What are these? Freedom HD. A Tusa Freedom HD. Right guys, we are literally just a couple of metres from the villa. It's just waist height. We're going to take a look at what the house reef has to offer. So the house reef definitely lived up to the hype. There was an abundance of marine life there. Didn't see any sea turtles or manta rays or stingrays, but there was an abundance of sharks. But by far the most fascinating creature, which I did come across, was a floating big bundle of Tina. Now if it turns out you do go to a resort and the house reef is not very good, then it's not necessarily under the world. It means you just have to go on like a daily excursion via boat 15, 20, 30 minutes where they'll take you to a really lively spot with just loads and loads of active marine life knocking about. This is pretty cool. We have our own little bathing area along this pier, which leads directly to our villa. Now I got this villa on land because the overwater villas at this particular resort were fairly average. I mean fairly average in comparison to what I've stayed at in the past. And sometimes they have their pros and cons. I think if you really want the whole Maldives experience, you need to do the overwater villas because it is quite iconic. But once you've done it a few times, I don't feel like it's necessary to do every time. One of the perks that we've got of this villa is it literally is right in front of this house reef where we pretty much have a full on aquarium on our doorstep. And it does feel quite private. Like you can't really see any other villa, which is great. And it does actually have quite a lot of space. So you have to do your research, check out how much space you want. Some of the overwater villas aren't that spacious and you are spending quite a lot of time in your room and you are going to be with your plus one or I don't know who the hell you want to travel with. Now if you're really lucky with the timing, you're going to get a daylight today where the sky is blue. And when the sky is blue, it just makes everything else 10 times more blue. Like it doesn't even look real. It looks like it's AI. And that is when you truly see the Maldives in all of its glory. I remember there was one time I went to Saniva, Johnny, I was there for four days. This was in March and every single day it was completely clear sky. There was not a cloud in the sky for the entire trip. And it was just absolutely incredible. But on the other hand, we decided to go back again, we actually got invited to go again in December this time round. And for pretty much the entire trip, it just rained like every day. And there was maybe like three hours of sunshine. And it just completely changed the whole experience. It was just nowhere near as good. You didn't see the resort and the Maldives in its true beauty. And you know, there isn't really a lot to do when it's raining and the weather's not that great. Yeah, you can just chill out with the villa and blaze around. But to me, being in the Maldives, you want to be outside and then join it as much as possible. So you can try and look ahead and see what the forecast is saying. But it is always changing. And it is going to be different in different parts of the Maldives because it is spread out pretty far north and pretty far south. So they all have slightly different weather conditions. And you might just be unlucky. Okay, the best weather usually is January, February, March, maybe a bit of April, but you could come and just be unlucky for maybe a particular few days, which decides to rain every single day. But then on the other hand, you could go outside of the dry karma season and get very lucky and have a couple days of really amazing weather, even though, you know, the average is showing that it's not actually that good. So I've been five times to the Maldives. The first time I came here, I went to a place called Carumba, which I believe was the first resort that ever opened. The reason why I went there was because I didn't have a clue about any other resort in the Maldives or what I was doing. I just picked a resort that was closest to the airport because I thought it'd be more convenient. It turns out it was a very nice resort, but it was way too close to the mainland and you could literally see the tower blocks of the main city of Mali, which was a bit of a buzzkill, but it did have a very good house reef. Next time I went, I went to Gili Lan Can Fushi. This one was a bit of a step up. It still was relatively close. You could access it by speedboat and the villas were very, very good. One of the reasons why I picked it, because it felt like it was the whole Maldives vibe package in one. The downside of that place was that it didn't have a house reef. I didn't really see much activity in terms of marine life snorkeling around. Not much to see, but it was a very cool resort. It was like no shoes policy and the food was very good. The villas were absolutely insane. Made out of wood, loads of space, had a pool on it as well. I felt like that was a very good trip. Indeed, I rate it. Now, the third time I went, this was probably the best resort that I've been to so far, Saniva Janney. Went there for a special occasion. I mean, I'd seen on social media so many times the resort with the slides going into the water and I was like, you know what, I want to go there. Obviously, with it being one of the best and one of the most famous is a little bit expensive. By far, the most expensive resort I've been to. I think I went there for four or five nights. The weather was absolutely perfect when I went there. Just the island itself was massive. There was loads to explore. There was bikes that you could rent electric or non-electric to cycle around. They had the buggies to transport you if you didn't want to cycle anywhere. The decor, the exterior and the interior of all the buildings were so beautiful. So much space, so much to do. So this is a pretty cool feature of the main bedroom. If you look up there, it looks quite intriguing, does it not? If we open this drawer and press this button. Oh yeah. We now have a massive sunroof above the bed. Which is pretty cool. Obviously, not a good idea to keep it open when it's raining because the bed would get absolutely soaked. But at night time when the stars are out, that's pretty romantic. And especially the north complex, which was the original complex. Even though they're a little bit older these villas, the lagoon is way more blue. And I think it's a better location in comparison to the south. The newer villas, even though they are newer, more modern, I didn't rate the lagoon at all at the bottom of that island. I couldn't really say much in terms of things that were bad about that resort. Maybe, again, there wasn't much activity in terms of marine life. No house reef, but the lagoon was absolutely crazy. Oh yes. This is my favorite area of the whole breakfast selection. Also the most dangerous area full of absolute delights. I think this little room is, this is open all day, isn't it? Yeah. All day. And place to be morning only for breakfast. So that's just for the morning. Yeah. This is open all the time. So if you ever get snackish during the daytime, which I do, then you can just come down here and have some nuts, dried meats, olives, sauces, cheeses, wine. You can help yourself to the wine. Oh, I won't be, because I'm not drinking. Also the chocolate area. This is also open all the time. Another dangerous area. Vegan bliss bites. Very blissful. Let's see what else we've got. If I had to pick one, which would you recommend is the best? Everything's the best. Everything's the best. Of course it is because you make it. Another dangerous area. This is the 24 hour ice cream room. We have a selection of ice cream, apparently sugar free. So that's good, but not calorie free. And then we have all the toppings and the actual ice cream cone. There's a lot of food. A lot of food. Now I did actually come back again to San Evert because there was an opportunity that presented itself. Groupers went. Now this is a little bit of a different experience. I think primarily because we went in December and the weather was just not very good. So wasn't really much sunshine. Completely different vibe in comparison to the first time I went. And I feel as though because there's around about 175 resorts in the Maldives, there may be more actually. I don't actually know the exact number. That's what chat GPT said. But I feel as though coming back to the same resort. I don't think that's a good idea. I feel like there's so many amazing resorts to check out. Go explore them. Even if you had the best time at one particular resort. If you go back to what you're always going to be comparing to the first time around. And I feel as though you're just missing out on seeing all these other amazing resorts. So my advice would be not to go back to the same one. Oh, look at the vibes. Look at the trees. The trees. The sun is about to set. And I'm about to fill my face full of food because I've burned a lot of calories today swimming around and hitting the gym. So looking forward to tucking into tonight's offering. Look at this. Why is that? It's a friggin... The root is growing down from the tree. That is amazing. I reckon you could climb up. You reckon you could climb up it? So if it is going to be your first time coming to the Mollies, I would recommend splashing out a little bit. Of course, there is a wide variety of different price ranges that you can choose from. But I feel like if it's going to be one of these special occasions, it's worth splashing a little bit just because paying a little bit extra does often improve the experience. You can go for a very basic resort, but the problem with going cheaper means that first of all, the service isn't going to be as good. The quality of the accommodation probably isn't going to be as good. And the whole experience, restaurant choices, quality of food, buffet, everything else is going to be lower than maybe you would want it to be. Now there's those which are extremely expensive. I'm talking more than $4,000, $5,000 a night. I was actually checking some of the Geneva new resorts, Geneva Fushi, Geneva Secre. And realistically, you're looking at least $4,000 per night. But if it is going to be celebrating a very special occasion and it's going to be the one and only time that you come to the Mollies, then I would say splash out because the memories that you make and the experience you have is something we're just going to stay with you for the rest of your life. So look around. There's all these websites like booking.com, expd.com, things like that, where you can find discounts because at certain times of the year, there's certainly going to be discounts. And even at this time of the year, if some of the resorts are not full, then they'll be giving away some of the rooms at a cheaper price. And if you're the type of person that doesn't really care about the whole luxury experience and having an absolutely ginormous room with unnecessary amenities, then don't spend that money. Because at the end of the day, what you want from the Mollies, what a lot of people would want is just to see the beauty of the Mollies and to see the blue water, go for the swims, enjoy the weather, and to see the marine life. So there's loads of resorts that are pretty bog standard, but still very beautiful. Like the island itself is super beautiful. The water is beautiful and it's probably got some pretty decent marine life as well. So that's something to take into consideration. And then on top of that, you've got to also make sure that you go in with the right person. There are maybe some resorts that throw parties in there, but more of a social resort. But for my experience so far, it's very much couples. It's also worth noting that some resorts are obviously going to have more emphasis on the spa, the wellness and the gym facilities. So for someone like me, for example, a good gym is going to be very important. In fact, if a resort does not have a very good gym, then I just simply won't go there because I am that type of guy. And it's probably one of the reasons why I liked Seneva Jani so much because it had two gyms. It had one on the north of the island and it had a newer one on the south of the island. You also need to be aware of the fact that there are now some resorts cropping up on manmade islands. So I don't know what this is actually going to feel like, but I can imagine. It's probably the last thing I would want to do as a person living in Dubai, the most manmade place you can imagine, to go get on a flight for four and a half hours to go and stay on a resort on another manmade island. That is just something that I would not want to do. I want to be in as much nature as possible. So I feel like if you do stay on a resort on a manmade island, it might spoil that authentic experience. And then you need to think about the duration of your stay. This trip, for example, was a very quick in and out three nights. So a short stay, I'm not bothered if there's not a whole lot to do because I'm only there for a short period of time. And of course, for a stay that short, it would make more sense to get a sea boat transfer as it just speeds up the efficiency of everything. If you're going to be staying for a longer period of time, then taking the sea plane makes a little bit more sense. But if you're going to be staying for more than one week, you're probably going to get a little bit bored. There is not a whole lot to do in the Maldives. So if you are going to go for longer than a week, I would maybe split the trip up into two resorts because staying in the same place, the same island is probably going to get repetitive after a couple of days. In my opinion, three to five nights is absolutely perfect for me. I do what I need to do and then I'm ready to leave. But for other people, maybe you want to switch off and spend a bit more time there. So in that case, where you stay, the island you're on, the size of your villa is going to be a lot more important, I would imagine. So take these things into consideration. Guys, one of the absolute best things about the boat transfer to the airport is when you're leaving, you only need to leave two and a half hours before the actual flight. So it just means that you can spend a bit more time at the resort on your final day. Sometimes when you get in the seaplane, you've got to stick to the seaplane schedule, which means you might actually have to leave well in advance before the flight and then you're just waiting at the airport, going around. Today we have it, folks. Hopefully this video has been of some assistance. If you are planning to go again to the Maldives or if you are planning your very first time there, there is a lot to think about, but it is definitely worthwhile. One of the most stunning places that you can go to on this planet without a doubt and I cannot wait to keep going long into the future and to try out all the beautiful resorts that they have available.