 miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss miss the two Mikes. Mike the Titan and Mike the chest. Let's go. And then behind the head you're doing... Yeah. Perfect. Beautiful. Good range. I'm going to try this today. Nice. So who should and who should not be doing it behind the head? Anybody that thinks they're going to get hurt shouldn't do it. Everybody else should. Basically those people with good shoulder mobility can get away with it. At the end of the day lifting is for range of motion and healthiness, right? Yeah. Because you can always... It's a stimulant so if you want to get muscle feed. You don't want to get muscle feed the connective. Yeah. You know. But range of motion don't ever lose it. Yeah. Don't ever get so stiff and stuff like that that you can't move and groove. If I was the type of person that couldn't do that I would be very concerned. And I would do everything in my power to improve my shoulder. Why? Why would that bug you? Imagine if you're doing a barbell squat and you can't even hold the bar. Wait a minute. Hold on. A barbell squat? Yeah. The bar's behind your neck? Yeah. You're resting it right on the back. Wait a minute. What? What? And then even think of this. I didn't know that. You do. Do you mean that everybody does behind a neck press because they're squatting and the bar's behind? Oh guys they're gonna they're gonna be mad at you for saying this. See how basic elementary that is? Yeah. They'll see me do this and they'll go and that person's squatting. They're putting it back there. Literally doing that. Right. It's like you morons. That bar is even lower on a squat than it is on a shoulder press. The only people that argue this point is the I guess the science base or the new age or the guys with the real chip on the shoulder that did it incorrectly and hurt themselves. Yeah. But can't you hurt yourself on anything? I've seen people break their ankle walking over a curb. Yeah. Should we cut out curbs walking on streets? Any exercise would be dangerous if you do it incorrectly. And at the end of the day anything's dangerous. Yeah. But you can't go through life like that. You drive down a road you have some trust don't you? Yeah. You guys lost on that one? It's just a yellow line. It's imaginary line keeping you on your side of the road. But these people will get freaked out about those little details. It's like you trust enough. Trust in your body. It's an amazing thing. So second level. But if you treat it like you said who shouldn't do this? Anybody's scared. Stay safe. Stay safe. Feet down. Come on guys. Where do you put your fingers? Come inside. What? This one or this? One more yeah. Yeah. Come on stud. Beautiful. Beautiful. Nice. Love it. One more. Keep it there. Go. Kill it. Nice. I love that you have healthy shoulders. Get a view of his shoulders because he's got good size delts. They look good. He was just checking them out. Did you see that? I agree. How many competitions did you end up doing? Just two. Just two? Yeah. And then the social media is what it were like popped off. No, it would have popped off regardless. Still done. Nice. Parts away. All right. All right. When did you do that video you put up where you were incline pressing four plates either side? Was that recent? Yeah. A couple weeks back. Unbelievable. It doesn't make any sense. What did you take away from that post? People have been able to do impressive lifts in their prime when they were maybe in their 30s. You're still doing it at your age now and you're just making it look easy. Do you think there's a difference between looking and seeing? Like they look and they go oh that's four plates oh my god that's four plates. I didn't see anybody look, see it and go holy shit he's conditioned he's weeks off from stage he's moving it with So smooth. precise calm controlled rage and ready to walk on stage. 42 years after being on stage the first time. So it's like all they saw was the four. But then people know though everyone who's seen it they know you. See I don't think they do. Really? I don't think they do. I don't think the common sense comes into play. I think they just look and just go jump right to the end of the story and go huh four plates good job. They don't go I don't get how you could be repping 405 40 years later when most people do it once in their lifetime for one workout and they're blasted. Yeah. Unless I've been blasted since I was 11 which is great that means I'm brilliant and I know I've blasted a year for 45 years fuck yeah but the point of it is I wish they would watch people like Robbie Robinson and go wait a minute what did he do differently than everybody else instead of looking at the 30 year old that's already broken yeah can't do anything and tells you I'm gonna teach you how to do everything hold on man you regurgitate great you've read it you read better than me I got a 5th grade reading level I'm dumb as a brick but there's a common sense to this and it seems like the majority miss it watch it form watch that back setup and everything it's pretty it's pretty form come on close your eyes stay in stay in stay in just feel it two more stay tight don't pop out of the bottom don't pop just flex just flex from there nice good nice I like that nice do one more hold up one second pull that quarter pull this quarter from the bottom instead of the heath ho just flex hold it there for a moment up down pull flex the body go now push up pull again like that flex out of it go don't explode just flex flex go again go again come on flex one last one I got you I'm riding with you I'm riding with you come on flex get out of there oh oh kind of different it wasn't a pause it was I only I only took him down to pause it for a second so he could go from an explosion just to a flex yeah just to push it up is that what you're doing for every grip I realize the explosion doesn't help me yeah and it risks me so like why is it risky because it's a yank unless I'm training that weight that day for that purpose of the torque so you're torquing and so that's great for explosion and I'll do that but most of the time 70% of the time it's a it's the best stretch I can and then a flex out of it with that kind of weight and to me I like it too because then I don't have to do 500 on incline I can do 400 on incline and just play with it and just keep it there and show it also it's like I like making everything harder than it needs to be if I can make it harder than it needs to be that means that and for me I can still move a lot of weight but it also means that I'm moving it at that dice down walking on stage and so what happens when I go offseason now that lift goes back up to 550 the squat goes back up to 750 so it's like be smart when you're down be smart when you're up train it differently train it with a torque to the ligaments and muscle where most people hurt themselves make sense yeah jeez louise why is everybody in shape today god dang kid we knew you were going to be good today see that's how I thought he was going to walk in shirt off and you know my bad bro I walked in pants off I don't know man is everybody saying that wasn't right well that sounds about right that sounds right it's 20-25 baby what is your split by the way is it like a bro split what split bro split where it's a muscle one muscle group per session yeah that's that's how I do it yeah um I'll split legs into two um but yeah just one body part yeah I hit it but not destroy it and then if I need a day of rest I'll know probably oh here's the trick question I'll know in the morning and I'll probably still lift I wish I'd say it wouldn't be but I have just finished doing a upper lower split so it's not one which I would usually go for but it's more of an experimentation thing why not I'm usually doing legs twice a week that's needed but how I would combine the upper body muscle groups can vary can you explain why you're doing something experimental you know what I mean yeah because I I like to see how my body responds doing different things and I see some other people who I look on social media and I kind of I respect admire they preach a certain thing and I'm like okay let me see what this is all about and then after trying it I come to my own conclusions and maybe what I will do is I will take a little bit of something from somebody and I will put it into my routine but not everything because I don't necessarily agree 100% with anyone really that's what it's about like one approach is not necessarily going to work for everybody that's why it's important to try different things and then you take what you like implement do what works for you if you found something that did work would you stay with that for a long period of time yeah and what would change it up if I get bored or the body gave a desk like for me going to the gym is something I look forward to the most so I I could do a training split which may be less optimal but if I enjoy doing that split more I will keep doing it because it will allow me to be consistent you're still stimulating it you're still getting in you're still doing the work and you enjoy it yeah and at the end of the day that's I wish you guys would get that you guys are searching for the ultimate workout when it should be if you like crossfit I got no problem with it go do your thing if you like yoga go do it it's like doing a full body split you're training full body every session yes I could still look good yes it works but I hate it I don't like doing it so I don't want to do it nice miss I like that a lot more, right? Because sometimes when you do a variation of the upright row, it's awkward on the wrist. That's a lot more comfortable. Nice. One more. Come on, kid. Nice. Come on. Nice. Great. There you go. There you go. Nice job. Nice job. College. Come on, boys. My first training partner was Tom Plaz. Tom Plaz? Tom Plaz, my first training partner in 1989 here. Holy shit, that's good. And then, trained with everybody, but then Lou Ferrigno for 10 years, and then Robbie for the last 30 years. Who was the best training partner? Learned from all. I came from a... Even though I bodybuilded as a teen in my 20s, I was a diehard athlete, powerlifting champion. So I came from a powerlifting thing, so I came from the approach of if I can outlift you and outwork you, I'm better than you. Which is a young person's mindset. It's stupid. So I learned how far I can push myself mentally with Tom. How beastly strong I can be with him and Lou, and all the strong men. But I think, uh... There's a pyramid. And at the peak of that pyramid, there's little principles that the guys that are still doing it have. That the other ones missed out on. And so, Robbie's in my point of view of what a workout should traumatize it a bit. Don't destroy it. Get in a lift. Go as heavy as you can with his least mileage. And stay as consistent as nobody in the world. And so, that's why his, especially at this stage, seems like the best fit. But I needed it all. I needed Tom so I could pound the heads and go, whatever you get, I'm gonna beat you by a rep. No matter what. And then I needed Lou because it was such banter. Yeah. We just touched. And I... Old school locker room kind of guy. So, I loved all those guys. But I've trained with everybody there is. Yeah. Sergio Olivier was one of the first guys I got to talk to. You know, back in 83. So, there's knowledge and knowledge. So much knowledge. Yeah. Shit. Come on, Stuck. Come on, Stuck. Nice. Great. Great. Great. Really good. Nice. Do you train with somebody? No. Like it by yourself? Most of the time, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. There's like the business friends and then there's the workout friends. But usually with my day, my schedule, I need to just go and get it done and leave. Go on a range. Yeah. So it's variety. Sometimes if I train by myself too often, then it gets a bit like boring. And maybe you need some kick up the ass on leg day. A little push every once in a while. Yeah. But yeah, it's not like I have a solid training partner all the time. What about you? Usually. Usually with somebody. Yeah. Because I take a while in between and I like to see savages around me push. Yeah. And yeah, so usually with somebody. You can pick and choose. Yeah. Yeah. You got a list of savages. Yeah. You can be like, okay. Somebody's always. He's good for leg day. Come on. And then I'm going to say no. Then I'm going to say no if you request them. Everybody flies in. And so it's nice. You get some real savages that fly in. It's like a sparring partner. Yeah, yeah. So you can't have a day off. Yeah. What's different with this grip? This is more of a close grip. Either one, I drop forward on the elbows out and keep the elbows up as high as I can. So it's not a huge range of motion. Compared to this, you can pull it all the way with the inside. Just a nice change up. A couple of different ones. Nice. Nice Was there an age You remember When you had peak strength Or was it Just Being consistent I can always get to The peak strength On the offseason Yeah So Because I'm wondering I'm 35 now I'm like Can it get better Or does it Take No You're 35 to 45 is peak Yeah Late 30s Early 40s For a man Yeah Because I'm feeling The best I felt Right now There's a combination To it too Because you're young enough Still That I believed I could wrestle a bear Yeah I was that idiotic Come on Great It was great Come on Nice lines Nice balance Good control Really good Good Keep going Last one here Come on Make it pretty How's the diet Right now What is the diet The diet What is the nutrition Looking like While you're traveling over Not the best I do what I can I have no idea What the calorie intake is Try and keep it clean But there's been Some not so clean things Three to four meals a day Okay Yeah And you're weighing So it's about 210 Yeah It's a good 210 Good thing about here Is I do a lot more walking In comparison to Dubai This time of year in Dubai I just don't walk It's too hot Oh that's true It's a walking sun And you go outside It's not possible Not now I didn't even think about that So I noticed my step count If I don't think about it It's like 10,000 less So I start to notice This body fat starts to accumulate On my own Where'd that come from? Yeah When did they open this part of the gym Was it after COVID? COVID During Yeah during During They shut down for like Four months Yeah And then they said Fuck it Because every other gym All the good gyms at least Stayed open They're like Fuck it We're losing money Yeah Last time I was here Was 2018 Oh okay It used to be That lot too Okay It was outside With a tent over it It was sick Okay this is new Bit of a risky one Doing that with my nose Come on stud Nice Sit back a little bit more There Sit back or lean back Lean back Both Touch it Touch it Good Go again like that Hold it there Hold Nice Go again Hold Down Stop Relax Relax Go Hold Two more Two more You got this Don't explode from the bottom Take it Go Beautiful Then one set Done Nice Nice Nice Nice Nice What'd you find I can do it Like the range of motion Is there Because I'm I'm just never training In that range So there's no strength Well I never would have thought To do that Nice Nice I'll be saving that one Is that one you made up yourself Or did you get it from someone else No I made that one Yeah I just I like the You know how they talk about now Longevity is Quad strength You ever seen those videos The scientists Or the Let me be honest The frail looking doctor Say that it's quad strength Yeah The reason I say that Is because of the fact that Again They're doing a study And they're not taking consideration What happens in life So you say quad strength And everybody's going to do what Go to the gym And do leg extension And leg press Yeah Great Then they go home And sit on the couch Because none of those guys Can do squats Yeah So yes Quad strength But it has to stem From the lower back and hips You have to have a healthy lower back And the first thing that goes Because of the Blood flow Is the lower back So keep that strong Then you can keep this And so The point from there Is on all aspects What goes next What goes next With range of motion And shoulders So many people are like That's it Yeah So it's like Why am I bodybuilding A shoulder When I should be doing life For it And so that's the rotation Especially it's a very complex joint As well And I Should be trained all over I roll a lot Into judo And stuff And so That rotation Is up here All the time And it's like If I'm a bodybuilder I get locked out In two seconds If that thing's still locked in How do kids with the jiu-jitsu They're looking pretty mean now My kid I rolled with my kid I rolled with Titan last night Dude Holy shnikey Something happened Get you in a lock He got into my trend drawer Or something Dude It was just It was a It was a Different Starting to Starting to make a turn Yeah How old is he now? Six He's closing in I'm five feet tall He's prepared for the day Yeah he's The day he's gonna He's gonna beat you That's why I'm training That's why I'm training Cause I know my ass Is kicked by The hell is a kid And he kicks your ass Yeah ten Leave me alone Strong Stack the machine No kids for you yet No yet That you know of Couple probably in the Philippines Couple in South America South America You got the face like this I know where daddy is This whole life game Is not the greatest I want kids though How old were you When you had you first? 50 Really? Yeah I got time Oh you got time We're guys Good Great In tuned Beautiful I can see that contraction At the top Is even more in tune Nice Come on See the bottom He knows he has it And it's right there Crazy contraction Great Yeah Do you look good? He looks sharp Do you feel that That could be beneficial In the long run? I think so Yeah Cause when I When I think about In my shoulder training There's so much of this Just this Rigid small movements And then I'm not even doing That much overhead pressing Anymore And if it is It's more Front Like this So it's very Very fixed range of motions Which For longevity Is probably not that good And you're 35 So it's like You gotta think Think 30 years ahead Yeah Yeah A lifetime For you And even now I wake up sometimes And I'm like Hmm That hit me As soon as I got Into my 30s There was just Little things That weren't there Before Right They start to creep in And I know how good Stretching and mobility Can be for you But it's That's the thing I just don't like to do Do it on the workout Yeah Because Stretching is great But stretching with no strength It's like Well I can move my arm back here Yes But if you put anything on it Yeah It breaks And that's why I like the aspect of It's basically what I'm doing Is yoga with weights Yeah That wide range of motion Stretch the fascia So it never locks up So that muscle has that Capacity to go into that range Yeah That way You still do a lot of barbell squats Yes Yeah Oh yeah Yeah Yeah And we make them harder And same thing with Deadlifts now Now we deadlift from a 6 inch platform That you're stood on So it's even lower Yeah Yeah that'll suck Yeah I tried We tried I mean it's It's a fun thing for me Because I get to keep finding These things going Dang I can make this harder Yeah I can make it harder Still use A crazy amount of weight But protect my body Or bulletproof it the best I can Yeah Nothing's safe We're all checking out But then also I incorporate that into The teachings And then definitely my boy How can I keep him Mentally The smallest weights But set him up to win And so it's like The guys that come in They bench press That's all they do Is bench press And so I'm hoping That I set him up In the right way Where they say Well can you bench Your 280 pounds Can you bench 315 And he goes Well for one or two And then they see How he does it You know It's on a Bamboo bar With dumbbells off the side On an incline Yeah It's like Oh I thought you said You get Well that's 315 So the idea is To be here Athletic Strong To look at Be it And have the capability Of turning it on Compared to the One dimensional I've always been curious about it Because some people say Oh you should be an actor Try acting It's like Hang on You don't just Become an actor No You know It's actually quite hard Yeah But you got the good look for it And everything So You're half way there Yeah Yeah And it's just going out And just doing it And doing it People go It's great that this last 5 years You're getting all these movies And it's like Yeah Okay great My first movie was 1990 And I've never stopped Yeah But the point of Do it Because you love it Not for fame and money Yeah When would I have stopped My first movie was Bruce Willis Goldie Hawn Meryl Streep That becomes her We filmed it in 89 Came out in 90 91 I've been acting the whole time Wow I got Gladiators And Battle Dome and Gladiators And other shows And sitcoms and stuff But it's never been like it has The last 5 years So this Society They're like Good job Great thing you're doing this I've been doing this the whole time Why has it been so acting In the past few years Why is it It's just life That's life Wow Wow something clicked, they like me, it's going, it's getting project. We got four movies, one over in the UK after this, a remake of Drop Dead Fred. You're too young. No, no, no. You remember it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I'm Fred. I'm the imaginary friend that keeps him motivated. Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, it's just, you get it. You're 35, but you got an old soul and maturity to you that you understand that life's not fair. Just keep pushing, have fun with it. Yeah. Create the physique you want. Yeah. And have fun. That's the most important thing. Take yourself so serious, man. That's the worst thing in the world. Come on. We get all these electronics out of the way. Nice. Drop that left side. Here you go. Here you go. Perfect. There you go. Great. Really, really good. Here's some good feedback for you. Yeah. Nobody has a bad word to say about you. They all said the same thing. Yeah. Just a very kind, kind person. Yeah. So it's good feedback. It's nice to hear that. I've been on the scene, I guess, with doing YouTube since 2016. And I don't get any drama. I don't get any controversy. I don't think I'm something special. Just treat everyone with respect. Keep doing what you're doing. Keep doing what you're doing. Keep doing what you're doing. Keep doing what you're doing. You're in a good place. People like you. You got a great look. So, just said. You don't need me telling you. Yeah. You got this. Same thing for Panda. Panda's a nice guy. Does him. Doesn't. No. Keeps to himself. Does his thing. He's a good person. He's a good person. He's a good person. He's a good person. He's a good person. This looks great. Come on, come on. Get it. Nice. I'm the next one. By the way, how did life change after you became a meme? You know when that thing went viral? Yeah. Just more fun. You know, it's like a whole new generation. Dwayne told me when I was doing these movies and stuff, and I started getting all these Disney projects, and he's like, the best thing you can do is get the new generation. Yeah. And those memes was the new generation. It's the young kids worldwide. That's why I love the internet, because it's not like you did anything different. It's not like you asked for it. Somebody just picked one particular video, put some text over it, and then it just goes boom. It's hilarious. I don't mind. I don't mind. I've been here long enough. There's something maybe we were going to give like that. Yeah. Oh, you're right. Oh. Not many people have been stacking it. Yes. What? Come on, Beast. That's realistic. Beautiful. Everything. Straight. Come on. Keep going. Keep going. Yep. One more. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Great. Great. Come on. Keep going. Keep going. Yep. Seven. One more. Get it. Get it. Get it. Yeah. That was a nasty set. I like because you can drop your back down, let it stretch out that trap, then cork it back. Have you trained with him before? Back in the 90s. He could lift. All of them. Powerlifting is Ronnie most of the 80s. Come on, Stubb. There you go. There you go. Nice. Great. Great. Yeah. Feel those traps stretch? Yes. Yeah. They'll be sore tomorrow after that. How often do you travel? Quite a lot of them. We've been gone the last couple of months, seven days a week, three or four appearances. Is it inside the U.S. or outside? Because of this, it was movies, it was all here in the States. Yeah. It's like we're in Detroit, Ohio, Florida. It's cool though. It's cool when you get a, you're filming something and they shut down the whole area and the stadiums for you. You know, this last one was a boxing movie. So I'm there at the forum out there in Detroit, Michigan with the greatest boxers in the world. And you know, we're boxing and they got the audience, you know, it's just like, Arnold's here. Oh, big man. Oh, here comes trouble. We got trouble now. Good morning. Look at this. Everybody's four ribs to the other. How could it be? How could there be so many stunts together in one room? This is Mike also. Yeah. Hey, good to see you. Nice to meet you. Mike. Looking ripped. Thank you. Looking good. Look at him. What do you want to say about him? He went, I'm part of him. He went from 280 to 260. Anyway. So just, he was asking for advice. I keep telling him, I said, change the diet and up the dosage. Yeah. Change the diet and up the dosage. That is today's wisdom. So Arnold, we're putting that on his shirt. That is definitely going on his shirt. Those moments happen so quick. Yeah. Nice. Nice. Nice. Really good. Yeah, not this. Nice. So you're okay with a bit of elbow bend? I'm purposely doing that. Okay. I'm racing. And it's not up, it's back. So you're... I'm letting this move forward and stretch as much, and then I'm rotating it. Yeah. But you're somehow switching your biceps off a little bit. You want to be relaxed. Yeah. It's just a hook grip. Boom. Got to be able to release that. It comes here. And I like that I can just stretch this far forward, and then pull behind you. Yes! Forward. Pull behind. Forward. Pull. Again. Forward. Pull. Again. One more after this. Back. Whoa. Up. Yeah. Yeah, that's harder. If it feels harder and it's more challenging, I'm like, yes. Okay. That's what we need to be doing now. Everyone wants to take the path of least resistance. Keep training the genetic gifted arms that they already have. Yeah. Skip leg day that they don't have legs. Yeah. It's like, wait, whoa, wait a minute. You know what's weird as well? I used to really not like legs training them. The actual training and the lead up to training them. But because I do it more frequently, it just becomes normal. It's normal. And like now, it's one of my favorite things to train. It's weird. It was the least favorite. Now I'm like, let's go. What do you think? What changed it? Was it the frequency or your age? Do you know what? I think you start off with the frequency, so it just becomes a habit. But then because your legs get, they build up a tolerance to that style of training. That it's just, whereas before, if you did it less frequently, you would destroy your legs and you'd be fucked up for five days. But because you're doing it regularly, the legs are, they're tuned. It's like, okay, yeah, yeah, we can do this piece of cake. Yeah, you'll probably be sore for a day or two. But then three days later, you can go again. So what's your takeaway from today? Michael? Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. I was like my form needs to be perfect because he's watching me he's critiquing me and then obviously there's a few new exercises which I've never done before the lateral raise up to the top some upright rows I don't do very often for me I want to say what I liked was I didn't just show him some new exercises he comprehended why those exercises made be beneficial to him moving forward and that's what a lot of people they just go oh I'm gonna do that yeah well why are you gonna mimic me you understand why I'm and you pick up on that you've been doing this long enough and you're also searching it what you do is you're searching that information you're like treasure hunter yeah what what little tricks do you have what do you have what do you have simply mentality I'm gonna take something from everything and make it your own yeah it's great proud of you man thank you you're a nice added touch to the health and fitness world and more than that yeah thank you bro he is single just so you know guys and girls he slipped into his dms it is the thirst trap so just remember that at the end of the day you