 what's up guys and welcome back to another video, it's 2026 and we're coming in strong with some fitness content joined today with the beautiful Estefany Gutierrez from the Dominican Republic. The Caribbean. The Caribbean? Yeah. I've heard good things about it, I've never been there, do you think I should go there? You should go there, you're gonna be in love, you're gonna be obsessed, I'm obsessed with my country. Dubai is Dubai but you know, this is something, here is the Caribbean, the beaches, everything. Well, you're representing today, you're representing the country. So of course we're gonna train legs, I mean what else, we're not gonna do some hardcore intense upper body, I think leg day is gonna be very appropriate. I'll take you through one of my routines but I'm hoping she can give me some points as well because this is all natural, right? Organic. No organic, no BBLs, no nothing, this is 100% natural so I think it's gonna be a good session today. Let's go, you ready? You ready? You feel it for sure. Let's go. We can warm up first. Yes. Maybe we... Good idea, that's a good idea. I always warm up, well I'm jumping, to activate my, yeah. Show me. Yeah, like, you know it's quite to activate because some people do do a stretching but you want to activate your respiration as well, just to be ready. So you don't put all the weight and then you are not prepared inside. Let's get out of here. Don't go straight into the working set. No for sure. Well I'm ready to go. How are you doing 1000 reps or something? I do like 30 and then I rest 30 seconds and I go again. Do you stretch often? Yeah, yeah for sure. Me too, everyday. Guys by the way, these shorts are now available and these as well apparently but I mean for the male viewers I don't think they're gonna be appropriate. But for the male viewers these will be appropriate. For those that like tight shorts, everything good? Yeah, perfect, perfect. So we're gonna start off with Smith Machine Squat. I quite like to do this one personally because I can keep my spine a little bit more upright, take away the strain from my lower back, place a bit more tension on the quads. Especially if you want to do a heel-elevated version. I think I'll do that today. This is insane. There's a line in the mirror which is so annoying. Right in the middle, right in the face shot. Your legs are insane, oh my gosh. Thank you. Yours are quite good as well. Quite good. How long have you been in Dubai for? One year, eight months. You like it? It's kind of artificial, superficial. But yeah, I like it. It's good for business. Good for business, gyms are good. You've got to work a little bit harder to find the right people that you want in your life. Yeah, exactly. There's some interesting characters here, put it that way. How many did you do? It's one of them still. How many did you do? Well, this is the thing, I've not done this for a while, so I will work up to probably like an eight rep max. But I don't know what that will be, we'll just have to find out. Just have to find out guys. What about you? I will focus on a little bit more in glutes, because I don't want to grow more of my legs. What are the quads? Yeah, I'm being, I'm a strong girl, but I'm... You look strong. Yeah. I should hope you're strong, and it's not all for show. Good. Oh my days, I'm a scare now. Good. I want you to push yourself today. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Like you know, we're just... If you're training with me, you want me to step out of your comfort zone a little bit. Not to the point that you injure yourself, but... Yeah, yeah. That's warm. How many? I'm gonna do... My working set will be... This cannot be warm up. That's warm. No. Yeah. The working set will have an extra 20 on each side. Yeah. You want to kill me in camera? Yes. Is your plan? Yeah, that's the plan. I'm gonna click fake footage, please. Oh my days. I cannot. It's quite heavy. No, because my legs are that big. Yeah. No. I love how you just went straight into it, and you're like, yeah, let's go. Let's just try 10. You stand, right? Yeah. Okay, so 6 to 8 reps. Okay. I will do two working sets. Yes. Two. Three. Good. Good. How many? One more, one more. I can do one more, I shoulda... Yes. Good. Good. Okay. That was good. That was good. That was 7, I think. Yeah, for sure. More. Right then, let's go. Eight reps, hopefully. You can do it. That's what I like to hear. Need some good old moral support. Come on. Yeah. One, two. Come on, you have it. Three, yes. Four, come on. Two more, come on. Five, one more. You have this. Push, push, push, push. More. Yeah. Wow. I put five or no? Like ten or five. Ten or five. Okay. Let's see if we can... How many are dead? I did six. You did seven. Seven? Yeah. So how many have to do with this? I think you could... If you're confident about it, which I know you are, you could do six. Six? Yeah. Of course. I will be here spotting. Please. Don't go far. Don't go far. One. Two. Three. Four. Four, go, go, go. Good. Keep your spine up, right? One more. Big drive, big drive, big drive. Good. Nice. Oh, thank you. Did it? It wasn't possible without you. How many years have you been training for? Three years. Just three years? Yeah, in December I just have three years. This is the thing about... My first time in the gym, my first time. Do you have a before picture? Like... Yeah, my legs are on my base. Like an as baguette. Sweet. I don't think so. Highly doubt that. Yeah, I always have bad. Yeah. But I was really skinny. Like my legs were like... And you had just before you had no interest in... You weren't interested in training? No, because I was skinny. I was like thinking that, where will I go to the gym? And then I started to do nutrition. Yeah. Because I wanted to do things right. I remember that I do posture and exercise for good. I've been all day in the gym doing everything wrong. So I started to do a student and I see him change men. In six months I was crazy. I do a competition with six men in the gym. Oh, really? And I win, by the way. Really? First place. With seven men in the gym and my diet was fucked up. Like my trainer. And I eat cake before the competition. It was a disaster because I don't want to win. It's not something that I like it. You won, so it can't be that much of a disaster. Yeah. For my genetic and my instructor, it was good. Imagine being a guy and just like... Six months of training, winning a competition, eating shit beforehand. No, for the guys it's more difficult. So many guys and the things. Yeah, I think now if you want to compete as a man, you have to be so big. Like the standard just to enter. No, it's too much competition for guys. Yeah. Oh, wow. When was that? I was 16 there, but I was really skinny. You do seven there, so maybe you can do eight now. One more. I'm pretty sure I did eight. No, you did seven, my friend. Did I? I thought I did eight. Disappointed in myself. I guess we'll have to check back. 15, crazy. Crazy. I look at me when I win the competition. So this was six months? Eight months. No, I don't win with six months because I do tricks. Steroids? No. I'm kidding. No, no, no, no, no, my trainer. No. My trainer put me on a ball, you know, on a ball? On a ball, yeah. I don't ever take it because, you know, somewhere was sucking a lot of things that I, this really made me scared and traumatic about it. And it was, I don't want to win. I just want the picture. For the content. I just want the, yeah, for, you know, because I will start to a student, so I will a student coach. I want this picture there, so I don't want to win. I don't take nothing. If you want to actually improve your skill set as a coach, it's good for you as a coach to compete at least once so that you understand the process of competing. What it takes to diet down, to consistently train, bump up the cardio and push yourself during a very difficult period of time, to be honest. Yeah, absolutely. Was it difficult for you? That this simply, this was my first diet ever to be in a competition, so I was really anxious and was kind of difficult. I remember that I competed first as a bikini. Okay. And then my legs were too big with seven months in the gym. So my coach was, you were too big for bikini and too small for wellness. Was he in the middle? Yeah. And then he said, no, we go in wellness. But the girls was like that. I swear to God. But my instructor was better. Yeah. Like I have the shape. So they just give it to me. Nice. Oh my God, there's a mirror right in front of me. I can see my side profile perfectly. Oh yeah. Wow. Hey. See what I see here? Holy shit, that was so helpful. You know with me, I find it really hard to keep my legs straight. Like anytime I go into the position, my knees want to bend. So when I do, this is like all blue. Yeah. But I want to try and hit like. More straight, yeah. Hamstring. Fucking hell. You have an amazing hamstring. This is my weak area. A weak part. For me, I feel like I hold a lot of body fat here. Really? Compared to everything else. Come on. I like, I've never ever seen my. You have fat nowhere. Really? I would put 10 less because this is my maximum. I will do it more focused on my glutes. You're doing it for a glute? Yeah. Nice. This one I do it with so many reps. Because my lower back is. I'm dominant. I think there. So I feel it. So if he like this one, if you do it. No reps. It would look like a square actually. Nobody believes that boy. You see the girls that do this? Yeah. All the CrossFit girls. They look like a fridge. No offense there. Oh my God, don't say that. My hamstrings are so tight. What? So I should leave it? Yes. You think I need to use the straps? Maybe. Because my hands. Nobody. I don't train that much my upper body. So I have not too much power to my hands. So the strap always should go in between finger and thumb. This one is good, right? So I always use it wrong. The strap should always go. Okay. Good. Nice. Bend that knee. I guess. Good. All glutes. Use those glutes. Good. Your back is working now. Just rest, rest, rest. Good. Howl some reps. That was a lot. Yeah. Nice. Nice. What's your favorite muscle group on a guy? Muscle group. Brain? Oh yeah. Good answer. Good answer. For me it's not a physical part. I will say no. No. It's not a physical part. It's not about the first. It's spiritual. Okay. I have to believe in God. There's a first thing I will say. So I say don't believe in God. No. And then it needs to be like social. I need to see how he treats people. Not only me. Like kind of human being is the person. Yeah. And then the physical part is not important. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Chris, you're coming to church with me tomorrow. I'm open to. I believe in something. Like this is the religious side. This is the spiritual side. It sways more to the spiritual side. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But with my podcast there's a lot of people I speak to. Very smart people who are religious. Or they've just recently turned to religion. And they say how much of a positive impact it's had on their life. So it makes me think like maybe I'm missing out something. For sure. It's like for me, the people that surround me used to meet with them need to believe in something. But when you don't believe in absolutely nothing, it's like you think you come out of nothing. You are not afraid from nothing. You just do whatever you want. You know it's a power over you. It's a kind of a tumble to you. You don't really be scared because the karma or what are they going to come to you? I definitely believe in karma. When something bad happens to me, I'm like maybe I deserve that. Alright, last set. I should put 10. Yes, you should put 10. You know on the way down. Slow down. Yeah, no, no, no. I do it. It's the last ones that I get. But I don't care if the last ones are not perfect. It's worth it. I'll just slow and still damage you back. Look at my lower back. Look at the line. It's the kids of that. Some pretty good lines. Don't want to get my horrible lower back out. I have like a little alien. Oh my god, that's heavy. You got it? Yes, I got it. Nice. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Go on, use those glutes. Seven. Thrust. Yeah, fuck. Good. Nice. Get. Two more. At least two more. Good. Put it back. Put it back. That was good. Yeah. Thank you. Doing more weight than me. Jeez. Sometimes I don't know where to use that. I don't know if it's stable. Where are the parts that are stable? If I get injured today, it's your fault. With this legs, with our legs, everything is stable. I'm gonna fall. Look, you're struggling a little bit there. I'm not gonna lie. I am. I thought you were saying five plates or something. No, you don't say it. I've not done it with that little platform before. It's a little wire, actually. You know there's no sexy way of getting out of that position. Any time when you've just done a really heavy set and you like crumble underneath the bar and you just have to Climb out. I'm not trying to be sexy. I'm trying to be I'm trying to be sexy for my male viewers out here. I will not do that. Do you know for like ten years? I Just didn't train my glutes my quads Got bigger. My hamstrings got bigger and there was just like this. It was literally like you have a good I like that Never good that Now now it's respectable ass. I'm like happy with it But obviously it complements the posterior chain But if you have weak glutes most of the time if you do a compound movement your lower back will overcompensate And then you injure your lower back because you have weak glutes. Yeah, or you underperform on a deadlift or squat It's very important. Glutes like the powerhouse Come on Yeah Oh He's strong Yeah Wow Oh Wow, I'm impressed. That was quite good. That's kind of embarrassing though. I'm turning with a man. He killed me in his dress No One two three four five six good seven nine That was good That's insane No Just that tree I can't know with four But it's very good I don't know why it just feels a little bit more stable for me when I do a flat ground look at him insane Where about I put 10 just After you kill me yes, whatever I put 10 2.5 10 on a 2.5 You got number in mind how many reps I'll be impressed with eight good reps though With a you will be impressed right well I've been pressed with 10 but eight it's like eight is the absolute minimum I think that was half I think nobody Just wanting to impress myself Oh Two three get it high Five good six seven Everybody else impressed you impressed should be impressed. How can you do this with five? Wow, just the programming on my app Very good. I need to train girls with you more often But I for me it was just I always used to chase the pump the pump like I would do like higher reps So I've reduced the reps and I was every week. I was focusing on like let me lift just a little bit heavier and Consistently doing it like you will progress Way quicker if you train your legs twice a week versus doing them once a week or once every 10 days like by far Progress skyrocketed when I made it a promise to myself you have to train them Like every four days every five days needs to be done. Otherwise, they just you have a dozen men's men's hate to train like yeah And it's it's it's hard work to keep And then if you work on legs you work all your body yeah, I mean you core everything It's actually now being scientifically proven That your life expectancy is correlated to the amount of muscle mass in your lower body for sure So I was training so hard my legs twice a week hard And then I was thinking like it's gonna come this day where I will just drink one time a week or every 10 days And this is what I'm doing now with my squad Because for me it's kind of hard. Yeah No, it's well, it's worked. I guess not what about your diet. Is that good? Yeah? I have no problem with the diet I eat really clean the thing is I eat too much So I have to control myself because I eat like three minutes. So it's too much Yeah, and yeah, I try to keep it clean So when I want to do something no shit milk like cake or nothing of that not sugar I just increase my volume like I eat the whole Tomahawk One KG. Yeah, by myself respect that because if I if I go To dinner I'm with a plus one and they don't finish their food I'm gonna finish their food Well, I mean for like one and a half people but if I was having dinner with you Over at your plate and there's nothing left I'm sorry, there's not gonna happen with me Well, I might have to try that one and then I go in Oh Yeah I approve of that one I like that You guys down Come on Nice that was definitely heavier than the last one Oh Oh Oh Then last one I'll let you choose we'll go in oh, yeah Oh Normally to have more stability for me I do it later. Oh Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've seen this before I Boy I need the Yeah, because guy you'll see most people do this with a dumbbell holding on to two dumbbells and it is the most fatiguing Mentally taxing thing to do it because you have to like stabilize yourself And especially as you're lifting heavier It just becomes harder and harder to stabilize your weight So the whole thing just completely exhaust you whereas when you have a fixed  amlodipine, naringin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin, niacin I can just go all the way down and also like I can, you see? I don't have to be lighter so I keep it lighter Oh my days! It'll be interesting today because I don't usually finish the session off with this and it's a friggin' heavy smith machine so Come on Little rest Take your time The second leg is always... Yeah! It hurts the most Yeah Yeah Come on Oh Yes Do you have a training course? Me neither The thing is that I always... I get so tired from my routine that I just go home Yeah I don't do cardio I think everybody does this I don't do cardio at all I'm trying to push myself now this year to do cardio but I never have done cardio for my competition before and abs as well I tried to do it so hard that I just go home I want to go out of the gym but you have to train your calves It's really important and your abs as well Nice Two Three Four Five Six Go on Seven Eight Nine Everything okay? I need to do the only leg Yeah, definitely rest Guys, it's okay to have a little break in between each leg Otherwise, if your heart rate is so high and you're out of breath and you're trying to do that second leg you will not do anywhere near as many reps Four Five Six Seven Make your back straight Good Last set Don't write my nose please, yeah Just make my nose look massive Don't die on this I'll try not to Please Six Such a good exercise It needs to be a staple in everyone's training session, I think Six Seven Six Seven Six I'll add 2.5 to 9 because I don't want to be here Look at this Six And you're doing it the easier way Really? Yeah Come on, we need to get the 2.5 You like that with the nails you take this I'll pick it with my little toe Four Good Five, come on Seven Eight Nine Good Mine was good Extra 5 kilos is easy No, I'm not putting it on, I'm just being a good citizen and putting my weights back Two Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine Yes We did it We did it Mine was good The shorts looking even smaller I am definitely spent after that session Very good Pushed myself, I think you pushed yourself as well You pushed myself Yeah, so you're capable of doing it for sure Yeah Not that like you need to really because it's clearly working But it's always good to have new targets, build on your strength Motivation What advice would you give to the ladies that are watching? Well, advice Train like a man You should train like a man Don't think that you're going to get like a man, right? It's very hard Because it's difficult to even get scared without supplementation, without some strange things So train like a man if you want to grow And eat as well like a man Yes But clean Yeah, don't be afraid to eat And for the guys obviously, train your legs, just train your freaking legs twice a week Like it's impressive if you can build a pretty solid upper body But the respect you get when you have decent legs as a man Absolutely It's like a beauty as well Yeah, it's rare So you could be the guy that stands out So thank you very much for watching guys If you want to find Stephanie on social media Check out our Instagram He's growing very rapidly I probably need to ask you some advice when it comes to making reels Because it's working very well I know One of them got like 60 million views Honestly, no I have 100 100 million views 100 and something It was crazy Because normally I do videos, you know, with camera But then I just put my camera there And I started to post, I was in the supermarket 50 second video and just go crazy Instagram sometimes is crazy But keep trying, post Don't be afraid to talk to them from the camera Because social media is the thing right now So do it Do it You heard her You never know Thank you very much for watching guys We'll see you in the next video Bye Bye