 what's up guys and welcome to another video. Today we will be debunking some of the most common myths within the fitness industry at the moment, or at least some of the most common ones which I believe are just getting in the way of people making significant progress. So in no particular order, the ones that stand out the most to me, starting off with number one is that you need to do cardio in order to lose body fat. Okay, the truth of the matter is if you want to lose body fat, there's two ways you can do it. You either do that by consuming fewer calories or you do that by burning more calories on a day-to-day basis. So let me show you what I mean. This is a representation of how many calories an individual would burn on a day-to-day basis and this is where it's coming from. Resting metabolic rate, thermo-effective food, non-exercise activity, thermogenesis and then actual exercise. Okay, so these two things you can't really change, right? There's at least in the short run, you can't change your resting metabolic rate or the thermic effect of food, but these two you can. You can change how much exercise you do and you can change how many calories you burn just moving your body on a day-to-day basis. Now most people will think, okay, I want to burn more calories so the only way for me to do that is to just do more exercise and this usually becomes a little bit problematic because it means either going to the gym more often, which most people don't want to do, or trying to burn more calories in the gym when really when you're in the gym the goal should be to actually just build muscle tissue, not maximize calories burn. Okay, and then going to the gym and just doing cardio just sucks and it's usually boring, but yes ultimately you will burn more calories. Now what you could do in order to burn the same amount of calories is change how you burn it. So you don't necessarily have to do more exercise. You don't have to go to the gym more often or try and burn more calories in the gym. You can just figure out how on a day-to-day basis you can just move your body more. Okay, so this is in the form of just walking around, increasing steps, just bouncing your knee upwards and downwards. Maybe you're taking a call and you're doing steps and walking around the room while doing a call, or maybe you just decide to you know walk to work or just stay on your feet and not sit down all day. Okay, so this isn't necessarily directly doing more exercise, but it is a way of moving your body more so that you burn more calories. The next myth is that you need to be consuming an excessive amount of protein in order to build muscle tissue or even just to maintain it. I for years used to believe and used to swear by hitting the target of 2.2 grams per kilogram of body weight, which when you think about it particularly the heavier you get, that's a hell of a lot of protein and that's a lot of meat, fish, eggs, protein powders which you need to consume in order to hit those targets and it can be stressful when you think oh my god I haven't hit my target so many days. In reality the studies have shown that 1.6 to 1.7 grams per kilogram of body weight is pretty much all you need in order to build muscle tissue. Anything above that isn't really going to accelerate muscle growth at all, so that's good news. It means you can consume more fats, you can consume more carbs which realistically are probably going to enhance your performance and your recovery. Now it is worth saying the older you get protein requirements might be more and if you're in a calorie deficit protein requirements might be a little bit higher. So overall I would say it's probably better to be on the safe side and maybe over consume protein just a little bit as an insurance policy just in case you were in a situation where you did need to consume more protein but for the vast majority of people you just want to look athletic, they want to put on a bit of size, 1.6 to 1.7 grams per kilogram of body weight is going to be absolutely fine. Another huge myth is that you need to be sore after your sessions, you need to experience a pretty significant amount of delayed onset and muscle soreness otherwise this session was just not good enough, you need to try harder next time. Which is not true, in fact you can make progress, lift heavier weights, get bigger and stronger without actually needing to experience the soreness at all. That's actually a good indicator that your programming is on point and you're not doing excessive volume, excessive reps, sets, drop sets and so on. The thing is with soreness, if you experience too much of it basically means it's taking that muscle longer to recover. So it's more time until you can actually train that muscle group once again and on top of that it's just straight up uncomfortable because you feel like you're walking around like a cripple. Nobody likes training legs and not being able to walk properly or sit down five days after the session. Okay so actually doing fewer sets, maybe fewer exercises in a particular session, but still trying to lift as heavy as possible and each week lifting heavier means that the soreness will actually be reduced but you will still be making progress. The next myth is that you need to cut your carbs if you want to reduce body fat percentage. If you're going to go on a cut the best way to do it is just eliminate your carbs. Well that's not entirely true. So let me give you an example of what I mean. This is an individual who's consuming 3,000 calories at the start of a cut and they want to lose body fat but they are convinced that you can only lose body fat by cutting the carbs. What ends up happening by reducing the carbs drastically from their diet, they end up cutting a significant amount of calories from their intake. Now of course this will give you results but often you end up dropping your calories drastically in a very short period of time which is certainly not advised at the start of a cut. Okay they don't increase their fats and they don't increase their proteins, they just cut their carbs. There's a huge deficit and usually what this means is there's a massive drop in performance in the gym, they get weaker, recovery is slower, the muscles are less full and then they end up having these pretty aggressive cravings because of the elimination of carbs and they're not replacing the fats. This is what I would do, a person who is trying to maintain muscle mass and lift as much as possible, stay full, stay satiated. I would just drop my fats a little bit. I would keep my carbs exactly the same, keep protein the same and just drop the fats and you can see we're in a deficit and that is all we need in order to lose body fat. Of course as you want to continue dropping calories I wouldn't recommend eliminating fats because you need the fats. Okay so once you get to a certain point where it doesn't make sense to drop fats any further then you can start dropping the carbs a little bit. I wouldn't recommend dropping protein if anything protein may need to increase a little bit but you shouldn't be eliminating or dropping carbs drastically at the start of a cut. Just over time you want to look at very gradually reducing fats, carbs, allowing yourself to be in a calorie deficit but not an excessive calorie deficit especially to begin with in this example. The next myth is to do with training to failure. A lot of people seem to think if you want to grow you want to build muscle tissue you have to push yourself and trace failure on every single set. This is not true okay for the majority of people, beginners, intermediate lifters and even experienced lifters you don't need to do that. The true indication of progress in building muscle tissue is progressively overloading on a week to week basis. How can you increase the mechanical tension in the exercises which you're doing? The best way to do that is just lift a little bit more each week. The problem with pushing to failure two things. First of all when you push to failure the risk of injury is much higher. This goes for everyone even if you're an advanced lifter. If you just have one slip of concentration the risk of injury is very high. If you're a beginner intermediate lifter you don't have the experience or the mastery of exercise execution so you often can't control the weight and will not have you form and check and end up doing damage okay and injury that's the absolute worst thing for you. The second point is the fatigue and the muscle damage that's caused from going to failure too frequently okay. If you were to push to failure on every single set you're going to be much more fatigued in comparison to somebody who has one or two reps in reserve. So what does that mean? You need longer periods of rest and recovery in between sessions. If you like me find it very hard to not push to failure then what would make sense would be to tape it on the volume okay so do fewer working sets per session per week and that way if you do push to failure this is like seriously pushing to failure then you're not going to be doing as much damage and causing as much fatigue because you're not doing it as often. Let's say for example if you're pushing to failure and doing that in three to four working sets per exercise okay so it is relative is kind of dependent upon the individual and what their idea of failure is but you don't need to do it in order to progress so don't think you know just by literally shaking on those last repetitions borderline letting the weight drop on your face or causing major injury you don't need to do that okay just track your progress the weights you're lifting and the goal each week should be to lift more. Another common myth which people believe is that whenever they're cutting and trying to lose body fat they need to increase the reps that they're doing for each exercise they do in the gym. They think well if I do more repetitions then I'm going to burn more calories and this is what I want to do because obviously I'm losing body fat but this is actually the opposite of what you want to do okay if you are doing more repetitions you cannot lift the same amount of weight for more repetitions what you're actually doing is you're reducing mechanical tension you're going to actually accelerate the amount of muscle tissue which you lose and strength which you lose because of this reduction in weight which you're lifting and of course you combine that with fewer calories it's going to accelerate even further so when you're in the gym focus on preserving as much muscle tissue as possible size strength of course when the calories are in abundance you can focus on really growing but ultimately if you're in a deficit the focus should be to preserve that strength and that size so in order to do that you still try to lift as heavy as possible you don't start messing around with the rep ranges you still keep them on the lower end if anything I would probably advise maybe reducing the reps a little bit so that you can maintain that size of strength while still lifting as heavy as you can possibly lift obviously you won't be as strong you may need to reduce the weights a little bit but ultimately you want to try and keep them as high as you possibly can do to give signals to your body that hey we are still shifting this weight so I still need you to hold on to this muscle tissue I still need you to hold on to the size because we're still doing the work right outside of the gym you focus on creating this calorie deficit either by manipulating your calorie intake or by just moving your body more more neat as I've mentioned before the next myth is to do with bulking and cutting and how if you want to build muscle tissue you need to bulk okay you need to be in a pretty comfortable calorie surplus on a day-to-day basis in order to build muscle tissue and that's not actually true if you just want to build muscle and get stronger you can do so by pretty much staying at mainsets level or very slightly above that let me show you what I mean by this here we have a graph representing two individuals who are putting on muscle tissue over an extended period of time usually years I'm taking the example of an intermediate lifter who's been lifting for years not an absolute beginner so if we take the person in blue this is someone who has been consuming maintenance calories consistently or maybe just above maintenance but ever so slightly and they are gradually putting on muscle tissue over time because there is enough calories which they're consuming in order to do that of course let's assume that they're progressively overloading every week and they're sleeping and everything outside of the gym is also on point now if we take another individual who also is doing everything in the gym and outside of the gym identical to this other person in blue but the calorie intake is different look what happens here they will start to put themselves in a pretty significant calorie surplus I'm talking about like 500 calories or more above maintenance notice how they don't actually put on more muscle mass at a faster rate because that's just not possible but what happens is when they get to around about here they realize oh I'm actually like quite fat now I've accumulated a lot of fat during this bulk phase now I need to cut to bring my body fat percentage down again but what they don't realize is when they're cutting for weeks at a time or months at a time because of a calorie deficit it's actually a lot harder to build muscle tissue so they notice that their strength goes down and because of this deficit they actually start to lose size and then they get to a point where like hey my body fat percentage is now a point where I'm happy once again probably where it was at the start then they go and start this bulk again where they pack on the calories and put way more calories into their diet than they need to so again they're building muscle tissue at the same rate as the person in blue but it gets to a point where once again they get too fat and then like hey I need to go into a deficit once again to get my body fat percentage down so the same thing keeps happening they're in periods of building muscle tissue when they're in a surplus because they're in such a significant surplus it gets to a point where they get too fat and they need to reduce their calories go on a cut in order to bring the body fat percentage down again so they keep repeating that but notice because there's these periods of building and then losing muscle over the long run if you take this finish line point they are actually in terms of muscle mass a lot smaller in comparison to the person who was just consistently eating the exact amount of calories which they needed to be eating and we can assume that at this point here both individuals at the same percentage of body fat so there you have it those are some of the biggest myths which I believe are causing the most confusion and prevented people from actually making progress if you've enjoyed this video make sure you subscribe to my channel and check out all the other videos on my Thurston Coaching channel and of course if you are in need of proper programming where you don't have to literally spend all day every day in the gym wasting your time Thurston can cater for all of your needs all of your goals and experience levels it's something which I've been using over the past six years and without a doubt the more I use it the more progress I make so make sure you head over to Thurston.com watch download the app in the App Store and I'll see you guys on the inside