 T3-antantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantantant few other places throughout the UK that we need to visit. So let's crack on. We've got a busy day today. Apartment is pretty cool. Two floors, nice living room, area, workspace, and three bedrooms downstairs. So, yeah, have some of that. So we don't have much time to be fighting around because the podcast is a teleclosure. We need to get on the other side of the river. And there's also conveniently a tube strike happening for the next five days. So the London Underground isn't working, which is a bit of a mad one. So we're going to need to make sure that we get there. Mice and on time. Let's go. By the way, this whole tube strike thing, I've never seen. When I arrived yesterday at King's Cross, I've never seen the streets so busy. Full of people. Buses packed. Jam packed. Let me find out how many people get the tube every day. The 4.23 million tube trips per day. 4.23 million trips, which are not happening anymore. You know, before podcasts, especially in the morning, I like to do them fasted. Just fully fueled up to the absolute maximum caffeine because it helps me to be like more alert and less sluggish. So that usually does me well until about like 12 o'clock or 1 o'clock. And then I get insanely hungry and then need to eat something. So that'll be the plan for today. Have you actually ever worked a proper job? Yeah, loads of proper jobs, mate. Used to be a gardener. Used to work as a club promoter. Did some topless modelling. Worked Hollister, assistant manager, personal trainer, online coach. So yeah, all not normal jobs. Oh. Rip my button off. Anyway, now we're to the other side of the river to the studio. You know, one thing I do miss when I'm doing these recordings overseas is not being in my own studio, which I'm used to in Dubai. But we make it work. Usually in a lot of big cities around the world, there is studios to rent out. And this conversation is going to be a bit of a blike. David Kipping, astrophysicist, specializing in the discovery of exoplanets and exomoons. So for a Monday morning, pretty intense conversation. It's hot. Two cups of coffee in the toilet is so bad. I've got another 20 minutes to go. It's like training for the bladder. What would happen if I would press? No, no. I would just get out and pee. I'll sit here, yeah? Yeah. The funny thing about podcasting is you actually realise that you don't have a perfectly symmetrical face and usually you have one side that's better than the other. And I've found that this side is more aesthetic in comparison to this side. So what's up? What's up? Well, just had a successful podcast, which went on for like nearly two hours. And I had to even cut it because we would just continue waffling on about space. Anyway, now we're having a little intermission. We've got one and a half hours until the next one. Found this cool spot in the Farmers Inn. Which I've never heard of before, but it's a cool little buffet of loads of healthy food. Of course we're eating in the sun. Making the most of it before it goes away. Look at that, man. This is really just ideal. Oh, goddamn. That's a lot. A lot for a big, big man like me. But the situation and complication that we're facing is I'm wearing white trousers. I don't know how clean surfaces are. Maybe I just have to sit on a napkin. What the fuck? I'm not wearing the watch. Good night. I do not want to be a target. No, no. It's rife. Especially along here as well, man. They just... I haven't seen the watches. Do you know now? I was walking around and I was having my phone out. I was like, oh, I actually don't know if I can do that anymore. I don't know if you'd be a target, mate. But like, you know, it's just... If I'm putting it out there... Yeah, yeah. Well, I don't know if you've seen on Oxford Street. They do these... They paint it on the road. Yeah, I've seen that. Mind the grab. Yeah, mind the grab. They're not attacking the actual problem. It's just... Yeah. Yeah. Cheers. Smiling. Happy. Yeah, very happy. Don't act like that's mine. You have to. No. First of all, if I was going to get anything, it'd be that white chocolate raspberry cookie. But it is delicious though. Dave Gandy, welcome to the show. I'm very excited for today's episode. What do you want? What do I want to say? Yeah. Another very good podcast. Dave Gandy, absolute legend. I can't lie. I did look up to him a little bit when I was younger. Especially after that campaign he did with Dolce & Gabbana. I saw that and I was like, you know what? When I'm older, I want to be doing that. Lying in boats. Wearing almost next to nothing. With an exotic woman. Sat next to me. You chafed it. We did it. You made it. Kick it. But he's a very good lad. Very humble. Humble man. Kind man. So check that out when it comes out. Which, to be honest with you, I have no idea when it'll be coming out. So you just have to keep checking the First Things Thirst podcast page. It shows it right. Right here. Right there. Very good. Guys, what is one of the most frustrating things when you're traveling around the world? For me at least, it's not having data or slow internet. Not being connected. I need to be connected whenever I'm traveling around. Now back in the day, what I used to do is either switch SIM cards from one phone to another. And I'm not the type of person to go to a phone shop and buy a separate SIM card. It's just annoying. It's frustrating. I need maximum convenience. So thankfully, because of the Saley app, all I have to do is go onto it, choose the location I'm going to be, how many days I need data for, and I get an incredibly good deal for the duration of my stay. And I get unlimited data. Good, fast data. Which is exactly what I need. Download the Saley app now or go to saley.com forward slash Thurston to get an exclusive 15% discount on Saley data plans. What are we doing? What are you doing? We're in Manier de Bois. See, if I'm going to do some shopping, I might as well support my boy, Rhys Revoir. He's got his flagship store on Oxford Street. I walked past many times before. I've never actually properly come into shop because I just don't like shopping because it does require a little bit of time and patience. And I have some of that today. So we're going to cop a couple of outfits or at least one. So I'm feeling something brown, something cream. I have more than enough blacks. More than enough whites. So we need to venture it into slightly different colors. Oh God, this is it. Gee, I feel like this is better than the brown one. Yeah. Way better. Yeah. I think this is it. This could be it. This could be it. You know, it's a little bit cold outside. I didn't need to buy a jacket. So. That's why you put on a tank top. Because when it gets a little burn, the sun comes out again. I'm just going to take this off. I'm going to buy some shoes as well. I guarantee you. Every time I wear new shoes, I get blisters. Walk around London. I get a blister. But maybe not. Maybe today's the day where I don't get blister. What type of shoes are you going to get? Go for it. Do you want more of like a dress shoe or like a relaxed kind of? Well, ideally comfortable. Comfortable. Okay. What's that? I do. UK 10.5. You have one that can go for the outfit. Yes, I do. Okay. You know. I do. You're in grey hands. Guys, we have gone for this outfit. The combination of everything is absolutely sublime. Very decent. White. Light brown. With brown trousers. We bought a low-cut vest. Quite boxy. You can't tell them where to vest. Of course. Let's not do that. You see, I've got one vest. Don't let me in this. Which is all sort of the same colors of pants. There's loads of other stuff which I, well, could get. But I don't want to be carrying too much luggage around with me. So I'll probably have to come back near Christmas time. When I have a big fat suitcase ready to film. How's your gin and tonic? It's great. It's fantastic. Extremely decent shoehorn as well. I just. Take that with me. You never know. Streets of London, man. These are fancy sunglasses, I think. Sweet. Sweet. Without you belonging in Ibiza. Pretty funky. Successful shop. Could have very easily got a lot more. But I do not have the capacity to be taking more than this with me on my travels over the next two weeks. Shout out to my boy, Ries Wabara. Check out the podcast if you haven't listened to it. Very good. Especially for anyone who's interested in entrepreneurship. And starting their own business. And fashion. Etc. Now, let's move on. So after a full day of yapping and receiving an earful of yapping. It is time to kick back and enjoy. Little Sloan Square. The weather is still alright. Enjoying the very last time I'll be able to sit outside in London without freezing my bowels are. So, a toast. It was a successful day. Maybe I'll have a pint because I think I deserve a pint. And I do enjoy a pint. I just obviously can't have too many pints. And, yeah. Get some food after this. Ask me some questions. Otherwise, it's a boring-ass monologue of me. Oh, yeah. What do you miss about London? Oh, no. I'm joking. It's sort of spit at my ear. Oh, yeah. Peace and quiet. Yeah. You look like such a weird guy. Shoving his big lens into drostanolone. Decent little spot, this one. Well, we'll find out about that. So, this place, Chizu. Chizu. What? Chizu? Yeah, got it. Chizu. That one is good. Rated that one. Highly recommend. This one, Cube. We're about to see if it's good. Oh, my God. That's good. By the way, have any of you ever seen Mike not react to food like this? Have you ever seen me disappoint yet? No. You always love food. Food is your... I never chew either. I just inhale. I suck. I'm swallowed. I'm a jerk. Presentation. What? See, here's the thing. The presentation isn't the best food. Usually, when the presentation isn't the best, that means it tastes the best. Oh, my God. Incorrectly using the chopsticks as per. Dippy. Very, very fresh and good ingredients. Oh, shit. That's the one. That's the one? Unagi-fagoi. The combination you didn't even think about combining has been combined. That's up there with one of the best rolls I've had, I think. I'll be remembering that roll for years to come. Interesting. I didn't know Oxford Street was hosting a sleepover event this evening. Everyone's out and about. It's chilling. It's just chilling. Lovely. Lovely stuff. That really is nice. Anybody else? I might join them, you know. I might join them when I have a couple of ciggies, a few more beers and just talk the night away. What is going on in London? Sort it out. We gotta go there. That is ridiculous. That is weird. You gonna lie in Latvia? A little bit. So, I assume you have many opinions right now about London. Yeah, many opinions will probably get me in trouble or cancel. So I'll just keep them to myself. Well, this is very cool. So it's time to say farewell to London. We are taking a little trip up north in a pretty swanky vehicle. This is honestly pretty cool. Sometimes getting the train is annoying. Having a little van to yourself is very pleasant and comfortable. We are heading to Redford, of all places. Now, why would I be going to Redford? Well, that's a very good question. But there's a good reason for going there. We are going to be meeting up with Brian Terry, fellow Brit, fellow shredded individual who is more shredded and more jacked than I am right now. I think he's like four weeks out from the Mr. Olympia competition. And he's got his own gym. And I wanted to go check it out for a while. I want to see how he's doing. We haven't linked up and filmed a video since 2020 or 2021 back in Dubai a while ago. So it will be good to catch up with him and see how he's doing. Oh, there he is. Pulled up in his Porsche. Porsche. Right. Let's get ready. Let's go, RT Gym. Finally. The man himself. There he is. You well? Yeah, good man. How are you? I can't bend your butt. You're getting younger. Let's go. Go. Everything you've got. Extreme, very, very different. More volume, but more intensity. Like, especially recently, I've been keeping it within, like, the 8 to 12 rep range. Maybe even less, just a lot of exercises. And here we're doing some big, big steps. So, that is the session complete. He absolutely annihilated the delts. Very different, once again, to how I typically train. That was very intense. It was quite a lot of volume. He is four weeks out, so he's just, there's no stopping him. He's completely focused on the goal. And he's aiming for that number one spot. It's one of the things I love about my job and what I get to do. I get to train with all these people who are at the top of their game and just get to experience how they train and what it is that they are doing to look the absolute best. So, I'll be doing a full video with the session that I did with him on my other coaching channel. So, keep an eye out for that. But now, we are once again on the move and heading to the airport. Thank you.