 The term double-jointed isn't actually a scientific term. You can't have two joints in one spot, even if your thumb moves weird sometimes. The scientific term is hypermobility, and anytime any one of your joints goes further than the average person, that's called hypermobility. Hypermobility and hypermobility. Simply put, hypermobility is above normal movement ability. Hey baby girl, how you doing? But anyway, I'd like to show you a test that you or anybody else can try to see if you're considered hypermobile by the scientific and medical community. And you don't have to be nearly as flexible or as mobile as me to be considered hypermobile or as most people call it. Double jointed. This video was sponsored by me. I have a second YouTube channel that is devoted to bringing you high quality follow along videos if you want to get flexible. And I know attention spans are only getting shorter and shorter, but if you like to read, I also have a newsletter. We are dedicated to keeping your data safe and the information we bring you is high quality. All the links are in the description, check it out. Oh yeah, where was I? Oh yeah. This is called the bait and score. There is a total of nine possible points, and as an adult, if you score five points or more of you have generalized joint hypermobility. Yeah. Pause if you need to keep track of your points and we'll find out who's hypermobile together. On a flat surface, does your pinky bend up to 90 degrees or more at a point for each side that can do that? With your wrists facing down, can you touch your thumb to your wrist at a point for each side that can do that? Does your elbow go past 10 degrees or more when it is fully straight at a point for each side that can do that? And when your knees lock out, do they extend past straight by 10? Mine obviously don't, but by 10 degrees or more, if they do, add a point for each side. And lastly, can you put your palms on the ground with your knees completely straight if you can? Add one more point for that one. So how'd you score? I got seven, which means even for a child, I'm still considered hypermobile. I'm so proud of that. Stay flexy. Wait, this isn't the end of the video. Maybe I'll use that as a short. But there is one itty-bitty problem when you get a bait and score this high. I knew you were naturally flexible, so I'll never be able to get to your level. You lied to us. It was just your genetics this whole time. Whoa, whoa, whoa, hold the phone, the pinkies, the thumbs, the hamstrings. Those are all completely trainable and actually necessary for some sport. Back when I first learned to do an L-sit, I could only do it elevated, so I legitimately trained the extension of all my fingers, not just my pinky. When I first trained to do a slow muscle-up, I trained my false grip like this so that I could pull myself up over the bar. And if you didn't know, that flex wrist really helps with that thumb position. And I think it's pretty obvious that you can train hamstring flexibility. And if you're like me, you didn't just stop at touching your toes and you started training until you could go elbow to toe and neck, head to toe. Oh, oh boy, not there yet. So just by training those trainable skills, the finger extension, the false grip, and then the hamstrings, you can score five points as an adult, which is enough to be considered hypermobile. A lot of people assume that testing positive on a bait and score means you have a genetic condition making you more flexible, but correlation does not equal causation. That means that just because somebody has chocolate on their face doesn't mean they stole your chocolate. They could have just, you know, had their own chocolate at home. In my case, I obviously bought the chocolate, but sorry, this isn't about chocolate. In the case of my flexibility, it took an incredible amount of training to get there and I didn't always have it, except for the hyper-extended elbows I always had though. But there are even more flaws to this scoring system. Check it out. Meet Bob, the hypothetical fake guy I made up. Bob was born with slightly hyper-extended elbows and knees, which happens to about 10% of the population. As a child, Bob did dance and gymnastics, which obviously required a lot of flexibility training. So it's time to get his first bait and score. One point for each hyper-extended elbow, one point for each hyper-extended knee, and since he's trained flexibility quite a bit, one point for palming the ground. But his pinkies, his thumbs, his wrists, very stiff, no points there. That means he got a total of five points, which if he was an adult would mean he has hypermobility, but I don't know if you remember, this is little Bob. No hypermobility yet. So Bob graduates high school, he stops doing dance and gymnastics, and he goes to college to do finance. Now it's time for bait and score number two. He still has hyper-extended elbows and knees, but now he can no longer palm the ground and he can barely touch his toes. Since he stopped training, his hamstrings have become very, very stiff, and like always, his wrists, his thumbs, his pinkies, too stiff. This means as an adult, he scores four points, not hypermobile. But let's fast forward. Bob is in his sixties now. Bait and score number three. Bob can't even touch his toes anymore. He has carpal tunnel syndrome, so his wrists and fingers have only gotten worse, but he still has all those hyper-extended elbows and knees. Drum roll, please. Now at the age of 60, Bob has been diagnosed with a hypermobility disorder because you only need to score four points if you're over the age of 50 to be considered hypermobile. So it's actually possible to get stiffer and stiffer throughout your life and magically, at the age of 60, be considered hypermobile. Huh. Yeah, this system is not perfect. My point is a high-baton score doesn't automatically mean that you have a disorder making you more flexible, but it does mean you have chocolate on your face. Again, with the chocolate, it just means that you should look into it. But seriously, the reason others think people like Bob and I have a tissue disorder making us more flexible is because those people exist. Yeah, some people have tissue disorders making them more flexible. Examples would be EDS or Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome or HSD, which is hypermobility spectrum disorders. Yeah, I know. I look super guilty. But the thing is, is I don't have any other symptoms that would signify me having one of these disorders. Speaking of which, sometimes people with these disorders, like EDS or HSD, don't even have flexible joints. They can have flexible veins. Yes, literally flexible veins. This usually results in something called varicose veins, which looks like this, and it can sometimes cause other medical issues. You ever get dizzy or faint after getting up? Could be the POTS caused from the EDS or HSD. Oh, my stomach. You have gastrointestinal or just tummy issues. It could be the EDS. Tired all the time? Headaches? Always dehydrated? Random pain? You get my point. There are tons of symptoms that can come with having a hypermobility disorder, and they usually do. I originally wanted to make this video to say, see, I'm just like you, but I trained flexibility more. But it seems kind of silly now because the only reason why people think that is because there's a huge misunderstanding with the symptoms that come with hypermobility disorders. It's not all sunshine and rainbows. If you have tons of these issues, I recommend going to this website. It's where I got all of my data from. If you're struggling, there's tons of resources available for you, and if you're a normal person, this is the only flexibility video you will ever need to watch. It's pretty good. Stay Flexi.