 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx We're gonna go to a track in field which is interesting because he told me that he wants to break the world record for crab walking It's the golden line keep going keep going. I don't even know what that means, but I guess we'll find out dude. How you doing? so Hollywood Boulder Before we get started on whatever this is what is like an average week look for you like training wise Training wise I should keep it pretty minimal so I might do hangboard One to two times a week maximum. It's a it's like half of my finger pad. It's very uh, so that's one arm And you do one arm. Oh my goodness, you know when you say training you're specifically talking about like stuff like hangboard You're not even talking about climbing right now climbing is a sport So to me that is doing not necessarily training so I do that for many many hours like Sometimes 35 a week this I can really only try super hard like one or two times a week Passed out. I would injure myself like I just feel things would just start tearing away How do you warm up you can hang on the 20 with your feet on the ground even you're just getting your Nerves firing in that way my forearms are on fire right now and this warm-up has been a full-on workout for me But luckily for us now it's time to actually climb Yes with my useless arms. Let's go. All right, so we're in rentals trying to v9 by the way a v9 is very Advanced and far above my level over there, but we're in trash rental shoes. So yeah, what is this? Oh god, there's zero grip. Okay, so I what is that? The start to a v9 Yep, yeah, okay heel hook bump to the pinch come out to the to the current it's small oh That's crazy. Anyway, there was no chance. I was gonna get a v9 on my first day back to climbing But that's okay. We're here for the journey for the experience So we're going on to an easier climb which first wool animal is a v7 Okay, let's just try it On that first jump my fingers hit the ceiling so I went too high Oh, yeah, of course of course Yep, this is where I'm slipping right here. I almost want to get the shoes wet and I feel like they would grip more oh Man all right here we go See We need something for my ego. Let's go with something like a free I That's for the ego I can I can climb a v3 You want to go try the v12? Let's look what a v12 is oh boy You're gonna the only thing harder than trying to climb a v12 without actually training for it Is how expensive your phone plan is which is why I partnered with mint mobile But first I'd like to send a text with it and we got to go to the park How do I I oh this will have to do let's go All right Let's give it a shot Go I know what you're thinking who should I text my mom of course who uses an Android and then of course my wife Who uses iPhone and it worked all right that worked? I don't know what I was expecting they offer premium wireless for as low as $15 a month And I can get unlimited talk and text on the nation's largest 5g network I brought my own phone along with my number I already had it and of course all of my current contacts, so I sacrificed literally nothing So how hard is it for you to change your service? Well big wireless wants you to think it's hard, but it's really not thanks to digital e sim cards Which most phones now have you can activate and change your service from the comfort of Wherever you are and if your phone doesn't have a digital e sim card Well mint mobile is gonna send you a sim card for free So if you want to save a little bit of your money, oh without the sacrifice go to try mint mobile comm slash by David It's at the top of the description and you get $15 a month of premium wireless when you get the three month plan now Let's get back to that v12 and remember we still have a world record to break all right It's a three-finger old hand and foot goes here on the same hold position You see how much his shoulder gets activated I'm not even pulling on all on the shoulder. Yeah, and in rentals It's gonna be like ridiculous How do I know I can even hold this I can't even apply force in that left hand that crimp is nasty It's holding nothing that sucks. It's holding you're not holding anything like what is this? Like it's not even a crimp for me to be like It's a hope when a dream at the moment Battered and bruised as I was it was time to break a crab walking world record And if the first half of this video was anything to show for it I don't think I'm gonna be able to keep up, but I've made peace with that It's okay. All right. We are going to be doing odd Movements and exercises Namely the crab walk and the bear crawl. Okay Crab walk is on the back side bear crawls on your front side So I think the bear walk seems a little bit easier. Let's do bear walk first. Okay, I'll crawl will be much more tiring on our systems And for how far? We are whole field. We're gonna win. We're doing the whole field So you're basically running over like a little hunched old man almost when you're landing you're landing like this Yes, so we're running, you know So It is literally just running and then slapping the ground almost pretty much to so you will feel it on your wrist. Yep That feels relatively simple. Yep You look great Going to attempt to break the world record. I doubt we will today But we might for the bear crawl for the bear crawl. Okay for the crab walk. I will beat the record I know that Alright, here. Don't this is this is a race Sure, try not to spend all your energy in the first 20 meters. You will get tired. All right two one go Oh Went about 60% of the way All right We just look back at it. It was actually 120 meters or yeah 120 meters instead of 100 so No wonder it was so tired But it was supposed to be from this white line not that white line and same on the other side so We're getting all that more distance one meter in from this line Technical, okay now we've got a crab walk. Yep. We've got great suffering among us if I'm gonna go fast I want bounce right so I'm using a little bit of bounce in the elbow and a little bit of bounce in the shoulder Shoulders come like this. Okay, and you Oh What is a little slower because you're using the hamstrings drag How did you even go that fast you're pushing and catching push catch push catch? Oh God Oh God, it's really rough for a short duration you can go one two three four like that For a longer duration You go in threes one two three one two three one two three one two three like that. Oh my god Really rough on the triceps the wrists shoulders core Do you've got the record that you got it? You got to get it. So let's see what I can do. I'm pretty darn tired I think I can beat 54 Okay If you lose the mic, don't worry about it. So Okay Alright ready. Yep. Count me down three two one go Keep it steady Good Find a way to breathe You got it oh Dude you're cooking let's go Come on the golden line keep going keep going keep going This is yours just keep going breathe push Yes, keep going keep on keep going more more more more further further further here we go here we go last dude faster I'm time No way I Don't know if the camera can see this They feel the blood pumping through my hip flexors It's a bump up up up up up up up up up. Oh my god. You went so hard for the blood like running in all four limbs Oh my god, dude. What time do you think you hit me like 43? So I stopped at a second late. So you're around 41 seconds Timer says 42 44 the camera is probably Better and has a more official time. So that is the world record, right? You know, okay That is the record for sure That was terrible