 Wel hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint hint it's okay to stretch, you're going to get at least an inch of range of motion. There, there. It's okay to stretch. Not quite like that, but now you have the spirit. Keep your back perfectly flat, so don't let it round over, and all you're going to do is hinge from your hips, almost like you're sticking your butt out behind you. Basically, what that does is it forces you to stretch your hamstring rather than your lower back. So you'll notice instead of being right here, you're going to be all the way up here, maybe a little bit lower, maybe even a little bit higher. Only you know where to start, but once you find that position, we're going to introduce a little bit more tension. I feel the tension a lot right here, so all I'm going to do is bend one knee, feel the tension deepen on the opposite side, straighten it out, and then do it on the other leg, feel the tension deepen on this side, and you're going to keep switching back and forth until you get around 30 reps or so. Once you finish doing that, retest your hamstring flexibility, and you will be shocked at how much further you can go. But don't be fooled, that hamstring flexibility will go away if you just rest for a little bit. So we're going to take advantage of it. So now that you can go a little bit deeper than you could before, all you're going to do is hold your favorite hamstring stretch for a couple sets of 30 seconds. You want this 30 seconds, that 30 seconds, and this 30 seconds, all of these times that you've done multiple times a week to add up to five minutes a week. That's literally just 10 sets of 30 seconds. So if you plan on stretching twice a week, you're just going to do five sets of this twice a week. Or you can do two sets of this five days a week. So even though it may not seem possible right now, touching your elbow to your toe or even going to a front split is actually going to be pretty easy if you stay consistent. I have a free hamstring ebook if you want something that you can just do for a couple weeks to try out, or if you're really willing to commit. I have front split, middle split, and a full body flexibility program that you can follow. Links are in the description. Stay flexy.