 refers to the spine, but this is systemic. It's all over my entire body. Psoriatic, that refers to like psoriasis. Yes, the skin condition. I've had that my whole life. And arthritis, it's affecting my joints. So axial psoriatic arthritis, spinal psoriasis in my joints is basically what it is. Not fun, not fun at all. But I now have medication that has helped me tremendously. I keep it clean. Now here's the not so fun part. You push down till it clicks and then you just hold. Oh, I hate it. Oh, it hurts this time around. Yep. Okay. You gotta wait for it to click again. I gotta hold it here. Oh my goodness. Yep. That's the second click. Pull away. Looks good. So that first video I made was seven months ago. I got diagnosed six months ago. And now with that dose, my fourth dose, I've now been medicated for four months. And I gotta say, I'm maybe close to 70% better than I was before. But the thing is, is there isn't really a cure for this. This is just sort of a bandaid that shoots my immune system with a machine gun. At least that's how I view it. That's what it feels like anyway. Now I'm not the kind of person that writes a journal, but I wanted to journal my way through this journey so that you guys can get an idea of what this is like. And hopefully I can explain some of these symptoms as we go as well. So after the first injection, my scalp calmed down. The psoriasis basically went away. My digits and various joints felt better. So this is like my entire body took like a deep breath. I was still in a lot of pain. I was still pretty flared up, but considering the amount of pain I was in before, it felt absolutely amazing. My neck felt slightly less stiff, which is awesome. And then injection number two, the neck got worse with a huge flare after a couple nights of bad sleep and poor diet. You think you can relax after you get on medication. You can not. You still got to be on your A game with your sleep and with your diet. You can't undo all of your bad habits with, you know, just medication. Ears completely clear. That might not sound like a lot to you guys, but I've had psoriasis my whole life. And when I was a kid, my ears used to fill up with skin cells, dead skin cells from the psoriasis. And I would go deaf and I would have a doctor dig it out of my head or suck it out with a thing only in the second month. I think that is wild. December 22nd, I ate a bunch of beef and mashed potatoes. And then all of my fingers started to hurt. And then my fingernails started to flare up. And let me show you this. I don't know if you can see that, but my fingernails look slightly funky, but you might be surprised to know that this is actually the best my fingernails have looked in a very long time because I actually had psoriasis building up underneath my fingernails. It would build up a bunch of pressure. It would feel like somebody's like shoving a needle underneath my fingernail. It was awful, but that is, it's taken all this time, but it's basically cleared up. But at this point in my second dose, I had a bad night of sleep and then my fingernails flared up. It wasn't good. I started taking a lot of notes from this point on. I took the third dose. I had a neck flare. I could not tilt my head to the left at all, which is funny because I feel great now. Like it's, my neck feels way better than it did before. I do not have a hundred percent of my mobility. I feel it screaming in my joints a little bit, but this might not seem huge to you, but I can actually move my head far enough to the side that I feel my muscles stretch when before it would go and my joints would just, you know, cry at me. It was awful. Yeah. So February 7th, third dose neck, very, very stiff, but that was from bad sleep. Cause we had a very sick kid. She was throwing up. It was awful. My wrists at this point did not take pressure very well, but watch this guys. Look, I can do pushups now. And the only reason why I couldn't before is because I couldn't put any weight in my wrists. Now I can random bouts of enthesitis. This still happens. So if I do something that car is going by, if I do something that my body was not prepared for, like for instance, lifting an Atlas stone insert video here. Yep. Yeah. That was very difficult. Well, for a couple of weeks after that, my elbow just hurt and not in the way that you would expect, like the joint itself, no, the tendon, my bicep tendon, um, hurt a lot. It's called enthesitis. It's like, it's like getting tendonitis, but every time you do anything somewhat hard, that's basically what happens for years. I used to struggle with plantar fasciitis. I would conquer it and then it would come back and I would conquer it and then it would come back. And I didn't even realize that this whole time it was a chronic illness that was causing it. It wasn't even, it's so silly, but whatever. Last thing, the negatives, uh, knee issues, especially at full flexion. This is interesting. Uh, full flexion means bending your knees fully. Now I can bend them 100% and they do not hurt whatsoever. I can even do some stuff that, um, I haven't been able to do for, I don't know, a year now. You might be wondering, what does the future look like? Well, I'm going to be so for real with you. I actually don't know because axial psoriatic arthritis, there's a lot of research being done on it, but as far as I know, there is no cure for it. It's not something that just goes away. The best that I could hope for, which some people have achieved is long-term remission, usually via medication, which is already what I'm doing and lifestyle changes, which again, I'm already doing. It looks like I'm going to be on medication for the foreseeable future. Hopefully the way this works out is I get long-term remission by sleeping a whole lot more than I was by eating extremely healthy and in a way that is anti-inflammatory. And oh, here's an exciting thing. I'm actually making a joint supplement very selfishly, of course, because I want every little edge, um, that I can get, uh, especially for my poor joints. And I love what I do. I love stretching. I love being flexible, but chronic illness has really made that hard. Sometimes I finally got a formula that I like. I'm talking to manufacturers and I'm going to launch this thing. And I don't know if anybody else wants it again, it's selfish. It's for me, but if you want it, please just sign up at the top of the description. Um, I'll let you in on all the back secrets. I'll give you updates as we move forward. And I'll let you know when the order is put in and then you guys can make a purchase if you want, if you're not going to make a purchase, but you just want the chisme, you want the gossip. That's fine. Sign up. And, uh, yeah, all the emails are going to be written by me. So you don't even have to worry about it being marketing garbage. Um, yeah, I really appreciate you guys. Thank you for being there for me through all of this. Uh, it's been very difficult. Thanks for all the advice. Um, I've read it all. I've seen it all and I've done most of it. So, you know, I feel like I should leave you guys off with a quote. There's a, an interesting quote. I'm putting it in the end of a video very, very soon, a short video. So if you've already seen it, you might already know this is coming, but the quote is the happiness of your life depends on the quality of your thoughts. I thought that was pretty dope. That's Marcus Aurelius. Yeah. Very, very interesting. Stay flexy.