 There's a whole lot of people out there that think stretching is completely useless, which is mildly infuriating to me, because stretching obviously has effects on the body. I benefit from this indisputable truth, as you can see. But, if you don't need the effects of stretching, then perhaps it really is useless for you. But, it's probably because you don't actually know what stretching can do for you. So, I'm going to cover three different uses that you could use stretching for, and the last one is definitely my favorite. By the way, I have free stretching ebooks if you wanted to start your own routine. Anyway, back to it. Whoa! That fall could have been really bad if I just slipped. Whoa! Ha ha! I didn't die. So, yes, the first ability is the ability to not tear your hamstring when you slip into a split, which is achieved through some style of stretching. So, yes, I do believe stretching does reduce your chance of having an injury, but not in the way that people expect. Stretching in a warm-up is... mid. At best, it can temporarily increase your range of motion so that maybe you don't get injured. But, you most likely already have all the range of motion you need for whatever workout you're going to do, and more range of motion isn't necessarily going to stop an injury from happening. However, chronic stretching makes your range of motion way larger... And way more permanent. Sorry, my mic broke. So, in the event that you get forced into a position at a scary speed, you won't get injured. By the way, chronic stretching just means stretching on a regular basis. Now, mind you, stretching your hamstring is not going to stop your collarbone from snapping if you get a friendly hug from a footballer at low speed. For this reason, many people, scientific papers, peer-reviewed journals, they say that stretching does not reduce injury risk. Yes, because stretching your hamstring doesn't make your collarbone invincible. I really don't get it. The reason they say that... Ooh, flowers. ...is because lifting weights, which is obviously another discipline, actually does increase your bone density, thereby making your collarbone stronger and less susceptible to breaking. But stretching still does prevent some injury. Remember how earlier I slipped into the splits? I just slipped. Whoa! Yeah, that's where this comes into play here. Oh, and I can back this up with data. That's right, I brought receipts. These studies all show that stretching can reduce musculosendernous injuries. Musculosendernous just means that it refers to the muscles and the tendons and the ligaments, not necessarily the bones. So you can lower your chance of strains, sprains, and tears by stretching. Like, check this out. Aaah! Just kidding. But stuff like rolling your ankle, tearing your hamstring, straining your adductor, rolling your ankle. We already said that because of the bottom line is this stretching won't strengthen your bones That's what lifting is for so if you want to be bulletproof do both number two Stretching increases your pain tolerance Basically what happens is you are subjecting your nervous system to very uncomfortable positions for a certain period of time Your body has a built-in reflex that prevents you from going too far and it's called your stretch reflex your muscles quite literally Flex without your ability to turn it off and that prevents other injuries The point of stretching is actually to get past that reflex for short periods of time So that your body gets the hint to get stretchier and then your body Adapts by the way it adapts in three ways adaptation number one your body starts to fight your stretch a little bit less And it starts to relax, but this is only an acute effect meaning that it lasts During the stretch or maybe for a little bit after but in a while it goes away because it's not permanent In fact your butt will go right back to how stiff it was before you were stretching within an hour or two adaptation number two you get Longitudinal hypertrophy which means your muscles actually start to grow Lengthwise and not just with wise so let's brush up on anatomy Basically your hunk of muscle is made up of these cords called fascicles These fascicles are made out of wires called muscle fibers and those muscle fibers are made of these little string things called Myofibrils and those strings are made out of cells called sarcomeres I know that was a lot, but basically that means if you chronically stretch or you make a habit out of stretching You basically get more sarcomeres in a line than you would have otherwise For typical bodybuilding style exercises instead of getting more in a line you get more in a row Which is why the muscle gets bigger and not longer Yeah, get it and the third adaptation is your body just feels less pain Which makes sense because stretching for a long time is actually quite painful and your body is like hmm Let's just feel less of that and the last point I'll say about this on why stretching is not useless is in my opinion The splits looks really dope, but not only does it look cool It's a testament to the years of pain and effort that you put in to get to that skin for a bodybuilder They get people saying you're taking steroids whether they have or they haven't and for somebody like me There's inevitably gonna be somebody in the comments saying you're just naturally flexible But they don't see the amount of effort that I put in to make this actually happen Recap stretching isn't useless for three reasons whoa it prevents strain sprains and tears Otherwise known as musculoskeletal injury to stretching increases your pain tolerance now I only cry on the inside when I get hurt ha ha in three stretching grows your muscles lengthwise and besides the splits looks pretty dope Stay flexi stretching isn't useless for three reasons whoa